Emphasizing the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources, to Contribute to Society through Our Business Activities CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Our Philosophy for CSR We aim to contribute to sustainable society through its business with our Mission Statement “Create social value while fulfilling stakeholders’ expectations”. Our desire is to make contributions toward building a better society with recognition, at all times, of what society demands over the short and long terms. As globalization of our businesses advances and the stakeholders grow more diverse, we have prepared this CSR Report to communicate to all stakeholders around the world our lasting philosophy and efforts. Evaluations C SR in G eneral Environment • Earned RobecoSAM Bronze Class sustainability rating • Ranked 25th in Nikkei Environmental • Earned selection to Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Management Ranking (DJSI) C S and Q ualit y • Earned selection to FTSE4Good Index • Ranked 28th in Nikkei Quality Management • Earned selection to Ethibel PIONEER and Ethibel EXCELRanking LENCE indices • Earned selection to the Morningstar Socially Responsible Human Re s ource s Investment Index • Ranked 49th in Nikkei Ranking of Best • Ranked 103rd in Nikkei NICES ranking system Companies to Work For • Ranked 77th in Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking Company Profile (As of March 31, 2013) Established: March 3, 1947 Domestic Subsidiaries: 119 Net Sales: 1,032.4 billion yen Capital: 100.002 billion yen Overseas Subsidiaries: 91 Operating Income: 59.6 billion yen Employees: 22,202 Affiliated Companies: 19 Net Income: 30.1 billion yen Shiga Prefecture’s Lake Biwa, which has the largest surface area and water reserves of any lake in Japan, serves as a “water jug” for the Kyoto, Osaka, and Kobe areas. It also About boasts a diverse ecosystem, serving as a habitat for more cover than 1,000 species of plants and animals. The vicinity of Lake Biwa is home to three Sekisui photo Chemical plants as well as numerous affiliates and model home centers. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Taga Plant Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Sekisui Fami S Kinki Co., Ltd. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Sekisui Kanzai Technics Co., Ltd. Ritto Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Minakuchi Kako Co., Ltd. Sekisui Taga Kako Co., Ltd. 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 About Our Report CONTENTS • The pages of this Report are structured in line with 3 Top Message Sekisui Chemical Group’s concept of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in terms of Three Prominences — in the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources — 5 Our Company along with Three Attitudes of Sincerity: in Compliance, Risk Management, and Disclosure & Communication. • This Report employs separate chapters reporting in 7 Management greater detail on matters such as the relationship between business activities and CSR and the specific initiatives of each of the three division companies, whose business Three Prominences characteristics differ from each other. • We have decided on the information that should be covered in this Report through consideration of its importance both to society and to Sekisui Chemical Group, based on inputs including surveys conducted within and 13 Environment Our Philosophy / Environment-Contributing Products / Climate outside the Group and independent review. Change / Resource Efficiency / Air, Water & Soil / Biodiversity • A separate Data Book has been established to ensure that the report is both comprehensive and easy to read. • Continuing efforts for which there was not enough room 21 CS & Quality in the Report are covered on the Sekisui Chemical Group website. • Information about Sekisui Chemical Group’s business is Our Philosophy / Customer Satisfaction / Quality disclosed publicly through this report and the Annual Report, which reports financial information concerning the Group. • To ensure the reliability of this report, its environmental and social reporting have been subjected to independent Human Resources practitioner’s review. 27 Our Philosophy / Group Human Resources Capabilities / Global Talents / Decent Work and Diversity / Safety and Security Guidelines Complied with or Referred to • This report complies with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ver.3.1 (G3.1), Business and CSR at the B+ application level as defined in those guidelines. A GRI Guidelines comparison table is available on the Sekisui Chemical Group website. 37 Housing Company • In preparing this report, we also have referred to the Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition). 43 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Scope of This Report Entities Encompassed by this Report: The basic function of 49 High Performance Plastics Company this report is to comment on the activities of Sekisui Chemical Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key roles in those activities. Bases of CSR Timeframe Encompassed by this Report: April 2012-March 2013 (including examples of activities through May 2013). 55 Compliance Scope of Independent Practitioner’s Review Verified The environmental and social information in this report has 57 Risk Management been subjected to an independent practitioner’s review for the appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy of the results of calculation. The “Verified” logo is used 58 Disclosure & Communication to indicate that each item of such subject information has been reviewed. 59 Nature Conservation & Social Contribution Disclaimer Readers are requested to note the following: The information in this report includes not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates but also future forecasts based on 63 Independent Practitioner’s Review Report current plans and projections and management plans and management policies as of the time of publication. Changes in various factors could cause the results of business activities in the future and other circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the figures in the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted through rounding 64 History off and other means, in some cases total figures may not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data for past fiscal years has been revised in connection with expansions in scope, revision of calculation methods, and changes to environmental load coefficients. 64 Editors’ Notes Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2 Top Message To be a Company Sustainable for the Next 100 Years by Creating Businesses for the Next Generation and Contributing to Society Steady Growth Amid Severe Changes in the Business Environment Fiscal 2013 is the final year of the five-year midterm management plan GS21-SHINKA!, which started the same time I took office as President. Looking back on the four years through fiscal 2012, they were a time of severe fluctuations in the business environment, from the slowdown that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers through the sluggish economy in Europe, the rising value of the yen on international currency markets, the Great East Japan Earthquake, and new risks in China. However, Sekisui Chemical Group has continued to steadily increase its operating income through reforming its business models in pursuit of sustainable growth. In the housing business, we introduced the Shin Smart Heim Homes that realize both ecological and economic performance through use of solar power, HEMS, and storage cells, and we have strived to promote the use of homes that realize environmental performance, economic performance, and comfort, as our sales of homes equipped with solar power systems reached a cumulative total of 120,000 homes since their introduction in 1997. In the infrastructure business, we demonstrated our presence domestically, for example with the SPR pipeline rehabilitation method winning the Okochi Memorial Prize. It can greatly reduce waste when treating aged sewer pipe compared to traditional excavation construction method. Furthermore, we have secured the top share in the important resin pipes market with the acquisition of the pipe materials business of Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. Also, we set a new record high in profits overseas for the third consecutive year since adopting the division companies system in 2000, thanks to the results of progress in market development in strategic businesses such as the IT field, including products for use in mobile devices. As the recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake finally is approaching the stage of revival, we will continue demonstrating the combined strengths of the Group to help build safe and secure homes and cities and, furthermore, to build a sustainable society, not just in Japan but globally. Reviewing Fiscal 2012 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR management efforts are based on the principles of the Three Prominences in the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources and the Three Attitudes of Sincerity of Compliance, Risk Management, and Disclosure & Communication. Once again in fiscal 2012, a major result was the expansion and growth of Environment-Contributing Products. We define Environment-Contributing Products as those that can contribute to reducing society’s environmental 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 load instead of just incorporating the perspectives of In addition, we will continue supporting the United consideration for the environment. Our target for fiscal Nations Global Compact as a platform for deploying CSR 2013 is to increase sales of Environment-Contributing management on a global basis. Products to a share of 40% of net sales, and in fiscal 2012 we grew this share to the 38% level. We also reduced carbon-dioxide emissions from production activities in To be a Company Sustainable for the Next Japan by 9% from the previous fiscal year, as environmental 100 Years by Creating Businesses for the Next investment in production equipment gradually has begun to demonstrate results. These emissions reductions and the Generation reductions in carbon-dioxide emission from increased sales In fiscal 2013, I would like us to steadily capture growing of Environment-Contributing Products have demonstrated demand as interest increases in full implementation steady progress toward the target of carbon-negative status of earthquake-recovery activities and in addressing called for in our vision for 2030. deteriorating infrastructure in Japan, and orders for homes At the same time, in the area of compliance the year increase in advance of the increase in consumption tax also saw some problems arise such as mistaken entry of planned for 2014, among other developments. At the same certification numbers related to homes built using parts time in overseas, I believe that we can expect to be able from certified manufacturers, such as certified residential to capture demand in the promising markets of auto parts, components. This resulted in considerable inconvenience functional resins, and housing since we have established an and concern for related parties including those living in the overseas production structure for growing markets, together affected homes. Responding to this matter with the utmost with favorable developments in exports in the IT field, seriousness, we will strive to prevent its reoccurrence through which had been impacted by the high value of the yen on raising awareness and strengthening management systems. international currency markets. In the segments of the environment, energy, and building stock, which are expected to experience future Further Groupwide Enhancement and growth, I believe that since Japan is one of the first countries Thorough Implementation of CSR Management in the world to face these issues, if we can develop a Japanese model for addressing them, then we will be able Under the CSR Midterm Plan, we have deployed CSR to develop next-generation businesses that can contribute management on a Groupwide basis, focusing our efforts to the world. For this reason, we in Sekisui Chemical Group on strengthening CSR management and achieving its need to continue to execute SHINKA (“evolution”) ourselves, permeation throughout the organization and on global by reforming our business model through being sensitive to deployment. In fiscal 2012, as an addition to the existing changes in the external environment. As the globalization system, we established a Risk Management Group inside of business accelerates and the human resources who the CSR Department, with the goal of strengthening can thrive in such business grow more diverse, we will risk management and crisis management. We worked to continue in the future aiming to be a sustainable company complete disaster-prevention structures at individual sites that can continue to demonstrate its presence for 100 together with risk analysis and drafting of solutions in each years, as we work to increase our corporate value and organization. We now address CSR through deployment of evolve CSR management Groupwide through achieving the business policy of having each division company and an environment in which individual employees can grow department establish and address its own CSR topics and through improving their own skills and taking the initiative priorities, all based on discussion and consideration in the to take on challenges; growing our businesses with a CSR Committee and individual subcommittees. focus on the environment and contributing to society However, amid progressive diversification and by expanding and creating Environment-Contributing globalization of our businesses accompanying growth, we Products; and supplying truly satisfying products and still cannot be said to have achieved firm permeation of CSR services that reflect customer feedback, through improving management in areas such as sharing of the Group’s thinking their basic and attractive qualities. and values and coordinated efforts to address common topics in individual areas overseas. In fiscal 2013, the final fiscal year of the midterm management plan, we will work to further deploy and achieve thorough permeation of CSR management throughout Sekisui Chemical Group as a whole, reflecting matters such as the business characteristics of each division Naofumi Negishi company and the characteristics of each area overseas. President Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 4 Our Company The Division Company System and Business Areas Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. President Company President Company President Company President Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Housing Company Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Housing Piping Materials Information Technology • Steel Frame Modular Housing: • Water and sewer pipes, gas pipes and • LCD and display materials Sekisui Heim Series cable conduits • Optical and semiconductor materials • Timber-framed Modular Housing: Two-U Series • Pipeline rehabilitation Renovation Construction Automotive • Home maintenance, extension and remodeling • Building materials and equipment (rain • Interlayer film for laminated glass gutters, decking materials, insulation materials) • Molded automotive components Real Estate • Modular baths • Expanded polypropylene interior materials • Brokerage services of quality homes Functional Materials Medical • Apartment rental management • Diagnostic reagents • Interior sheets for aircraft cabins • Interior and exterior sheets for motor-vehicle • Medical devices • Synthetic wood Functional Materials • Packing tape • Packing and agricultural films • Molded products for industrial use Sekisui Chemical Group Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Note: Figures current as of March 31, 2013 (consolidated basis) Sekisui Chemical Group’s Company Creed and Company Principle The “3S Principle” Mission Statement Sekisui Chemical Group does business in line with the “3S “Create social value while fulfilling stakeholders’ expectations” Principle” describing its fundamental principles of service Sekisui Chemical Group will provide new value to society to society; originality, ingenuity, and the pioneer spirit; and through a variety of aspects of our business activities, seeing quality improvements. as our key stakeholders our “Customers,” “Shareholders,” “Employees,” “Business Partners,” and “Local Communities and the Environment.” Service We enhance the well-being of the world Management Increasing Corporate Value and Promoting CSR Management Groupwide Corporate Governance To maximize corporate value, Sekisui Chemical Group Compliance Surpassing the Requirements of has built its management structure based on a system of Japanese Law three division companies. Believing that increasing the transparency and fairness of management and pursuing swift • Appointment of external directors decision-making are important to continually increasing • Operating officer system (term: one year) corporate value amid a changing business environment, • Early issue of notices of general meetings of shareholders it implements a variety of efforts related to corporate • Exercise of voting rights electronically in general meetings governance. of shareholders • Formulation of rules on corporate information disclosure Strengthening the Business Execution Function Together with assigning to each division company operating Respect for International Norms officers specializing in business execution, an Executive Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and Committee has been established to serve as the top standards regarding CSR. It announced its support for the decision-making body in each division company. As such, United Nations Global Compact* in a broad range of authority has been transferred from the March 2009. Since then, it has been Board of Directors to the Executive Committee. The Board advancing CSR efforts on a global basis. of Directors strives to achieve continual improvements in We also refer to ISO 26000, corporate value as an organization responsible for decision an international social-responsibility on basic policies of Sekisui Chemical Group’s management guideline issued in November 2010, in as well as high-level management decision-making and enhancing internal efforts and in the supervision of business execution. editing of this CSR Report. * United Nations Global Compact A voluntary program in which top management of firms around the world pledge to comply with 10 principles on subjects such as human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption efforts within the scopes of influence of their firms and participate in building a global framework for realizing sustainable growth. Corporate Governance System R&D, Intellectual Property, Procurement We strive to increase the value of our products and services through addressing from a CSR perspective the various aspects of activities such as R&D, which is a foundation for revenues and growth, intellectual property, which is one of the outcomes of R&D, and procurement of the raw materials, parts, and other materials needed in manufacturing development. R&D Each division company, Headquarters, and each key affiliate has an R&D section that handles a broad range of R&D such as basic research through product development and production technologies, working to increase the speed of technological development in growth areas and create outstanding technologies. The Invention Grand Prize has been established as one part of efforts to ensure outstanding researchers and engineers receive the evaluations and treatment they deserve. The Invention Grand Prize establishes monetary rewards for inventors of inventions assessed and recognized to be especially unique in the market and to make major contributions to profits. Intellectual Property Under the basic policy of securing business competitive strength through obtaining strong patents, we are striving to improve quality and raise awareness in development through efforts including introduction of a system of “P Badges” awarded to employees who have obtained a certain number of patents and providing training on intellectual property. Procurement Sekisui Chemical Group procures materials based on the five fundamental concepts of openness; fairness and equity; legal compliance; mutual trust; and consideration for the environment. In addition to quality and delivery times, suppliers are requested to give consideration to the environment, comply with laws, regulations, and societal norms, and ensure health and safety in their own companies. From 2007 onwards, we are conducting surveys on CSR efforts targeting suppliers and working to ascertain the results. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Procurement Policy Web http://www.sekisuichemical.com/suggestion/index.html Lumber Procurement For structural lumber materials, which account for the bulk of lumber used in homes, we use certified lumber (for example, lumber certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, or FSC). Such certified lumber is procured lawfully from properly managed forests. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 8 Management Transitions in CSR Efforts Management CSR Efforts in Japan and Overseas Reflecting its global business development, Sekisui Chemical management, through cooperation among companies that Group is proactively advancing CSR efforts overseas as well have differing lines of business and learning together about as in Japan. best practices. Since fiscal 2010, we have held Presidents Meetings In addition, in FY2012 briefings were held for plant for overseas affiliates in the five territories of Europe, the managers and core management from overseas on priority CSR Americas, Asia/Oceania, China, and South Korea, to discuss themes that should be addressed by members of the Sekisui matters such as issues in each area and solutions to them as Chemical Group in common, such as quality and safety. well as creation of synergies. Moreover, discussion of the content of these Presidents Meetings with top management in Japan is incorporated into Presidents Meeting the schedule of the strategic plan meeting held in Japan in March of each year. Examples of the results of these Presidents Meetings include updating the website of the area headquarters company in the Americas to make it easier to access individual companies. In addition, information on employment with affiliates in the Americas was added as well. In Europe, leaflets were prepared and distributed to all employees to ensure their thorough understanding of matters such as the CSR efforts of each Group company. In Asia/Oceania, discussions were held on creating synergies in each individual country, and decisions were made on The website of the area headquarters company pursuing individual synergies in Thailand and Australia in in the Americas particular in the future. The meetings in China discussed human resources development in particular, while those in South Korea focused on the environment and risk management. Since fiscal 2010, CSR Staff Meetings have been held in order to further spread CSR efforts across and throughout the organizations of business facilities and affiliated companies in Japan. Both in Japan and around the world, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to ensure each individual member company fulfills its social responsibilities and to evolve Group The Presidents Meeting held in Kyoto was a nice opportunity to meet with other global Sekisui Chemical colleagues and in particular the Presidents from the other North American subsidiary companies. I felt we had open and direct conversaJerome Casey tions regarding the issues each company has and what can be COO Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. learned from other companies' best practices. Also we talked about how each company may be able to leverage these best practices in order to grow. As follow up to this recent meeting, Sekisui Diagnostics will consider incorporating website links to Sekisui America and Sekisui Chemical into our plans for revisions to our website. Longer term, I see the ongoing discussion and sharing of best practices in certain areas such as leadership development, talent management and succession planning as important and valuable to successfully growing and expanding our business. 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Recovering from the Great East Japan Earthquake Sekisui Chemical Group’s business is to provide housing and the infrastructure essential to support living. Utilizing the characteristics of these businesses, it is carrying out a variety of activities to support recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. Contributing to Affected Areas through Contributing to Improving the Living EnviVarious Infrastructure Construction Work ronment of Emergency Temporary Housing and Other Projects Immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake struck, the As a recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake, Housing Company built a total of 1,160 units of emergency since FY2011, the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental temporary housing in the three prefectures of Iwate, Miyagi, Products Company has continued to deliver materials for and Fukushima. Later, due to delays in restoration work, the restoration work on sewer pipes that had their gradients period of residence in temporary housing was extended damaged in the earthquake. While this is urgent work from two to three years, and the need arose to improve because damaged roads cannot be restored until the the residential environment for residents. Accordingly, the sewer pipes are repaired, it is moving forward at a Housing Company continues to support recovery in affected slower pace than expected due to labor shortages at areas by carrying out additional construction work as local construction companies. For this reason, Sekisui requested by each prefecture. Chemical Group member Nippon No-Dig Technology Examples of such additional construction include Co., Ltd. (NNT) is contributing to the restoration work installation of wind shelters approximately 3.3 square meters by accepting sewer construction directly from the city in area in front of the front doors to individual residence, of Sendai. to help residents endure the cold winters of the Tohoku In addition, Sekisui Chemical is studying use of region by blocking out cold air. Other efforts to help fight sewage heat under a feasibility study on making Sendai a the cold included additional installation of heated toilet model city for use of sewage heat, under contract to the seats and, in temporary housing in the particularly cold city Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism of Kesennuma and town of Minamisanriku, distribution of of Japan. This project involves a system for collection heating equipment. and use of heat from sewage during pipe rehabilitation Since temporary housing facilities are constructed on construction using Sekisui Chemical’s pipeline sites such as unused land and athletic grounds, many are on rehabilitation method, a technology for rehabilitation and sites with poor drainage, and some residents have reported seismic retrofitting of deteriorated culverts. that puddles form in pathways and elsewhere. In response, At the same time, NNT is moving forward with we carried out rainwater drainage construction by installing preparations for forming a joint venture with a local water-permeable pipes beneath the paths between buildings. firm in the city of Ishinomaki, Miyagi Prefecture, in In addition, since many residents are elderly, we paved the preparation for future recovery-related demand. spaces between units and the parking lots with asphalt, so that In addition to the above efforts, Sekisui Aqua residents can move in safety around the temporary complexes. Systems Co., Ltd. is contributing to earthquake recovery Furthermore, as the period of residence lengthens, through installation of vinyl greenhouses on a strawberry residents’ belongings increase, filling up the small temporary growing complex for recovery purposes and rebuilding housing units. As such, we installed storage sheds next to of aquaculture facilities in the town of Watari, Miyagi the front entrance to each unit, contributing to improving the Prefecture. living environment for residents in the temporary housing. Sewer construction Installing storage sheds in emergency temporary housing Rebuilding a salmon and trout hatchery Installing wind shelters in emergency in Iwate Prefecture temporary housing Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 12 Environment We aim to be an environmental leader, pursuing both ecological and economic goals Pioneering a New Future with Balance between Ecology and the Economy Our Philosophy Global Contributing to the environment and Contributing to the environment and environment society through society through Products nature conservation business activities Based on its environmental philosophy of aiming to be activities Toward and products a Global Environmental Top Runner that contributes to being a leader in Business the realization of a sustainable society by enabling the Local processes continuous growth and co-existence of ecology* and the 1 communities Activities by environmental Reducing concerted efforts of management environmental load economy*2, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to be a company all employees in all business processes whose growth is built around the axle of the environment, by developing products and providing services that will facilitate environmental contributions by society in addition Environmentally Creative Organization to lessening the environmental load of its business activities. In addition, we will contribute to the prevention of global warming, the preservation of biological diversity and the construction of a sound material-cycle society in all countries and regions where we operate, in order to leave this beautiful earth for our children in the future. We also will aggressively work on social contribution activities such as nature conservation activities in each region. *1. Ecology Caring for and contributing to the global environment, and living The Environmental Management See “Data Book” Policy and System p. 20, 21 in symbiosis with the local environment *2. Economy Ensuring economic benefits for both customers and businesses Environmental Management Vision Efficient for 2030 Utilization of In fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group established the “Sekisui Resources Eco-Frontier 2030” as a vision to make clear the courses of action and achievement levels of environmental management and serve as a guidepost to sustainable growth. This vision depicts the type Three of society that Sekisui Chemical Group aims to achieve as a society areas of on the environmental frontier. This refers to a society in which focus Preventing environmental awareness and environment-friendly lifestyles Global Biodiversity become broadly and firmly established among people and both Warming businesses and governments recognize the environment to be one of their most important values. To realize this vision, we have identified three areas of focus and two targets. Sekisui Chemical Group is carrying out the Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA!, formulated based on back-casting*1 from the Sekisui Eco-Frontier Achieving Two Preservation 2030 goals. negative of biodiversity targets carbon*2 *1. Back-casting A method of considering steps that should be taken at present by envisioning a goal for the future and working backward to the present state. *2. Negative Carbon When the offsetting reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions during product use exceed greenhouse-gas emissions attributable to business activities such as raw materials and production. 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Environmental Management Roadmap 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The “Sekisui Eco-Frontier 2030” Long-Term Vision Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (2009 – 2013) Expanding sales of Environment-Contributing Products Promoting energy innovation activities and investing in the environment Beginning negative carbon efforts Formulating biodiversity guidelines Development of “Sekisui Chemical Forests” Biodiversity surveys of business sites Establishing an environmental logo Ratio of Sales of EnvironmentGreenhouse-Gas Verified Contributing Products Verified Emissions (Japan) Commemorating the 65th Anniversary of Sekisui Chemical’s founding Global Children’s Eco Summit 2012 In August 2012, Sekisui Chemical Group held the Global Children’s Eco Summit 2012 for children of Group employees. Eighty-five children from business sites in 14 countries and regions took part in this Summit, which was larger than the last Summit, held five years ago in 2007 to mark the company’s 60th anniversary. Through a variety of programs based on the theme “Envisioning a future where we can live together with nature,” the children learned about Sekisui Chemical Group’s environmental efforts and the wonderful blessings human beings gain from nature. Then, they split into 10 groups to discuss subjects such as what actions they should take themselves. Aug. 1 Aug. 4-5 Orientation/ “Knowledge” Session II meeting each other Environmental education program (Lake Biwa area) Aug. 6 “Thinking” Session Group discussions Aug. 2-3 “Knowledge” Session I Tour of Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tour of Sekisui Chemical’s Shiga-Ritto Plant Aug. 7 “Declaration” Session The children in each group made a declaration Main session of what they would do for the environment and of the Summit prepared recommendations to adults (Sekisui Chemical), which they presented on the final day of the Summit. In response to the children’s recommendations, the President of Sekisui Chemical announced plans to implement “a system of awarding the people who have carried out the greatest ecological activities” and holding Children’s Environmental Declaration • We will raise environmental awareness and an annual “Sekisui Environment Week,” in which treasure the planet all Sekisui Chemical Group employees take part • We will conserve water in environmental activities. • We will separate and recycle wastes The Outstanding Eco Contributor Award etc. was conducted in fiscal 2012, with the winner chosen based on voting by all employees and by Environmental recommendations to adults (Sekisui Chemical) the children who took part in the Eco Summit. • Prepare teaching materials with content about Plans call for implementing Sekisui protecting living things Environment Week beginning in fiscal 2013. • Produce a commercial about water conservation • Protect the forests etc. 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Environment Environment-Contributing Products Three Prominences Contributing to Minimizing the Environmental Load of Our Stakeholders and Society through Our Products and Businesses Environment The meaning of Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR is to contribute to a sustainable society through business. To contribute to minimizing the environmental load of society, it is essential that businesses create and promote widespread use of products that will make active contributions to the environment. In fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group established EnvironmentContributing Product Standards calling for an even higher level of contribution to the environment than before, and since then it has managed such products through a certification CS & Quality system. (See “Data Book,” p. 8) Environment-Contributing Products Conceptual Diagram Flow of Certification of EnvironmentContributing Products Environment Climate Change Efforts to Achieve Carbon Negative Status Throughout the Product Life Cycle Achieving carbon negative (see p. 13) status requires both development and promotion of Environment-Contributing Products and controlling greenhouse-gas emissions from business. Sekisui Chemical Group continues related efforts throughout the entire product life cycle. Reducing Greenhouse-Gas Emissions Conceptual Diagram of Carbon Negative Throughout the Product Life Cycle Environment Resource Efficiency Three Prominences Pursuing the Three R’s (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle) Throughout the Product Life Cycle Sekisui Chemical Group aims to thoroughly reduce, reuse, and recycle throughout the product life cycle. In addition to Zero Waste Emissions Activities intended to reuse as resources all the Environment waste it generates from its business activities, it also is striving to preserve water resources. Environment Air, Water, & Soil Minimizing Environmental Impact through Proper Control of Chemical Substances While chemical substances make people’s lives more convenient, they also could have harmful effects on the environment or on human beings. Therefore, we believe that consideration of product safety, occupational safety and health, and environmental impact through proper management of chemical substances is an important responsibility of an enterprise. Since fiscal 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has set and worked toward its own targets for reducing discharge and transfer of chemicals in addition to implementing efforts such as the Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact*1 and the Green Procurement System*2. We also review periodically chemical substances that are candidates for control or regulation of use, in accordance with the establishment and amendment of relevant laws and regulations. System for Control of Chemical Substances throughout the Product Life Cycle Environment Biodiversity Three Prominences Striving to Preserve Biodiversity through Both Business Activities and Social Contributions In April 2008, Sekisui Chemical Group incorporated items on biodiversity to its Environmental Management Policy. Since then it has strived to preserve biodiversity through both Environment environmentally conscious business activities and deploying nature conservation activities around the world. Approach to Biodiversity Preservation CS & Quality CS & Quality Pursuing quality always specified by customers, through maximizing the quality of human resources, products, and systems CS & Quality Management Roadmap 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 “Creation School” training to improve product planning abilities Session 1 Session 2 Session 3 Session 4 Session 5 Second Attractive Qualities Attractive Screening System Qualities (Held every three years) “The Story of Attractive Qualities” begins on the intranet Telephone information service training National telephone information service contest Manufacturing Development SHINKA! Activities (1) Zero defects and doubled productivity (2) Halving energy use (3) Renewing manufacturing development overseas Basic Global Group KAIZEN Activities Qualities Start of China tournament Start of European tournament Start of Asia-Pacific tournament Second Program of Seminars on First Development/Design Second Development/Design Everyday Management Seminar Seminar “STAR 55 Bulletin” on CS & Quality Management case studies published Common Measures CS & Quality seminars Group KAIZEN Activities Around the World Group KAIZEN activities*1 are an initiative in which employees in each workplace form small groups to make improvements in production and operational efficiency and product quality Team from improvements. These activities are underway at business sites in Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Japan and around the world, centered on production companies. They address QC stories*2 and themes for which policies have been developed, and annual result presentation meetings are held in each area — Japan, North America, China, Europe, and Asia-Pacific — to share information on results in each workplace and improve each other. In the 47th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation meeting held in January 2013, a group from Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. was honored as the first team from an overseas business site to win the gold prize. The winning team achieved its lofty goal of improving ball valve productivity by 1.6 times (vs. the previous level) as a result of improvements made on various issues from a workplace perspective, utilizing the industrial engineering methods*3 that all members had learned. *1. Group KAIZEN activities Activities that began in 1966 as Quality Control (QC) groups and later evolved into small group activities before taking the form they have today. *2. QC story: Improvement procedures advanced step by step to ascertain problems accurately and resolve them with certainty. *3. Industrial engineering methods: Methods of analyzing existing work processes in detail and making improvements in areas of waste and loss, to improve production efficiency. Quality Education Sekisui Chemical Group has rebuilt its quality education structure at each level to promote the spread of quality education in all workplaces, from office staff to job sites. The new structure took effect beginning in fiscal 2013. It also employs QC certification* effectively to measure levels of quality knowledge, and as of March 2013 1,300 members of the organization had attained QC Certification. Sekisui Chemical Group will continue focusing its efforts on human-resources training to improve its “Quality of People.” * QC Certification: A certification system conducted by the Japanese Standards Association and certified by the Japanese Society for Quality Control. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 22 CS & Quality Customer Satisfaction (CS) Advancing Development of Systems, Human Resources, and a Culture Enabling Creation of Attractive Qualities Based on the motto “We consider customer feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing,” Sekisui Chemical Group is working on building a customer-oriented, free and open-minded organizational culture to create “Attractive Qualities” that customers will continue to ask for by name. Three Prominences HR Development for Attractive Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group has developed four HR development systems intended to improve sensitivity to creating attractive qualities. “Creation School” Environment “Creation This is a program of joint industry-academy training to improve product planning School” abilities. From its start in fiscal 2008 through the end of fiscal 2012, a total of 54 trainees have taken part in this training. Since fiscal 2011, “Creation School” teams have been made up of members from the same businesses, in order to make the training better suited to the realities of businesses. In fiscal 2012, three teams from the Housing Company, Sekisui Hometechno Co., Ltd., and Sekisui CS & Quality Film Co., Ltd. took part in this program. In February 2013, each team made a presentation on product planning to top management. These presentations have led to some moves in the direction of product and business development, such as patent applications and specific proposals to suppliers. Human Resources Using in our business the systematic product-planning process of the Seven Product Planning Tools has been highly successful by leading the way to new development ideas. Takahisa Chito I was strongly impressed by the way this method serves as Technology and Development Department one pattern for success in generating hit products. It showed me Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. the importance of listening to what the customers who actually Business and CSR use products have to say and anticipating their needs and making proposals to distributers who were in between. Industry-academy cooperation with students also was an enjoyable experience that helped me to become aware of new points of view. In future development activities as well, I would like to aim to be an industry leader by creating strongly competitive products using this method. Housing Company CS & Quality Seminars Begun in fiscal 2001, these seminars, intended to raise awareness of CS & Quality, invite people from a variety of fields outside the company to give lectures. A total of 30 seminars had been held from the start of the Urban Infrastructure program through the end of fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2012, lecturers invited to speak on topics including CS & Quality & Environmental development, quality management, and CS gave four lectures at Sekisui Seminar Chemical’s Tokyo Headquarters and Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories, attended by approximately 350 people in total. Products Company High Performance “The Story of Attractive Qualities” Telephone Service Training Plastics Company This intranet content providing We have been FY 2012 Number behind-the-scenes stories conducting telephone of Trainees on product development service training, is intended to increase the intended to improve the motivation of product-planning and development personnel. It provided an introduction to service level of contact points for inquiries, continuously since fiscal 200 Bases of CSR the KAITEKI AIRY year-round 2008. In fiscal 2012, this air-conditioning/ ventilation training was conducted system, which won the grand a total of 21 times at 13 business sites, with a prize in the FY 2011 Attractive total of 200 employees taking part. Qualities Screening System. “The Story of Attractive Qualities” Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 24 CS & Quality Quality Pursuing the “Three Zeros” of Complaints, Accidents, and Wastes Recognizing that it is the fields of manufacturing development that supports quality, since fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group has focused its efforts on innovation in production. Based on its belief that quality defects lead to higher costs arising from handling complaints or increased wastes, we are trying to reduce costs by targeting the “three zeros” of complaints, accidents, and wastes. Results of “Three Zeros” Activities Verified MONOZUKURI Workplace Leader Three Prominences Sekisui Chemical Group holds “MONOZUKURI Workplace Leader Development/Training Courses” for production site leaders, on the subject of everyday management at production sites. These serve as excellent opportunities for participants who work at different sites to gain awareness and knowledge together through activities including exercises, group discussions, and experiences of senior colleagues. In fiscal 2012, three sessions were held, with 51 personnel from various business sites taking part. Together with these courses, plant tours were provided at Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd., Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd., and the Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant. Environment Electrical Safety Workshop In response to the MJS II fire in fiscal 2011, Sekisui Chemical Group has begun an electrical safety project. This project involves surveying the current status of electrical products, holding events such as study meetings on relevant standards, and considering measures to ensure safety, together with preparing product-safety checklists and guidelines. CS & Quality In August 2012, as part of this project, an Electrical Safety Workshop was held for staff in charge of design of electrical products. Participants Electrical Safety learned about the concepts of safety design and the content of basic Workshop standards, by looking at actual products that had been the causes of problems. Human Resources Energy Saving Activity Since fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group has been advancing activities to cut energy consumption in production. In fiscal 2012, we deployed these activities at all main business sites in Japan, as planned. In response to this progress in Japan, we also began deployment of these activities at overseas business sites as well. In addition, as we did last year we continued to respond to requests from power companies for energy conservation, achieving reductions Private Business and CSR in power consumption of approximately 26% during the summer and power approximately 21% during the winter—levels higher than the requested generator savings—at sites served by power companies that set target figures for cuts. installed at a plant These savings were achieved through means including adoption of private power generators and engine compressors, and leveling of production. Furthermore, we have formed a subcommittee that has begun study of building a stable energy supply system over the medium to long term. Housing Company New System for Manufacturing Education In the areas of training related to manufacturing, through now Sekisui Chemical Group has carried out a Rank Advancement Program whose main theme has been learning improvement and evaluation skills in quality control (QC), industrial engineering (IE), value engineering (VE), and quality engineering, for full-time employees. In fiscal 2012, we developed a new Manufacturing Manager Training program consisting of training on six areas at two levels, for Urban Infrastructure manufacturing managers. Implementation of this new program began in fiscal 2013. & Environmental Manufacturing Training System Products Company Human skills Type Technical skills Awareness Conceptual skills High Performance Senior Manager Six areas Plant Level II Production manager Level II management Safety, quality, policy man(Management-centered) training Overview Plastics Company Manager agement, cost, equipment, production management Level I Levels Deputy Manager Level I Site leader training (Knowledge-centered) Supervisor Rank Advancement Program (QC, IE, VE, QE, safety, maintenance, etc.) Operator Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 26 Human Resources Encouraging individual prominence and self-realization, and contributing to society through business Human Resources Roadmap 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Start of global employee program Start of work-life balance policies Training the next generation of business leaders Promoting diversity in Group companies Promoting mental and physical health management Global employees attitude surveys Establishment of HR base in North America and core personnel training in China Expanding and increasing diversity in hiring HR system reforms Our Human Resources Development Measures We are improving the Group’s human resource capabilities through securing human resources and deploying human resources development measures with a focus on potential for personal growth. In global human resources development, we are focusing on human resources development in Japan and around the world targeting global business growth. To enable diverse human resources to thrive, we are promoting efforts that take advantage of the values and experiences of diverse human resources. Results of Main Efforts in Fiscal 2012 Key theme Main measures in fiscal 2012 Efforts Expanding hiring 686 persons (including 103 of Sekisui Chemical) HR management system improvements Developed a business-leader training system Deployed measures to improve abilities in the workplace Group Human Resources Capabilities Measures to strengthen management Developed career paths for diverse human resources Career development & evaluation Internal job posting: 15 positions Expanding training opportunities to Group employee ratio: CSR training conducted for 67% of Group companies new employees in management positions U.S.: Provided training for top-management and management Training of overseas HR levels Europe: Started training for top-management level Global Talents China: Provided management-level training, studied common HR measures Globalization of HR in Japan Number of global human resources: 294 Promoting women in the workplace Percentage of women among new-graduate hires: 28% Expanded management seminars on women subordinates Decent Work and Introduced a system for transfer to permanent, full-time Opportunities for partner employees Diversity employee status Opportunities for senior employees Expanded hiring and training systems for lifetime careers Safety and security Deployed mental health measures Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 28 Human Resources Group Human Resources Capabilities Securing and Training Human Resources Aiming for Sustainable Growth As it strives to empower Group human resources to achieve sustainable growth, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing a variety of efforts to secure and train human resources. In the area of securing human resources, we are not only growing numbers of new employees hired (see “Data Book,” p. 16) but also implementing hiring in a variety of perspectives, such as diverse human resources (see p. 33) including global human resources (see p. 31) and women, to ensure an appropriate staffing structure. On the subject of training of human resources, we are implementing a variety of efforts Group-wide, centered on areas such as providing human resources with broad-ranging experience based on consciousness of Group management and training human resources to support business management. Training the Next Generation of Business Leaders In order to systematically train the next generation of business leaders to empower Sekisui Chemical Group in the future, each year current business leaders recommend a number of human resources as candidates to succeed them in their own positions. The nominated candidates are trained and assigned systematically to encourage their growth into next-generation leaders through building up broad-ranging experience. Group Internal Job Posting Sekisui Chemical Group supports its employees’ willingness to take on challenges and their career plans by providing opportunities to thrive within the Group through posting job openings internally. Through Group internal job posting, any qualified employees can apply for jobs within the Group posted to the intranet, without needing the approval of their superiors. In fiscal 2012, 15 job openings within the Group were posted internally and 17 employees began new careers inside Sekisui Chemical Group. 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Three Prominences Education and Training Structure To support its employees who make positive attempts to develop their own careers, Sekisui Chemical Group provides a variety of training programs corresponding to employees’ levels and positions. Environment Training Structure (i) Skill and knowledge acquisition: training on coaching skills, sending employees to external business schools, etc. (ii) Career development support: career-plan training, superior training (for sections in which newly hired persons are assigned), etc. (iii) Medium-term priority themes: in-house business school, global training, CS & Quality manufacturing education, etc. (iv) CSR education: new-employee training, new-manager training, etc. Human Resources Activities and Future Developments Human Resources In fiscal 2012, we provided more opportunities for education and training than ever before to the entire Sekisui Chemical Group. As a result, the Saijuku School, in-house business school intended to train the next generation of business leaders, increased the percentage of its students coming from Group companies from its previous level of roughly 10% to approximately 40%. The Saijuku School aims to train human resources that are able to formulate business plans through growing on their own, by thinking deeply about the broad range of matters Business and CSR involved in Sekisui Chemical Group business management. The CSR training provided for new core personnel (those in management positions), like the Saijuku School, saw an increase in participants from Group companies, who grew as a percentage of all trainees from a previous level of roughly 50% to approximately 70%. CSR training is intended to foster an awareness of the trainees’ positions as leaders on the front lines of CSR, through sharing information on Sekisui Chemical Group’s thinking on CSR and Housing Company the status of various related measures and efforts. Furthermore, in the program of Career Plan Training by Age, in which each individual employee (at the ages of 30, 40, 50, and 55 years) thinks about his or her own mediumto long-term career plan, group training, which until now had taken place only at Sekisui Chemical’s Tokyo Headquarters and Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories, was held in Fukuoka as well, with many employees from Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. taking part. Urban Infrastructure & Environmental When I took part in Career Plan Training by Age, I Products Company did not have a clear vision of my own future. While I felt very uneasy at first, I was able to analyze myself Mika Urata High Performance North Sales Headquarters deeply through speaking with other participants from Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. the same age category as me, using a variety of workPlastics Company sheets, and as a result I was able to get a vision of my future and draft an action plan for making it real. I also was able to increase my own motivation thanks to the opportunity to listen to the thoughts of participants from other job types and their own future visions as well. Right now I am particularly conscious of time management. By organizing my thoughts while writing down action plans for next month, next week, and tomorrow in my notebook, prioritizing these on Bases of CSR the train during my commute, and then putting them into action, I have reduced the amount of overtime work. On days when I go home earlier, I work out at the gym or dine with friends, making my days more fulfilling than before. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 30 Human Resources Global Talents Training Global Talents in Japan and Worldwide Drawing out and making the most of the growth potential of each individual employee leads to corporate growth. Sekisui Chemical Group is striving to train human resources with a global perspective and an awareness of their responsibility to contribute to society. Global Talents Strategies Globalization of Human Resources in Japan Three Prominences International Recruiting Sekisui Chemical Group aggressively hires human resources with experience living overseas, such as non-Japanese candidates and Japanese foreign exchange students. In particular, we continue to hire large numbers of international students from Japan at the Boston Career Forum*, one of the largest job fairs in the United States, where we have taken part since 2008. In hiring of new university graduates in Japan as well, we clearly identify Environment “Global Talents” employees as one of the ideal types of human resources we seek to hire. As a result, the percentage of new graduates joining the company Boston Career in fiscal 2013 with experience living overseas was 21 percent. Forum * Boston Career Forum A Japanese-English bilingual job fair begun in 1987. More than 5,000 people take part in this event each year. Training of Domestic Employees for Globalization CS & Quality Global Employee System A total of about 1,600 Group employees in Japan have signed up for the Number of Japanese Employees as “Global Global Employee System intended to train “Global Talents” employees. Talent” Employees Verified Human Resources Decent Work and Diversity Building Workplaces where Employees Can Thrive with Vitality Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing efforts aimed at building workplaces where diverse human resources can work with peace of mind. This is intended to respond to rapid globalization of business and diversification of market needs and to continue the sustained growth of the group itself into the future. We are carrying out activities to ensure that diverse human resources can do rewarding work with vitality while putting to use their own individual values and experiences, through enhancing relevant systems, holding training and seminars, and raising awareness via the intranet and Group bulletins. Work-Life Balance Work-Life Balance Supporting Raising the Next Generation Three Prominences Children Lunch meeting In fiscal 2012, in addition to support for employees who are working mothers, we also focused on support for younger women who will face various life events in the future and for their superiors. Through activities including holding lunch meetings between young women researchers and senior colleague working mothers, Environment preparing a guidebook on taking childcare leave, holding orientations on childcare leave, and providing support for career planning after returning from the leave, we are making progress from a variety of approaches on building an environment in which highly motivated women can balance work and raising children more smoothly. CS & Quality Hearing about the experiences of mothers nicely balancing work and home life and those ready to return to the workplace after having Human Resources children helped me to learn not only tips on how to work and use my time after starting a family, but also that there are things that I can and should do now when I can use my time freely, helping to increase my job motivation. Also, I think it was very fruitful being able to interact with people in my same generation from other business Kaori Takemoto sites because I could connect with other participants who had the Core Technology same concerns as me and could build relationships in which we can Research Laboratory consult with each other. Urban Infrastructure & Business and CSR Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Housing Company Supporting Young Employees to Thrive Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd., a sales company in the Housing Company, holds management seminars for superiors who have younger subordinates to enable them to support the success of younger employees who come from different generations. In Urban Infrastructure these seminars, focused chiefly on lectures and group work, participating superiors learned about the backdrop of the times in which younger employees grew up, identified differences in & Environmental Products Company values, analyzed results of survey responses from young people, Management reviewed their own growth and development processes, and took seminar for superiors of younger part in other activities as well, while drafting plans for helping subordinates their younger subordinates to grow. High Performance Plastics Company Supporting Partner Employees to Succeed Since fiscal 2012, partner employees working in workplaces and scopes of duties specified in advance have had the option of choosing to transfer to the status of permanent, full-time employees. Bases of CSR In fiscal 2013, 24 partner employees transferred to permanent, full-time status, in which they aim to grow as advanced professionals doing practical work in the future. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 34 Human Safety and Security Resources Aiming to Build a Global Culture of Zero Workplace Accidents Constructing a work environment in which employees can work with safety and security is one of the most important subjects for management. Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing total safety (i.e., zero occupational injuries, zero equipment-related accidents, zero commuting-related accidents, and zero extended sick leaves) activities based on five themes*. * Five themes Intrinsic safety of equipment, management using OHSMS, safety education of employees, risk prevention through KY activities and other initiatives, and auditing of health, safety, and accident prevention. Five Pillars of Occupational Health, Safety, and AccidentFor the Safety Policies See “Data Book,” prevention Activities and Management System p. 20, 22 Japan: Efforts at Production Sites Three Prominences Safety Conference In July 2012, the Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Conference was held at the Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories. A total of 193 employees and members of management took part in activities including the annual safety awards and introductions to examples of safety activities by sites with Environment superior safety performance, resolving as a group to building a culture of zero workplace accidents. In addition, Hitoshi Ogura, a proponent of “Naze Naze Declaring safety in Analysis”*, lectured on methods of identifying causes of unison problems and the importance of doing so. * “Naze Naze Analysis” A method of logically identifying the factors behind why problems occurred, CS & Quality through repeatedly asking “naze?” (“why?”), in order to draw out targeted preventive measures. Fires and Explosions Countermeasures Recent years have seen a succession of serious fires and explosions at Japanese firms’ domestic chemical plants. Sekisui Chemical Group will continue its efforts already underway to identify risks related to internal plant Human Resources equipment and facilities handling hazardous materials and make relevant improvements. In addition, we plan to begin drills in which the operators who actually handle production equipment gather together to think and A scene of a drill make decisions together on responses to abnormalities identified by leaders, and to deploy these drills across business sites in Japan, in order to improve abilities to respond to a worsening situation after an accident has occurred. Business and CSR Japan: Efforts at Construction Sites Enhancing Use of Construction Plans at Housing Construction Sites To ensure even more thorough safety in processes handling heavy machinery and other equipment at housing construction sites, we are revising the forms and use of construction Housing Company plans. In fiscal 2012, we began use of a new construction plan form for construction involving demolition of existing structures. Overseas: Efforts at Production Sites Urban Infrastructure Occupational Safety Education Program & Environmental Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. has introduced the occupational safety education program, Safety Training Halls used in safety training of employees at business sites in Japan, in order to prevent accidents at its facilities in China. Its training program, planned and set up under Products Company local leadership began in November 2012, led by local trainers. In the future it will be offered to employees of other business sites in China as well. In addition, Kydex, LLC. (in the U.S.), High Performance YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. (in South Korea), and Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. have established and are using their own Safety Training Halls as well. Plastics Company Healthcare of Employees Sekisui Chemical Group provides stress check-ups and e-learning through the intranet as self-care methods for employees in the area of mental health. As support for providing line care at business sites, counselors visit the sites Bases of CSR to conduct mental health training for managers and counseling experience. In addition, a survey takes place in September of each year to ascertain the state of health management at all business sites in Japan. In these ways, Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting efforts to build healthy, comfortable work environments in cooperation with outside mental health clinics and the Japan Industrial Counselors Association. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 36 Providing environmentHousing friendly homes that can be lived in safely and Company comfortably for more than 60 years. Safety To Realize Customers’ Ideal Homes With high performance and reliable quality produced at plants, Sekisui Economic Heim responds to the changing times and needs that vary in areas such as Comfort performance family structure, locale, and living environment – for those seeking budgetMain issues concerning conscious homes that keep down utilities and repair costs, homes in which homes they can live in comfort year long with little change in temperature, homes that will protect their families and property from threats such as typhoons, DisasterEnvironmental prevention earthquakes, fire, and crime, homes that will help resolve the uncertainties performance features and burdens of raising children, homes in which they can live in peace of mind even in old age, and homes that give consideration to the future of the environment – by providing homes in which anybody can continue to live with peace of mind for years to come. Demands of society related to our business Homes that make it easy Living in homes that provide security to conserve energy even in emergencies such as Comfortable homes as resistant as earthquakes, fires, and typhoons possible to the effects of climate Homes that are good for both their Living in safety and comfort residents and the environment over the years Business Value Chain Box-Rahmen structure Building Reliable Homes Three Prominences Sekisui Heim is making progress on building strong homes that protect the families that live in them from damage resulting from earthquakes, typhoons, fires, and other causes. As part of these efforts in the area of seismic resistance, it builds strong homes capable of withstanding even a massive earthquake, through GAIASS, the first compound seismic isolation system in the residential industry, combining the Seismic empirical testing Environment Box-Rahmen structure* that uses modular construction to absorb powerful shocks with high-performance exterior walls to distribute shocks. Through these activities in addition to others such as its consulting services combining experiments using actual buildings and a seismic-performance simulation system, we deliver homes that can give their residents true peace of mind. * Box-Rahmen structure CS & Quality A modular-unit structure in which pillars and beams are joined together in a box shape, so that even a single unit can demonstrate strength like that of a shelter against massive earthquakes. Balancing Ecology with Economy Human Resources A look at the CO2 emissions during the entire life Number of Solar Homes Built cycle of a home from procurement of materials through construction, living in the home, 120,000 (Homes) 124,413 demolition, and disposal or recycling shows that CO2 emissions during living in the home account for a share of 60 – 80%* of the total, and as such there is a strong need to reduce these emissions. Together with its customers, Sekisui Heim 80,000 Business and CSR has strived to reduce use of electricity in the home, for example by moving quickly to install 70,000 solar power generation systems that put natural energy to use. The Zero-Utility-Cost House, which greatly reduces CO2 40,000 45,000 emissions from energy used for living and keeps down 30,000 Housing Company annual utility costs, can be Sale of homes equipped with solar described as a home that power generation systems begins achieves balance between 0 ecology and economy. 1997 2003 2005 2009 2012 (Year) * Source: Sekisui Chemical estimate Urban Infrastructure Supporting Customers & Environmental Homes Sold through the Brokerage of the Provision of Products Company Homes need to be able to maintain their functions and Quality Housing Stock Association*1 performance over time so that their residents can continue Housing Company Shin Smart Heim with Solar Power Generation, HEMS, and Storage Cells Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, the way customers think of their homes has changed considerably, as they have come to demand not simply energy-conserving homes but ultra-efficient ones that are gentler on the environment and ready for power risks in an emergency. To respond to such needs, Sekisui Heim began sale in April 2012 of Shin Smart Heim homes that bundle together three systems: solar power generation system, Smart Heim Navi home energy management system (HEMS), and e-Pocket large-capacity storage-cell system, to create, conserve, and store energy. Demonstrating its advanced ability to propose solutions using the Smart Heim FAN consulting service and other offerings, it delivers smart solutions to customers across Japan. Sekisui Heim has built more homes equipped with solar power generation systems than any other company in the world,* and its modular construction method makes it possible to equip homes with large-capacity solar power generation systems. A typical home of roughly 132 square meters can be equipped with solar power generation systems to generate more than 6 Generating kW of power, and the average home in actual use is equipped with 4.86 kW of power. Electricity * In February 2012, Sekisui Heim was named by Guinness World Records™ as the builder of the largest number of solar-powered homes in the world. (It had built 124,413 solar-powered homes as of December 2012.) Using Storing Electricity Electricity The e-Pocket stationary large-capacity lithium-ion storage-cell The Smart Heim Navi system stores data on the results of a survey system developed independently by Sekisui Heim provides three of 16,000 homes equipped with solar power generation and modes that enable it to be used in different ways to suit resi9,000 Smart Heim homes.* This data is used to provide consultdents’ lifestyles and ways of thinking. ing services on the optimal electricity use for each home. * As of April 2013 e-Pocket’s Three Modes Overview of Smart Heim Navi (i) Emergency operation mode (during power failure) (ii) Economy mode (keeps down utility costs) (iii) Green mode (keeps down electricity purchased) Three Prominences Customer Feedback Since installing the Smart Heim Navi system we now are able to ascertain the days and times when each room and each piece of equipment uses a large amount of electricity. This is truly convenient. Since we can identify clearly where we use electricity and how much, we are thinking as a family about ways of saving energy more effectively, such as starting with the Environment places where we use large amounts of electricity. Customer N, Osaka Prefecture CS & Quality Sekisui Heim’s Smart Heim City Subdivisions Human Resources Sekisui Heim is developing the new subdivision brand Smart Rendering of a completed Smart Heim City street scene Heim City across Japan, to make not just individual residences but towns themselves smarter. In 2013, it introduced the new “disaster mitigation” concept proposed by Prof. Yoshiaki Kawata of Kansai University. By incorporating auxiliary emergency power-supply functions, smooth evacuation routes, park facilities capable of use for emergency food distribution, and other elements to increase Business and CSR disaster-mitigation abilities in addition to using its existing energyconservation and economic capabilities as well as the seismic resistance of the buildings themselves, Sekisui Heim is advancing the building of communities that can deliver even higher levels of safety and peace of mind in the event of an earthquake or other disaster. Housing Company New Plant in Thailand Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company The desire for comfortable, eco-friendly homes is not exclusive New plant in Thailand to Japan but is a dream shared the world over. In 2009, Sekisui Heim established a joint venture to produce and sell homes in High Performance Thailand as its first full-fledged move into overseas markets. In March 2013, it completed construction in an industrial park in Plastics Company Thailand of a plant to mass-produce modular homes, with the capacity to produce 1,000 homes per year. This new plant will both make Sekisui Heim’s home business in Thailand a full-fledged business and supply homes, parts, and materials to nearby countries as a base plant for Asia. Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 40 Housing Examples of Activities Company Sekisui Heim with Advanced Environment Air-Conditioning and Ventilation Systems Today, worries about the effects of air quality on health are increasing, as can be seen from the society’s concern about pollutant particulate matter such as PM 2.5. Under such conditions, 97% of customers using Sekisui Heim’s exclusive KAITEKI AIRY (in steel-framed Heim series homes) and AIR WORKSHOP (in wooden GRAND+TO YOU homes) air-conditioning and ventilation systems have reported that since moving in they have “truly felt the cleanness of the air.”*1 Sekisui Chemical homes featuring KAITEKI AIRY and AIR WORKSHOP technologies have been evaluated highly too, as for example 92% of respondents in a survey of medical doctors, who can be described as health experts, reported that they themselves “would like to live in” such homes and 97% said that the homes “support healthy living.” These are the first single-family residences to earn AskDoctors certification as products verified by doctors.*2 In fiscal 2013, the Doctors’ Air Models of homes supporting healthy living with clean air were introduced in April, bundling high-performance ventilation systems certified under the AskDoctors system as products verified by doctors together with a menu of other options to support good health.*3 The Doctors’ Air Models are equipped with KAITEKI AIRY or AIR WORKSHOP systems as standard equipment. In addition to the adoption of safe building materials that keep down incidence of sick house syndrome, they also offer a varied menu of options that deliver readiness for health risks, for all kinds of residents including families raising children and active seniors. In the future as well, the Housing Company will continue making progress on supply of homes for comfortable, healthy living.*4 *1. From a 2012 survey of residents in homes using AIR WORKSHOP systems, conducted one year after they moved in (sample size: 409) *2. From a 2012 AskDoctors survey (sample size: 300). AskDoctors certification is valid through October 31, 2013. *3. Excluding Hokkaido, Okinawa, and some other areas characterized by heavy snow and cold temperatures. *4. While the Doctors’ Air Model homes are intended to realize positive interior air conditions that support healthy living, no guarantee is provided concerning improvements in or maintenance of residents’ health or other results or efficacy. Heat-Pump Heating, Cooling, and Dehumidifying Systems Three Prominences Telephone Information Service Contest CS & Quality The Housing Company organized the First Sekisui Heim Customer Center National Telephone Information Service The National Telephone Information Service Contest Contest and held it in March 2013. Environment The goals of this contest are to improve response quality and staff motivation in all contact points with customers. It involved a competition in everyday telephone service skills among 18 persons who had undergone the telephone information service training conducted through now mainly by Customer Information & Consulting Services, chosen from CS & Quality Sekisui Heim sales companies across Japan. Plans call for continuing to hold this contest in fiscal 2013 and later as well. Human Resources I think that when communicating on the telephone by Riko Uchiyama voice alone, it is inevitable that the information availMito Customer Information able will be limited and it is very hard to judge ac& Consulting Services curately what customers want. I always try to listen to CS Promotion & Quality everything the customer has to say and make proposals Assurance Ibaraki Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. that will lead to what the customer desires. While I was nervous because this was my first Business and CSR contest, I felt very satisfied to be able to provide service as usual. I am very happy for my unexpected victory in the contest. CS & After-Sales Service Quality Housing Company The Housing Company’s after-sales service (AS) system had been handled by the new-construction AS section for the period up to five years after delivery of a home to the customer and by Sekisui Fami S (remodeling) companies starting in the sixth year. However, a decision has been made to revise this division of responsibilities to consolidate all AS operations at Fami S. The goal is to increase customer satisfaction Urban Infrastructure (CS) by building permanent relations of trust with customers through unified long-term communication beginning when the home is delivered. The goal is to complete these changes to the AS system in fiscal 2015 after & Environmental steps including making the relevant organizational changes and developing related management and operation rules in fiscal 2013. Products Company High Performance Sales Personnel Training Human Resources Eco Heim Test: Percentage of Correct Answers Plastics Company Since fiscal 2009 the Housing Company has continued to conduct a unique education program called Eco Heim Test for all sales personnel in 100 (%) 88.1 90.9 charge of newly built homes. 80 73.4 79.7 This written test checks employees’ levels of knowledge concerning 60 topics chosen from a wide range of fields including Sekisui products and current events. Bases of CSR 40 The program has become firmly established, and in fiscal 2012 the 20 percentage of correct answers by test takers was more than 90%. A new goal is to introduce the Eco Heim Learning system to enable employees 0 to take the test on the intranet beginning in fiscal 2013. 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 42 Urban “Lifeline Innovation for Our Future” Infrastructure & Contributing to building safe, comfortable infrastrucEnvironmental ture and water environments as an environment Products Company solutions company Meeting Infrastructure Needs that Vary by Region, on a Global Scale The demands placed on infrastructure are of infinite variety, as for example Measures Securing against ageing safety and developing countries require securing stable water resources, developed countries of infrastruclonger prodneed to address ageing of infrastructure, and earthquake-prone regions require ture uct lifespan development of infrastructure resistant to disaster. The Urban Infrastructure Lifeline & Environmental Products Company uses the wealth of technologies and Innovation expertise it has accumulated centered on pipe systems to meet, on a global basis, infrastructure needs that are growing in both diversity and complexity. It Securing Building contributes to development of safe, secure social environments through supplying water disaster-resisresources tant infrastruca broad range of products, including plastic Eslon pipes characterized by light ture weight, high durability, and good workability, pipe rehabilitation systems with low levels of impact on the environment and society, and residential building materials that help create comfortable spaces for living. Demands of society related to our businesses Reduction of the environmental Acceleration of infrastructure load and traffic congestion restoration in disaster-struck areas Far-sighted development and resulting from construction renovation of social infrastracture Keeping costs down using Securing the safety of efficient methods contractors Business Value Chain Three Prominences Deploying Value-Chain Businesses that Meet the Needs of Society Environment In addition to the collective strength to handle a diverse range of parts and materials, deploying business in connection with the water environment and infrastructure requires the expertise to control quality CS & Quality and costs in total, including not just the parts and materials themselves but also diagnostics services and construction. The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company meets society’s needs in a variety of aspects from increasing the reliability of infrastructure through cutting costs using overall optimization, consideration for the environment in areas such as reducing wastes, and Human Resources consideration for the surrounding environment in terms of factors such as traffic congestion, noise, and vibration. It does so by using the strengths of its value chain from research and diagnostics through construction methods, system design, production of parts and materials, construction, and facility maintenance. Imaging system Business and CSR We carry out research and diagnostics 1. Research/Diagnostics on various pipelines, and when renovation is needed we propose solutions in accordance with the degree of wear and building properties, applying the most adequate method. For example in a case of sewer Housing Company line, we quantitatively analyze the degree of wear to sewer pipes using the impact elastic-wave exploration method that applies a light shock to the pipes to vibrate them and analyses the resulting wave profile. We also use imaging systems to obtain visuals of the inside of pipes by running Urban Infrastructure an inspection robot equipped with a video camera through them, measuring pipe cracks and other & Environmental defects and proposing appropriate priorities for repair and renovation. Products Company We propose the optimal designs for new construction 2. Design and renovation based on the results of research and High Performance diagnostics. Sewer information management system Our sewer information management system Plastics Company manages information such as the years of diagnostics, pipe assessments and degree of wear at the time of diagnostics, records of cleaning and repairs, and records of incidents such as flooding, subsidence, and complaints. Based on this data, we provide information and proposals for systematic renovation. Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 44 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Based on our thorough environmental and safety The SPR pipeline rehabilitation method 3. Construction measures, our highly experienced experts manage quality and processes. They also provide support for on-site adjustments and test runs after completion of construction. A variety of methods are available for sewer construction, including the SPR method that does not require road excavation or stoppage or rerouting of sewer services and the Omega Liner Method that uses steam to reshape a pipe inserted inside a small-diameter pipe. Each of these contributes to solving environmental and social issues, for example by keeping down waste generation and shortening construction periods. We also develop flawless maintenance systems after Inspecting equipment at a treatment facility 4. Maintenance beginning full operation. In addition to periodic inspections required under laws and regulations, we conduct thorough maintenance and inspections employing a diverse range of technologies. In these ways, we continue to provide responsible, long-term support for safe operation. Topics The Omega Liner Method The Hanamigawa Complex in Hanamigawa Ward in the city of Chiba has the largest population of any housing complex in the ward. Completed more than 40 years ago, recently it faced problems with its outdoor drainpipes. Its underground drainpipes are reinforced concrete pipes (hume pipes) of 200 mm diameter, made by centrifugal casting and installed underground more than 40 years ago. Investigation showed that draining of water was blocked by tree roots that had penetrated the hume pipes, oil and other substances stuck inside the pipes from residential wastewater, and stoppage by dregs from miscellaneous household water getting stuck to the oil. In consideration of the fact that a 20-meter excavation project on the complex’s main street would present problems to the safety of residents and of the ability to carry out the construction without damaging the roots of trees along the street, the decision was made to use the Omega Liner Method, which would require no excavation. The construction, which would have taken two weeks using a traditional excavation method, was completed in two days, including prior studies. Customer Feedback When the residents’ association of the Mr. Takuya Hiramatsu (left), President, and Hanamigawa Complex asked us about repairs Mr. Yasuhiro Koiwai to its outdoor drainpipes, we decided to use (right), Section Chief, Sekisui Chemical’s Omega Liner Method which Keihinkantetsu provides separate polyvinyl chloride pipeline engineering Co., Ltd. inside the old pipeline. We were certain that the people in the complex will be quite satisfied with this method, since it not only realizes a short construction period but also delivers the same level of quality that could be attained by excavating and installing new pipes. The completed construction project was evaluated highly, and later the decision was made to repair all problems in the sewer drainpipes under the narrow roads in front of each building in the complex using the Omega Liner Method as well. We place trust on Sekisui Chemical because they offer a wide range of pipe types from polyvinyl chloride pipes to polyethylene pipes, and deliver appropriate proposals suited to the conditions of condominiums and other properties. 45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 The SPR Non-Excavating Pipeline Three Prominences Rehabilitation Method Today, shortages of domestic water and agricultural water are occurring in emerging countries and developing countries in particular. In Japan, the legally specified useful life of water infrastructure is 40 years for water systems and 50 years for sewer systems. However, the problem of aging infrastructure is making itself felt Environment as totals of approximately 170,000 km of water pipes and approximately 10,000 km of sewer pipes are past their useful lives*1. Since worn pipes can lead to problems such as road subsidence and sewage leaking into ground water, urgent responses are needed. Traditional pipe rehabilitation work has resulted in problems such as traffic congestion and large volumes of waste, since it requires excavation of roads and ground surfaces to get to underground pipes. The SPR method developed jointly by the Urban Infrastructure & CS & Quality Environmental Products Company, the Tokyo Metropolitan Sewerage Service Corp., and Adachi Construction & Industry Co., Ltd. is a pipeline rehabilitation method that The award ceremony helps resolve these problems because it requires no excavation. From its introduction in 1986 through the end of fiscal 2012, the SPR method has contributed to a cumulative reduction in wastes of 8.42 million tons compared to construction methods involving excavation. Human Resources In addition, the SPR method won the 59th Okochi Memorial Prize*2, awarded by the Okochi Memorial Foundation, making it the first winner from the construction and sewer industry. *1. Data source “Water Resources in Japan” (2012), Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism *2. Okochi Memorial Prize The Okochi prizes are prizes for distinguished contributions related to production engineering, production technology R&D, and implementation of advanced production methods, established to commemorate the achievements of Masatoshi Okochi. The Okochi Memorial Prize is the most prestigious of the prizes. Building a Society with Safe Business and CSR and Reliable Water Supply Housing Company Through means such as public and private sector cooperation in infrastructure development, we will contribute to delivering infrastructure that is best suited to the needs of each region and each project and is strong against earthquakes, floods, droughts, and other disasters and to safe, reliable water supply, through efforts including supply of highly earthquake-resistant flexible polyethylene water and sewer pipes and supplying technologies and systems related to water supply, such as those for Urban Infrastructure water storage and purification. In the area of wastewater projects for agricultural communities, the vacuum & Environmental sewage system that enables a high degree of freedom in pipe placement and the urban no-dig method that installs pipes underground without digging up roads have been used in the first private-finance initiative (PFI)* project in Japan. Products Company Efficient development using these two technologies has succeeded in shortening the construction period to one-third that of a traditional method while cutting costs to High Performance three-fourths the previous level. * PFI Plastics Company A new method of infrastructure development in which design, construction, and maintenance are all ordered from a private-sector firm. Construction using the urban no-dig method Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 46 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Examples of Activities Expanding Applications of Systems Using Environment Underground Heat Structure of a System Using Underground Heat At depths of roughly 10 meters or more, the underground temperature remains at approximately 15° C year-round. Systems using underground Three Prominences CS & Customer Surveys Quality The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company has established a customer survey project, under which it has surveyed customer satisfaction together with employee CS & Quality assessment (see p. 23). Environment This survey of customers for each Results of Customer Survey and Employee CS & Quality Assessment business, including public agencies, home High “Chemistry for Your Win” Contributing to realizing a Performance rich society with advanced technologies, centered on the Plastics IT, automotive, medical, and building materials fields Company Pursuing the Limitless Possibilities of Plastics IT Field Unlike other materials like metals, wood, and ceramics, plastics are Functional capable of meeting a wide range of needs through transforming their improvements Realizing compact, material properties and processing them into various forms, such as lightweight sheets, foam, fine particles, and adhesives. products The High Performance Plastics Company utilizes its own unique precision molding and fine-particle technologies to supply highChemistry performance materials and intermediate materials globally, targeting for your win a wide range of business areas including the electronics materials (IT), AT Field MD Field automotive (AT), medical (MD), and high-performance materials fields. Safety, comfort Simplicity, It will continue contributing to the realization of a more convenient, Environmental swiftness rich society through further expanding the business fields in which it performance operates together with advancing technological innovations and newproduct development that meet with the needs of society. Demands of society related to our businesses Keeping down CO2 emissions in using end products Parts and materials useful Full information of ingredients made for miniaturization and high available and use of them minimized performance Timely, stable supply of parts Expectations for development and materials needed of new parts and materials that foster innovation 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Three Prominences Electronics Materials (IT) Field Supplying a Broad Range of High-Performance Parts and Materials Environment In the electronics materials (IT) field, which is seeing performance improvements together with decreases in product sizes and weights, the functionality of materials is growing even more important. To respond to such needs, the High Performance Plastics Company supplies a wide variety of high-performance materials, employing technologies such as those for precision molding, fine particles, and adhesive tapes. For example, we have secured a high market share in the field of LCD display CS & Quality panels through supplying products including spacers that keep uniform the space between the two glass plates that make up a display panel, sealing materials that prevent leaks of liquid crystal material avoiding contamination and conductive fine particles that transmit signals between narrow electrodes. We also contribute to high performance and miniaturization through supplying other parts and materials essential to IT devices, including thin films which make up the touch panels and tapes used to Human Resources attach LCD panels to the main units of IT devices while also providing light-shielding and reflective performance. As an example, as mobile phones and smart phones become progressively thinner, a need has arisen for thinner cushioning sheet materials to protect the devices from shocks due to dropping and other impacts. In response, we developed protective materials suitable for use with such thinner mobile devices. In addition to these, we also are advancing development of parts and materials High Performance Plastics Company Automotive (AT) Field Contributing to Comfort and the Environment as well as Safety In recent years automotive markets have seen increasing Parts and Materials Used in the Automotive Field needs for comfort, environmental performance, and other requirements in addition to the most important issue of Three Prominences Hot-melt adhesive for packaging use High Performance Materials Field Supplying Advanced Resin Processing Technologies for a Wide Range of Uses Packaging tape Environment Resin processing technologies that improve the functions of plastics are the technology that marks the origin of Sekisui Chemical Group. Advancing these technologies in accordance with the changing CS & Quality times, the High Performance Plastics Company meets the diverse needs of customers by supplying products suited to a broad range of uses, including adhesives, packaging tape, packaging films, agricultural films, and plastic containers. Human Resources Producing Products that Have the World’s Top Major leading products in which the High Performance Market Shares in Various Fields Plastics Company has the world’s top market share: The High Performance Plastics Company has the top market share Spacers for LCD use in the world in a large number of high value-added products, Conductive fine particles for LCD use Business and CSR such as LCD spacers and conductive fine particles in the IT field Interlayer film for automotive laminated glass and high-performance interlayer films and cross linked polyolefin Polyvinyl butyral resin foam for interior use in the AT field. Based on this performance, Cross linked polyolefin foam the Company will continue responding to needs in state-of-theCholesterol diagnostic reagents art fields, which continue to advance and diversify. Housing Company Business Value Chain High Examples of Activities Performance Plastics Company Iwate Plant, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Has Cut CO 2 Emissions by 11% through Adoption of an Environment Integrated Energy-Conservation System Iwate Plant, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. (in the city of Hachimantai) has LNG equipment introduced an energy-conservation system that includes conversion of its boilers to run on LNG. The system is named as one of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s projects in support of rationalizing use of energy in fiscal 2011, since at the same time as converting the plant’s boilers to use LNG, its advantages also include putting uncollected exhaust heat to effective use and reducing heat loss. In addition to this system, the Iwate Plant also has introduced systems to put solar thermal energy to efficient use and to use exhaust heat to melt snow. Furthermore, its new boiler building uses skylights and LED lighting to greatly lessen its environmental load. As a result of these activities, in fiscal 2012 the plant cut its CO2 emissions by 11% from their fiscal 2011 level. Deploying the “MONOZUKURI Doubling” CS & Quality Movement Issues faced by production sites in the High Performance Plastics Company include the effects of revisions to forms of production and an ageing workforce. In the face of these issues, it is striving to pass along manufacturing skills and to strengthen its monozukuri (“manufacturing”) abilities. Setting ambitious goals is essential to improving MONOZUKURI abilities. Accordingly, the Company is deploying activities under the title of “MONOZUKURI Doubling,” setting targets in each manufacturing section, and focusing its efforts on achieving these. First of all, autonomous activities at individual business sites began in fiscal 2012, and in February 2013 a meeting was held to report on the results of these activities. About one-half of manufacturing sections’ targets related to quality. These included “doubling the quality level” and “cutting quality losses by one-half.” In comparison with the benchmark period of the second half of fiscal 2011, these activities resulted in an average improvement of 128% in the first half of fiscal 2012. The activities have progressed smoothly, as for example 30% of sections achieved improvements of greater than 150% compared to the benchmark period. In light of these results, these activities will continue to move forward, with plans for 181% improvement in the second half of fiscal 2012 and aiming to achieve the goal of doubling by the end of fiscal 2013. Definitions of “MONOZUKURI Doubling” Category Perspectives of MONOZUKURI ability Details of improvements in MONOZUKURI ability • Quality variation halved, process abilities improved A Quality level improved • Growth in processes not requiring inspection • Trouble losses, minor corrections halved B Losses stopped • Unavoidable losses, preparatory losses halved Manufacturing (molding) problems • Incidents and time of stoppage due to trouble halved C eliminated • Incidents and time of momentary stoppages halved D Equipment problems eliminated • Equipment failures halved Speed of starting, stopping, and • Non-stop switching E switching increased • Time for switching in preparations halved Now able to complete manufacturing • Minimum production systems F using smaller numbers of people • Zero monitoring work (unmonitored, automated operation) • Standard speed doubled G Now able to manufacture at fast speeds • Preparatory and reaction time halved 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Three Prominences Human Safety Efforts Resources Environment Safety efforts are an important topic to Sekisui Chemical Group. In the High Performance Plastics Company, all business sites in Japan and worldwide have identified the risks that could cause serious accidents in each of their sites and drafted countermeasures for them. As a result, they identified 509 risks (369 in Japan, 140 overseas). Plans call for implementing countermeasures against all of these risks during the first half of fiscal 2013. Issues identified in these efforts include the need for uniformity in the risk evaluation standards CS & Quality of business sites, since they vary among individual sites, and the fact that uniform standards should be established for checking whether countermeasures taken are functioning effectively. At the same time, we recognize the fact that again a serious accident occurred during fiscal 2012 to be a serious problem. Based on these efforts, in fiscal 2013 once again we will continue activities focusing on measures to reduce the risks of accidents involving employees getting caught or stuck in machinery. Human Resources Human Resources Development Overseas Human Resources Sekisui Alveo A.G. (head office: Switzerland) encompasses three plants, 10 sales companies, and approximately 500 employees. In April 2004, it set up the Alveo Education Center (AEC) as a training center at its plant in Roermond, the Netherlands, one of its main plants, where it is focusing its efforts on human resources development. The AEC has two full-time trainers and one member of training staff, who review employees’ Business and CSR business performance in cooperation with outside instructors. It provides training for employees from manufacturing sites on the subjects of quality, the environment, health and safety, and manufacturing management, and training for clerical and administrative sections in areas including problem-solving methods and improving IT skills. In fiscal 2012, a combined total of about 280 people underwent training at the AEC, from both manufacturing sites and clerical and administrative sections. Housing Company In 2006 I started as a Young Professional with an internal training program. The internal training was provided by the instructors of Urban Infrastructure & Environmental AEC and I was given the opportunity to learn all about the production process of Sekisui Alveo B.V. and get an external qualification Products Company for Process Operator. After successfully completing the program in the beginning of 2009, I was given a permanent contract in the position High Performance of Process Operator and I still benefit from the knowledge and skills acquired during the internal training program in my everyday Maurice Lardenoije work. The guidance, support and advice of the AEC helped me in Plastics Company LEN Production Department achieving all of this. Roermond Plant Mid 2010 I started an education to get an even higher exterSekisui Alveo B.V. nal qualification which I hope to complete in June 2013. Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 54 Bases of CSR Compliance Aiming to Continue Being a Company Trusted by Society, through Deploying Compliance on a Global Basis Policy Sekisui Chemical Group carries out compliance management based on fundamental principles including “contributing to society,” “being a trusted company,” and “adherence to both the letter and spirit of the law.” We aim to be a company of which each individual employee can be proud, not just for his or her own sake but for his or her family, friends, and society at large, as he or she strives to put our management vision into practice while acting in accordance with the principles of compliance. Activities In fiscal 2012, we strived to build a structure for compliance training on a global basis while also continuing compliance Number and Percentage of Employees Verified Participating e-Learning training in Japan. The Housing Company Compliance Manual Three Prominences Preparing a Compliance Manual for the Housing Company In fiscal 2012, the new Housing Company Compliance Manual was prepared in addition to the Sekisui Chemical Group Compliance Manual already in use, to reflect the unique characteristics of the Housing Company’s businesses. Focusing chiefly on items related to various business laws and sales activities, it covers business-related points that employees should know. We provided compliance Environment training using this new manual at Housing Company sites across Japan. The S.C.A.N. Whistle-blowing Program FY 2012 Whistle-blowing Reports and Consultations Verified CS & Quality In 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group developed the S.C.A.N. (Sekisui Number Compliance Assist Network) intra-company whistle-blowing Items of items system, and since then we have made it available for use by all Power harassments 12 Group employees. We made progress on ensuring thorough awareness of this Working conditions 5 system, through revising the compliance cards and the whistleHuman Resources blowing site on the intranet in fiscal 2011. Workplace environment 4 Also thanks in part to the fact that it became possible Sexual harassments 3 to submit anonymous reports, in fiscal 2012 there were 33 whistle-blowing reports made. We also are promoting efforts to Sales-related 3 protect whistle-blowers and maintain and improve workplace environments, through periodic checking of circumstances. Other 6 In the future as well, we will respond in good faith to each individual report, recognizing it to be an important topic for the Total 33 Business and CSR company to address. Legal Violations, etc. In February 2009 the Fair Trade Commission found Sekisui Chemical to have colluded with other firms in determination of sale prices of polyvinyl chloride pipes and fittings over the period 2004–2006 and ordered it to take measures to eliminate such collusion and to pay surcharges (hereinafter referred to as the “order”). Since Sekisui Chemical’s determination of Housing Company facts of this case differs from that on which the order was based, in April 2009 the company asked the Fair Trade Commission to cancel the order. Appeal procedures are still underway. At the same time, we are striving to raise employee awareness by holding continual internal training on the Antimonopoly Act. In fiscal 2012, about 900 employees underwent this training in the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical Group will continue its efforts to raise awareness Urban Infrastructure of compliance, always keeping in mind the fact that compliance is an important foundation of CSR management. & Environmental Performance Incompatibilities in Homes Built Using Parts from Certified Manufacturers, Such as Standardized Residential Components Products Company This year it was discovered that some homes manufactured or newly constructed and subjected to residential performance evaluation under the standards for which Sekisui Chemical had received High Performance manufacturer certification for standardized residential components and other parts, involved mistaken entry of certification numbers and failure to comply with the performance indicated. Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical promptly reported the facts to the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism of Japan and took the necessary corrective measures, as well as suspending application of special measures (such as omission of design documents) related to residential performance evaluation until it could fully implement measures to prevent reoccurrence of such cases. With regard to the people living in the affected homes, we are steadily making progress on corrective measures such as correction of the certification numbers. In addition, to prevent Bases of CSR reoccurrence of such cases, we have implemented measures including improvements to internal systems, strengthening the system for checking at the time of design and application, and employee education. At present, these measures to prevent reoccurrence have taken hold and suspension of the application of special measures has been rescinded. We offer our heartfelt apologies to customers and other related parties inconvenienced by this matter. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 56 Bases of CSR Risk Management Aiming to Unify Risk Management and Crisis Management to Increase Sensitivity to Risks Risk Management System In contemporary corporate activities, which are growing in Policy complexity, it is impossible to ascertain accurately all risks that could be realized in the future. Sekisui Chemical Group has been advancing Sekisui Chemical Group continues to run through the development of a risk management system to plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle of risk management, unify risk management, which strives to prevent considering increasing employees’ sensitivity to risks is risks from occurring, and crisis management, essential to address such risks. which involves responding to major risks that These activities began in fiscal 2010 at 27 have occurred. We plan to complete preparation organizations, chiefly divisions under Company of an environment for such activities in fiscal organizations. The number of organizations employing 2013 and advance to the stage of qualitative these activities has increased from year to year, as they improvements beginning in fiscal 2014. have become firmly established in the Group. As of the end of fiscal 2012, a total of 72 organizations, consisting of both operating companies and production companies in Japan and around the world, took part in these activities. We plan to further increase risk sensitivity as we aim to bring this number to 100 organizations in fiscal 2013. Improving the Crisis Management System In fiscal 2011, Sekisui Chemical Group reconstructed its crisis management system, utilizing its experience with the Great East Japan Earthquake. Use of the new crisis management system began in fiscal 2012. In the recent unprecedented masThree times we conducted drills based on the sive earthquake, the preparations emergency task force procedures, and we reviewed the we had made through that point division of responsibilities and advanced preparations did not function fully, so that during normal times as well as conducting training for we were forced to rely all employees using the emergency initial response on instinct, experience, procedures and using disaster-prevention checklists to and courage (referred to improve disaster-prevention systems at approximately collectively as “KKD,” 800 sites in Japan. While ideally we should aim for Akihito Katsurada from the first letters of their a utilization rate of 100% for a disaster-prevention General Affairs & Control Japanese words kan, keiken, system, the average score in self-evaluations of all Department and dokyo). business sites as of January 2013 was just under 70% Sekisui Heim Tohoku Based on our Company Co., Ltd. and there was variation apparent among business sites. As such, we recognize that there is considerable room President’s strong belief that for improvement. as our business rapidly grew by 1.5 times in scale following Overseas, we completed the preparation of the earthquake we needed to make this KKD reproducible site-specific crisis management manuals as improved as explicit knowledge, we started up a new project and versions of the company-specific manuals at more began formulating a business continuity plan (BCP). than 80% of all sites. Based on these, in fiscal 2013 Currently we are in the stage of finishing up this plan, we will develop systems taking into consideration the trying to make it one that can be deployed at other housing regional characteristics of crises. companies as well. In addition, in the future we would like to make it something that can be referred to as business continuity management (BCM), as a living BCP, through repeated drills and review. 57 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Bases of CSR Disclosure & Communication Three Prominences Advancing CSR Management through Dialogue with Stakeholders Policy Dialogues with Overseas Socially Environment Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes the Responsible Investment (SRI) importance of adequate and proactive disclosure Rating Agencies and two-way communication for developing CS & Quality relationships built on trust with our stakeholders. In Europe and North America, there is considerable We are working to reflect appropriately in interest in socially responsible investment (SRI), in which our business the evaluations and comments we companies addressing CSR issues are chosen proactively receive through dialogue with stakeholders. We as targets of investment, and much research has been are doing so through efforts including Customer conducted by rating agencies. In light of the broad And Top (CAT) Meetings where top management range of businesses it conducts, each year the Sekisui Human Resources in housing sales companies meet customers to Chemical Group visits SRI ratings agencies in Europe receive feedback directly (see p. 41), the External and elsewhere to ensure that they have adequate and Advisory Board on Environment-Contributing accurate understandings of its lines of business and its Products (see p. 16), the Attractive Qualities CSR efforts. Screening System, in which the Attractive Qualities In fiscal 2012, we met with six SRI ratings agencies Screening Committee evaluates and screens from Japan and around the world. products and services, and opportunities for direct dialogue between management and employees. Communication between Management and Employees Business and CSR Since fiscal 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group has provided opportunities for employees to communicate with top management, based on its belief that it is essential to resolve problems faced by the company as well as workHousing Company related issues through direct communication between top management and employees. In fiscal 2012, the President of Sekisui Chemical visited five business sites across Japan targeting affiliate companies, to discuss the state of company management, expectations for employees, and other matters with approximately 300 participants. In the opportunity for exchange of opinions during these visits, employees discussed with the President themes chosen by the sites, such as human resources development and passing along skills. The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company held a welcome ceremony for 215 new employees who joined the Group with the acquisition of the pipe materials business of Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. in December 2012. Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company In the welcome ceremony, the President of the division company described a variety of subjects related to Sekisui Chemical to new team members High Performance transferred from the Mitsubishi Plastics Group, including the division company’s management strategies. The President’s strong beliefs on future Plastics Company business development in value-chain businesses and deploying the Group’s collective strengths came across particularly clearly. I hope to quickly familiarize myself with the collective strengths of Sekisui Chemical and become accustomed to Sekisui Chemical, my new workplace and at the Masaki Higashide same time breathe new life into the organization and actively take on the Tokyo Private Sector Sales Office Urban Infrastructure challenge of business-model reforms. Bases of CSR Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 58 Nature Conservation and Social Contribution Nature Conservation Policy Sekisui Chemical Group has continued activities to contribute to the environment since fiscal 1997, under the Three Prominences Tree-planting Activities in Northern China In fiscal 2012, Sekisui Chemical Group began tree-planting activities Tree-planting activities in China’s Hebei Province in the Fengning Manchu Autonomous County in China’s Hebei Province, about 180 km north of Beijing in corporation with the local Hebei Forestry Bureau. In June, employees of the group member companies in the area of Beijing and their family members, totaling Environment 121, took part in the activity and planted about 900 saplings. As the source of water for the capital city Beijing, the Fengning Manchu Autonomous County used to be home to abundant forests. However, due to overharvesting of timber and overgrazing by goats in recent years, the forests are undergoing progressive desertification, leading to worsening cases of water shortages in Beijing and of sandstorm damage. Plans for these tree-planting activities call CS & Quality for planting 2,000 trees through 2017, choosing species native to northern China that are strong against the region’s dry air, cold, and infertile land, in order to contribute to restoration and maintenance of the region’s water-supply functions and to prevent desertification. Human Resources Planting Mangrove Trees in Thailand Since 2011, employees of Sekisui Chemical Group’s member Planting mangrove trees companies in the area of southern Thailand and their family members have planted mangrove trees in Samut Songkhram, about 90 km southwest of Bangkok. In fiscal 2012, 109 people from five companies took part in these activities. Business and CSR The mangrove forests on Thailand’s coast have been cut down for purposes such as creating culture ponds for edible shrimp. Sekisui Chemical Group will continue its activities that aim to contribute to the community such as by restoring fishing resources and reducing damage from disasters through preserving fishing resources and reviving the mangrove forests, whose functions of protecting the Housing Company shoreline from tides and wind, and mitigating climate change have been reevaluated in recent years, as well as contributing on a global scale through helping prevent climate change and other efforts. Beautification and Cleanup Urban Infrastructure Activities in the U.S. & Environmental I have volunteered in various civic Products Company In May 2012, cleanup activities took place in and community activities for a Redondo Beach, California, organized by a purpose but those were during group of volunteers calling for prevention of personal times and for ocean pollution. A total of 22 people from Group High Performance personal cause. To member companies in the Americas took part, have that awareness with Sekisui TA Industries (head office: U.S.A.) Plastics Company and activity now in a corcoordinating these efforts. porate life setting is someReymond Umali Litter such as Styrofoam, film wrappers, plastic scraps, and cigarette butts are scattered thing that I never would’ve HR Department Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. across beaches that may appear clean at first sight. expected and envisioned. This litter is said to have negative effects on coastal To have a CSR comecosystems. Participants cleaned up the beach mitment that would benefit the environment and comBases of CSR by splitting into teams and competing to see who munity, and have a stronger bond with fellow employcould pick up the most litter. ees, makes me truly proud to be a part of the Sekisui Joint activities such as this one will continue Chemical Group. in the future as well. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 60 Nature Conservation and Social Contribution Social Contribution Policy Participation in the Community Three Prominences Sekisui Chemical Group actively participates in local communities at its companies and business We planned our supsites in Japan and around the world. port for the walkathon in One example of overseas activities is the response to a proposal support provided by Heitkamp (head office: U.S.A.) by an employee who has for a walkathon to help eradicate breast cancer held a family member who Environment in October 2012. works at the American Events to eradicate breast cancer are known for Cancer Society. the “pink ribbon movement” aimed at encouraging We at Heitkamp Lisa Ballou (right) and a correct understanding of the disease and early are proud to have been Gordon Baldwin (left) detection. Heitkamp employees supported this event through activities including preparations for and able to support this Heitkamp, Inc. participation in the walkathon as well as preparing walkathon. We feel that CS & Quality the Wall of Hope display where people could through this event, the declare their intentions to support eradication of members of the community and the company have joined breast cancer, and raising funds inside the company. together as one. The walkathon Human Resources Business and CSR Supporting the Research Activities of Universities and Research Institutions Sekisui Chemical Group began the Sekisui Chemical Grant The poster session Program for Research on Manufacturing Based on Innovations Housing Company Inspired by Nature in fiscal 2002 to support the research activities of universities and research institutions utilizing knowledge of fundamental science learned from nature. Over the 11-year period through fiscal 2012, this program collected a cumulative total of 2,987 public placements, ultimately awarding grants to 154 research projects. The forum held in October of each year as an opportunity for interaction among researchers marked its 10th anniversary Urban Infrastructure & Environmental in fiscal 2012. It included a poster session by 46 teams of researchers who had received grants under the program in the past. Products Company Donations For purposes including environmental conservation and support for raising the next generation, Sekisui High Performance Chemical Group provides economic support including donations to a variety of activities. Its donations in fiscal 2012 totaled approximately 102 million yen. Plastics Company For example, Thai Sekisui Foam was one of 16 JapanAdded library/computer lab affiliated companies in Thailand that made donations to an elementary school in northern Thailand near the Laotian border. These donations were used to build a new one-story school building to add four classrooms to the school and expand its library/computer lab. They also covered the cost of installing 16 Bases of CSR computers and new playground equipment. In addition, a typical example of continuing donations is the matching gifts the company provides in amounts equal to or surpassing donations collected from employees in response to disasters and other needs. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 62 Independent Practitioner’s Review Report （TRANSLATION） Independent Practitioner’s Review Report June 11, 2013 Mr. Naofumi Negishi, President, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Hiroshi Inanaga Chief Executive Officer Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. １．Scope and Purpose of Review We have reviewed the “CSR Report 2013 (including the separate “CSR Report 2013 Data Book”)” (the “Report”) prepared by Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. (the “Company”). The purpose of our review was to provide limited assurance as an independent practitioner, based on our review procedures, on whether: ・material sustainability information indicated with the verification logo for the period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 included in the Report was accurately measured and calculated with reference to the “Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 version” (issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment) and “Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1)” in accordance with the calculation methods adopted by the Company; ・no material items listed in the “Appendix: Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria” (issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information in February 2011) were omitted; ・the Company’s self-declaration on the GRI application level conforms to the application level criteria stipulated by the GRI. ２．Responsibility of the Management and Responsibility of the Independent Practitioner The Report is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to provide our limited assurance with respect to our review performed on the Report as an independent practitioner. ３．Summary of Review To obtain an adequate and valid basis for providing limited assurance with respect to our conclusions, we performed our review in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (issued by the International Federation of Accountants in December 2003), and the Practical Guideline for the Assurance of Sustainability Information (issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information in December 2012). The review procedures performed for the material sustainability information indicated with the verification logo for the period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 included in the Report consisted of: 1) agreeing information to summary tables and supporting documents on a sample basis; 2) interviewing the responsible personnel and the persons in charge; 3) reviewing and agreeing information to the relevant minutes, the Company’s regulations, and ISO-related documents, etc.; 4) site visits; and 5) comparing information with other available supporting internal and external materials of the Company. ４．Conclusion On the basis of the review procedures described in the preceding paragraph, nothing has come to our attention that caused us to believe that the material sustainability information with the verification logo for the period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 included in the Report was not accurately measured or calculated, with reference to the “Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 version” (issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment) and “GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1)” in accordance with the calculation methods adopted by the Company, in all material respects, or that any material items listed in the “Appendix: Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria” (issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information in February 2011) were omitted, or that Company’s self-declaration on the GRI application level does not conform to the application level criteria stipulated by the GRI. ５．Special Interests There are no interests between the Company and Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. or its engagement personnel, requiring disclosure based on the provisions of the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. The above represents a translation, for convenience only, of the original Independent Practitioner’s Review Report issued in the Japanese language. Summary of Independent Practitioner’s Review Procedures History of Sekisui Chemical Group 1947 Establishment of Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd. Started first injection Initiated zero waste emission activities. molding business in Japan. 1999 Midterm Management Plan: GS21 takes effect. 1948 Change of company name to Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Instituted Corporate Philosophy. 1950 Began selling cellophane tape. Concentrated business into three domains: Housing, Urban 1952 Started full-scale production of PVC pipe (Eslon Pipe). Infrastructure & Environmental Products, and High Performance 1953 Listed on Osaka Stock Exchange. Plastics. 1956 Developed Japan’s first plastic rain gutter (Eslon Rain Gutters). Midterm Environmental Plan: STEP-21 takes effect. 1959 Established Sekisui Sponge Industries Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui Began publishing Environmental Reports. Plastics Co., Ltd.) with co-financing from Shin-Nippon Chisso 2001 Launched the division company system, establishing the three Hiryo Co., Ltd., Asahi Kasei Corporation and others, to division companies: the Housing Company, the Urban commercialize plastic foam. Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company, and the High 1960 Established Sekisui House Sangyo Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui House Performance Plastics Company. Co., Ltd.) and started the housing business. Achieved zero waste emissions in all house production plants 1962 Launched Movement for Cleaner Towns featuring our plastic and all plants of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. garbage bins (Poly-pail), as a campaign to mark the company’s 2003 Midterm Management Plan: GS21-Premium 600 takes effect. 15th Anniversary. Cleaning revolution subsequently spread Established the Environmental Management Promotion nationwide. Department (now CSR Department Environmental Management 1963 Started producing plastic bathtubs (first in Japan). Modular toilet Group). tank commercialized, paving the way for production of Midterm Environmental Plan: STEP-2005 takes effect. modularstyle equipment. Achieved zero waste emissions at all house construction sites. 1970 Exhibited modular house (Sekisui Heim) at the International 2004 Established the CS & Quality Management Department (now Good Living Show in Tokyo. CSR Department CS & Quality Group). 1971 Started producing and selling Japan’s first modular house, Heim Achieved zero waste emissions in all construction by house M1. renovation companies. 1972 Established original Environmental Management Department. 2005 Established the CSR Committee. Launched company-wide commitment to pollution control. Published the Environmental and Social Report. 1979 Awarded Deming Prize for quality management in recognition 2006 Midterm Management Plan: GS21-Go! Frontier takes effect. of results of aggressive TQC activities. Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan 1981 Adopted twin-headquarters system (Osaka and Tokyo), and Part 1 takes effect. established Tokyo Headquarters at Toranomon, Tokyo. 2007 60th Anniversary of the founding of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Began producing and selling timber-framed modular house, Global Children’s Eco Summit and Manufacturing Based on Two-U Home. Learning from Nature—Junior Forum held. 1991 Established Basic Policies on environmental issues. Conducted reviews of the CSR Committee and Headquarters 1993 Introduced divisional system, shifting to the seven divisions: Pipe organization. & Related Products, Building Materials, Chemicals, TechnoPublished the CSR Report. products, Molded Products, Medical Products, and Housing. 2008 CSR policies established and revised. 1994 Began activities to earn ISO 9000-series quality-management 2009 Midterm Management Plan: GS21-SHINKA! takes effect. system certification. Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan 1996 Paid-in capital surpassed 100 billion yen. SHINKA! takes effect. Adopted new headquarters logo. Developed the “Sekisui Eco-Frontier 2030” Long-Term Announced Top Management Policy for Environment and Safety. Environmental Management Vision. Began activities to earn ISO 14001 environmental-management 2010 Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum system certification. held in Nagoya. 1997 50th Anniversary of the founding of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. 2011 Safety Subcommittee established. Launched Sekisui Chemical Group nature conservation activities. 2012 65th Anniversary of the founding of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Created Women’s Athletic Club. Global Children’s Eco Summit 2012 held. 1998 Instituted Corporate Activity Guidelines. Editor’s Notes Since Sekisui Chemical Group began full-fledged CSR efforts in The introduction in the opening pages of the Report adopts a fiscal 2005, it has published the CSR Report (titled the Environmental content structure that makes Sekisui Chemical Group’s concepts and and Social Report in fiscal 2005 – 2006) with chapters organized CSR philosophy understandable to ordinary readers. In addition, the around Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR concept, based on the fiscal 2013 report also summarizes the changes over time in our CSR Three Prominences of the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human efforts, as we enter the final fiscal year of the midterm management Resources and its Three Attitudes of Sincerity in Compliance, Risk plan. The chapter on each of the Three Prominences reports on Management, and Disclosure & Communication, to communicate this policies, objectives, measures, and results for Sekisui Chemical Group concept to parties both inside and outside the Group and to promote as a whole. Reports on relations between business and society, its spread. priority CSR issues, and examples of efforts follow, for each of the In recent years, as a result of growing readership of the Report three division companies. The separate Data Book provides detailed and globalization, demands for disclosure of information have information on efforts along with performance data. increased and the forms of information in demand have grown more In addition to disclosing as much information as possible on diverse and advanced. At the same time, in Sekisui Chemical Group our CSR efforts through this Report and accepting opinions from the business characteristics and CSR efforts of each division company both inside and outside the Group, efforts such as undergoing differ, and the necessity of clearly defining the characteristics of each an independent practitioner’s review to ensure the accuracy and division company in enhancing and promoting CSR efforts within the objectivity of the information disclosed are intended to advance organization has become more important. CSR management efforts and improve the content of this Report. We For these reasons, while striving to maintain the quality and would very much appreciate hearing the frank opinions of our readers quantity of information that have been so highly regarded by outside (csr@sekisui.com). Such opinions will serve as valuable references for parties in past reports, beginning with last year’s (fiscal 2012) edition Sekisui Chemical Group’s future CSR efforts and in the preparation of the Report has added new pages on individual division companies future reports as well. and employed a chapter structure that reports specifically on the measures and initiatives of each division company. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 64 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL: http://www.sekisuichemical.com/ For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Email: csr@sekisui.com This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the plate-making process. CSR Report 2013 (including the separate Data Book) has (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic been reviewed by an independent third party and as a compounds (VOC) and has excellent biodegradability and result has been granted the sustainability report review de-inking performance, is used in the printing process. In and registration logo. This demonstrates that this report satisfies the necessary criteria established by the addition, waterless printing, which generates no hazardous waste Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for fluids, has been used as well. Sustainability Information (J-SUS; http://www.j-sus.org/) (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the for the use of this logo, intended to assure the reliability binding process. of sustainability information. Published: June 26, 2013. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 27, 2012. Next edition planned for publication: June 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Report CSR Report 2013 Data Book Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) 1 Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data 2 Progress on the Midterm Environmental Plan 3 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Environmental Accounting 5 Sekisui Eco Value Index 7 Material Balance (in Japan) 7 Environment-Contributing Products 8 Product Assessments for Environmental Impact 8 Biodiversity 8 Global Warming Prevention 9 Resource Recycling and Saving 10 Environmental Performance of Domestic Offices 11 Atmospheric and Water Related Emissions 12 Environmental Incidents and Complaints, and Emergency Responses 12 Chemical Substances 13 Environmental Management 14 CS & Quality 15 Human Resources 16 Safety 17 Compliance 18 Nature Conservation and Social Contribution 19 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management System 20 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management Policies 21 Scope of Independent Practitioner’s Review Verified The environmental and social information in this report has been subjected to the independent practitioner’s review for the appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy of the results of calculation. The “Verified” logo is used to indicate that each item of such subject information has been reviewed. Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) * Fiscal 2012: Performance for overseas subsidiaries is for the 15-month period January 2012 through March 2013 (in connection with standardization of the fiscal years of consolidated subsidiaries to end in March beginning with fiscal 2012). Sales (by Each Division Company) Operating Income (by Each Division Company) ROE (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (%) 10,324 10000 10,000 600 596 9 9,650 9,342 9,154 546 8.1 7.8 8,585 493 Housing 6.9 8000 8,000 Company 4,690 400 363 359 4,244 4,186 4,493 310 6 3,982 335 243 6000 6,000 Housing Company 194 Urban 171 15 Infrastructure & 200 29 18 Environmental 2,145 Urban Products 3.5 4000 4,000 Infrastructure & 1,955 2,000 16 Company 2,252 1,946 Environmental 243 3 Products 232 192 205 High Company 157 Performance 2000 2,000 High Plastics 3,320 Performance 0 Company 2,626 2,476 2,816 2,968 Plastics −9 −24 −9 −2 Others Company −2 -17 0.3 20080 0 218 179 195 190 168 Others −200 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Interest-bearing Debt and Interest-bearing Debt as a Percentage Overseas Sales and Sales Ratio Total Assets of Equity Capital (100 million yen) (%) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (%) 2,500 25 10,000 1,500 50 23.0 2500 25 10000 2,378 9,015 1,294 1,330 19.7 19.6 8,271 40.2 38.9 1,245 1,271 2,000 20 8,000 7,872 7,901 1,200 40 767 7,564 36.6 36.2 1,153 8000 16.2 16.4 1,800 1,895 North America 1,500 1,515 528 564 15 6,000 900 27.6 6000 30 1,409 Interest-bearing 389 633 debt as a percentage 376 Europe of equity capital 1,000 506 570 10 4,000 600 20 4000 476 415 Asia Interest-bearing debt 500 872 5 2,000 300 10 655 2000 590 675 550 Others 0 59 68 89 104 104 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Cash Flows Capital Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) 500 500 400 500 500 365 400 440 345 345 351 348 400 300 306 368 300 400 345 330 200 300 151 126 300 100 252 200 0 200 200 −100 100 −77 100 −123 100 −200 −300 0 0 -300 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 R&D Costs Annual Dividend Per Share Number of Employees (100 million yen) (Yen) (persons) 300 20 24,000 300 20 18 254 256 258 20,855 22,202 240 246 250 19,742 19,761 19,770 15 15 15 Housing 200 13 16,000 8,520 8,478 8,637 8,820 9,775 Company 200 10 10 10 150 10 Urban Infrastructure & 4,570 4,887 Environmental 100 8,000 4,765 4,634 4,447 Products 100 Company 5 5 High 6,545 Performance 50 5,408 5,620 5,655 6,443 Plastics Company 0 0 0 1,049 1,029 1,031 1,022 995 Headquarters 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1 Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data Japan Housing Company High Performance Plastics Company R&D institutes 1 company and 1 business site R&D institutes 2 companies and 2 business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Research & Development Institute Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. ADME & Tox. Research Institute Production plants 11 companies and 10 business sites Production plants 11 companies and 14 business sites Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. etc. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Sales and construction 28 companies and companies 97 business sites Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Sales Companies Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. etc. Construction and Service Companies 40 companies and 108 business sites in total 11 companies and 16 business sites in total Urban Infrastructure & Headquarters Environmental Products Company R&D institutes 1 company and 1 business site R&D institutes 1 company and 1 business site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Development Center Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories 8 companies and 20 companies and Production Plants and Headquarters 10 business sites Production plants 11 business sites Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Headquarters and Tokyo Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd./Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant Headquarters, etc. Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd./Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. etc. 8 companies and 11 business sites in total 20 companies and 12 business sites in total Total: 76 companies and 147 business sites * The total number of companies and business sites do not match, since some companies have two or more business sites, and some business sites are shared by two or more companies. Overseas*1 Urban Infrastructure & YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejeon Plant Environmental Products Company YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Cheongwon Plant Kydex, LLC. YoungBo HPP (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Brea Plant Eslon B.V. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Tennessee Plant Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Yongchang Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant 7 business sites in total Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Resin Plant Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Pasadena Plant Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Calvert City Plant Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Coldwater Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui Alveo B.V. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Xeno Tech, LLC. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC (Stamford)*2 Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. 24 business sites in total * 1 Calculation period: April 1 March 31 of the following year (beginning with fiscal 2012). * 2 Data was collected only for wastes and CO2 emissions. 2 Progress on the Midterm Environmental Plan Efforts and targets of the Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (FY 2009 – 2013) Efforts Targets for Fiscal 2013 Improving overall environmental management efficiency Achieving a Sekisui Eco Value Index at least three times the fiscal 2007 value Improving Increase selling of Environment-Contributing Products At least 40% sales ratio of Environment-Contributing Products of Environmentconsolidated net sales Contributing Number of products certified as Environment-Contributing Products: 30 Promoting development of Environment-Contributing Products Products (fiscal 2009 – 2013 5years) Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 10% compared to fiscal Domestic production sites 2007 (at least 20% compared to fiscal 1990) Reducing greenhouse-gas Laboratories Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 20% compared to fiscal Reduction in emissions of (GHG) emissions 2007 Domestic offices Reducing CO2 emissions by at least 10% compared to fiscal 2007 Reducing energy consumption per unit of output by at least 5% compared Overseas production sites greenhouse gases (GHG) to fiscal 2008 Further reducing the environmental impacts of business activities Promoting Overseas offices Reducing energy use per capita by at least 10% compared to fiscal 2008 energy Reducing energy used per unit of output by at least 7% compared to fiscal conservation Domestic production sites 2007, when converted into thermal units Reducing energy consumption per unit of output by at least 5% compared During shipment in Japan to fiscal 2007 Reducing waste generated per unit of output by at least 40% compared to Domestic production sites fiscal 2007 Reducing waste generated per unit of output by at least 25% compared to Overseas production sites fiscal 2008 Efficient utilization of resources Domestic offices Reducing copier-paper use by at least 20% compared to fiscal 2007 Reducing wastes Overseas offices Reducing copier-paper use by at least 20% compared to fiscal 2008 Reducing wastes at new Compared to fiscal 2000: Sekisui Heim: 45% reduction construction sites Two-U Home: 62% reduction Reducing costs derived from waste Reducing loss costs by at least 5 billion yen compared to fiscal 2008 materials (accumulated amount from fiscal 2009 to 2013) Domestic production sites/ Rate of achievement at sites reviewed: 100% laboratories Expanding zero Overseas production sites Rate of achievement at sites reviewed: 100% waste emissions Recycling of waste materials Implementing zero-emissions (i.e., recycling at least 98% of wastes) efforts produced during dismantlement and expansion/renovation of houses in at least 50% of demolition projects Reducing other Reducing water intake at domestic production sites by at least 10% Efficient water use compared to fiscal 2007 environmental Reducing atmospheric VOC emissions at domestic production sites and Reduction in VOC emissions (legal and voluntary impacts laboratories by at least 60% compared to fiscal 2000 controlled substances) (at least 25% compared to fiscal 2007) Efforts to conserve biodiversity Designing action plans for main production sites Consideration for Support of nature conservation As Sekisui Chemical Group, providing aid to at least 10 nongovernmental Activities to activities by NGOs organizations per year in support of nature conservation activities improve biodiversity environment (conservation of Promoting nature conservation activities in at least five locations overseas biodiversity) Nature conservation activities in collaboration with local communities Implementing nature conservation activities at all business sites At least 80% of employees (cumulative) participating over the three-year period 2011 2013 Attaining external EMS certification at domestic production sites and Attaining external EMS certification at 100% of sites reviewed laboratories Attaining external EMS certification Attaining external EMS certification at consolidated construction companies at domestic construction companies Enhancing Attaining external EMS certification Enhancing the environmental environmental Attaining external EMS certification at 100% of sites reviewed management at overseas production sites systems (EMS) Expanding EMS development in Attaining external EMS certification at 100% of suppliers of residential supply chains building materials supplying a fixed amount or more management infrastructure Expanding green procurement Achieving a green procurement rate of 98% or higher Soil and groundwater surveys Completion of surveys at nine subject sites Learning at least a certain degree of Conducting environmental education for employees and management Improvement of environmental knowledge overseas as well education and enlightenment Developing leaders for nature Holding the Sekisui Nature Study Course at main production sites conservation activities (46 plants, five laboratories) Continuing issuance at production sites, laboratories, and sales companies Communication Publishing site reports that have acquired EMS certification with external organizations Communication with local Continued implementation at eight domestic production sites communities to improve environment 3 Results of efforts conducted under the Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! for fiscal 2012 Verified EvaluTargets for Fiscal 2012 Results of Fiscal 2012 ation Page 2.67 times (compared to fiscal 2007) 2.65 times (compared to fiscal 2007) ◯ 14, Data Book 7 Sales of Environment-Contributing Products: 392.5 billion yen Percentage of consolidated net sales: 38% Percentage of consolidated net sales: 38.0% ◯ 14,16, Data Book 8 11 new products certified in fiscal 2012 Ten new products certified in fiscal 2012 (fiscal 2009–2012 cumulative total: 42) ◯ — Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 12% compared to Reduced by 19.7% compared to fiscal 2007 fiscal 2007 (reduced by 21% compared to fiscal 1990) (reduced by 27.9% compared to fiscal 1990) ◎ 17, Data Book 9 Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 16% compared to fiscal 2007 Reduced by 32.8% compared to fiscal 2007 ◎ 17, Data Book 9 Reducing CO2 emissions by 8% compared to fiscal 2007 Reduced by 14.3% compared to fiscal 2007 ◎ 17, Data Book 9 Reducing energy consumption per unit of output by 3% Increased by 1.7% compared to fiscal 2008 × — compared to fiscal 2008 Reducing energy use by 3% compared to fiscal 2011 Reduced by 7.6% compared to fiscal 2011 × — 5.8% reduction per unit of output compared to fiscal 2007 5.3% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 × Data Book 9 4% reduction in energy consumption per unit of output 1.5% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 × Data Book 9 compared to fiscal 2007 16% reduction per unit of output compared to fiscal 2007 11.3% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 × 18, Data Book 10 3% reduction per unit of output compared to fiscal 2008 13.2% increase compared to fiscal 2008 × Data Book 10 Copier-paper use: 16% reduction compared to fiscal 2007 2.4% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 × Data Book 11 Copier-paper use: 1% reduction compared to fiscal 2011 21.8% increase compared to fiscal 2011 × — Compared to fiscal 2000: Sekisui Heim: 41% reduction Compared to fiscal 2000: Sekisui Heim: 27% reduction × 18, Data Book 10 Two-U Home: 57% reduction Two-U Home: 48% reduction Loss costs: 570 million yen in fiscal 2012 Reduced by 150 million yen in fiscal 2012; cumulative total Fiscal 2009–2012: cumulative 2.58 billion yen compared to × — reduction: 2.16 billion yen (compared to fiscal 2008) fiscal 2008 At least one new business site certified, for a certification rate of 95% Three new sites certified, achieved at 98% of sites ○ Data Book 10 At least one new business site certified One new site certified, achieved at 21% of sites ○ — Demolition recycling rate: 94% Demolition recycling rate: maintained at 94% (99% recycling rate for designated construction materials) ◯ — Reducing water intake by 6% compared to fiscal 2007 Reduced by 7.5% compared to fiscal 2007 ○ 18, Data Book 11 Reducing VOC atmospheric emissions by 55% compared to Reduced by 58.4% compared to fiscal 2000 fiscal 2000 (reducing by 15% compared to fiscal 2007) (reduced by 20.6% compared to fiscal 2007) ○ 19, Data Book 13 New assessment of three plants and formulation of action Assessment completed at three new sites and activity policies policies formulated ○ 20 Support for 10 organizations Aid provided to seven organizations × — Identification of two new organizations New organizations identified: none Continued implementation at two facilities (Suzhou, China; Thailand) New implementation at three facilities Implement at five sites ○ 60 (northern China; North America; Europe) Implemented nature conservation activities at 51 business Implement at 48 business sites in Japan sites in Japan Total participants: 73% (16,251 persons) ◯ 59, Data Book 19 Rate of achievement at sites reviewed: 100% Attained at 100% of sites reviewed One site newly certified in fiscal 2012 Attained at one new site ◯ 14, Data Book 14 Formulating plans to attain certification Attained at 66% of sites reviewed; no sites newly certified × — Two new business sites No sites newly certified × — EMS certification attained at 75% of sites reviewed Attained at 65% of sites reviewed EMS development rate: 89.5% External EMS certification attained: 93% (External certification: 67.1%, independent EMS development: × — 22.4%) Green procurement rate: at least 95% Green procurement rate: 96.8% ○ — (Surveys completed at subject sites in fiscal 2011) (Completed) — 19 Conducting CSR training Conducting CSR training (for new employees and new members of management) (for new employees and new members of management) ○ — Newly conducted at two facilities Not conducted; held at cumulative total of 28 sites × — Continuing issuance at subject sites Issued by 39 subject sites × — Conducted at six or more sites Five sites held briefings for nearby residents or authorities × — “Evaluation” Column Key: ◎ Outperformed target ○ Performed close to target (achievement rate of about 90% to 110%) × Failed to reach target 4 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Environmental Accounting Verified To promote efficient environmental management and fulfill corporate At the same time, the investment side showed increased investments accountability responsibilities, Sekisui Chemical Group employs environmental in global warming prevention measures (energy conservation) in accounting that makes it possible to ascertain the costs and effects of connection with responses to electric power issues. Investments in R&D environmental conservation activities. Calculation is conducted by referring to increased as well. the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Japanese A look at economic effects shows that the amount of cost reductions Ministry of the Environment, with the addition of Sekisui Chemical Group’s own from energy conservation activities increased, while the amount of cost concepts such as external economic benefits (estimated effects). savings from waste reduction and other activities decreased. In addition, In fiscal 2012, while the costs of R&D decreased slightly total costs rose external economic effects from homes installed with solar power generation from the previous fiscal year due to increases in waste reduction, systems and other efforts are also increasing steadily. environmental education and other activities. Scope of environmental accounting (1) Summation period: April 1, 2012 through March 31, 2013 (2) Scope of summation: 40 target production sites (as listed on Data Book p. 2) + 4 Laboratories + each department of Headquarters + back offices of division companies + 15 housing sales companies. (3) Principles of summation • Depreciation amounts are the same as those for financial accounting. • Investment amounts are based on budget approvals during the summation period. • Expenditures and investments that contain other than environmental conservation activities are distributed pro-rata in 10% increments. (4) Note • The scope of summation in fiscal 2010 consisted of 38 target production sites + 4 Laboratories + each department of Headquarters + back offices of division companies + 14 housing sales companies. Due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake, data could not be collected from the following sites in fiscal 2010: Production sites: Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. and the Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant. Housing sales company: Sekisui Heim Tohoku Co., Ltd. Environmental Conservation Costs (Sekisui Chemical Group) (million yen) Items FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,800 118 1,689 142 1,589 215 1) Costs within business areas Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 333 387 469 674 504 993 Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 4,296 102 4,607 153 4,914 195 Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods 2) Upstream/downstream costs 376 0 276 0 248 0 involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for green 3) Administrative costs 2,189 64 2,191 12 2,408 4 action organization, information disclosure, etc. 4) Research & Development costs Research and development on environmental conservation 1,506 16 3,301 15 3,222 244 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 77 0 70 0 78 0 6) Environmental damage costs Nature restoration, etc. 391 1 25 0 26 0 Total 10,967 688 12,628 996 12,990 1,652 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Items Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Total amount of R&D costs* and investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 24,695 18,559 25,611 17,200 25,895 15,473 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) 6.1 3.7 12.9 5.8 12.4 10.7 * R&D cost is the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Benefits (Sekisui Chemical Group) Environmental Conservation Benefits Environmental performance criteria: per unit of output; Total SelfEffect See evaluDescription of effects Item Unit FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 (12-11) page Item Unit FY2011 FY2012 ation Effects on (1) Electricity TJ 3,522 3,370 3,315 -56 Data (1) Energy usage per Amount of energy Book9 invested usage*1 unit of output GJ/ton 1.76 1.72 ○ resources (2) Fuel TJ 2,434 2,288 2,142 -146 Data (electricity + fuel)*1 Book9 Effects (3) CO2 emissions*2 Thousand 331.6 315.9 303.9 -12.0 Data – – – – ○ within tons Book9 business Effects on (4) Volume of environmental pollutants environTons 810.8 617.8 532.5 -85.4 Data – – – – ○ areas discharged*3 Book 13 mental impact and (5) Wastes generated*4 Thousand Data (2) Waste generated per tons 39.5 36.1 35.2 -1.0 Book 10 kg/ton 38.3 37.2 × wastes unit of output Thousand (3) Outsourced disposal (6) Outsourced disposal*5 tons 0.24 0.03 0.02 -0.01 – per unit of output kg/ton 0.03 0.02 ○ Upstream/ Effects downrelated to CO2 reduction by photovoltaic power Thousand stream products/ generation, etc. (cumulative) tons 196 233 271 38 – – – – – ◎ effects services Other Business sites attaining New acquisitions Numbers 2 6 1 – – Business sites attaining Total number benefits to ISO 14001 and other ISO 14001 and other of business 87 88 × environcertifications Renewals Numbers 16 12 15 – – certifications*7 sites Others*6 mental Number of business Total number conservaNumber of business sites achieving zero Numbers emissions*8 2 3 4 – – sites achieving zero of business 144 148 ○ tion emissions*8 sites * 1 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. * 2 Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data Book p. 9). * 3 Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. * 4 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises. * 5 Simple incineration + Landfill. * 6 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites. * 7 A cumulative total number of sites reviewed for factors such as consolidation and return of certifications for housing sales companies. * 8 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Economical Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures (Sekisui Chemical Group) (million yen) Description of effects FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Remarks Revenue (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources 206 267 257 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste segregation and recycling (2) Savings from simplified packaging 44 12 21 Cost (3) Cost savings through energy-saving activities 274 451 436 savings (4) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 696 966 896 Including resource-saving activities Sub-total (actual effects) 1,220 1,696 1,610 (5) Contribution to environmental conservation activities *9 7,603 8,420 6,888 Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added value at business sites *10 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation systems and “No-Dig” (6) External Economic Effect 12,957 16,165 19,135 pipe rehabilitation method Sub-total (estimated effects) 20,560 24,585 26,023 Total 21,779 26,281 27,633 * 9 Excluding housing sales companies * 10 (Added value from business sites) x {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} 5 Environmental Conservation Cost (by Each Division Company) (million yen) Urban Infrastructure & Items Environmental High Performance Sekisui Chemical Housing Company*1 Plastics Company Products Company Group*2 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,038 3 48 76 433 67 1,589 215 1) Costs within Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 152 284 81 67 181 556 504 993 business areas Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 4,332 12 300 156 240 18 4,914 195 2) Upstream/downCost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods 216 0 4 0 6 0 248 0 stream costs involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 3) Administrative Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for 670 0 252 0 284 3 2,408 4 costs green action organization, information disclosure, etc. 4) Research & Research and development on environmental conservation 158 25 1,282 3 1,284 0 3,222 244 Development costs 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 29 0 4 0 8 0 78 0 6) Environmental damage costs Nature restoration, etc. 0 0 0 0 26 0 26 0 Total 6,595 325 1,970 302 2,463 644 12,990 1,652 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental High Performance Sekisui Chemical Housing Company*1 Plastics Company Items Products Company Group*2 Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Total amount of R&D costs*3 and investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 4,119 4,079 5,112 4,649 13,460 5,010 25,895 15,473 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) 3.8 8.0 25.1 6.5 9.5 12.9 12.4 10.7 *1 Including 38 business sites of housing sales companies. *2 Total of three division companies and departments of Headquarters. *3 R&D cost is the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Cost (by Environmental Conservation Measures) (Million yen) Urban Infrastructure & Items Housing Company*1 Environmental High Performance Sekisui Chemical Products Company Plastics Company Group*2 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments 1. Prevention of global warming Reduction of CO2 emissions, etc. 148 284 104 67 181 506 523 942 2. Ozone layer protection Reduction of Chlorofluorocarbon emissions, etc. 4 0 0 0 1 50 5 50 Prevention of air pollution by reducing polluting 3. Conservation of air quality 318 0 34 0 242 16 632 53 substances 4. Prevention of noise and vibration Prevention of noise and vibration pollution 3 0 3 0 7 1 17 3 5. Conservation of water environment, Preservation of water quality, prevention of soil environment, ground quality subsidence 182 3 22 72 178 46 413 152 6. Waste reduction and recycling Reduction and treatment of waste, recycling, etc. 4,578 12 322 156 243 18 5,188 195 7. Reduction of chemical substances Risk management of chemical substances, etc. 511 0 2 4 48 4 562 7 8. Conservation of natural environment Nature conservation, etc. 56 0 64 0 27 0 189 0 9. Others Others 796 25 1,419 3 1,536 3 5,461 249 Total 6,595 325 1,970 302 2,463 644 12,990 1,652 *1 Including 38 business sites of housing sales companies. *2 Total of three division companies and departments of Headquarters. Environmental Conservation Benefits (by Each Division Company) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Environmental Conservation Benefits Housing Company*1 Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Group*2 See Effect Effect Effect Effect page Description of effects Items Unit FY2011 FY2012 (12-11) FY2011 FY2012 (12-11) FY2011 FY2012 (12-11) FY2011 FY2012 (12-11) Effects on (1) Electricity TJ 422 411 -11 1,312 1,317 5 1,033 984 -49 3,370 3,315 -56 Data Book 9 Amount of Upstream/ Other benefits to invested energy usage*4 117 117 1 116 113 -3 1,807 1,674 -133 2,288 2,142 -146 Data Book 9 resources (2) Fuel TJ Thousand (3) CO2 emissions*5 tons 31.2 30.6 -0.6 82.0 82.2 0.1 153.1 142.3 -10.9 315.9 303.9 -12.0 Data Book 9 Effects on (4) Volume of environmental pollutants discharged*6 Tons 4.3 6.1 1.8 80.6 75.7 -4.9 529.0 446.8 -82.1 617.8 532.5 -85.4 Data Book 13 environmenEffects within business areas downstream environmental tal impact (5) Wastes generated*7 Thousand 8.3 8.0 -0.3 6.2 6.0 -0.2 19.5 19.0 -0.5 36.1 35.2 -1.0 Data Book 10 and wastes tons (6) Outsourced disposal*8 Thousand tons 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.03 0.02 -0.01 — Effects related to CO2 reduction by photovoltaic Thousand 233 271 38 — — — — — — 233 271 38 — effects conservation products/ power generation, etc. tons services New Business sites acquisitions Numbers 0 0 — 1 0 — 4 1 — 6 1 — — attaining ISO 14001 Others*9 and other certifications Renewals Numbers 1 4 — 5 3 — 3 8 — 12 15 — — Number of business sites achieving Numbers — — — — zero emissions*10 0 0 0 0 0 3 3 4 — *4 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. *5 Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data Book, p. 9). *6 Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. *7 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises *8 Simple incineration + landfill *9 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites *10 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Economic Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures (by Each Division Company) (million yen) Urban Infrastructure Housing & Environmental High Performance Sekisui Description of effects Company*1 Remarks Products Company Plastics Company Chemical Group*2 Revenue (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources 44 9 188 257 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste segregation and recycling (2) Savings from simplified packaging 0 20 0 21 Cost (3) Cost savings through energy-saving savings 19 29 340 436 activities (4) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 26 136 730 896 Including resource-saving activities Subtotal (actual effects) 88 194 1,258 1,610 (5) Contribution to environmental Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added conservation activities*11 2,034 1,882 2,567 6,888 value at business sites*12 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation (6) External Economic Effect 13,477 5,658 — 19,135 systems and “No-Dig” pipe rehabilitation method Sub-total (estimated effects) 15,511 7,540 2,567 26,023 Total 15,599 7,734 3,825 27,633 *11 Excluding housing sales companies *12 (Added value from business sites) x {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} 6 Sekisui Eco Value Index P14 Verified The Sekisui Eco Value Index is an independent index utilized by Sekisui Chemical Group for measuring the eﬃciency of our environmental management activities. Sekisui Eco Value Index Trends (Target) Environmental Added Value 3.0 (converted to monetary amount) 3 (= sales revenue from Environment2.6 2.6 Contributing Products + external economic beneﬁts) 2.2 Sekisui Eco = 2 Value Index Group’s overall 1.2 1.4 environmental impact 1 1.0 (converted to coefficient) 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environmental Added Value (converted to monetary amount) Environmental Added Value (numerator): Sekisui Chemical Group calculates Environmental Environmental added value Waste Added Value by totaling the sales of our Environment-Contributing Products and the external (100 million yen) reduction by economic beneﬁts provided to society through our products and businesses. External economic 4,000 4,116 the SPR Method beneﬁts are calculated by converting to monetary amounts the eﬀects of reducing 3,753 57 135 environmental impacts when Sekisui Chemical Group products are used by customers or society. 3,156 114 48 Photovoltaic 3,000 generation 37 93 Conventional Energy and resources consumed, waste generated Products 2,000 1,552 1,728 1,912 52 Sales of Reducing 37 46 74 3,026 3,592 EnvironmentEnvironmentEnvironmental Impact 1,000 49 59 Contributing Contributing 3,925 Products 1,466 1,623 1,786 Products 0 External Economic Benefits = Reduction Amount x Cost of Reducing Environmental Impact 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Group’s overall environmental impact (converted to coefficient) Group’s overall environmental impact (denominator): The total sum of the Group’s Overall environmental impact (Eco Points) environmental impact is calculated by addition of converted values of raw materials and energy used as well as related landﬁll and incineration of waste and emissions into the atmosphere and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 water, which represent environmental impacts of diﬀering units and eﬀects on the environment, 0 Energy to the Eco Point coeﬃcient using the JEPIX integration method. 49 46 43 45 42 40 Input Output Major raw materials Sekisui Chemical Products 50 Metals, lumbers, wood-based Group Raw materials building materials, cement, 99 99 102 105 polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene, Wastes 100 118 113 polypropylene, etc. Landfill and incineration Emissions to atmosphere Energy and water area 21 150 26 25 Emissions to Electricity, heavy oil A, diesel PRTR-designated 16 0.6163 0.6 0.5 39 atmosphere oil, heating oil, gasoline, city substances (Methylene 1 16 0.7 171 170 and water area chloride, Xylene, 176 0.5 Landﬁll and gas, etc. Toluene, etc.), COD 184 184 incineration 200 Integration of environmental impacts Eco Points (EIP) (100 million yen) Material Balance (in Japan) Verified Main Raw Materials To the atmosphere • Metals 82,000 tons • Wood, wooden • CO2 from energy building materials 44,000 tons consumption 304 thousand tons-CO2 • Cement for exterior walls 120,000 tons • NOx 205 tons • Concrete for foundations 260,000 tons • PVC 146,000 tons • SOx 14 tons • Polyethylene 64,000 tons • Soot particles 9 tons • Polypropylene 32,000 tons Sekisui • PRTR-designated substances 528 tons • Kraft paper 13,000 tons • PRTR-designated Input Chemical Output substances 121,000 tons Group To water • Water discharged 14,386 thousand tons Energy 5,456 TJ • Purchased electricity 342,325MWh • COD 51 tons • Heavy oil A 3,309kL • PRTR-designated substances 0.3 tons • City gas 40,868 thousand m3 Wastes Industrial water 15,712 thousand tons • Total generated waste 35 thousand tons Note: Certain main raw materials are undisclosed for business strategy reasons. 7 Environment-Contributing Products P16 Environment-Contributing Products Sales Verified and Sales-Ratio Trends (Target) (100 million yen) 37.2% 38.0% (%) 40.0% 4,000 33.1% 35 3,925 4000 3,592 Sales Ratio 3500 3,000 3,026 25 3000 20.8% 17.4% Housing Company 2500 15.3% 2,462 2,687 2,000 15 2000 1,786 2,078 1,623 1,466 Urban Infrastructure & 1500 Environmental Products Company 1,053 1,000 758 841 5 1000 771 799 High Performance Plastics Company 663 731 677 719 500 Headquarters 0 45 50 56 7 221 9 349 11 428 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environment-Contributing Products conceptual diagram Criteria for Environment-Contributing Products High Environmental Contribution Low Definitions Environment-Contributing • Products and businesses that demonstrably help reduce the Products environmental load of our customers and society as a whole. Products and • Products or systems having at least a certain degree of eﬀect on businesses that reducing environmental load compared to similar conventional Products or systems demonstrably help reduce having at least a certain products and systems. the environmental load degree of eﬀect on of our customers and Scope of Application Environmentally reducing environmental society as a whole. compatible load compared to similar • Reduction of environmental load and resource depletion related products conventional products to the stages of customer use, disposal, and recycling (excluding and systems. the stages of production, home construction, and transportation within Sekisui Chemical Group). • Reduction of impacts on the natural environment (e.g., reduction Sekisui Chemical Group’s Our customers and society in greenhouse gases) and on the social environment (e.g. waste business activities as a whole reduction, resource conservation, and water saving/recycling). Scope of environmental load reduction Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact P14 Targets: products and processes Scope: all stages of the product lifecycle Compliance Evaluation Chemical Substance Assessment • Laws and • Self regulation • Requirements of • Laws and • Prohibited • Restricted regulations industries etc regulations substances substances Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact Environment-friendly design Raw material procurement Manufacture Transportation Construction and assembly Use Disposal • Invested resources • Environmental impact • Capital Investments • Environmental impact • Invested resources, energy • Invested resources, energy • Composition and structure • Raw materials, Means of transportation • Invested resources, energy Means of transportation • Secondary resources used • Secondary resources used • Recyclability composition, and structure Packaging materials • Secondary resources used Load-efficient design • Environmental impact • Environmental impact • Environmental impact • Information disclosure • Green procurement • Information Disclosure • Environmental impact Atmosphere, water, wastes, Atmosphere, water, wastes, Transportation, disposal, • Environment-Contributing (Suppliers, raw materials) Atmosphere, water, wastes, chemical substances, etc. chemical substances, etc. soil/groundwater Products standards chemical substances, etc. contamination • LCCO2 evaluation Biodiversity P20 Initiatives Envisioned Under the Biodiversity Guidelines • Developing assessment methods and conducting assessment, reducing impacts 1. Assessment and reduction of • Promoting biodiversity-conscious purchasing the impact of business activities on biodiversity • Greening of business sites (promoting landscaping and biotope development) 2. Development and promotion of related technologies and products • Incorporating biodiversity assessment in the product development stage • Conducting nature conservation activities at all business sites 3. Raising employees’ awareness • Expanding the Sekisui Nature Study Course and nature conservation activities • Supporting the Innovations Inspired by Nature, and holding periodic forums on the subject 4. Dialogue and cooperation with external stakeholders • Supporting nonprofit and other organizations through the Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) • Exhibiting at the Eco-Products Exhibition and other events 5. Transmittance of information • Providing information in the CSR Report, Site Reports, and websites • Educating the next generation (Children’s Nature Study Course, school visits) 8 Global Warming Prevention P17 Verified Greenhouse-gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing Greenhouse-gas Emissions from Laboratories (1,000 tons-CO2) (1,000 tons-CO2) 500 20 19.0 452 443 433 3.0 419 16.6 16.4 (Target) 400 389 1.5 15.2 365 15 350 2.9 14.0 341 342 330 1.0 13.0 12.8 312 Other 300 0.5 0.5 greenhouse Overseas gases 10 200 Japan 15.1 16.0 13.5 156 160 CO2 from energy 13.1 12.5 12.3 consumption 5 sources 100 0 0 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 CO2 Emissions Coefficient Greenhouse-gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing (Environmental Top Runner Plan: SHINKA!) (1,000 tons-CO2) Under the New Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan 500 SHINKA!, progress is being made in reducing emissions of all greenhouse gases. The conversion coefficients for CO2 emissions are the values specified 433 400 44 (as of March 2009) under the greenhouse-gas emissions calculation, 389 37 24 365 (Target) reporting, and disclosure system established by Japanese law, with uniform 341 342 Greenhouse gases 346 37 24 330 from non-energyfigures used for each fiscal year. 9 26 312 36 15 32 consumption sources 300 9 108 31 31 Purchased electricity 0.555 tons CO2/MWh 95 31 Housing Company 88 83 Urban Infrastructure & Heavy oil A 2.71 tons CO2/kL 80 82 82 Environmental City gas 2.08 tons CO2/thousand Nm3 200 Products Company LNG 2.70 tons CO2/ton High Performance 203 Plastics Company Heating oil 2.49 tons CO2/kL 178 167 167 153 100 157 142 Diesel oil 2.62 tons CO2/kL Gasoline 2.32 tons CO2/kL Headquarters LPG 3.00 tons CO2/ton 41 54 49 47 50 50 49 0 Purchased steam 0.179 tons CO2/ton 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Source: Calculation and Reporting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (published in March 2009 by Japanese Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) Energy Usage and Per Unit of Output (Index) During Manufacturing Breakdown of Energy Used Breakdown of GreenhousePer unit of Basic unit performance output index Gas (GHG) Emissions Usage (TJ) (FY 2007: 100) 100 100.3 102.2 101.6 10,000 97.3 94.7 100 CO2 from non-energy93 CO2 from other consumption energy consumption sources 3% Others 7% 8% Heavy oil A Other gases 8,000 (Basic unit target) 80 0% 2% Heavy oil A 3% 6,519 6,000 627 6,087 5,956 60 5,657 5,659 613 553 5,456 539 1,661 540 529 Housing Company Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2012 1,542 City gas 4,000 1,392 1,444 1,428 Urban 1,430 Infrastructure & 40 29% 5,456TJ Electricity City gas 312,000 tons Electricity Environmental 61% 26% CO2 61% Products Company 3,293 3,083 2,000 2,909 3,105 2,840 2,658 20 High Performance Plastics Company Headquarters 0 938 849 815 854 853 840 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * The per unit of output index has been revised retroactively for past fiscal years to improve precision. Transportation Volume and Energy Per Unit of Output (Index) During Transportation CO2 Emissions in the Amount of CO2 Emissions Transportation Volume Per unit of output performance Per unit of output index Transportation Stage (Overseas) (10,000 ton-km) 102.6 102.2 (fiscal 2007: 100) 50,000 99.2 98.5 100 95 Housing 100 100.8 Headquarters Company 15% 18% 40,000 (Per unit of output target) 80 36,136 Fiscal 2012 Fuel Fiscal 2012 Electricity 33,051 usage usage 30,000 8,027 30,144 30,436 60 43,000 tons 62% Approx. 38% 8,032 28,103 27,926 Housing Company -CO2 443,000 tons 8,090 7,912 6,746 7,082 20,000 13,273 Urban 40 Urban Infrastructure & 12,024 Infrastructure & Environmental Products 10,731 10,507 11,499 12,029 Environmental Company 47% Products Company 10,000 6,761 High 20 5,889 Performance High Performance Plastics Company 5,071 4,946 4,898 5,273 Plastics Company 20% See Data Book, p. 2 for scope of summation 8,075 7,107 Headquarters 5,555 5,391 5,657 5,222 • Amount transported in ﬁscal 2012: 300 million * CO2 emissions have been calculated 0 0 ton-kilometers using the emissions coefficients of the 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 • Calculation method: Either the improved greenhouse-gas protocol for electric ton-kilometer method, fuel consumption method, power and the emissions coefficients of * The per unit of output index has been revised retroactively for past fiscal years to improve precision. or fuel cost method, depending on the product the Environmental Top Runner Plan and transportation method SHINKA! for fuel. 9 Resource Recycling and Saving P18 Verified Fiscal 2012 Annual Production-Site Waste Generation and Disposal Conditions Change over the previous year is in ( )and proportion of the total generation is in [ ]. Reuse within the premises 6,982 tons On-site incineration (reduction) (decreased by 2.0%) 0 tons [0%] Total amount Valuable materials sold 12,843 tons (decreased by 9.3%) [36.5%] of materials recycling 28,702 tons Total amount of (decreased by generated wastes Amount of 4.9%) [81.6%] Outsourcing of Materials recycling 15,859 tons 35,159 tons discharged wastes recycling resources (decreased by 0.9%) [45.1%] (decreased by 2.7%) 22,315 tons Use of 22,293 tons [100%] (increased by 1.6%) incineration (increased by 1.7%) [63.4%] [63.5%] heat 6,434 tons Simple incineration (increased by Outsourced disposal 23 tons (increased by 43.8%) 8.7%) [18.3%] 23 tons (decreased by 24.7%) [0.1%] [0.1%] Landﬁll 0 tons (decreased by 100%) [0%] Zero Emissions Achievement Criteria and Accreditation System of Sekisui Chemical Group Status of Zero Emissions Achievement Achieved at 41 plants in Japan and four overseas (1) Not engaging in any outside incineration without thermal utilization plants, including those of aﬃliates. (Includes three (thermal recycling), or landﬁll outside or inside of facilities (recycling ratio: Production sites plants in Japan and one overseas plant that 100%) achieved zero emissions in ﬁscal 2012) (2) If the waste quantity is small and it is a type of waste that has never been Laboratories Achieved at all laboratories by ﬁscal 2012 recycled before, recycling methods and relevant contractors must be New house identiﬁed and a service agreement must be executed. construction sites Achieved at all locations by ﬁscal 2003 We also have established uniform evaluation criteria known as the Zero House renovation sites Achieved at all locations as of ﬁscal 2004 Emissions Achievement Evaluation List. We have established a system designed to conduct internal checks and issue approvals for the status of Osaka and Tokyo observance of the evaluation criteria as well as legal compliance, rules and Headquarters buildings Achieved as of ﬁscal 2005 signage for waste segregation and storage, management of related facilities, As of end of ﬁscal 2012, 99% recycling rate for and waste reduction planning and management. The list obliges us to Home demolition sites Designated Construction Materials conduct inspection of outside contractors and to clarify treatment routes in (scrap concrete and wood chips) order to enhance the management system through these activities. Wastes Generated by Production Sites and Wastes Generated by New House Construction (per house) Per Unit of Output (Index) Per unit of output index (tons) Waste generated (1,000 tons) (ﬁscal 2007: 100) 5 60 120 100 101.7 50 94.5 96.5 100 4 4.02 91.2 88.7 43.7 Per unit of 40 39.4 39.5 output index 80 11.2 36.0 36.1 Housing Company 3 1.95 35.2 10.4 11.3 8.3 60 30 10.1 8.0 60 2.30 Per unit 2.18 2.20 9.6 of output 2 1.99 8.6 6.4 6.2 1.88 6.0 target 1.76 20 7.1 Urban 40 1.04 1.32 1.20 1.07 New house Infrastructure & 1.29 construction 19.5 19.5 Environmental 1 1.08 1.17 site Products Company 10 20.8 18.4 19.0 20 16.6 0.65 0.59 0.75 0.66 Exterior wall High Performance 1.03 0.45 0.46 plant Plastics Company 0 0.33 0.29 0.25 0.26 0.23 0.25 0 2.2 2.0 2.2 2.3 2.1 2.1 Headquarters 0 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Assembly 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 plant * Wastes generated and the per unit of output index have been revised retroactively for past fiscal years to improve precision. Breakdown of Generated Wastes Waste Treatment Methods Burnt residue 0.3% (Overseas) Plasterboard 0.4% Others 2.8% Oil waste, acidic waste, alkaline waste 8.9% Incineration Metal scrap 2.7% 5% Landﬁll Wood chips 5.0% 15% Wastepaper 5.3% Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2012 Approx. 35,000 tons 23,000 tons Sludge 13.1% Plastics waste 47.9% Recycling Glass and ceramics scrap 80% 13.6% See Data Book, p. 2 for scope of summation 10 Amount of Water Extracted for Use at Production Site Amount of Water Extracted for Use at Production Site (Overseas) (1,000 tons) (1,000 tons) 20,000 4,000 3,793 3,577 16,985 16,923 16,541 16,517 16,413 (Target) 249 287 285 288 304 15,712 15,287 3,049 15,000 2,344 2,204 1,962 1,842 1,861 306 Housing 3,000 1,804 Company Urban Infrastructure & 10,000 Environmental 2,000 Products 11,924 Company 12,310 11,632 11,984 11,369 10,807 1,472 High 5,000 Performance 1,000 Plastics Company Headquarters 2,082 2,507 2,663 2,403 2,879 2,795 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 See Data Book, p. 2 for scope of summation Environmental Performance in Domestic Offices P14, P17 Verified CO2 Emissions at Offices Fiscal 2012 Green Purchases Performance (1,000 tons CO2) 20 Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to green purchasing of 20 19.0 17.9 (Target) office supplies for all its departments and branches. 17.1 16.7 16.2 16.2 16.3 (10,000 yen) 15 15 Amount purchased Photocopying paper 9,657 10 Other pamphlets, catalogs, office supplies, etc. 10 13,154 Office automation equipment 15,033 5 Total 37,843 5 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Green Purchase Guidelines Any of those listed under (1)-(4) below: (1) Those satisfying Eco Mark certification standards Copier-paper Use at Offices (2) Those in compliance with the Law Concerning (10,000 sheets) the Promotion of Procurement of Eco-Friendly 1) OA paper (photocopier paper), 6,000 Goods and Services by the State and Other 6000 stationery, office supplies, office Entities 5,341 5,271 5,213 automation equipment 5,077 (3) Those covered in the Green Purchasing 4,866 4,928 5000 (Target) Network’s database 4,273 (4) Those covered in catalogs as environmentfriendly 4000 products Any of those listed under (1)-(5) below: 3,000 (1) Those satisfying 3000 Eco Mark certification standards (2) Those in compliance with the Law Concerning 2) Paper and paper products other the Promotion of Procurement of Eco-Friendly than OA paper and toilet paper 2000 Goods and Services by the State and Other (forms, inkjet-printer paper, Entities color-printer paper, coated (3) Those covered 1000 in the Green Purchasing paper, notebooks, vouchers, Network’s database business cards, paper used for 0 (4) Those covered in catalogs as environmentpublications such as pamphlets 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 friendly products and catalogs, etc.) (5) Non-pulp paper or paper consisting of 70% or The scope of data collection has been revised retroactively to fiscal 2007. more recycled paper, or paper with the highest recycled content for the relevant type 3) Toilet paper 100% recycled toilet paper 11 Atmospheric and Water Related Emissions Note: The Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant data for fiscal 2010 is not included in the data below due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake. NOx Emissions Volume Verified SOx Emissions Volume Verified (tons) (tons) 400 25 600 20 500 300 Housing Company 15 15 14 Housing 400 223 217 Company 200 198 189 205 Urban 13 43 44 Infrastructure & 11 5 300 175 6 Urban 12 7 6 55 Environmental 10 4 10 Infrastructure & 9 7 10 12 6 Products 3 2 2 Environmental 9 Company 200 100 3 3 3 6 Products Company 174 156 176 173 168 5 144 High 2 High 100 Performance 6 5 2 8 3 Performance Plastics Company 5 Plastics Company 0 0 2 2 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Soot and Dust Emission Volume Verified COD Discharge Volume Verified (tons) (tons) 15 Housing Company 80 68 64 62 1 Housing Urban Infrastructure & Environmental 61 63 Company 60 1 1 1 Products Company 1 7 7 7 7 10 10 9.5 6 51 Urban High Performance 1 Infrastructure & 1 3 Environmental Plastics Company 40 Products Company 3 45 46 43 High 5 45 44 31 8.2 Performance 4 4 20 Plastics Company 1 2 2.5 5 2 1.2 2 1 1 1.1 15 Headquarters 0.7 10 10 11 15 0 1 0 1 0.6 0.2 0 9 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Preventing Pollution • Preventing Water Pollution Each Sekisui Chemical Group site conducts periodic emergency drills in Sekisui Chemical Group is working to meet the targets of legal and preparation for the possibility of leaks of wastewater oﬀ the site and is regulatory restrictions and to reduce discharge of pollutants through implementing a system of thorough preventive and responsive measures appropriate maintenance and control and periodic inspection of the wide for any accidents. Each site also implements integrated wastewater controls range of equipment it uses. such as enhancing wastewater processing capacity and carrying out measures to eliminate piping problems. • Preventing Air Pollution The biomass boiler fueled by wood chips intended to replace the heavy-oil Disposal and Storage of Machines and boiler at Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant (installed August 2009) has Equipment that Contain PCBs begun full operation. As a result, discharge of NOx and SOx has increased. Moreover, discharge of NOx, SOx, and soot and dust increased as a Stored transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are being disposed of result of growth in housing production. steadily, beginning with sites for which acceptance at PCB treatment facilities is available. In addition, at sites with machines and equipment that contain PCBs in storage, such devices are managed strictly and thoroughly, through means including locked storage and periodic inspection. Environmental Incidents, Complaints, and Emergency Responses Environmental Incidents, Complaints, etc. Verified Emergency Response Three incidents occurred in ﬁscal 2012, two of which had oﬀ-site In order to prevent the occurrence and spread of environmental contamination consequences. The authorities pointed out one deﬁciency and we received in the event of an emergency, at least once every year each of our business sites one complaint. We are steadily implementing recurrence prevention carries out emergency response and reporting drills, assuming a variety of measures in response to such environmental complaints. hypothetical cases relevant to the nature of each business site. Major drills performed for ﬁscal 2012 are as below. Environmental Complaints, etc. Emergency Response and Reporting Drills Description Countermeasures Simulated emergency situation Drills performed Renovating pumps and improving Leakage and outflow of oils 50 alarms and controls Incidents Leakage of polluted water from Leakage wastewater treatment facility Renovating pipes and adding Atmospheric discharge of solvents 0 inspection items Fire 60 Oil in waste water Installation of leak sensors Earthquake 10 ComImproving sound arrestor plaints Noise Defective sound arrestor on blowers components Emergency communication training 3 Deﬁciency in documentation attached to Comprehensive disaster preparedness drills 7 Administrative Review of use and management of subcontracting agreement with a waste Others manifest control sheets and disposal ﬁrm Responding to other equipment-related emergencies 7 guidance compliance evaluation records Failure to submit status reports (for issuance of industrial waste management manifests, etc.) 12 Chemical Substances P19 Verified Summation Results Based on the PRTR Law (Calculations have been made for substances with handling volume of one ton or more at the individual business sites surveyed.) (tons) Government Emission volume Transfer volume ordinance Transaction Substance notification Public water Sewage Transfer in Transfer in Detoxification volume Atmospheric In house soil no. areas system waste disposal waste recycling Acrylic acid and aqueous salt 12.9 0 0 0 0 0 1.3 12 solutions thereof [4] n-Butyl acrylate [7] 265.0 0.14 0 0 0 0 1.4 263 Acrylonitrile [9] 530.8 3.4 0 0 0 0 0.015 527 Acetaldehyde [12] 294.5 0.21 0 0 0 0 0 294 Acetonitrile [13] 27.2 2.1 0.16 0 0 0.25 24 0.76 2,2’-Azobisisobutyronitrile [16] 6.7 0 0 0 0 0 0 6.7 2-Aminoethanol [20] 4.2 0.82 0 0 0 0 0 3.4 Antimony and its compounds [31] 27.8 0 0 0 0 0 2.8 0 Isobutyraldehyde [35] 242.0 1.37 0 0 0 0 0 241 Ethylbenzene [53] 2.4 2.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 ε-Caprolactam [76] 13.9 0 0.004 0 0 0 0 14 Xylene [80] 28.4 4.2 0 0 0 0 1.4 23 Vinyl chloride [Special 94] 113,814.0 3.8 0.12 0 0 0 0 113,810 Chloroform [127] 3.4 0.27 0 0 0 0 0.67 0 Vinyl acetate [134] 1.8 0.0080 0 0 0 0 0.0010 1.8 Inorganic cyanide compounds [144] 133.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 133 (not including complex salts and cyanate) Cyclohexylamine [154] 7.4 0.41 0 0 0 0 0 7.0 Dichloromethane [186] 259.8 3.4 0 0 0 0 0.40 256 2,6-di-t-butyl-4-cresol [207] 49.9 0 0 0 0 0 0 50 N,N-dimenthylformamide [232] 8.6 0.0001 0 0 3.0 0 3.2 2.3 Organic tin compounds [239] 72.0 0 0 0 0 0.066 0.26 0 Styrene [240] 1,666.5 37 0 0 0 0 2.2 872 Terephthalic acid [270] 84.6 0 0 0 0 0 0 85 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene [296] 4.1 2.4 0 0 0 0 0 1.7 Toluene [300] 1,359.3 348 0 0 0 0 37 693 Lead compounds [Special 305] 516.7 0.0004 0.0032 0 0.0010 0.56 2.5 0 Phenol [349] 73.3 7.3 0 0 0 0 0 66 Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate [355] 138.5 0 0 0 0 0.12 0 0 n-Hexane [392] 103.6 99 0 0 0 0 4.4 0 Benzaldehyde [399] 16.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 16 Poly (oxyethylene) = [410] 1.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.1 nonylphenyl ether Formaldehyde [Special 411] 57.0 5.7 0 0 0 0 0 51 Manganese and its compounds [412] 6.2 0 0 0 0 0 6.2 0 Methacrylate [415] 209.9 1.2 0 0 0 0 0.0050 209 Methyl methacrylate [420] 118.6 1.1 0 0 0 0 0.012 117 Methylnaphthalene [438] 9.9 0.049 0 0 0 0 0 9.8 Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) = [448] 910.2 3.7 0 0 0 0 0.34 0 diisocyanate 121,081.2 528 0.29 0 3.0 1.0 88 117,765 Emission and Transfer Volumes by Substance (PRTR Law) Discharge of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) into the Atmosphere (tons) (tons) 811 2,936 800 26 3,000 800 5 55 730 34 5 677 63 467 34 7 20 659 154 600 8 10 53 5 46 618 Others 49 44 600 12 5 5 40 532 Dichloromethane 2,000 4 1,806 41 122 3 Xylene 50 1,560 1,585 Housing 37 1,539 1,498 4 177 27 6 1,397 1,221 Company 400 Styrene 46 4 99 149 119 400 n-Hexane 153 108 4 4 596 2,401 123 114 Urban 584 587 Infrastructure & 574 1,000 Environmental Products Company 200 Toluene 1,380 401 348 1,575 1,336 1,457 1,382 High 200 1,267 1,099 Performance Plastics Company Headquarters 0 0 14 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Note: n-Hexane has been added to subject substances beginning with fiscal 2010 figures, due to amendment of the PRTR Law. 13 Environmental Management P14 Environmental Management System Third Party Certified Business Sites Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site* Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant [Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Shiga Plant] Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyoto R & D Laboratories Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Research & Development Institute Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Shikoku Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Ryuseki Jyubi Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant [Hokkaido Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd.] Hanyu Plastics Industries Ltd. Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Gunma Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Toyo Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant Ibaraki Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant [Ibaraki Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd.] Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant Tochigi Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. General Affairs Kydex, LLC. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. ADME & Tox. Research Institute** Department Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui Techno Shoji Higashi Nihon Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Shinetsu Co., Ltd. Eslon B.V. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Brea Plant [Sekisui Fami S Shinetsu Co., Ltd.] Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Tennessee Plant Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE, Schieder Plant Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant [not including Yamanashi Sales Branch] Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE, Liege Plant Sekisui Alveo B.V. Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Yamanashi Sales Sekisui Rib Loc Australia, Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Branch Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. [Tokyo Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd. Yamanashi Sales Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Branch] Yongchang Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Pasadena Plant Sekisui Heim Chubu Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Calvert City Plant Sekisui Heim Sanyo Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Co., Ltd. Headquarters Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. [Sekisui Fami S Chushikoku Co., Ltd.] Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Development Center* Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Fami S Kyushu Co., Ltd.] Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejeon Plant Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Tosu Plant Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Kanto Plant Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Chiba Plant [ ]: O  rganizations in parentheses are included in Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Kanto Plant the scope of certification. Some sites not Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo Plant shown above may include related sections Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo-Takino Plant that have attained ISO 14001 certification. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant ** Eco Action 21; others ISO 14001 * The Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site and Development Center share a single certification. Number of Issues of Concern in Environmental Auditing for Fiscal 2012 Numbers of Persons with Qualifications Verified (for Production sites and Laboratories, as of End of March 2013) Verified (Issues) (persons) Those who Number Correction Undergoing acquired qualifications Aggregate of cases completed correction during fiscal total 2012 Issues of concern 64 46 18 Number of participants in Number of internal training course participants 54 638 Environmental Management Headquarters Issues to work on 181 106 75 Systems (EMS) internal Number of external training course participants 12 226 environmental auditing auditor development/ Proposals 5 2 3 training courses Total 66 864 (17 business sites) Total 250 154 96 Number of participants in Number of internal training course participants 26 471 Occupational Health and Nonconformity (major) Auditing by certification body 0 0 0 Safety Management Systems Number of external training course participants 12 177 (OHSMS) internal auditor Renewal Nonconformity (minor) 13 13 0 development/ training courses Total 38 648 (15 business sites) Observations Qualifications 90 59 31 Registered examiner Lead Auditor 0 1 of the Center of Total 103 72 31 Environmental Auditor 0 1 Auditor Registration Nonconformity (major) 0 0 0 (CEAR) Provisional Auditor 0 7 Surveillance Nonconformity (minor) 12 9 3 Air Classes 1-4 0 48 Qualifications (34 business sites) Observations 165 79 86 Pollution Water Classes 1-4 1 90 Number of persons control Total 177 88 89 with major qualifications manager Noise/Vibration 1 39 Nonconformity (major) 6 6 0 Dioxins 0 2 Internal auditing of business sites Nonconformity (minor) 133 73 60 Certified Environmental Measurers 0 4 (48 business sites; Observations 347 229 118 Energy Managers 1 43 55 audits) Total 486 308 178 Olfactory Measurement Operators 0 1 Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) 15 103 * Categories of instructions for Headquarters environmental auditing: Issues of concern: Matters recommended for swift improvement Issues to work on: Matters recommended for planned improvement Proposals: Matters to be considered for improvement, advice 14 CS & Quality P21-26 Quality Management System Third Party Certified Business Sites Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Housing Company (integrated Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant certification) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Research & Development Department Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant CS Promotion & Quality Assurance Department Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. (integrated certification) Technology Department: Production & Construction Sekisui Roof Systems Co., Ltd. Shiga Plant Technology Department: Purchasing Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Sekisui Global Trading Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Osaka Office Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Tokyo Office Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Mechanical Plant Division, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Civil Engineering & Water Treatment Division Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui Nano Coat Technology Co., Ltd. Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Ota Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Sekisui Heim Supply Co., Ltd. Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Eslon B.V. Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. KMG Pipe Technologies G.m.b.H. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. KMG LinerTec G.m.b.H. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. KMG Pipe Rehabilitation Emirates, LLC. Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Headquarters Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Kydex, LLC. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. (integrated certification) Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui-Alveo A.G. Chiba Plant Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. (six sites: G.m.b.H. A.G. Sarl,s.p.a,S.A [Benelux] B.V.) Kanto Plant Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Hyogo Plant Yongchang-Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Sekisui Alveo B.V. Hyogo-Takino Plant Sekisui Refresh Co., Ltd. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Izumo Plant Toyo Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Hanyu Plastics Industries Ltd. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Coldwater Plant Sekisui Engineering Co., Ltd. Rabmer Holding G.m.b.H. Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Insurance Service Co., Ltd. Rabmer Rohrtechnik G.m.b.H. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. SPR TEC Europe G.m.b.H. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. Yili Xiang Run Pipe Industry Co., Ltd. (Lexington, San Diego, Stamford) Sekisui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Limited Sekisui Virotech G.m.b.H. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. (Calvert City, Pasadena, Dallas HQ) Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Tarragona Manufacturing Development Innovation Indicators Performance (improvements vs. fiscal 2005 performance) Verified (100 million yen) 400 373.5 Manufacturing Development Innovation Indicators: Environmental costs External loss costs : Costs of responding to product-related complaints and claims 328.7 Safety loss costs Internal loss costs : Costs associated with disposal of defective products generated during manufacturing processes 300 275.8 Production costs : Costs necessary for manufacturing, such as raw-material and labor costs (decreased through productivity improvements such as saving of energy and other resources in manufacturing processes) 213.2 200 Safety loss costs : Costs arising from equipment-related or labor accidents etc. Environmental costs : Costs for disposal of wastes generated at business sites, and energy costs Production costs Internal loss costs 0 External loss costs 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 Flow of “Utilizing Customer Feedback in Management” Collection Hayamimi Customer’sReflecting Senior executives and Contact point Fields of Manufacturing Development Network feedback related sections Product Development Production and Customer Opinions Analysis Utilization planning and design construction Surveys Needs feedback and wishes Categorization Customers Receiving Factor Interviews Complaints Investigation Response complaints analysis Reflecting Other Preventative Resolving dissatisfactions Measures 15 Human Resources Verified Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Group) (persons) Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) (persons) Number of employees 22,202 Number of employees 2,164 By region Male 1,910 Japan 16,813 Female 254 North America, Central and South America 1,553 Europe 1,462 Employees’ Years of Continuous Service (Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) (Years) Asia/Pacific (including China) 2,374 Average years of continuous service 18.1 Male 18.2 Number of New Graduates Hired and Their Separation Rate in Female 16.9 the First Three Years of Employment (Sekisui Chemical) Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Main Recruitment and Selective-type Training Programs Number of new graduates Number of 30 58 70 participants hired (persons) Training Details in fiscal 2012 Separation rate within the first (persons) 3.3 5.2 0.0 3 years (%) This program combines intensive courses led Note: Separation rate within the first 3 years: Calculated as the total of by visiting university professors with practical separation rates for the first, second, and third years for employees hired in the The Saijuku themes so that participants can improve their relevant fiscal year, in accordance with the Japanese Ministry of Health, 40 School skills and knowledge to become globally Labour and Welfare’s calculation methods. oriented leaders. It is intended to develop the Recruitmentnext generation of leaders. Results of Intra-group Job Posting type Training Sending Under this program, employees take courses Employees to Cumulative total for training business professionals at business Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Business since 2000 schools outside of the company. The aim is to 15 Schools work together with human resources outside Recruitments Outside the 13 15 222 the company and to polish up business skills. (cases) Company Employees These intra-group seminars aim to improve 18 19 459 recruited (persons) employees’ business skills. Employees can SelectiveOpen Applicants select freely seminars on skills that meet their 190 72 182 1,208 type Training Seminars (persons) needs, to acquire skills that can be applied Employees immediately to their daily work. Percentage of Women Among New-graduate Hires transferred 13 17 242 (persons) (%) Career Plan Training by Age 40 P30 Percentage of Women Among New-graduate Hires Total 30s 40s 50s Number of (%) 30 28 Participants 27 40 25 Continuing to Themes by Age Self40 21 Market value work even after — Groups 20 establishment retirement 30 28 27 Recognition of 25 21 10 abilities and Affirmation of Aiming to keep 20 interviews with specialization, working at age Training Contents — superiors on values, and the 65 and thinking 0 career-related meaning of work about succession 2009 2012 10 matters 2010 2011 (Entering FY 2010) (Entering FY 2011) (Entering FY 2012) (Entering FY 2013) Number of 0 Participants in Fiscal 78 93 78 249 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 (persons) (Entering FY 2010) (Entering FY 2011) (Entering FY 2012) (Entering FY 2013) Total Number of Participants as of 1,763 1,607 880 4,250 Fiscal 2012 (persons) Usage of Main Systems in Raising the Next Generation (Sekisui Chemical) P34 (persons) Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Percentage of Challenged Persons Employed (Sekisui Chemical) System Main content 2010 2011 2012 (%) 2.40 Leave which previously 2.4 During childcare 2.17 2.17 2.18 Percentage of Challenged extended onlyPersons Employed (Sekisui Chemical) until the child 1.97 2.12 2.03 1.99 30 22 24 Childcare was a year and a half old now (%) (including (including (including 1.8 leave leave extends to the2.40 end of the 2.4 11 males) 8 males) 6 males) Legally stipulated rate 2.17 month2.17of the child’s third 2.18 2.12 2.03 1.99 1.97 birthday. 1.2 1.8 Payment period that After returning Shortened previously extended until the Legally 21 stipulated rate 0.6 working child was three years old now 17 (including 19 to work 1.2 hours extends until the child starts 1 male) fourth grade. 0 0.6 Three days of special paid 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 leave per year granted until Other support the child or grandchild starts 0 98 Family high school (this leave can be 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 201096 2011 98 2012 (including leave taken for reasons such as 41 males) childbirth-related events, parents day, athletic meets, and PTA meetings) Total number of persons using these systems 143 141 141 16 Number of Global Talents of Japanese Employees (persons) 300 294 271 220 200 149 100 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 Safety P35 Verified * Beginning with Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013, trends are shown by fiscal year on the following graphs: Number of Equipment-related Accidents; Number of Cases of Extended Sick Leave; Number of Commuting Accidents; Frequency Rate; Severity Rate; Safety Performance at Housing Company Construction Sites; and Safety Performance at Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Construction Sites. (Through last year’s Corporate Social Responsibility Reports, were shown by calendar year.) Health, Safety and Accident-prevention Costs (Million yen) Item Sekisui Chemical Group* Classification Details Expense amount Investment amount 1) Costs within business-site areas Health and safety measures, rescue and protective equipment, measurement of work environment, 837 1,952 health management, workers’ accident compensation insurance, etc. 2) Administrative costs Establishment and implementation of OHSMS, safety education, personnel costs, etc. 1,403 — 3) Other Safety awards, etc. 6 — Total 2,246 1,952 Note: Data above include 46 production sites/4 laboratories + all departments of Headquarters + back offices of division companies. Expenses and Investments Loss Costs* 12.6 Expense and investment amounts (100 million yen) Rate (%) (million yen) 9.8 800 25 Proportion of 10 health, safety 770.7 22.5 22.5 and accident22.0 prevention 20.7 20.8 22.3 20 19.5 investments 8 to the total 600 investment 16.8 amount 6.5 15 5.7 6.0 Expense 6 amount 400 386.1 371 4.1 12.0 326 10 9.8 4 9.2 274 9.8 Investment amount 200 5 2 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 * Loss costs: Expenses, including man-hours, required to respond to occupational accidents, equipment accidents, commuting accidents, and long-term illness absences. Number of Equipment-related Accidents* Number of Cases of Extended Sick Leave* Number of Commuting Accidents* (Cases) (Cases) (Cases) 3 80 160 69 58 129 60 120 120 2 99 41 43 43 40 80 83 76 1 1 1 20 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 * Equipment-related accidents: * Extended sick leave: * Number of Cases: Any accident that meets one or more of the following This refers to a new absence of 30 calendar days or longer Total number of cases with damages incurred and inflicted conditions (1) – (3) (Sekisui Chemical Group standards): due to illness or injury. Reoccurrences within six months of (including self-injury and property damage). (1) Personnel-related damage: returning to work are not included in the above count. business interruption with 30 lost working days or more Absences due to occupational injury are not considered (2) Property damage: 10 million yen or more extended sick leave. (3) Loss of opportunity: 20 million yen or more 17 Frequency Rate*1 Severity Rate*2 1.5 0.3 1.12 1.05 0.99 0.98 1.00 1.0 0.2 0.184 Average of domestic manufacturing industry*4 0.52 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.5 0.43 0.1 0.08 0.08 Average of domestic 0.33 0.31 manufacturing 0.42 industry*4 Sekisui Chemical 0.015 0.019 0.007 0.014 Sekisui Chemical Group*3 Group*3 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 *1 Frequency rate = (number of deaths and injuries in occupational accidents/total work hours) × 1,000,000 *2 Severity rate = (days of labor lost/total work hours) × 1,000 *3 Sekisui Chemical Group data: 46 production sites and four R&D laboratories *4 Source of information for Japanese manufacturing industry: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare “Survey on Industrial Accidents” Safety Performance at Housing Company Construction Sites Safety Performance at Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Construction Sites (Accidents) (Accidents) 30 30 24 24 22 20 Number of non20 19 lost time 18 accidents in the 16 16 14 16 New Construction 15 15 sector 14 Number of non10 12 lost time accidents 8 11 10 11 10 in the Fami S sector 10 5 Number of lost12 time accidents 7 Work not shut down in the New 6 6 8 3 Construction sector 4 1 2 10 8 2 8 4 7 Number of lost1 5 5 8 5 4 0 time accidents 4 3 0 3 in the Fami S sector 0 2 Work shut down 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Note: The number of accidents represents the total for the following four companies: Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd., Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd., Sekisui Aqua Tec Co., Ltd., and Kyushu Sekisui Kenzai Co., Ltd. Status of Work-related Accidents at Overseas Production Sites (Calendar Year) (Accidents) 80 2009 2010 63 60 2011 2012 45 40 40 35 33 31 30 27 20 16 8 6 4 3 2 2 3 0 Europe U.S./Mexico Asia/Australia China Compliance P55 Verified Main Training Implemented in Fiscal 2012 Training Trainees Number attending Training for new managers New Sekisui Chemical Group managers 189 Periodic training Training for new employees New Sekisui Chemical employees 64 Basic compliance training Group companies 96 Antimonopoly Law training Sekisui Chemical Group sales sections 933 Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Sekisui Chemical Group managers, manufacturing sections 130 Subcontractors training Company law seminar Sekisui Chemical Group 63 Area-specific training Harassment-prevention training Group companies 19 Information management training Group companies 19 Product liability law training Group companies 84 Basic contract training Group companies 143 Housing Company compliance manual training Housing Company (Sekisui Chemical, affiliates) 11,070 Training for specific Operating officer training Sekisui Chemical 7 employee ranks Compliance training for leaders in manufacturing sections Sekisui Chemical Group manufacturing sections 43 Training on overseas bribery regulations Sekisui Chemical Group managerial sections, business sections 76 Global training Basic training for “Global Talents” Personnel employed in international business 9 Overseas business site training Overseas business sites 24 18 Nature Conservation and Social Contribution P59-62 P59 62 Recipients of Fiscal 2012 Sekisui Chemical Grants for Research on Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Researcher University, Title Supported Research Theme Tomomi Professor, Eco Topia Science Institute, Nagoya Learning about the generation and movement of bubbles in vortex rings from bubble rings generated Uchiyama University by dolphins Yoshio Professor, Graduate School of Engineering, Kyushu Creation of light-driven environmental cleaning catalysts based on learning from vitamin B12 enzymes Hisaeda University Arata Professor, Eco Topia Science Institute, Nagoya Creation of a groundwater cleaning system based on learning from the respiratory systems of soil Katayama University microorganisms Professor, Graduate School of Natural Science and Takashi Sera Creation of virus-resistant plants using artificial DNA compound proteins Technology, Okayama University School of Medicine, Keio University/Special Kyoko Miura researcher (SPD), Japan Society for the Promotion Longevity and cancer-resistance structures based on learning from the naked mole rat of Science Kang Assistant Professor, Graduate School of Generation of wetting ridge patterns on high-molecule surfaces Sungmin Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology Ayako Assistant Professor, Graduate School of Age control structures of molecular RNA based on learning from plants Yamaguchi Biostudies, Kyoto University Hiroharu Associate Professor, Center for Advanced Medical Methacrylic acid conductor stereo specificity template polymerization modeled on the DNA replication Ajiro Engineering and Informatics, Osaka University mechanism and its reaction structure Nobutaka Associate Professor, Department of Food and Structure for large-scale production of useful natural organic compounds through blocking the primary Funa Nutritional Sciences, University of Shizuoka metabolic pathway necessary for life support Associate Professor, Faculty of Science, University Joji Otaki New protein information engineering based on learning from natural language of the Ryukyus Associate Professor, Graduate School of Adhesion/separation devices through electrostatic-induction high-molecule fiber alignment based on Shigeki Saito Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology learning from the gecko Associate Professor, Graduate School of Shiki Yagai Chemistry of monodispersed pigment nano structures based on learning from photosynthetic bacteria Engineering, Chiba University Tatsuya Assistant Professor, School of Engineering, Development of functional organic/inorganic compounds using high-molecule templates Nishimura University of Tokyo Masanori Associate Professor, Graduate School of Science Creation of high-performance material transportation/exchange structures based on learning from Nakamura and Engineering, Saitama University avian respiratory organs Hidehiko Assistant Professor, School of Engineering, Artificial cellulosomes using self-accumulating scaffold proteins Hirakawa University of Tokyo Assistant Professor, Research Institute of Electrical It crawls, swims, and flies: Development of an all-terrain two-dimensional sheet robot inspired by the Takeshi Kano Communication, Tohoku University flatworm Note: University affiliations and titles shown are current as of the time the grant was provided. Examples of Main Nature Conservation Activities Conducted in Fiscal 2012 Charitable Contributions Verified Site Program Others 9% Disaster relief Forestation activities at the base of Mt. Tsukuba and in the 2% Tsukuba Development Center Kasumigaura headspring Environmental beautification activities in Iwata through a Environment Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant 3% groundwater cultivation project (planting Japanese cypress trees) International exchange and Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Myotokujigawa River conservation (beautification) activities cooperation 6% Contributions: Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Forest improvement activities 102 million yen Local communities Seiryu Maintenance Co., Ltd. Nakamura Office Kyodo no Mori Zukuri (collaborative forest-building) project and social welfare 18% Sekisui Children’s Nature Study Course (viewing living creatures in Activities of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant the autumn on Mt. Ontake) business sites Academia, research, in Japan Family Nature Study Course rice-field activities (experience Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Headquarters and education harvesting rice) 63% Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Izumo Children’s Nature Study Course Eradication of introduced species from Tonebetsu virgin forest Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. and a nature observation event (Nature Study Course) Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant Children’s Nature Study Course Gathering at Greenery Trust site no. 11 (vicinity of Kurohama Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Marsh) Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Wakimizu-no-Sato nature conservation activities Allen Extruders, LLC. Black River cleanup activities (USA) Sekisui-SCG Industry Co., Ltd. SCG-Sekisui Sales Co., Ltd. Ecosystem rehabilitation/maintenance and mangrove-planting Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. activities to contribute to the community (Thailand) Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Thailand Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Tree-planting activities in Morelos (Mexico) Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Activities of Tree-planting activities in the Fengning Manchu Autonomous Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. overseas County in Hebei Province (China) Sekisui (Shanghai) International Trading Co., Ltd. business sites Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Beautification and cleanup activities in Lawrence (USA) Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Brea Plant Coastal cleanup activities in Redondo Beach (USA) Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Changzhou Zhongji Precision Molding Plastic Co., Ltd. Forest preservation activities at Yuping Mountain in Suzhou Sekisui (Shanghai) International Trading Co., Ltd. (China) Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental Technology Co., Ltd. 19 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management System CSR Committee/Subcommittee Structure Environmental Management System President Board of Directors CSR Committee Environmental Subcommittee Reporting/Discussion Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of environmental matters at each division company; General Managers of environmental sections; Head of R&D Center CSR Committee Chairperson: President Members: Division Company Division companies Presidents, Headquarters Directors, Environmental sections at each division company Environmental Subcommittee and Employee Representatives (three Employee Representatives: Production sites Environmental sections CS & Quality the chairperson of the Labor Union, Sales companies Environmental sections Subcommittee a Representative of Female Environment Safe environment Energy Environment Employees, and a representative of Human Resources employees of aﬃliate companies) brainstorming Subcommittee management officers’ meeting sessions managers’ meeting officers’ meeting Safety Subcommittee Headquarters Compliance Environmental Management Group, CSR Department Subcommittee CS & Quality Management System Human Resources System President CSR Committee President CS & Quality Subcommittee Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of CS & Quality at each division CSR Committee company; General Managers of CS & Quality sections; Head of Productivity Innovation Center Division companies Human Resources Subcommittee CS & Quality sections at each division company Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of HR at Production sites Quality management sections each division company; Head of R&D Center Sales companies Technology Department Customer Information & Consulting Services Customer Information & Division Company/Headquarters After-sales service sections Consulting Services HR sections at each division company Each HR sections at production sites, labor-management Headquarters laboratories, sales facilities, committee CS Group, CSR Department affiliates, etc. Productivity Innovation Center, Quality Management Group Customer Information & Consulting Services Safety System Compliance Management System President President CSR Committee CSR Committee Discussion of Sekisui Chemical Group’s Development of basic policies on compliance and countermeasures for individual Safety Subcommittee formulation of measures to be compliance issues, consideration Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of R&D Center implemented in areas such as education of measures to prevent their Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of safety at each division and training. reoccurrence, etc. company; General Managers of safety sections; Compliance Subcommittee Head of Productivity Innovation Center Subcommittee Chairperson: Compliance Head of CSR Department Reporting Advisory Board Subcommittee Members: (to address problems Directors in charge of compliance at Division companies each division company; Headquarters that have actually Directors; General Manager, Corporate occurred) Safety sections at each division company Audit Department Promotion of policies and measures Production sites Sections in charge of safety discussed in the Subcommittee and other matters Construction companies Sections in charge of safety Reporting Instruction and communication Headquarters/ Division companies Promotion and development Compliance of measures Compliance Promotion Manager Headquarters Promotion (person responsible Total Manufacturing Management Center, Safety Group Committee Reporting for promotion) 20 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management Policies Sekisui Chemical Group “Environmental Management Policy” Mission We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, aim to be a Global Environmental Top Runner that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by enabling the continuous growth and co-existence of ecology and the economy. Basic Policy Each company in the Sekisui Chemical Group advances approaches that contribute to the prevention of global warming, the preservation of biological diversity and the construction of a recycling-based society in all countries and regions where they have operations, in order to leave this beautiful earth for our children in the future. 1. We contribute to the environment through our products and services, with consideration given to the environment in all stages of the product life cycle from research to procurement, production, sales, use, and disposal as waste. 2. We carry out environmentally conscious business activities in all our workplaces and oﬃces, and promote our approach to the environment through cooperation with our customers and business partners. 3. We make eﬀorts to reduce the environmental impact of greenhouse gas emissions and hazardous chemicals, etc., and to prevent pollution by promoting the eﬀective use of limited resources and energy. 4. We observe the related laws, regulations, international rules, etc. 5. We make eﬀorts to improve environmental consciousness through education, and advance continual improvements by setting our own objectives and targets. 6. We enhance conﬁdence through close communications with society. 7. We aggressively work on social contribution activities such as nature conservation activities in each region. Sekisui Chemical Group “CS & Quality Management Policy” Mission We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, consider “CS & Quality” as our central concept of management and will consistently innovate to maintain the quality of products throughout all our activities, continuously provide values (products and services) that meet customer expectations, strive for selection by our customers on an ongoing basis, and develop and grow with the customer over the long time. Basic Policy We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, consider “Customer’s Feedback” as precious resources for management and strive to innovate about “Quality of Products,” “Quality of People” and “Quality of Systems” based on the motto “We consider customer’s feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing.” Furthermore, we contribute to the realization of a safe and aﬄuent society by continuously providing our customers and their communities with new value. 1. Ensuring Basic Qualities To ensure the reliability and safety of our manufactured products, which form the basis of “Product Quality,” we eﬀectively leverage customer’s feedback and dedicate ourselves with a strong belief in forestalling any potential trouble and preventing any future recurrence throughout our entire value chain. 2. Creating Attractive Qualities We aim to share the emotional values of our customers by thoroughly pursuing “what the customers value” and constantly creating attractive products and services that should realize such customer values. 3. Upgrading Technological Capabilities For the sake of ensuring Basic Qualities and for creating Attractive Qualities, we are upgrading our technological capabilities in all ﬁelds in order to achieve superb manufacturing development. 4. Enhancing Communications We value communication with our customers and the community and make sincere eﬀorts when dealing with them as well as complying with the relevant laws and regulations in each country and region. We place special emphasis on resolving customer complaints or claims at an early stage by responding promptly and empathetically. 5. Providing Thorough Employee Education To gain and maintain the full trust and impression of our customers, we provide employees with continuous CS & Quality education as well as motivating our employees to achieve self-realization through customer satisfaction. 21 Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Resources and Human Rights Policy” Mission Based on our belief that “employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society,” we, the Sekisui Chemical Group, are committed to developing an environment where employees can work enthusiastically. We also oﬀer various opportunities through which we help individual employees enhance their “specialties” and grow personally. With the recognition that it is our social responsibility to protect individual human rights, we respect the diversity, personality and individuality of each person, and promote various working styles as well as creating safe and secure work environments in response to conditions in each country and region. Basic Policy on Human Resources Basic Policy on Human Rights 1. Creating opportunities to take on challenges 1. Respect for human rights and the prohibition of discrimination We encourage employees to “positively set their own goals and Being aware of our position as a global corporate citizen, we respect aggressively to take on challenges.” individual human rights and never become involved in any conduct 2. Culture where employees learn and grow on their own that might lead to discrimination. We strive to enrich our education/training programs and develop a 1) We never discriminate on the grounds of race, color, gender, culture where employees learn and grow on their own. language, religion, nationality or social origin, property, or other 3. Enhancement of the performance-based remuneration system status or any similar irrational basis. We emphasize our employees’ personal commitment and strive to 2) We do not commit human rights abuses such as resorting to constantly improve the fairness and acceptance of our assessment violence, profane outbursts, slander, defamation, intimidation, system regarding performance and processes. bullying or similar conduct. 4. Acceptance of various working styles 2. Prohibition of harassment We respect various values; develop workplaces where every employee We never commit sexual harassment or other actions that stain can work with enthusiasm; and help employees achieve a balance personal character. between life and work. 1) We do not commit sexual harassment or any conduct that might be 5. Creating safe and secure work environments misunderstood as sexual harassment. We promote employees’ health enhancement and mental health care. 2) We do not misuse the power of a superior position nor use any language or conduct that could sexually annoy any person. In addition, we prevent other employees from using such oﬀensive language or conduct. 3. Prohibition of forced labor and child labor We shall never accept forced labor or child labor in any country or region. 1) We comply with the laws for the minimum working age and other relevant regulations in each country and region and do not use child labor. 2) We do not carry out any form of forced labor in any of our corporate activities. 4. Respect for basic labor rights We respect basic labor rights, including the right of workers to organize and to bargain, in accordance with the laws and customs of each country or region, and do not infringe on these rights. Sekisui Chemical Group “Safety Policy” Mission We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, recognize that employee safety is essential to achieving sustainable growth. We aim to be a “Safe and Secure” enterprise that establishes safe and secure work environments and has the full trust of its customers and the community as well as its employees. Basic Policy Based on the concept of human dignity that “everyone is invaluable,” we “prioritize safety over anything else” as a basic rule in all of our business activities from development, production, construction to servicing. We are committed to promoting comprehensive safety activities with the aim of achieving zero industrial accidents, facility accidents, commuting accidents or long-term sick leave. 1. We strive to develop a safe and comfortable workplace where everyone is taken care of both mentally and physically, which should lead to good health for each of our employees whom we highly value. 2. We thoroughly disseminate the legal requirements concerning health and safety/disaster prevention to our employees to ensure compliance. 3. We carry out risk assessment and promote risk reduction measures in a systematic way to eliminate hazardous factors that compromise health and safety/disaster prevention. 4. We strive to raise awareness regarding health and safety/disaster prevention through employee education/training and promote continuous improvements by setting voluntary objectives/goals. 5. We proactively disclose any necessary information as well as gain a higher level of trust by having close communication with public administrations and local communities. Sekisui Chemical Group “Social Contribution Policy” As a good corporate citizen, we, the Sekisui Chemical Group, engage in activities that focus on the “Environment,” the “Next Generation,” and “Local Communities,” and contribute not only to business activities but also to society. All employees working for the Sekisui Chemical Group are proactively involved in the society and act so that they can serve as prominent human resources in society as well. In addition, their activities are supported by each company of the Group in order to generate synergistic eﬀects. Established/revised March 2009 22 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Building) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Email: csr@sekisui.com This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOC) and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in the printing process. In addition, waterless printing, which generates no hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding process. Published: June 26, 2013.Published annually. Previous edition published: June 27, 2012. Next edition planned for publication: June 2014
