UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2013 Table of Contents Slides CEO Statement of Support 3 About Medine 4-5 Progress on Human Rights 6 Progress on Labour Standards 7 Progress on Environment Protection 8 Progress on Anti-Corruption 9 Action in the Community 10 Partnerships 11 Ver1 02Jul13 Medine -­‐ Communica/on on Progress 2013 2 Statement of Support I am pleased to confirm that Medine reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders. With the support of the United Nations Global Compact, Medine aims to move the agenda forward on issues related to the four principles’ areas, both internally and at the national level (in Mauritius). Kindly find hereunder the COP of Medine Limited for the financial year 2012-2013. Dany Giraud Chief Executive Officer Medine Limited Aug 2013 Ver3 22Aug13 Medine -­‐ Communica/on on Progress 2013 3 About Medine Medine is a privately-owned company located in the West of Mauritius, where it owns over 10,000 hectares of land. As from 1911, Medine built its identity through sugar cane cultivation. The group’s visionary choices and the determination of its workers contributed to Medine’s development throughout the century. Medine is now active in the sectors of Agriculture, Leisure and Property development. VISION To be a unique lifestyle provider through integrated sustainable development of property, leisure, agro-business and services. VALUES Customer Focus Entrepreneurship We strive to fulfil our customer’s expectations in terms of We utilize our ability to combine strength with speed in products and services for an improved quality of life, hence responding enthusiastically to every new opportunity and every deserving his trust and fidelity. new challenge. Innovation and Creativity Dedication Everywhere in Medine, we encourage and value creativity and We strive to be committed in everything we do, whether in the sense of initiative that have been key to our dynamism since providing the latest and best products and services to our 1911. customers, in delivering value to our shareholders or in Responsibility contributing to our communities. We strongly believe that no progress is sustainable if it does not Pro-activity take into account the social cohesion and the environment. We demonstrate individual leadership through a positive Medine values dialogue and strives to be a model corporate approach to every task, a can-do spirit, and a restless citizen in the workplace and in the community. determination to continually improve upon our personal bests as Quality part of our Quality improvement culture. We each lead through We strive to excel in every aspect of our business and approach our competence, creativity, and teamwork. every challenge with a determination to succeed. We strive for continuous improvement and respond vigorously to change. Ver1 02Jul13 Medine -­‐ Communica/on on Progress 2013 4 Our Corporate Social Responsibility 1. ENVIRONMENT 2. ETHICS Reduce our Take responsibility adverse impact on for our actions and the environment promote ethical and help others do business practices. the same. MEDINE 3. WORKPLACE 4. COMMUNITY Support the growth, Help disadvantaged development and people to help fulfillment of themselves via the our people. Fondation Medine Horizons. Ver1 02Jul13 Medine -­‐ Communica/on on Progress 2013 5 Human Rights Objective This year, in the Human rights domain, our objective is to make sure that Medine abides to – and goes beyond the new Equal Opportunities Act, and that management, employees and business partners are aware of our Company Equal Opportunities Policy (EOP). We also wish to have a proper Human Rights policy, and have started drafting it this year. Implementation • Medine’s Equal Opportunities Policy was finalised in July 2013, and is soon to be published (October 2013 at latest). It will be available on www.medine.com and our intranet. • Also in July 2013, the Chairman of the National Equal Opportunities Commission, Mr. Brian Glover, addressed the group’s top management, HR, CSR and legal staff on the topic during a workshop. Outcomes • The EOP will soon be available. • Top management is knowledgeable regarding Equal Opportunities • Out HIV/AIDS policy is still available with proper process in place. Ver1 02Jul13 Medine Communication on Progress 2013 6 Labour Our Stand Medine support the UNGC principles on labour standards, and strived to go beyond local laws on the topic, especially on Health and Safety Environment (HSE). Implementation In 2013, Medine has: • Continues the work of HSE committee to promote and improve the HSE policy, and measures. • In line with Principle 3, like every year, Medine has held meetings with all its workers representatives (Agriculture) and continues to inform them officially on all company decisions that may affect employees. • Although Medine is fully compliant with the Principles 4 and 5, our Human Resources department pays attention to these issues throughout the year. Outcomes • Establish harmonious, cooperative and productive relationships within the industry. • Encourage the growth of strong and independent organisations of workers and employers. • Secure some equity, fairness and parity between and among workers. • Protect, safeguard and improve the conditions of workers’ lives. • Encourage dialogue and consensus rather than conflict and confrontation thus promoting mutual understanding. • Establish an atmosphere of trust and cooperation. Ver1 02Jul13 Medine -­‐ Communica/on on Progress 2013 7 Environment Our stand Medine supports the UNGC principles on the Environment and has included them in its Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, in which it acknowledges its duty to protect the natural environment for future generations. Implementation In 2013, Medine has : • Renewed the 30 years management contract with the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation for the restoration and conservation of the Reserve of Mondrain, a 5 ha dry forest on the West Coast of Mauritius. It has a low ridge Eugenial/sideroxylon vegetation, one of the last fragments of this vegetation type in the Mascarenes, and holds over 120 species of native vascular plants, and over 100 exotic species. • Continued its Paper 3R (reduce, reuse, recycle) policy for all offices, with sensitisation posters and stickers installed in all offices. • Continued its natural resources preservation efforts, to run, inter alia, the composting of green waste. . Outcomes • The Agriculture cluster has led the following activities: From July 2012 to June 2013, 10,500 tons of compost (of type scrum, poultry litter, manure and feathers) were produced at Medine Limited. Collection of unsorted municipal waste of the Agro cluster, and disposal at La Chaumière. Ensured compliance with the government’s policy on the sound management of hazardous waste (i.e. organising and supervising the safe disposal of asbestos, used oil filters and wheels). Valorisation of fly-ash, a by-product of the sugar mill and incorporation of this material with raw materials such as poultry manure. Management of fly-ash decantation ponds during the crop season to prevent infiltrations in soil and pollution. • Medine sugar factory’s ISO 14001 certification was renewed for the 4th year. (Agriculture) • All paper, plastics and glass waste from Cascavelle Shopping village is collected and recycled.(Property) • All paper and plastic waste is deposited biweekly in a Recycling bin installed and managed by Mission Verte, a local NGO (www.missionverte.com). (Leisure) Ver1 02Jul13 Medine -­‐ Communica/on on Progress 2013 8 Anti-Corruption Our stand Medine supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption. We have taken this public stand by publishing the Medine Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, endorsed by the Board of Directors in November 2011. Implementation • The Legal Counsel and the Head of CSR & Communications of Medine were trained in April 2013 by the Mauritius Institute of Directors (MIOD) and the Ethics Institute of South Africa to become certified Ethics officers. • They have run Ethics Risk Assessments in two departments of the group (Medine Property and Agricultural Diversification). • An Ethics awareness workshop was run in May 2013 for the group’s Top Managers (G42), by the Mauritius Institute of Directors. Outcomes • The Intranet section on Ethics is regularly viewed by employees.. • Medine is sitting on the national Business Action Group Against Corruption in the private sector in collaboration with the Joint Economic Council, the Independent Commission Against Corruption and the MIOD. • Whistle blowing policy underway. • Medine has published and distributed its staff handbook, containing a copy of its Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. Ver1 02Jul13 Medine -­‐ Communica/on on Progress 2013 9 Action in the Community Medine Entrepreneur Scheme (MES) The Craft Incubator The Medine Entrepreneur Scheme is Medine’s microcredit scheme, created to support Our Craft Incubator has recently joined small entrepreneurs in the Medine catchment area. It has to date supported 25 LocalHands, a new association and brand entrepreneurs with a total amount of over USD 136,129. that brings together the expertise of The MES is helping these entrepreneurs in their marketing and business plan so that they those Mauritian artisans already can flourish their businesses. operating at our various workshops. LocalHands not only supports the enhancement of quality and innovation, Medine Scholarship Program but also promotes the marketing aspect Medine has launched a scholarship program for children of employees. Three types of of entrepreneurial craftsmanship. grants are awarded: Products are made from coconut, deer 1) Secondary level – Apply to 3 students entering High School: 323 USD per year per student. antlers, bamboo, clay and recycled paper 2) Technical Studies – Apply to 3 students entering technical schools: 806 USD/year/student. amongst others. 45 artisans form part 3) Tertiary Studies: The scholarship is granted to one student who wish to pursue his/her of the association that had a turnover of studies at the University of Mauritius any other local institution. The subvention includes a 87,100 USD for the period 2012-2013 maximum of 1613 USD per year, renewed annually for a period of three years. The Medine Volunteers Fondation Medine Horizons Medine Volunteers is a volunteer program launched by Medine in August 2010. The FMH continues to support NGOs and social It is a group of employees who organise with and for the members of NGOs or projects for the empowerment of the population of vulnerable groups of people and help them out in various ways by devoting Medine’s vicinity. their time, resources and expertise to them. For year 2012-2013, the FMH has made donations to Some activities overseen by Medine Volunteers since December 2012 include a 26 projects and actions initiated by NGOs in the half-day flea market (from donations of employees), donations (garments, West of the island. The FMH supported projects for furniture, plants, money, etc) for some events attended by volunteers, visit of the Environment, Education and Health amounting a convents and disabled people, NGOs’ Flag day, assistance to poor families, total donation of 90,440 USD. landscaping of a small village. Ver1 02Jul13 Medine -­‐ Communica/on on Progress 2013 10 Partnerships Joint Economic Council – Flashflood response Coordination On 30 March 2013, severe flashfloods affected the capital city of Port Louis, killing 11 persons and making some 700 households homeless or having lost all their belongings. Under the aegis of the Joint Economic Council, some companies including Medine have volunteered to coordinate the response and support to victims of the flood. Medine was responsible of coordinating requirements in terms of infrastructure. Health Business Coalition Medine has joined the Health Business Coalition in the Commission of Substance Abuse set up in 2010. The commission works with NGOs and other stakeholders (EU,UN) to coordinate and monitor the prevention, treatment and care services at national level. Slums Upgrading Programme (PSUP) UNDP, representing UN Habitat, continues its PSUP with the Ministry of Housing and Lands. Medine is present on the PSUP Country team since its creation in 2011. Youth Empowerment Programme – Ministry of Finance The Ministry of Finance launched in December 2012 a programme to facilitate youth employment with the least delay when they enter the labour market, by revamping the programme of job placement for young graduates and by increasing the contribution to the salary. Medine has employed two trainees under the program on a 1 year contract in the corporate services department. Maurice Ile Durable Consultations Maurice Ile Durable is a long term vision for the sustainable development of the island. Medine contributed in the consolidation of the MID project covering the 5Es Energy, Environment, Education, Employment and Equity by sitting on the Education Committee. Ver1 02Jul13 Medine -­‐ Communica/on on Progress 2013 11 Medine Limited 11th Floor, Medine Mews 4, La Chaussée Street, Port Louis Mauritius UNGC Contact: Mrs. Sophie Desvaux de Marigny Head of Corporate Sustainability and Communication Email: sophied@medine.com Phone: +230 2116101 Fax: +230 2116169 Ver1 02Jul13 Medine -­‐ Communica/on on Progress 2013 12
