Sirota Consulting LLC The Centre at Purchase One Manhattanville Road Purchase, New York 10577 914 696‐4700 (main) 914 696‐3401 (fax) www.sirota.com June 21, 2013 Communication on Progress: Sirota Consulting LLC 2013 Since September 2008, Sirota Consulting LLC has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact. Since we submitted our first Communication on Progress (COP), much of the work summarized in that report continues today within our company, as our employees’ and managers’ commitment to abide by the ten principles of the Global Compact are ongoing and strong. We are attaching a Communication on Progress for 2013 which outlines the major new initiatives Sirota has undertaken since our report last year, as well as a complete report incorporating and updating all our ongoing activities related to human rights, labour, environmental and anti‐corruption policies. Sirota is proud to be a member of the Global Compact, and hereby reaffirms our ongoing commitment to this initiative and its principles. Sincerely, Michael I. Meltzer Chief Executive Officer New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore Summary of Sirota Activities for Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Updates United Nations 51st Session of the Commission for Social Development (CSocD) – Submitted written statement with the Psychology Coalition at the United Nations (PCUN), “Psychological Contributions to Promoting Empowerment of People in Achieving Poverty Eradication, Social Integration and Full Employment and Decent Work for All,” New York City, USA, February 2013. United Nations 57th Session of the Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) ‐ Submitted written statement with the Psychology Coalition at the United Nations (PCUN), “Psychological Contributions to the Elimination and Prevention of All Forms of Violence against Women and Girls,” New York City, USA, March 2013. The British Psychological Society Division of Occupational Psychology (DOP) Annual Conference, “Connecting and Contributing to Make A Difference” – Roundtable Presenter, “Incentivising Inter‐organisational Collaboration for a Safer, More Prosperous World.” Chester, UK, January 10, 2013. New York University Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service and International Public Service Association Conference, “Innovations in International Development” – Presenter, “Humanitarian Work Psychology: A New Direction for I‐O Psychology,” New York City, USA, April 12, 2013. Global Organisation for Humanitarian Work Psychology – Continued work on expanding the network. (Pro bono) Sixth Annual Psychology Day at the United Nations – Member, Planning Committee, Program Committee, and Publicity Committee: “Psychology and Violence in the Global Context: Antecedents, Consequences, and Prevention.” April 25, 2013, New York City, USA. (Pro bono) United Nations Psychology Coalition (PCUN) – Founding member of coordinated group of Psychology NGOs accredited at the United Nations; member, Advocacy Committee and Publicity Committee; see United Nations Commissions above. International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP) – NGO Representative to the United Nations; continued work on the Lesotho Project: Girls’ Empowerment Programme; currently planning expansion into Senegal and Ghana, in collaboration with NGO partners Africa Business Training (ABT) in Senegal, Voices of African Mothers (VAM) in Ghana, Global Camps Africa (GCA) in South Africa and other African countries, and the International Labour Organization (ILO). Co‐author of book chapter on “It Takes a World to Sustain a World: International Organizations’ Contributions to Achieving Corporate Environmental Sustainability.” In “Green Organizations: Driving Change with I‐O Psychology,” Huffman, A. H. and Klein, S. R. (Eds.). New York: Routledge, 2013. New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore Co‐author of book chapter on “Violence Against Women in the Workplace.” In “Violence Against Girls and Women: International Perspectives,” Denmark, F. and Sigal, J. (Eds.). Santa Barbara, CA: ABC‐CLIO. (In progress) Co‐author of article on “Entrepreneurial Training for Empowering Women and Girls in Lesotho, Africa,” South African Journal of Psychology. (In progress) Co‐editor of book, “Humanitarian Work Psychology and the Millennium Development Goals: Past, Present, and Future.” London, UK: Psychology Press. (In progress) World Trade Centers Association (WTCA): Continued work on Service Quality Certification Program for over 100 WTCs around the world. Teatown Lake Reservation (a nature preserve and ecology education center in Westchester County, New York): Board Member. (Pro bono) National Organization on Disability – Since 2010, Sirota has partnered with NOD on a project to investigate the inequities in the workplace for those with physical as well as mental disabilities. In 2013, we renewed our joint research partnership agreement with NOD to continue our pro‐bono work for the next several years. NOD had seeked to brand and expand its information delivery on employment and workplace issues for people with disabilities, to increase the understanding of employment trends and gaps for people with disabilities within some of the nation’s ‘best’ employers, and capture disability employment data from our existing client base to enhance NOD’s knowledge on employment satisfaction and workplace trends for people with disabilities from a large cross‐section of the nation’s employers. Several press releases, communications and Webinars about our joint work have been released in the past year, including a joint Webinar given at the Annual Engagement Summit on September 19‐20, 2012, in Washington, D.C. in association with The Partnership for Public Service (a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that works to revitalize our federal government by inspiring a new generation to serve and by transforming the way government works): https://nodevents.webex.com/ec0606l/eventcenter/recording/recordAction.do?theAction=poprecord&AT=pb &renewticket=0&isurlact=true&recordID=6565932&apiname=lsr.php&rKey=be4b558b8913d1b4&format=sho rt&needFilter=false&&SP=EC&rID=6565932&siteurl=nodevents&actappname=ec0606l&actname=%2Feventce nter%2Fframe%2Fg.do&rnd=8508459427&entappname=url0108l&entactname=%2FnbrRecordingURL.do. Additionally, in 2013, our work with the NOD has expanded to include a pilot survey to develop and evaluate company disability programs. Also, we are proud to have been named to be part of their CEO Council to help guide and direct the NOD’s future ventures. General Mills Ethical Culture Survey, Minneapolis, MN In 2012 and again in 2013, Sirota worked with General Mills’ to conduct a global Ethical Culture survey in support of the company’s programs and efforts to assure that all employees understand and act according to the highest ethical standards. The survey assesses views on the overall ethical culture (e.g., leadership’s commitment to ethical business, consistency of actions with standards) ethics resources and support (e.g., training, Ethics Line, Law Department), and the perspective of those who sought advice or reported concerns. New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore The feedback and follow‐up process is geared to identifying any pockets of concern and where improvements in understanding ethics and compliance issues and resources are needed. Certificate of Environmental Accomplishment – 2012‐13 Award from ‘Shred‐It’ to certify that Sirota Consulting participated in their shredding and recycling program making a positive impact on our environment by saving 22.43 trees from destruction in 2012. In addition, Sirota has been reducing the number of pages in our survey reports. While reports are mainly distributed in electronic form, and we facilitate and encourage decision‐making about taking action on‐line, managers often print their reports which can add up to hundreds of thousands of pieces of paper being printed for large companies. As an example, one large client’s reports were reduced from 42 to 16 pages in 2012, while providing the same insights as the longer reports. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED): Sirota has participated in an ongoing effort in conjunction with our landlord to achieve LEEDS certification for our office complex. LEEDS consists of a suite of rating systems for the design, construction and operation of high performance green buildings, homes and neighborhoods. Developed by the US Green Building Council (USGBC), LEED is intended to provide building owners and operators a concise framework for identifying and implementing practical and measurable green building design, construction, operations and maintenance solutions. Global Impact Related Survey Items (major clients 2010‐2013) ‐ Following is a list of our clients’ survey items that directly capture employee experiences related to their company’s environmental/community responsibility and fair treatment. Also listed are items that tap physical safety and perceptions related to speaking up when there are problems/ethical concerns that closely relate to the 10 principles. Many of these items contribute to our normative database each year which provides benchmark measures on these important items for our clients and in our research: VARIOUS Do you have an apparent or non‐apparent disability (NEW 2013) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION Company X encourages diversity in our workforce; I am proud of the ways Company X contributes to the community In the past twelve months I participated in a Company X sponsored volunteer activity (e.g. financial literacy, building homes, mentoring, pro bono, etc.)? Compared to other companies I know about, I believe Company X is an environmentally responsible company My Leaders are committed to diversity WORLDWIDE HOTEL Company X encourages diversity of our workforce I feel good about the ways we contribute to the community I am well informed about our sustainability efforts (i.e.,LightStay, etc) I feel good about our sustainability efforts We are an environmentally responsible company My Leaders: Are committed to diversity Company X is a physically safe place to work (injury free, machines in good working order, New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore etc.) SOFTWARE PROVIDER Company X demonstrates a commitment to being an environmentally responsible company. Company X takes a genuine interest in the welfare of the communities where we do business (good corporate citizen). [Manager Name] fosters an environment where diversity is valued. My work group has a climate in which diverse perspectives are valued. I am satisfied with my physical working conditions (facilities, work space, site amenities, etc). RETAILER Where I work people of diverse backgrounds can succeed It is important that Company X is an environmentally responsible company I am familiar with the efforts of Company X to protect the environment It is important that Company X is a socially responsible company I am familiar with the social responsibility efforts of Company X Where I work, there is an environment in which everyone is treated fairly regardless of race, nationality, gender (sex), religion, or other individual differences The person I report to creates an environment in which everyone is treated fairly I am confident that if I report an inappropriate business practice or an ethical issue something will be done about it My leaders (VP and above) encourage me to report important information to the appropriate people, even if it’s bad news The person I report to seeks different opinions, ideas, and perspectives Company X provides effective processes for handling employee complaints and concerns I can express my point of view without fear of negative consequences MANUFACTURING I am treated with respect and dignity at work The person I report to treats me with respect and dignity Where I work people of diverse backgrounds can succeed Where I work, there is an environment in which everyone is treated fairly regardless of race, nationality, gender (sex), religion, or other individual differences The person I report to creates an environment in which everyone is treated fairly The person I report to seeks different opinions, ideas, and perspectives I can express my point of view without fear of negative consequences This Company provides effective processes for handling employee complaints and concerns I am confident that if I report an inappropriate business practice or an ethical issue something will be done about it The Practice Director(s) I work with shows a strong commitment to ethical business CONSULTING decisions and conduct. The Senior Director(s) that I work with shows a strong commitment to ethical business decisions and conduct At Company X, I can express my point of view without fear of negative consequences. RETAIL Company X has an environment where employees of diverse backgrounds can succeed Company X takes a genuine interest in the welfare of the communities in which it does business (is a good corporate citizen) I feel free to speak my mind without fear of negative consequences I can report concerns about unethical conduct/practices without fear of reprisal New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore I am treated fairly at Company X without regard to my age, race/ethnic background, religion, UNIVERSITY gender, disabilities, or sexual orientation FINANCIAL INSTITUTION This company has an environment where people of diverse backgrounds can succeed Where I work, it's safe to say what you think I am confident that if I report an inappropriate business practice or an ethical issue something will be done about it. New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore Communication on Progress: Sirota Survey Intelligence® 2008‐2012 a. Statement of Continued Support Sirota does not issue a formal Annual Report, therefore, we will commence by providing a statement of continued support for the Global Compact, and again renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles, in the words of our CEO, Michael I. Meltzer: “Sirota Survey Intelligence (Sirota) is a New York‐based international survey research and consulting firm which conducts employee satisfaction and other kinds of multi‐constituency organizational surveys; based on these surveys, we provide feedback and consultation regarding improving the well‐being of employees and other stakeholders, while enhancing the success of the organization. Sirota’s philosophy and methodology is drawn from the discipline of organizational psychology and successful management practices, and is congruent with the Ten Principles of the Global Compact. Ours is a partnership culture, both internally and in regard to our various stakeholders. It forms the basis of how we advise our clients; how we market our professional services; how we relate to our employees in our home office in the USA, our employees in the United Kingdom, and in our affiliate organizations around the world. Our client work includes an emphasis on the importance of adherence to basic human rights in order to ensure an engaged, committed work force. Research from our own archives shows that a high level of employee satisfaction goes hand in hand with greater financial success. The Ten Principles also underlie the way we partner with our vendors, the way we interact with the community at large, and our efforts to contribute to the effectiveness of the United Nations in its achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Our range of surveys includes employee opinion/attitude surveys, ethics, accountability, and corporate social responsibility (CSR). Our definition of CSR is the equitable treatment of customers, employees, vendors, owners/investors, and the community: one group does not prosper at the expense of another group. Figure 1 displays our model. Our CSR surveys show organizations where they stand on a number of CSR measures, how they compare to other organizations, and advise them on how to improve their standing. Sirota is a professional organization which prides itself on its thought leadership and research which we endeavor to actively disseminate to our colleagues in business and in psychology. To this end we have published presentations in newspapers, journals, on our web site and in professional conferences. Sirota’s admiration for the United Nations, the pre‐eminent organization supporting Human Rights, has been demonstrated by our endorsement (through financing and time) of one of our senior employees: Dr. Mary O’Neill Berry, an NGO representative to the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) from the International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP). Recently, Dr. Berry has presented at a symposium for the 2010 Congress of IAAP on the UN’s work in poverty reduction and on the contributions of organizational psychology to the work of the UN. Sirota is proud to be a member of the Global Compact, and hereby reaffirms our ongoing commitment to this initiative and its principles.” New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore b. Description of Actions This section addresses past activities and, if applicable, policies, which reflect Sirota’s continued implementation of at least two of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti‐corruption) related to the principles. 1. Labour i. Sirota companies continue to comply with all relevant laws and regulations mandated by the relevant local authorities, including the Occupational Health & Safety Administration (OSHA) in the United States, and the Health & Safety Executive in the UK. ii. Each new employee receives briefing and training about office HSE programs within their first week, and are advised of Sirota’s overall Health, Safety and Environmental protection programs. Sirota’s HSE programs are reviewed on an annual basis and updated accordingly. iii. Sirota provides a safe working environment for employees. Regular fire drills and fire alarm testing procedures are conducted in all Sirota locations, and all office buildings are inspected regularly and adhere to all building and construction Codes. iv. Sirota has a strong interest in creating and maintaining benefit programs that improve and enhance the quality of life of all its employees and that help make Sirota an employer of choice. Benefits include healthcare coverage for applicable employees and their families, and supplemental programs for vision care, preventative care, dependent care programs, wellness and fitness programs, life and long‐term disability programs. Sirota also contributes to the retirement pensions of US employees by matching 401(k) contributions. v. Sirota conducts an annual Employee Opinion Survey, which is an opportunity for all employees to make their views known in an unfiltered manner to all levels of management in the firm. This has been an effective means of upward communication for almost 15 years now, and the firm has a good record of addressing issues which surface in the survey results. vi. Sirota has a flexible workplace policy. Several employees work virtually from their homes in other states, or countries, besides our HQ state of New York, and many more work at home one or more days each week, at the discretion of their supervisor. Many employees work hours other than the traditional 9 to 5, again, at the discretion of their supervisors. vii. Sirota supports the annual “Take Your Child To Work” day. viii. Sirota provides an annual Employee Holiday Party, held off‐site. ix. Although at times current economic conditions made it impossible (2008 and 2009), prior to that, Sirota awarded annual bonuses to all employees who merited them and Sirota was able to provide bonuses to employees in 2010, 2011 and again in 2012. x. Sirota is an equal opportunity employer, and numbers among its workforce not only African‐American and Hispanic individuals, but also many nationalities, including British, Chinese, Indian, and Irish. 2. Environment New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore i. Sirota has an appointed ECO officer and has convened a group of employees who meet as the “Green Team” or “Corporate Social Responsibility Team”. They have been responsible for spearheading a company‐wide effort regarding conservation of paper (encouraging paperless output and providing options to reduce paper usage such as toner recycling, double‐sided paper use, etc.). Sirota also continues to practice reduced energy consumption by ensuring that employees turn off lights, computers and printers when not in use. ii. This team also identified numerous tips for healthy living, which are regularly published in the firm’s weekly online newsletter, and sponsored regular potluck lunches for all employees featuring healthy foods. iii. Sirota renovated its office space in the US a few years ago to include 100% recycled carpet and ceiling tiles. Further, in 2010 facilities in the lavatories throughout the space were fitted with energy and water‐saving automatic faucets, soap dispensers and flushers. iv. Sirota has eliminated paper products (cups, paper towels, etc.) and replaced them with reusable products and energy‐saving appliances. v. Sirota employees are encouraged to support their local farming communities by participating in Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) programs. vi. Sirota continues to contribute (on behalf of our clients in lieu of holiday cards) to “Trees for the Future”, an organization that has, since 1989, helped communities around the world plant trees. vii. Sirota’s Corporate Social Responsibility/Community Service activities include, at times, the following: a. Encouraging employees to volunteer help and assistance to their own communities b. Collecting toys for needy children at holiday time c. Participating in the community Blood drive d. Sponsoring company‐funded flu‐shot clinics e. Donating to funds for catastrophic events (we received a Certificate of Recognition from Feed the Children for our contributions to the victims of Hurricane Katrina, and most recently have held a pot‐ luck luncheon and donated all proceeds to the victims of the earthquake in Haiti) f. Donating to employee‐sponsored causes, e.g., breast cancer research and the USO g. Discounting work to not‐for‐profit organizations by 20% h. Conducting pro bono projects for not‐for‐profit organizations such as the United Nations Department of Public Information (DPI), Action Against Hunger – USA, the National Park Foundation, and the Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, and, most recently, the National Organization on Disability (NOD) New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore 3. Anti‐Corruption i. One of Sirota’s products is an Ethics Survey, which assesses the culture of integrity in an organization. In addition, most of our broad‐based employee opinion surveys include items measuring employees’ views of their own organization’s performance on such critical areas as “being ethical in its business dealings.” ii. Sirota includes on its website prominent mention of the Global Compact and our support for its principles. iii. Sirota passes the strictest global requirements regarding the protection of human subjects in our survey work, and the privacy of the information we gather. We continue to hold “Safe Harbor” status in the European Union (EU) and reaffirm our commitment to he EU principles annually. 4. Partnerships i. Global Task Force on Humanitarian Work Psychology –Co‐Chair: Continued work on expanding the network; working session in San Diego, USA, April 2012. (Pro bono); Fifth Annual Psychology Day at the United Nations – Member, Planning Committee, Program Committee and Publicity Committee: “Human Rights for Vulnerable People: Psychological Contributions and the United Nations Perspective,” April 19, 2012, New York City, USA. (Pro bono); International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP) – NGO Representative to the United Nations; continued work on the Lesotho Project: Girls’ Empowerment Programme; currently planning expansion into Senegal and Ghana, in collaboration with NGO partners Africa Business Training (ABT) in Senegal, Voices of African Mothers (VAM) in Ghana, Global Camps Africa (GCA) in South Africa and other African countries, and the International Labour Organization (ILO). ii. Drs. Reichman and Berry also presented Brown Bag lunches at UNDP, covering topics such as dealing with bureaucracy, teambuilding, overcoming resistance to collaboration and gaining acceptance for new ideas, implementing/operationalizing projects, and effective communications. iii. They are members of the Planning Committee of the annual Psychology Day at the United Nations. iv. They have interviewed (and subsequently published those interviews) Georg Kell, Executive Director of the Global Compact, and Djankou Ndjonkou, then Director of the New York Office of the International Labour Organization (ILO). v. They have offered Sirota’s services to Dr. Manuel Escudero, head of the Global Compact Research Institute, to contribute research and/or presentations on CSR to Global Compact members with outstanding COPs. vi. They are members of the Global Task Force on Organisational Psychology for Poverty Reduction, founded at the 2008 meeting of the Society of Industrial/Organizational Psychology (SIOP), subsequently renamed the Global Task Force for Humanitarian Work Psychology. vii. They are founding members of the United Nations Psychology Coalition, a group of NGOs accredited to the United Nations, all of which are psychological in nature. vii. Several Sirota staff have attended Global Compact meetings in New York and Boston. Most recently we attended the helpful webinar given by the Global Compact Network USA on June 11, 2013 to review the COP’s purpose, components, requirements and options to improve our reporting initiatives. x. Several Sirota staff have attended conferences organized by the Corporate Responsibility Officer (CRO). New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore xi. Sirota has established a network of affiliates around the world, who assist in securing and implementing client projects. c. Measurement of Outcomes 1. Labour. a. Executive Summary of Sirota Employee Survey: Sirota fully believes in “practicing what we preach” and we survey our employees on an annual basis, using a customized version of the survey items we provide to our clients. The Sirota internal survey results are substantially above the benchmark for engagement. We disaggregate the company data to team leaders and insist on extensive review and action plans at the team level. The Management Committee regularly reviews progress on these plans and conducts ‘pulse’ surveys when necessary to check actual progress. Our philosophy is to continuously strive to improve the results. b. Sirota’s most recent filing of its EEOC Certificate of Compliance was July, 2012. 2. Environment. a. Samples of suggestions for conservation efforts included in weekly online newsletter “This Week At Sirota”: i. Use cloth…Everything. Convert to cloth napkins and rags instead of disposable napkins and paper towels. And if you have to use disposable paper products, like toilet paper, there are “green” brands that offer more environmental products. ii. Sign up for Electronic Bank Statements and E‐bills: A great way to avoid wasting paper iii. Help with the Gulf Oil Clean Up!! Send your hair and old nylons to “Matter of Trust” or get your beautician and barber to send in their customers' discarded hair. Any hair and any nylons will do when it comes to making oil containment booms to absorb the oil ‐ including pet hair. Hair absorbs oil ‐ even the kind of oil flowing through the Gulf. Hair salons and pet‐grooming businesses are encouraged to contact Matter of Trust in order to receive information on how to help. Why throw all those locks away, when you can be helping to save fish and animals ‐ and possibly the jobs of thousands of people who depend on those habitats for their livelihood (such as shrimpers). Even if you don't have enough hair to cut off, you can get involved by sending old pantyhose too. iv. Teach your kids to love and respect the earth. Good habits start now and the best way to perpetuate environmentalism, is to start teaching your kids to make environmentally‐ friendly choices at an early age. v. Hang Your Clothes Out To Dry. Hanging your clothes out to dry is less abrasive for your clothes (so you have to replace them less often) and also saves on costly electric bills. vi. Green your sunscreen New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore b. Certificate of Recognition presented by “Feed The Children” for emergency relief following Hurricane Katrina: 2005 c. Donation of proceeds (with match from Company) from employee “Hearts for Haiti” luncheon: 2010 d. Samples of healthy potluck lunch dishes shared with Sirota Staff: i. Summer Cobb Salad ii. Fat‐free Yogurt and Granola parfait iii. 7 layer bean dip and whole grain pita chips iv. Vegetarian lasagne v. Fresh fruit and vegetables 3. CSR a. Examples of Sirota CSR Survey Items: i. Rate XYZ on having a genuine interest in the well‐being of its employees ii. Rate XYZ on taking a genuine interest in the welfare of the community in which it does business (being a good “corporate citizen”). iii. Rate XYZ on having a genuine concern about protecting the environment. iv. Rate your awareness of/familiarity with XYZ’s various CSR programs/activities. v. Rate the effectiveness of XYZ’s various CSR programs/activities. b. CSR Grid (see below). c. CSR Project: Montefiore Medical Center 2009 Sustainability Survey d. Past Attendance at Global Compact‐related Meetings: i. UN Global Compact US Network Meeting: “Water in the 21st Century: Managing the Business Risks and Opportunities;” 3 November 2008, New York City. ii. UN Global Compact US Network Meeting: “Business and Human Rights;” 28 April 2008, Boston, MA. e. Past Attendance at CSR‐Related Meetings: i. Corporate Responsibility Officer (CRO) Conference, 10 May 2007, New York City. ii. CRO Conference, 12 September 2007, Chicago, IL. f. Past Presentations on CSR: i. CRO Conference, 26 March 2008, New York City: “Attitudes of Corporate Responsibility Practitioners and Providers” – Joint Sirota/CRO research – presented by Doug Klein, President, Sirota Survey Intelligence. ii. CRO Conference, 18 June 2008, San Francisco: “Top 10 Trends in CSR,” presented by Doug Klein, President, Sirota Survey Intelligence. iii. Australian Psychological Association Conference, 26 June 2009, Sydney, Australia: “Business Sustainability as a Function of Corporate Social Responsibility,” Poster Session presented by Walter Reichman, Vice President, Sirota Survey Intelligence. New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore g. Past Press Releases on CSR: i. “Workers Satisfied with Company’s Social Responsibility Are More Engaged and Positive, Study Shows,” 2 May 2007 ii. “Corporate Social Responsibility Contributes to Bottom Line, Improves Worker Engagement and Customer Loyalty, Says Sirota Survey,” 18 June 2007 iii. “Workers’ Perceptions of Companies’ Environmental Policies is Key Factor in Employee Engagement,” 5 September 2007 iv. “Corporate Social Responsibility in Uncertain Times Requires Reaching Out to Many Affected Groups,” 29 October 2007 v. “New Study Finds Big Differences in Perceptions of the Success of Corporate Responsibility Efforts,” 22 April 2008 h. Publication: “A Field Guide to Corporate Social Responsibility,” Michael I. Meltzer, CEO of Sirota, ACC Docket, April 2008 4. Anti‐Corruption. a. Examples of Items from Sirota’s Ethics Survey: i. Rate XYZ on being ethical in its business dealings. ii. XYZ has created an environment which provides protection against unlawful harassment and discrimination. iii. I can report financial irregularities without fear of reprisal. iv. The leaders of XYZ show strong commitment to ethical business decisions and conduct. v. The people I work with act with integrity. b. Presentation on Ethics: “Directors as Guardians of Compliance and Ethics within the Corporate Citadel: What the Policy Community Should Know” made by Michael I. Meltzer, CEO of Sirota, to the RAND Center for Corporate Ethics and Governance, Washington, DC, 12 May 2010. Abstract: A discussion about the role of corporate directors and their oversight responsibility for ethics and compliance matters. The paper draws upon recent survey data which suggests that prevailing practices such as board reliance upon corporate counsel as the primary source of information and insight on matters of ethics and compliance may not be adequate in the face of greater expectations for corporate accountability. c. Presentation on Ethics: “Leadership’s Commitment to Ethical Business; Consistency of Actions with Standards” made by Dr. John Sherman, VP of Sirota, to General Mills leadership, Minnesota, 1 August 2010. Sirota conducted General Mills’ annual global Ethical Culture survey in support of the company’s programs and efforts to assure that all employees understand and act according to the highest ethical standards. The survey assesses views on the overall ethical culture (e.g., leadership’s commitment to ethical business, consistency of actions with standards) ethics resources and support (e.g., training, Ethics Line, Law Department), and the perspective of those who sought advice or reported concerns. The feedback and follow‐up process is geared to identifying any pockets of concern and where improvements in understanding ethics and compliance issues and resources are needed. d. Presentation: “Assessing and Shaping a Culture of Ethical Conduct” made by Michael I. Meltzer, CEO of Sirota, to ACCGNY, New York City, 14 April 2009 New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore c. Newspaper Article: “Where Businesses Fall Short,” by Michael I. Meltzer, CEO of Sirota, The Philadelphia Inquirer, 14 October 2008. 5. Human Rights. a. Examples of Sirota Survey Items with Human Rights Connotations: i. Rate the extent to which management treats employees with respect and dignity. ii. How do you feel about the amount XYZ has done to provide opportunities for women/for minorities? iii. Where I work, reasonable accommodations are made for persons with disabilities. iv. My manager/supervisor is sensitive to the need for balance between my work life and my personal life. v. Employees where I work can usually get a fair hearing for their complaints. b. Presentation: “Assessing and Shaping a Culture of Corporate Responsibility” made by Michael I. Meltzer, CEO of Sirota, to Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights, Stockholm, Sweden, 19 June 2008 c. Co‐presenter (Dr. M. Berry) at Executive Board Presentation, SIOP, April 2010, with Stuart C. Carr, Co‐Chair: “The Global Task Force for Humanitarian Work Psychology.” d. Co‐Chair, Global Task Force for Humanitarian Work Psychology: Contributed to the online global civil society consultation for the MDG+10 Summit (Theme 3: Proposals to Accelerate Progress). The executive summary of the consultation report was distributed as a conference room paper to all UN Member States who attended the Informal Interactive Hearings of the UN General Assembly with representatives of non‐governmental organizations, civil society and the private sector, on June 14‐15 in New York. The full report is available on: www.un‐ngls.org/mdgconsultation e.Nominated for Roundtable participation at MDG+10 Summit Meeting, September 20‐22, 2010 (Roundtable 1: Addressing the challenge of poverty, hunger and gender equality; Roundtable 4: Addressing emerging issues and evolving approaches; Roundtable 6: Widening and strengthening partnerships.) f.Publication: Berry, Mary O’Neill, Reichman, W., MacLachlan, M., Klobas, J., Hui, H., and Carr, S.C. “Humanitarian Work Psychology: The Contributions of Organizational Psychology to Poverty Reduction,” Journal of Economic Psychology, 2010. 6. Partnerships. a. The Lesotho Project (pro‐bono): Assisted in the development and evaluation of a Girls’ Empowerment Programme in Lesotho, Southern Africa; involved the coordination of multiple stakeholders (NGO and Government) in the design and support of the Programme; attendees were female school dropouts; focus was on HIV/AIDS prevention and risk reduction, along with income‐ generating activities; a follow‐up training workshop ended with the opportunity to be voluntarily tested for HIV/AIDS – the vast majority of workshop attendees elected to be tested. Future similar Camps are in the planning stages. New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore A summary of the Project is posted by the UN Foundation and Better World Campaign on UN Wire, July 7, 2010: www.smartbrief.com An article about the Camp appeared on PR Newswire: www.prnewswire.com/news‐releases b. Psychology Day at the United Nations, 2011: Co‐Chair of the Planning Committee and Chair of the Program Committee for this event. c. International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP): Dr. Mary Berry continuing as NGO Representative to the United Nations for this professional association. d. World Trade Centers Association (WTCA) (a Not‐for‐Profit Organization): Continued expansion of the Service Quality Certification Program for the Committee on Quality and Standards, originally developed by Sirota in the mid‐90’s; currently over 100 World Trade Centers have been certified in up to eight service categories: Trade Information Services, Business Services, Trade Education Services, WTC Club, Tenant Services, Conference Facilities and Services, Display and Exhibit Services, and Group Trade Missions (Inbound and Outbound). The Self‐Assessment Guidelines, on which the certification is based, are periodically revised and updated. Training workshops on the certification process are regularly delivered. Figure 1: CSR GRID: Measurement Dimension Main Themes Notes Level 1 ‐ Baseline Level 2 ‐ Maturing There are few if any CSR activities are among CSR activities those important to the underway. Decisions organization but are about CSR activities decided upon and are made separately handled in ways distinct Integration of CSR in from other business from the major business Activity in CSR Business decisions. operations. The organization is CSR activities are non‐ involved in a limited existent or limited to number of CSR activities Extent of CSR Activities in one or two and/ or are above those that are Activity in CSR Organization of a short duration purely philanthropic. Descriptions of relevant legal and ethical practices and focus There is little to no points are distributed at communication about least once, and then Communication/Awareness legal and ethical again each time they Compliance of compliance practices. change. New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore Training on legal and ethical behavior is part Legal and ethical of the standard on‐ operations are boarding and the outlined in handbooks professional and other documents, development process. but training is not (There is no formal Degree of compliance provided except in system of accountability Compliance efforts special cases. for employees) CSR accomplishments CSR activities are are not counted included in the among the assets of discussions about the the company. They overall standing of the are considered company in the Level 2‐ secondary to core community. (CSR should we business operations activities receive include CSR and are perceived as minimal or no weight Economic linked to adding little to the when evaluating the Performance ‐ CSR Company Performance & initial financial value to the success of the Alignment Evaluation company eval company. organization) The potential for CSR CSR activities are not activities to contribute Economic seen as contributing to organizational Performance ‐ CSR Acknowledgement of to the success of the success is acknowledged Alignment Contribution organization. within the company. The CSR focus of the organization is extended The CSR focus of the to include local activities Economic Measurement organization is or partnership with an Performance ‐ CSR DIM correct? primarily established national Alignment CSR Focus Scope of CSR? philanthropic. philanthropic endeavor. CSR is not considered Economic when developing CSR is acknowledged Performance ‐ Development of Products company products when developing Innovation and Services and services. products and services. Environmental impact beyond internal Consideration of practices is considered environmental impact when planning is limited to activities organizational such as recycling and operations (i.e., Environmental energy efficiency in environmental Performance ‐ CSR Environmental organizational footprint, pollution, Alignment Consideration practices. etc.). New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore The organization does not encourage The organization stakeholder groups to encourages stakeholder take risks to find ways groups to take risks to of operating that find ways of operating Environmental reduce negative that reduce negative Performance ‐ effects on the effects on the Innovation Risk Taking Behavior environment. environment. CSR is not included in CSR is broadly the organization's addressed in the formal statements of organization's mission, mission, values, and values, and goals Leadership Integration with mission, goals presented to presented to Excellence ‐ Values statement, and goals stakeholders. stakeholders. Civility, trust, and Civility, trust, and respect for human respect for human rights rights is a value of the is a value and is actively organization but not promoted within actively promoted organizational activities Leadership Civility, Trust, and Respect within organizational such as special Excellence ‐ Values for Human Rights activities. programs. Financial and human Some financial and resource expenditures human resource in CSR activities are expenditures in CSR Measurement ‐ Incorporation into the not assessed in terms activities are assessed in Audit Business of ROI. terms of ROI. Opinions regarding the Opinions regarding organization's CSR the organization's CSR activities and overall activities and overall reputation are assessed, reputation are not but informally or from a Measurement ‐ assessed formally or nonrepresentative Survey Opinion Survey informally. sample. CSR results are reported to shareholders, financiers, and the CSR results are either Board of Directors not reported or are through the annual reported informally to report, most often Process Excellence shareholders, among philanthropic ‐ Communication financiers, or the activities distinct from (Outward) Board of Directors. business activities. The importance of CSR is not communicated The importance of CSR is to new employees in communicated to new Process Excellence onboarding or other employees during ‐ Onboarding Onboarding socialization onboarding procedures. New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore processes. CSR responsibilities are carried out as an additional duty of an individual and is not CSR is a formal Process Excellence formally represented responsibility specified ‐ Organizational Formal Presence within in his or her job in an individual's job Design Organization description. description. Little or no rewards are given for Employee contributions employee that enhance an contributions that organization's CSR Process Excellence Level 3 enhance an performance are both ‐ Recognition & criteria to organization's CSR encouraged and Rewards Rewards & Recognition high? performance. recognized. The organization does not explicitly encourage or provide The organization incentives to encourages customers customers for to participate in participation in environmental or social environmental or responsibility activities Social Performance social responsibility through advertisements ‐ Innovation Customer Incentives activities. and campaigns. The equitable treatment Ensuring equitable of stakeholders is taken treatment of into consideration in Social Performance stakeholders is not an strategic planning but ‐ Treatment of Review Level explicit part of not necessarily Stakeholders Equitable Treatment 2 strategic planning. followed. Suppliers' CSR Suppliers are made Process Excellence activities are not aware of the ‐ Communication considered in business organization's CSR (Horizontal) Interaction with Suppliers dealings. standards and activities. There is little knowledge and no There is a concern for involvement with the employees in foreign manner in which subsidiaries but the local Social Performance employees in foreign culture is the major ‐ Treatment of Treatment of foreign subsidiaries are determinant of Stakeholders subsidiaries treated. equitable treatment. New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore LIST OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, 5. the effective abolition of child labour, and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti‐Corruption 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. New York London San Francisco Bay Rotterdam Singapore
