LRN’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Inspiring Principled Performance that Embraces the Ten Principles “ May you live your life as if the maxim of your actions were to become universal law.” —Immanuel Kant 2 A Message from the CEO LRN has just completed our third year as a member of the United Nations Global Compact, and we remain honored to work with the UNGC and its member organizations. We are proud to be part of this organization, which continues to encourage its members to embed into their plans and actions the ten universally accepted principles for how institutions should lead, govern, and operate. The journey that partner organizations take to make deep and continuous progress related to the UNGC’s ten principles is parallel to the journey that LRN has been on for 19 years. Since 1994, we have embraced and pursued an ambitious mission: to help people around the world do the right thing and inspire principled performance in business. In this way, we not only support the UNGC’s ten principles, we aspire to live them in how we do everything we do: how we deliver knowledge and solutions designed to elevate the behavior of the more than 700 organizations with whom we have worked, and the nearly 17 million employees we have educated around the world; how we meaningfully connect with each other as colleagues; how we relate to our customers as partners; and how we contribute to the world on our journey LRN founder and CEO, Dov Seidman of significance. Culture as a conscious, deliberate, long-term strategy is the key to sustainable differentiation and success for companies in the 21st century. At LRN, we help companies operationalize values and principles by integrating them into their corporate cultures, and translating them into business practices and leadership Since 1994, we have behaviors. We are also a laboratory for our own beliefs and ideas, investing in embraced and pursued how we ourselves can best exemplify the change we seek. A journey like the an ambitious mission: one that LRN is on requires constant vigilance and reflection. In 2012, we made to help people around the investments in our own culture to ensure that we are truly living as a Self-Governing, world do the right thing values-based organization, and we continued to progress on our mission to elevate performance and live our own values. and inspire principled performance in business. The success of our journey depends on an accurate metrics for measuring our progress. In response to this need, we have developed LRN’s Governance, Culture, and Leadership Assessment (GCLA), a survey consisting of questions about behaviors and business outcomes. The findings of the GCLA helped us to develop The How Report TM, a unique view into organizational behaviors and how they impact performance outcomes. In 2012, we expanded the assessment to the behaviors of over 36,000 employees from 18 countries working for both local and global organizations. The findings show that companies that self-govern via shared values which guide the behavior of all employees significantly out-perform companies which don’t self-govern. At the very least, it is our sincere hope that The How Report TM will help create a deeper understanding of the challenges and opportunities before us today, and that it can facilitate a structured dialogue about how our business leaders can take more certain and powerful steps on their respective journeys toward significance. We look forward to continuing our journey with the UNGC and its member organizations to pursue our common goals for many years to come. Dov Sedman 3 We were inspired to join the UNGC in 2010 because we felt that our respective missions were complementary and reinforcing, and we continue to share a joint vision for a more sustainable future. LRN and the UNGC Since 1994, LRN has helped We believe that companies do not We were inspired to join the companies on their journeys toward need to choose between living their UNGC in 2010 because we felt fostering resilient, innovative and principles and maximizing profits, or that our respective missions were winning cultures and inspiring between enhancing reputation and complementary and reinforcing, and principled performance in their growing revenue; both are the result we continue to share a joint vision for operations. Our combination of tools, of principled performance. We also a more sustainable future. The goal education, metrics, and strategic believe that the journey to inspire more of all compact members is to further advice helps companies translate principled behavior and performance their commitment in the areas of their values into concrete corporate in business is a moral imperative, Human Rights, Labor Standards, practices and leadership behaviors that especially in our interconnected and Environment, and Anti-Corruption, create sustainable advantage. thus interdependent world, and that it and our purpose for being is to help We provide organizations with strategic is the only viable path to sustainable companies and their people live advice and guidance, practical business progress, success, and up to the highest standards of tools, comprehensive education and significance. organizational and leadership behavior. experiential learning, and peer-toIn its 12th year, the UNGC is the The UNGC has built a global peer alliances across a broad range of world’s largest corporate citizenship community around ten principles and issues in the areas of law, compliance, and sustainability initiative, with underscored the most effective way to governance, ethics and risk; ethical more than 10,000 participants and scale its ideas and beliefs. We at LRN and inspirational leadership; social stakeholders from over 145 countries remain committed to collaborating responsibility; and environmental around the world. Participants have with the UNGC in helping to advance responsibility and innovation. voluntarily committed to aligning their sustainable, values-based business business operations and strategies models and markets throughout the with the UNGC’s ten universally world in 2013 and beyond. accepted principles. 4 LRN’s Reach and Impact Organizations of all sizes spanning a variety of industries currently rely on LRN’s LRN’s partner community comprehensive and global education solutions to educate their people on topics has completed some that relate to the ten principles of the UNGC. LRN’s partner community has 57 million educational completed some 57 million educational experiences intended to inspire more principled behavior in business. In 2012 alone, our partners completed over eight experiences intended to and a half million educational experiences. Our modules are available in inspire more principled 47 languages including English and are helping partners reach their employees behavior in business. all around the world. This ensures that the workforce, managers, leaders, and supply chain partners, regardless of their location, get the right knowledge at the right time and in culturally relevant ways. Further, we have worked with corporate leadership and boards of directors to foster values-based, Self-Governing cultures and principled performance as their source of competitive advantage. 5 Our Partners Seeking Global Consistency Through Purpose and Values One of LRN’s partners is a global energy company that has grown rapidly through global acquisitions. With disparate global operations, an immediate challenge was to align a diverse group of employees in several different continents and countries around a common purpose and shared set of values. In addition, our partner was also experiencing issues of trust and collaboration between business units as a result of changing leadership. Our partner engaged LRN to help meet these challenges and to be deliberate and intentional about their culture to yield deep and lasting benefits to its business advantage. In order to learn more about the partner’s culture, LRN applied a rigorous and proven set of methods and tools, both quantitative and qualitative. We deployed our Governance, Culture, and Leadership Assessment (GCLA), a survey designed to analyze the individual and collective behaviors that drive an organization forward, to all employees and conducted select leader interviews and employee focus groups. LRN analyzed the data and shared the findings of these collective observations and insights with the partner’s 70 global leaders and influencers last fall. These insights led to recommendations and the development of a comprehensive strategic roadmap to support sustainable behavioral change and the desired evolution of the partner’s culture. In addition to finalizing the strategic roadmap, we are currently collaborating with the partner to cascade the assessment findings to all employees throughout the company. A Principled Performance Journey to Inspiration and Innovation One of the other partners with whom LRN is working closely is a well established manufacturing company and leader in its industry. This partner came to LRN for help with the transformation from a manufacturing company to a company that also focuses on providing innovative design and solutions to its clients. The company was also struggling with how to increase employee morale; the current economic climate had created a need for layoffs and outsourcing. Our main goals with this organization are to: inspire employees with a common purpose, encourage employees to think of the company as global rather than regional, foster global collaboration, inspire leadership behaviors in all employees, and innovate behaviors. This partner has begun sharing the information included in our findings throughout the organization and developing a new leadership framework that will allow them to move forward in their journey. They have established five global teams that will embed their core values into their structural process while prototyping and piloting new behaviors. Ultimately, we are confident that in helping organizations inspire leadership and embed values throughout their organizations, we are elevating behavior around the globe and continuing to make progress that is relevant to the UNGC’s ten principles. 6 A Deeper Look at How LRN’s Solutions Help Bring UNGC’s Ten Principles to Life LRN offers a comprehensive and integrated suite of solutions that help our partner LRN offers a comprehensive companies create cultures of principled performance that embrace the UNGC’s and integrated suite of areas of commitment. We help organizations by using a combination of practical tools, education, and strategic advice in the areas of law, governance, ethics, solutions that help our compliance and risk; inspirational leadership; social responsibility; and environmental partner companies create responsibility. Specifically, we help: cultures of principled performance that embrace the UNGC’s areas of • Evolve and reinforce a system of values-based commitment. governance, culture, and leadership. • Make organizational principles and values-based corporate practices and behaviors an engine of sustainable value, competitive advantage, and significance. • Understand and manage risk, and engage comprehensively on ethics and compliance, and social and environmental responsibility. • Meet compliance obligations and inspire and enable new measures of principled performance. LRN helps companies create a culture of principled performance and provides specific solutions that embrace the UNGC’s ten principles. 7 The HOW Report: New Metrics for a New Reality Rethinking the Source of Resiliency, Innovation, and Sustainable Growth The 2011 U.S.-based The How Report TM, a national assessment of more than 5,000 full-time employees, compared the business returns of competing models of Governance, Culture, and Leadership and the observed behavior of management and employees. The How Report provided practical evidence that principled approaches to business generate greater business outcomes, and that fostering a values-based culture creates sustainable advantage. In 2012, we executed a rigorous statistical analysis of observations from more than 36,000 employees at all levels, at thousands of companies, in 18 countries. We sought to illustrate how governance, culture and leadership influence behavior and impact LRN published the global HOW Report in 2012. performance on a global scale. The findings of our 2012 Global Governance, Culture, and Leadership Assessment (GCLA) provide the equivalent of an “MRI” on the current state of governance, culture, and leadership across the world. The GCLA assessed governance, culture, and leadership at the behavioral level, asking pointed questions of employees about the conduct of management and peers in their organizations. The How Report identifies three business “archetypes” describing how companies operate: Blind Obedience, Informed Acquiescence, and Self-Governance. The global assessment found that only 3 percent of employees surveyed observe high levels of Self-Governing behavior within their organizations, 43 percent observe Blind Obedience behaviors, and 54 percent observe behavior associated with Informed Acquiescence. Companies that are Self-Governing perform the highest on every one of the 14 performance outcomes—including higher employee loyalty, customer satisfaction, and lower misconduct. Self-governing organizations are also reportedly more resilient, and are observed by their employees to beat the competition, usually by huge margins, on innovation and financial performance. The Four Major Findings from the 2012 HOW Report: 1. 2. 3. 4. Self-Governance is rare across Self-Governing organizations There is a marked disconnect T  rust, shared values, and a the world. Only 3 percent of the in all 18 countries surveyed between the C-suite and the deep understanding of and 36,280 employees in this study reportedly outperform other employees they lead. On commitment to a purposeobserve high levels of Selftypes of organizations across average, the C-suite is three inspired mission are the three Governing behavior within their every important outcome, times—and in some countries fundamental enablers of the organizations—the extremely including: higher levels of up to eight times—more likely Self-Governing behaviors that low rate of Self-Governance innovation, employee loyalty, to observe their organizations produce competitive advantage is consistent across every and customer satisfaction; as Self-Governing, more and superior business demographic category, lower levels of misconduct; inspiring, and less coercive performance. including country, industry, and superior overall financial as compared to the overall economic environment, performance. employee population. language, and ethnic culture. 8 Among the report’s top findings: • O  nly 3 percent of employees observe Self-Governing behavior within their organizations—meaning they feel their organizations have high levels of trust, values, commitment to a purpose, and collaboration. • T  here is a marked disconnect between C-suite executives and the employees they lead. Worldwide, CEOs observe their companies as Self-Governing three times as often as the overall workforce: 10 percent versus 3 percent. • T  he companies represented by the 3 percent minority who observe Self-Governing behavior have significant advantages over the competition. They report that they experience: higher innovation, stronger employee loyalty, higher customer satisfaction, stronger financial performance, and lower levels of misconduct. The results of this groundbreaking assessment point us toward one fundamental conclusion: Companies need to get deliberate and intentional about shaping their corporate character. They need to focus on how things really work in their business operations if they are to compete and succeed in today’s business environment. We believe the global implications of The HOW Report will help the UNGC and its partner organizations further understand the challenges and opportunities facing organizations when it comes to their corporate character. Moreover, it provides further evidence of the importance of values-based cultures in creating SelfGovernance—which, in turn, may lead to greater levels of innovation and resiliency, and lower level of misconduct and corruption—supporting principles related to those embraced by the UNGC and its partner organizations. Archetypes of Governance, Culture, and Leadership 3% Self-Governance 54% Informed Acquiescence 43% Blind Obedience n=35,260 The results of this groundbreaking assessment point us toward one fundamental conclusion: Companies need to get deliberate and intentional about shaping their corporate character. They need to focus on how things really work in their business operations if they are to compete and succeed in today’s business environment. 9 Inspiring Principled Performance through Education, Tools and Assessments, Alliances, and Advisory Services Our solutions help companies make progress specific to the UNGC’s ten principles, and translate those principles into concrete corporate practices and leadership behaviors that create sustainable competitive advantage. Our online education and experiential learning programs help companies learn how to recognize risks, how to avoid danger zones, and how to stay true to their values so that they can be both resilient and successful. Our educational experiences include courses on collective bargaining, labor and employment discrimination issues, environmental compliance and responsibility, business-to-business and In 2012, we added 32 new modules to LRN’s government-related corruption, and sustainability and sustainable supply chain education library. management. LRN’s team of instructional designers has been recognized by the International Business Awards, the International CINDY Competition, the NewMedia INVISION Awards, and Brandon Hall Excellence in E-Learning. We continue to expand and deepen LRN’s educational library, having added 32 new modules in 2012 alone. We released three modules that address UNGC Principle 8 which strives to “undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.” These modules are: “Promoting Sustainability in the Supply Chain,” “Promoting Environmental Performance in the Supply Chain,” and “Green Marketing Practices: Getting to Know the Basics.” In late 2011, LRN released a course entitled “Introduction to Eliminating Forced Labor, Slavery, and Human Trafficking from the Global Supply Chain,” which addresses the various insidious forms in which forced labor manifests in today’s global business landscape. This course helps employees and managers within our partner community understand their responsibility to uphold human and labor rights throughout their spheres of influence. This very successful course currently has more than 3,500 course completions. Our online education In the upcoming year we will release new modules addressing a variety of corruption and experiential learning issues, ranging from corruption in the supply chain to money laundering to financial fraud. We will also be developing a supplier-oriented code of conduct suite that programs help companies covers related issues, including child labor, corruption, and sustainability. We also learn how to recognize will begin developing a module that addresses conflict minerals in the supply chain risks, how to avoid danger and delves into UNGC principles related to labor rights. These upcoming modules zones, and how to stay true will inspire the necessary vigilance that helps companies avoid costly ethical to their values so that they mistakes through educating and engaging employees. can be both resilient and LRN also strengthens the ability of its partner organizations to influence and inspire successful. their business partners, especially suppliers, to act more responsibly. Through education and advisory services, we help companies examine relationships and practices in the supply chain; work to reduce risk; and leverage opportunities for social, environmental, and ethical performance. 10 In 2012 we began developing LRN Catalyst, a new education and engagement solution that brings together all the components of a company’s ethics and compliance education program to create an individualized, more immersive experience for employees, and easy administration for companies. Catalyst will address the challenges of education fatigue, relevance, and measurement by launching assessments, delivering information and experiences, measuring and reporting results, and providing opportunities to collaborate, share, and advise. The first release of LRN Catalyst is currently in its final stages of development and is slated for market introduction in early 2013. Our proprietary Risk Assessment + Management (RA+M) solution provides a best practices overview and methodology, along with a reporting tool, to identify, assess, and manage 25 risk areas, including many that relate to the UNGC’s ten principles. In relation to the areas of Human Rights and Labor, RA+M addresses employment hiring, child forced labor, discrimination and harassment issues, and employee relations and compensation issues. This solution also delves into the areas of environment and anti-corruption by covering global environmental compliance and cleanup risks, and anti-bribery/anti-corruption. RA+M makes it easy for employers to recognize ethics and compliance risks and helps them to prioritize these risks, report key findings, and facilitate enterprise-wide risk management. In 2012, LRN released a new Management section that enables companies to create In 2012, we developed the LRN Catalyst mitigation plans, once they’ve identified and prioritized their high risk areas. We are engagement platform, offering flexible branding, configuration and content continuing to monitor and evaluate the adoption and uses of RA+M and other LRN customization capabilities. tools throughout 2013, and to be rigorous about their effectiveness and value. Governance, Culture, We also partner with companies that wish to become more deliberate, and Leadership intentional, and strategic about culture Services and behaviors with the goal of enabling them to build stronger, LRN serves as a trusted advisor to more resilient organizations which numerous global organizations seeking can more effectively manage risk, while to establish more sustainable systems of also driving positive business outcomes. governance, culture, and leadership. Using proprietary tools and techniques, LRN primarily works with companies to LRN helps organizations to assess their develop, enhance, and evaluate Ethics & governance, culture, and leadership in Compliance (E&C) management systems behavioral terms. The discovery and that prevent and detect misconduct, analysis of employees’ perceptions, while simultaneously promoting a culture attitudes, and observed behaviors of commitment to organizational values, provides the insights and understanding ethical standards, and compliance necessary to influence culture and with the law. The advice and support elevate behaviors on a sustained basis. we provide address a wide range of We work with companies to develop strategic and tactical E&C needs, the strategies and plans for building including program development, risk a “human operating system” in which assessment, code of conduct creation, people are fully engaged and inspired education and communications, senior to deliver principled performance. management and board oversight, and the ongoing evaluation of E&C effectiveness. 11 LRN’s work in helping global Anti-Corruption organizations to foster values-based management systems and SelfLRN has focused particular attention Governing cultures directly supports on anti-corruption issues, providing a the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. suite of services to our partners that is Fundamentally, LRN’s purpose and designed to assess and improve antimission are about restoring humanity to corruption programs, to ensure their business and ensuring that companies long-term success, and to actively focus on how they do business as much engage employees in these programs. as on what they do. Respect for the Our anti-corruption program human rights of employees, customers, assessments provide companies with suppliers, and all other stakeholders, a thorough analysis of their current and the promotion of responsible labor anti-corruption efforts; discuss practices throughout the value chain, benchmarking and best practices in the are essential to operating in this manner. context of the international The principled performance which LRN anti-corruption landscape; and helps to inspire also necessitates that provide specific recommendations organizations balance financial, social, for improvement, including a and environmental considerations roadmap for building a best-in-class in a responsible, sustainable way. anti-corruption program. LRN’s anti-corruption education solutions include highly interactive sessions that employ simulations, vignettes, video scenarios, and other rich content to engage employees. We provide custom online experiential education on various anti-corruption topics, and overview courses in a variety of formats: shorter awareness and reinforcement courses for introducing or refreshing knowledge, and advanced courses to further knowledge-building. In addition, our Ethics & Compliance Alliance (ECA) provides unique resources and support to enhance enterprisewide knowledge, mitigate risk, support collaboration with experts and peers, The LRN Ethics & Compliance Alliance (ECA) is a source for ethics and compliance tools, and implement program components. resources, interaction, and collaboration. Encompassing 13 key risk areas, including anti-corruption, the ECA is a Principled performance is about doing source for ethics and compliance tools business with integrity and resisting and and resources, as well as interaction and preventing corruption in all its forms. collaboration. Anti-corruption resources LRN helps companies to understand include model policies and program their role and responsibilities, individually materials, risk assessment procedures, and collectively, to eliminate this legal research, analyses of recent significant impediment to global legal developments, and educational development, and thereby better serve materials. their stakeholders around the world. In 2012 we continued to make progress in our anti-corruption programs: 12 •M  ore than 230 new content assets practices, the ILA is intended to equip were created for LRN Alliances, leaders at all levels with the tools to resulting in more than 2,900 downloads inspire more principled performance. from the Ethics & Compliance Alliance LRN has built a library of more than 50 alone, almost double the number of online learning modules in the topical downloads in 2011. areas of ethical and inspirational •L  RN’s Ethics & Compliance Alliance leadership. These courses present featured over 30 leading ethics, managers in our partner community compliance, and risk management with the opportunity to strengthen their experts across all major ethics and own leadership by better understanding compliance risk and focus areas that important philosophical issues they may challenge global organizations today. face in the workplace. In 2013 we will be building additional modules to better help managers apply these leadership Leadership philosophies to the practical questions Strong anti-corruption programs and they face in the workplace through the comprehensive education suites are use of interactive exercises. necessary—but not sufficient—to We have also sought to make instill a values-based culture in which leadership more efficient and effective employees are comfortable speaking for our partners in 2012 by continuing out about concerns, and standing as to improve our AIM (Activities & role models of the right behaviors. LRN LRN believes that leaders Interactions Mapping) solution. AIM is believes that leaders are the catalyst intended to help leaders gain insight are the catalyst to promoting to promoting and sustaining an ethical into employee behavior and interactions; and sustaining an ethical culture inside organizations. Leaders target knowledge to the right people; culture inside organizations. must connect with their colleagues, set a mitigate and manage risks; equip Leaders must connect with new course, and inspire all those around employees with new knowledge that them to behave in accordance with their their colleagues, set a new supports critical business opportunities; organization’s values and mission. By and address organizational changes course, and inspire all those viewing leadership as a behavior, not a quickly. AIM also has a specific around them to behave title, inspirational leaders exemplify the Anti-Corruption Knowledge Category. in accordance with their attitude necessary to pursue significance In 2012 we added to the ways in which organization’s values and meaning beyond the short term. companies can customize AIM in order This means that leaders must not solely and mission. to suit their individual needs. Leaders exist to delegate and give orders, but to can now: instill a sense of purpose within those whom they lead. •R each out to their employees in 53 languages. LRN continued to use its Inspirational Leadership Alliance (ILA) to propel •C reate their own questions for inspirational leadership across employees and map them to existing organizations in 2012. While we are or new Knowledge Categories. evaluating the effectiveness and future •M odify existing questions to of the ILA in 2013, the Alliance currently better target the needs of their consists of leadership assessments, company. practical tools, individual coaching, learning plans, and community forums, Additionally, we expanded the designed to support and guide the knowledge base with a new set of development of leaders. Organized questions and categories including around eight leadership principles talent management, collaboration and that have been synthesized from our relationship management, change research, thought leadership, and proven management and innovation, planning and authority, and operations. 13 Environmental and workshops, and marketing materials, enable organizations to focus Social Responsibility appropriately on these critical areas. LRN offers a comprehensive suite In 2012, we offered assessments on of solutions to address issues of ESS practices, employee engagement, environmental and social responsibility. and supply chain, and we released Companies that have integrated three new modules pertaining to these environmentally and socially responsible areas: Promoting Sustainability in the principles and actions into their Supply Chain, Promoting Environmental operations are realizing great benefits in Performance in the Supply Chain, and performance, reputation, and enhanced Green Marketing Practices: Getting to stakeholder relationships—and they are Know the Basics. In 2012, the LRN EcoStrategy Alliance (ESA) continued to help organizations to deepen their commitments to environmental responsibility. The ESA provides global enterprises with the actionable tools and expertise required to craft, implement, and improve corporate sustainability strategies and initiatives. Leveraging a community of senior sustainability experts and practitioners, we are able to help our partners effectively reduce their organizations’ environmental footprints, use sustainability to identify new business opportunities, and truly make sustainability a source of business value. LRN is evaluating how to proceed with the ESA in 2013, to best serve our LRN is evaluating how to proceed with the LRN EcoStrategy Alliance (ESA) in 2013 to best partners and the larger LRN community. serve our partners and the larger LRN community. In October, 2012, GreenOrder, the seeing the long-term financial benefits. premier management consulting firm In 2012 we continued to help our focused on sustainability, merged with partners address environmental issues Cleantech Group, the leading market with our suite of sustainability courses intelligence and advisory firm focused and videos. on clean technology innovation. LRN, formerly GreenOrder’s parent company Our Environmental and Social is a major shareholder of the combined Sustainability (ESS) solutions, including company. This enables LRN to more ESS leadership presentations, powerfully bring to life our commitment to environmental sustainability and innovation. The merger will yield depth and breadth of new knowledge to power the sustainability and innovation strategies of our partners and prospects. 14 LRN: A Laboratory for Our Ideas Our mission drives us to experiment with our own ideas concerning leadership, The LRN Leadership culture, and governance. We developed the LRN Leadership Framework—an Framework guides our interconnected, mutually reinforcing set of principles and behaviors—to help us reach this goal. This framework galvanizes and unifies our culture while inspiring everyday business decisions and informing our conduct in all situations, from collaborating with colleagues to and actions while allowing partnering with clients. Integrity, humility, passion, and truth are our core values us to consider our conduct which lie at the center of the framework. in a broader, more reflective The LRN Leadership Framework guides our everyday business decisions and context that supports actions while allowing us to consider our conduct in a broader, more reflective our journey and evolution. context that supports our journey and evolution. The existence of this framework infuses our culture with a consciousness of and commitment to lawful and ethical conduct across everything we do. The attributes promoted in the framework originate from qualities deeply rooted in our culture, as well as ones we wish to nurture in the organization. We actively engage with the LRN Leadership Framework every day in order to deepen our understanding of our mission. Awareness of and dedication to this mission furthers our ability to help companies engage their people in shared responsibility for shaping a culture that inspires principles performance. Our Leadership Framework 15 Living HOW In 2012, LRN continued on our own journey to being an exemplar of our philosophy and mission. Living HOW is an authentic, constantly evolving effort to live our values and be true to our principles in every aspect of our business and culture. LRN continues to be committed to the Self-Governing model introduced in 2011. Our four councils, in addition to the Executive Committee, govern LRN in careful consideration of our culture, resources, principled performance, operations, and our strategic initiatives. The councils function democratically and in adherence with our hierarchy-free structure. We continue our dedication to Inspire Principled Performance internally by updating the Principled Performance Reflection (PPR) process. The process intends to strengthen relationships between colleagues, encourage personal development, and to measure performance and impact in terms of “how” and “what.” The process allows colleagues to review any other colleagues to whom they feel they can provide meaningful feedback. Colleagues ultimately have the opportunity to view all feedback provided by their peers and mentor in order to inform his or her selfassessment, and the final rating that each colleague will give him or herself. In furthering our commitment to encouraging and supporting young people in order to foster the next generation of ethical leaders, LRN has finalized its Fellow Program and taken on our LRN regularly poses difficult questions through various channels, such as the organizafirst fellows as of January, 2013. The Fellow tion’s internal “Living HOW Moments” emails, to ensure we are living our own values in our Program prepares talented and committed everyday decision-making processes. young professionals to be leaders within business and the world at large through hands-on professional experience, mentoring, and professional development. No more than ten members of the Fellow Program are chosen every year through a competitive interview process. This rigorous program allows fellows to gain unparalleled access to a unique company and industry through rotating assignments within LRN. The process intends to strengthen relationships between colleagues, encourage personal development, and measure performance and impact in terms of “how” and “what.” 16 LRN’s Ideas Out in the World At LRN, we are not only committed to Living HOW within our own organization, At LRN, we are not only but also to sharing our philosophy with others. committed to Living HOW LRN is proud to be Living HOW through its commitment with the Elie Wiesel within our own organization, Foundation for Humanity as the exclusive corporate sponsor of the Foundation’s but also to sharing our Prize in Ethics, an annual competition that challenges college students to reflect philosophy with others. upon the urgent ethical issues of our increasingly complex world. LRN deepened its support of the Foundation and the Prize in Ethics in 2012 by hosting a day-long ethics seminar with all five essay winners, and an evening awards ceremony with local leaders, including Professor Elie Wiesel. This remarkable day brought LRN and the Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity closer in partnership and closer to the essay winners who “think higher and feel deeper” through their writing. Another meaningful project for LRN in 2012 has been our work with partners as part of our commitment to the Clinton Global Initiative. LRN has helped launch two non-profit organizations on journeys of significance, working intimately with Population Services International (PSI) and Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE). To begin, LRN teams conducted extensive and rigorous analyses of both organizations’ governance, culture, and leadership. At PSI, these analyses included roughly 700 surveys conducted across the organization’s headquarters in Washington, D.C., and field offices worldwide. LRN advisors also worked with focus groups of PSI senior management. Once we took the temperature of PSI’s governance, culture, and leadership, we shared recommendations for change and went to work to implement them, developing a new mission statement and strategies to improve collaboration, innovation, and trust at the organization. At NFTE, LRN advisors surveyed every one of the organization’s employees and conducted focus groups with senior management. We are working closely with the organization’s leadership to clarify a set of values, develop a mission-visionpurpose statement, and develop a “North-Star” document to envision the organization’s culture moving forward. LRN advisors worked with PSI and NFTE to help them on their journeys of significance in 2012. 17 LRN partnered to launch the “Reinvent Business” hackathon to enable creative, innovative people to collaborate on transforming business from within. These projects have proven These projects have proven helpful for both LRN and its partners, giving us key helpful for both LRN and insights into the overlaps and distinctions that these non-profit organizations face when compared with our advisory work with for-profit clients. its partners, giving us key insights into the overlaps In June of 2012, LRN partnered with frog, a global design and innovation firm, to launch a hackathon entitled “Reinvent Business,” specifically for generating and distinctions that these ideas around humanizing and socializing organizations. While hackathons non-profit organizations traditionally involve computer programmers collaborating on software-based face when compared with projects, “Reinvent Business” combined the cooperation, creativity, and rapidity our advisory work with of a traditional hackathon with participants of diverse skill sets and backgrounds. for-profit clients. More than 150 people gathered from June 9-10 in San Francisco to conceive, design, and build software systems with the goal of transforming business from within. It is LRN’s belief that today’s interdependent world needs to refer back to values in order to avoid crisis, which helped to inspire the five frames of the hackathon: Collaborate, Support, Relate, Demonstrate, and Measure. This successful endeavor was supported by Blumberg Capital, BSR, Carnegie Mellon, Cue Ball, Dachis Group, Fast Company, Net Impact, Silicon Valley Bank, and the World Economic Forum, and saw the result of the type of creation necessary in today’s more ethical business world. 18 19 About LRN: Inspiring Principled Performance Since 1994, LRN has helped over 20 million people at more than 700 companies worldwide simultaneously navigate complex legal and regulatory environments and foster ethical cultures. LRN’s combination of practical tools, education, and strategic advice helps companies translate their values into concrete corporate practices and leadership behaviors that create sustainable competitive advantage. In partnership with LRN, companies need not choose between living principles and maximizing profits, or between enhancing reputation and growing revenue: all are a product of principled performance. LRN works with organizations in more than 100 countries and has offices in Los Angeles, New York, London, and Mumbai. For more information, visit www.LRN.com, join our community on Facebook at facebook.com/howistheanswer, or call: 800 529 6366 or 646 862 2040. ©Copyright LRN Corporation. All rights reserved. L1052-0310-01-NY
