2012 Sustainability Report LEAD SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION, TRANSFORMING CONSUMERS INTO FANS 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 2 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans About the report GRI Index Auditing report The 2012 Sustainability Report is the online at www.whirlpool.com.br/ Corporate information fifth consecutive Whirlpool Latin America sustentabilidade; and this summarized publication using Global Reporting version, also available at this same address Initiative (GRI) guidelines. Since 2009, the for download in PDF format. Information Report has been published annually. GRI contained in the report was audited by 3.3 KPMG Risk Advisory Services Ltda. For the third year in a row, the content meets the Whirlpool’s main highlights and B+ application level of the GRI. GRI 3.13 challenges are presented in relation to the economic, social and environmental For more information or if there aspects of its business, for the period of are any questions about the content January 1 to December 31, 2012. The of this report, contact the company report covers the company’s performance, online at www.whirlpool.com.br/ through its industrial and business units in sustentabilidade2012 or by e-mail at Brazil, Argentina, Chile and Peru. GRI 3.1 sustentabilidade@whirlpool.com. GRI 3.4 GRI 3.6 GRI 3.7 GRI 3.8 The content of this publication was geared towards relevant topics of materiality and their connection with the GRI indicators, Global Compact and Natural Step, presented in the Index Process of reporting chapter of this report which starts on page information has matured with 36. GRI 3.12 each passing year and through The 2012 report was produced in two versions – the full version, available collective collaboration 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 3 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans The 2012 materiality process GRI 3.5 GRI Index Auditing report Whirlpool executed its first materiality In the fourth stage, interviews Corporate information process, with a view to publishing the with the CEO and other Whirlpool Latin sustainability report, in 2011. For the next America leaders highlighted topics, which year’s report, the company expanded the had a weight of 3 in the process. methodology to identify relevant topics Consolidation of the materiality and included the Dialogue with Specialists matrix for this 2012 report identified nine as one of the five stages of the process. relevant topics (see below). All were With a weight of 1 in consolidation covered and received priority treatment in of materiality, the first and second stages this report. of the process identified the topics and commitments presented in the 2011 report Materiality 2012 and in Whirlpool’s communication and 6% GRI 4.17 strategic planning material. 6% 16% In the third phase of the process, the company expanded the methodology 10% Waste management to identify relevant topics and included Energy efficiency a Dialogue with Specialists, a meeting 15% Water management where sustainability challenges and 10% Sustainable products opportunities for Whirlpool’s business Consulado da Mulher and management were discussed. The Occupational health and safety Dialogue included participation of six Climate change 12% 13% specialists, representing organizations from Strategic management of sustainability the electricity, electronics, academic, press 12% Sustainable innovation and consulting sectors. This stage had a weight of 2 in final consolidation. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 4 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Message from the CEO GRI Index Auditing report Further and beyond GRI 1.1 GRI 1.2 Corporate information When we look at the sustainability excellent performance. Moreover, reports that Whirlpool Latin America has we have achieved our goal of totally published in recent years, we see that eliminating industrial waste sent to the company has kept to a coherent landfills at our Manaus and Rio Claro path and has been showing excellent factories, and we are ready to do results. A few years ago, we established the same at the Joinville factory, an that our sustainability strategy would be unprecedented feat in the history of characterized by concentrating on some Brazilian industry. priorities. Instead of looking to realize all Alongside these achievements of of our ambitions at once, we understood which we are so proud, we have also that it would be more productive to made significant advancements on the choose a maximum of three of four economic front. As the leader can see in topics to focus our attention. Today, this report, Whirlpool ended 2012 with when looking to the recent past and record results in production volume, seeing how far we have advanced, I revenue and return for shareholders. feel that we made the correct strategic This performance is even more choice. significant for us when considering We have made substantial that the consolidation of our brands as progress in the occupational health and leaders is done with greater efficiency in workplace safety aspect, while at the managing resources. We are producing same time becoming more and more more and increasing our earnings; water and energy efficient, whether yet, at the same time, we are opening in our manufacturing operations or up more job opportunities, increasing in supplying home appliances with distribution of added value, making 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 5 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans GRI Index Auditing report Corporate information our production cleaner and safer, and see that we are already working with when we look ahead, we see ourselves further improving the quality of the this spirit, which has positioned us as a surrounded by opportunities for social investment made by the Women’s company that is both highly competitive improvement. Consulate, all of which is being done and contemporary. We understand that That is why we are learning with ethically and responsibly. With this, we need innovation in order to gain each passing day and we know that we are satisfactorily sustaining our the admiration of our consumers; and leadership is not a permanent and commitment to the Global Compact, of we understand that innovation and unchangeable condition, but rather an which we are a signatory sustainability are ideas that should exercise in learning. For this reason, always go hand in hand, because they We are proud to see that every day while we celebrate 2012 as our best create a virtuous cycle that involves, our employees are helping to continue year ever, we should look to the coming motivates and to make Whirlpool years, aware of where we are headed, one of the best “Innovation and engages all of our stakeholders. until new challenges and goals lead us companies to even further and beyond where we are work at, and that sustainability are ideas Innovation able to see today. they are engaged that should always go and sustainability in striving towards are also ideas what we call hand in hand” that hark back our strategic to a continual journey, summed up in the phrase: “Lead and endless process that is made of Enrico Zito sustainable innovation, transforming evolution and transformation. This CEO Whirlpool Latin America consumers into fans.” This idea therefore places us in a challenging Home Appliances Unit synthesizes the message guiding our position, because when we look to the path for the coming years. When we past, we recognize and celebrate all look at our performance in 2012, we that has been accomplished so far; yet, 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 6 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Whirlpool Latin America GRI 2.1 GRI 2.2 GRI 2.3 GRI 2.4 GRI 2.5 GRI 2.7 GRI2.8 GRI Index Auditing report Corporate information As a leader in the home appliances market in Latin America, Whirlpool Latin America (which will be referred to simply as Whirlpool in this report) relies on around 15.3 thousand employees, manufacturing refrigerators, freezers, ovens, washers and dryers, dishwashers, microwaves, air conditioners and water purifiers; it sells electric ovens, climate control systems, air filters, kitchen accessories, vacuum cleaners and portable devices such as mixers and blenders. • Administrative headquarters: two in São Paulo (SP) and one in Miami (USA) • Factories: Joinville (SC), Manaus (AM) and Rio Claro (SP) • Distribution Centers: São Paulo (SP), Jaboatão dos Guararapes (PE), Argentina, Colombia, Guatemala and Panama • Technology Centers: Air Conditioning, Cooking, Motors and Refrigeration in Joinville (SC) and Washing in Rio Claro (SP) • Latin America Offices: Argentina, Chile and Peru 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 7 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Product brands GRI 2.2 GRI Index Auditing report Corporate information • In Brazil • In Latin America 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 8 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Mission, vision and values GRI 4.8 GRI Index Auditing report • Mission Corporate information Everyone, Passionately Creating Loyal Customers for Life • Vision Every Home… Everywhere… with Pride, Passion and Performance • Values Respect, Integrity, Diversity and Inclusion, Teamwork, Spirit of Winning Culture and Values Project GRI HR3 To promote recycling of concepts and further reinforce the day to day presence of values, the company launched the Whirlpool Culture and Values project. Thirty-one workshops were held throughout Latin America, including in Brazil, gathering 600 leaders, among supervisors, bosses, specialists, managers, general managers and directors. At the same time, activities were carried out in the units that involved around 1,500 factory employees, who learned about the concepts and practices of the values through conceptual and dynamic classes. The project continues in 2013. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 9 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Corporate governance GRI Index Auditing report Whirlpool Latin America is the Whirlpool Latin America is headed Corporate information business unit of Whirlpool S.A. for the by Enrico Zito, who reports to the home appliances market. Its area of Whirlpool S.A. Board of Directors. The operation covers Brazil, Argentina, Board of Directors is comprised of three Chile and Peru. A Brazilian company executives serving three-year terms: headquartered in São Paulo, Whirlpool S.A. José Drummond Jr., Armando Valle Jr. is a listed company that is traded on the and Antônio Mendes (the latter is an BMF&Bovespa, which therefore subjects independent board member). GRI 4.1 it to the regulations and standards of Whirlpool is constantly assessing transparency of Brazil’s Security and internal controls for its process in an Exchange Commission (Comissão de effort to adapt them to the requirements Valores Mobiliários – CVM). GRI 2.1 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to which the GRI 2.4 GRI 2.6 GRI 2.7 Whirlpool Corporation is subject. As a subsidiary of the Whirlpool Corporation, the largest manufacturer of Internal controls and home appliances in the world, Whirlpool audits ensure transparency S.A. also works with the manufacture of compressors for refrigeration systems and credibility through Embraco, another business unit. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 10 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans GRI Index Ethics and compliance Auditing report Governance of ethics and containing policies on various matters. Corporate information compliance is done through two ethics GRI 4.8 committees connected to Whirlpool S.A. In 2012, 681 leaders from Brazil and One of them is responsible for happenings Latin American countries received training in Brazil, while the other is dedicated on the Conflict of Interests Policy. GRI HR3 to the rest of the markets in the region. The company provides its The Brazil Ethics Committee meets on a employees with channels that take quarterly basis to deliberate on the most questions or reports (anonymously or delicate and controversial occurrences. not anonymously) regarding ethical More routine occurrences are dealt with misconduct, which can also be submitted by a management committee, which directly to the Legal Department. advices the first committee and meets monthly. GRI 4.6 Management leadership of ethics Every employee and compliance is under the direct responsibility of the Legal Department, knows the Code based on the company’s Code of Ethics, which employees are given upon of Ethics, one of admittance to the company, at which the company’s time they are also asked to sign a term of agreement with its clauses. In addition governance to the Code of Ethics, Whirlpool also mechanisms uses a more wide-ranging document for guidance, the Global Compliance Policies issued by the Whirlpool Corporation, 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 11 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Sustainability GRI Index Auditing report Whirlpool works with the premise Corporate information that sustainability is a transversal topic, which means that it should be present in business practices in every area. Sustainability at the company relies Investments in sustainability on a governance structure based on 2012 budget: BRL 12.9 million a Sustainability Committee that is responsible for strategic definitions. GRI EN30 0,1% At every unit, there are Sustainability 3% Multipliers, whose mission is to 1% ensure penetration of this topic and work to reach annual 11% Energy 28% Efficiency sustainability targets. GRI 1.2 GRI 4.9 16% Reduction Of the six Minimization of Restricted of waste Substances strategic pillars efficiency, minimization of waste, social of sustainability development and (since late 2012) management reduction of restricted substances. 20% 21% at Whirlpool (see Management is done through projects Social investments* Hazardous waste management the diagram that include work groups, leaders and Water savings at left), four established budgets, with annual targets Non-hazardous waste management Sustainable Social Water and soil monitoring Use of water Development were defined found using strategic priorities. Last year, Others Control of emissions as priorities 17 macro-targets were set, 65% of which Energy – conservation and maintenance Reduction up to the end were fully met and 35% of which were * Amounts disbursed to the of Carbon of 2013: energy partially met. GRI 4.10 Instituto Consulado da Mulher Emissions 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 12 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Voluntary commitments GRI 4.12 GRI 4.13 GRI Index Auditing report Corporate information • In the Right Lane (Na Mão Certa) • Global Compact – An initiative • Brazilian GHG Protocol Program – Program, a corporate compact developed by the UN aimed at Initiative maintained by the Center against sexual exploitation of mobilizing organizations to adopt for Studies in Sustainability at children and adolescents on fundamental and internationally Fundação Getúlio Vargas Business Brazilian highways, proposed by accepted values in the areas of Administration School of São Paulo, Childhood Brasil (the Brazilian arm human rights, labor relations, the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program of the World Childhood Foundation) the environment and combating fosters a corporate culture for and Instituto Ethos. corruption, reflected in 10 publishing inventories of greenhouse principles. gas emissions. Whirlpool publishes its inventory annually, through the Public Record of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, using the GHG Protocol International methodology (more information on page 22). 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 13 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Economic dimension GRI Index Auditing report Record sales Corporate information Although performance for 2012 (excluding Mexico) accounts for 27% of fell short of expectations, the Brazilian Whirlpool’s net revenue worldwide. economy continued to grow in some GRI 2.7 sectors, since the federal government As a result of sales driven by lower expanded the list of temporary measures taxes, the company hired 2,200 new aimed at stimulating economic activity. employees in 2012, ending the year with Lower taxes were one of the main a total of 15,261 permanent employees vectors of this policy. Thanks to this, the (this figure reaches 16 thousand when home appliances sector grew markedly in temporary employees are included). At 2012, driven by fiscal incentives granted the Joinville unit alone – the world’s to the major appliances industry. largest manufacturer of refrigerators – Whirlpool launched approximately Whirlpool hired 850 people. This means 140 new models of home appliances that job growth (18%) was higher than in the Brastemp and Consul brands the sales growth (8%) on record for the during the year, selling a record volume company. of products in Brazil, 8% more than in 2011. The company stayed on top of the Brazilian home appliances market and maintained the same level of sales in other markets in Latin America. With this, Brazil remained Whirlpool’s 2nd largest country market in the world, while in the regional ranking, Latin America 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 14 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans EHS dimension GRI Index Auditing report A high priority topic Corporate information Management of the environment, occupational health and workplace safety is done in a joint and corporate manner at Whirlpool, by the so-called EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) area. Responsibility for local actions is shared with the leaders and technical teams at each unit. EHS indicators are submitted to the company’s upper management on a monthly basis along with financial indicators. Whenever progress does not meet expectations, those responsible are called on immediately. In addition, EHS performance is included in the salary bonus paid to executives. When performance does not reach the targets, pay is also lower. In 2012, the biggest highlights were in the occupational health, workplace safety, ergonomics, waste and water savings areas. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 15 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Occupational health and safety GRI Index Auditing report An absolute priority at the Corporate information target was 0.15). Another positive piece of data was operation, occupational health found in periodic employee and safety indicators show health exams, which found no hearing problems as progressive improvement the result of exposure to noise. This is mostly due to constant work that is Frequency of accidents with and without suspension done to raise awareness of the importance Total accidents for every 200 thousand hours worked of using personal protective equipment, 1.24 including ear protection. The only occupational safety 0.96 The number of occupational indicator that did not surpass 2012 accidents at Whirlpool continues to targets was the accident seriousness rate, consistently fall. Frequency of accidents measured by days lost per suspension per 0.53 with and without time off (a measurement 200 thousand hours of exposure to risk. standardized by the OSHA* standard) As the result of two accidents in Joinville, was 45% lower in 2012 compared to the when workers were given time off that previous year. This indicator was 57% lower exceeded the maximum established limit, compared to 2010. Of the 75 accidents 2010 2011 2012 the rate for the entire company of days lost on record for 2012, only 12 required time due to suspension went from 3.88 to 5.44. off as the result of more serious injury. * Acronym in English for Occupational Safety and The frequency of accidents with time off Health Administration. This standard is focused on fell from 0.17 in 2011 to 0.08 in 2012 (the occupational health and safety. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 16 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans GRI Index Motorcyclists Auditing report In 2012, Whirlpool created and those registered are trained in safe Corporate information began to implement a program to driving. The company also carries out prevent accidents that is geared towards vehicle inspections, requiring vehicles employees who use motorcycles to get to have up to date documentation to work. This program was created after and mechanical repairs in order to an employee at the Rio Claro unit died in use the factory parking lots. Whirlpool a traffic accident on a regional highway also reinforced communications on when he was on his way home from the use of chartered buses as a safer the factory. Motorcyclists are registered transportation option in Joinville through the program and 100% of and Manaus. *Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and fatalities GRI LA7 2010 2011 2012 Rate of injury (RI) 1,24 0,96 0,53 Rate of occupational diseases (ROD) 0 0 0 Rate of days lost (RDL) 5,25 3,88 5,44 Rate of absenteeism (RA)%** 3,03 3,61 3,31 Absolute number of fatalities 0 0 0 * Uses the OSHA-Occupational Safety and Health Administration – Injury and Illness Recordkeeping measurement. ** Rate of absenteeism only considers units in Brazil where manufacturing activities take place. Data are estimated and do not consider temporary employee hours 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 17 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Waste GRI EN26 GRI Index Auditing report Corporate information The importance of this achievement can be better understood when looking at the size of these factories’ operations. In December of last year, the São Paulo, Two factories Manaus, Joinville and Rio Claro units already send zero employed a total of nearly 14 thousand people. More than 163 thousand trucks, waste to landfills, carrying over 1.5 million tons of products, meeting the 2014 materials and raw materials, were driven around these facilities. In order to process target early these materials without creating landfill The challenge of sending zero indusin December 2016, also included waste sent waste, Whirlpool has been working hard trial waste to landfills by December 2014 to landfills. In Joinville, at the company’s larsince 2011, with leaders striving to raise was achieved over two years ahead of time gest factory, industrial waste sent to landfills awareness and change employee behavior, at two out of three Whirlpool factories: Mafell by 13% during the year. There was an engage suppliers, and develop business naus and Rio Claro, in April and July 2012, 18% drop at the São Paulo unit. With all of opportunities with outside partners, in respectively. In the case of the Manaus unit, these advancements, the company spared addition to investing in new processes, early achievement of the goal, set to be met landfills from 227 tons of waste in 2012. technologies and materials. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 18 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans GRI Index Polyurethane foam Auditing report In 2013, the Joinville factory will not dispose of any of the Corporate information polyurethane foam used to cover the insides of refrigerators and freezers. The nearly 400 tons/year of foam are now totally reused by other industries in processes to produce chairs, desks for schools, window frames and trim for windows and doors. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (in tons) GRI EN 22 2012 2011 2010 Hazardous – Class I 44 112 236 Landfill waste Non-hazardous – Class II 1.457 1.525 1.465 Waste for coHazardous – Class I 517 224 520 processing Non-hazardous – Class II 48 No information on class Hazardous – Class I 980 1.081 1.134 Recycled waste Non-hazardous – Class II 611 224 191 Scrap Recycled scrap 31.852 34.490 29.319 Hazardous – Class I 13 321 26 Incineration Non-hazardous – Class II 323 119 86 Hazardous – Class I 1.554 1.739 1.916 TOTAL Non-hazardous – Class II 34.292 36.358 31.061 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 19 About the report Recovery of packages Profile and governance The Brastemp Viva! Program, a Whirlpool initiative that collects Lead sustainable innovation packaging from products sold through the door to door system Transforming consumers into fans in the Greater São Paulo Metro and Baixada Santista (SP) regions, GRI Index collected over 254 tons of waste, such as styrofoam, cardboard and Auditing report plastic, in 2012. This represents an 89% return of the materials that Corporate information package products sold through direct sales in the region during the year, a 15% better result than in 2011. Drivers collect packaging from products delivered to consumers in the Greater São Paulo Metro and Baixada Santista areas. Cardboard is donated to a recycling collectors cooperative in Diadema (SP), which receives assistance from Consulado da Mulher. Styrofoam and plastic are sold for recycling. Packages return to the Whirlpool distribution center in the city of São Paulo and are sorted. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 20 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Water GRI EN26 GRI Index Auditing report Initiatives to cut back on water provided for a 60% reduction in the volume Corporate information consumption at Whirlpool resulted in of water taken from artesian wells, saving savings of over 8.5 thousand m³ in 2012. 3.96 million liters/month, or over 90% of Various projects were implemented, the load, from becoming wastewater; with an emphasis on the capture and an estimated 2.6 million liters are reused master graficos 16julho v003.pdf 1 07/08/13 23:30 use of rainwater and on reuse of treated in lab testing and 1.4 million are used in water. At all units, water consumption per other activities, such as in toilets and for product produced was below the targets washing floors. In 2012, 2.6 million liters of established for the year, with the exception water were saved each month. The target of the São Paulo unit, whose performance for 2013 is to reduce consumption by 40 Lower consumption was 11% over target, the result of a new Evolution in water consumption million liters. GRI EN10 at Whirlpool – In thousands of m3 process of testing water purifiers. Another important award gained The Wastewater Treatment Station was the ANA 2012 Award, from the 834 at the Washing Technology Center, at the National Water Agency (Agência Nacional Rio Claro unit, was inaugurated in July 693 684 das Águas), in recognition of the efficacy and made a huge contribution to the of the system implemented in Joinville. C M water savings that the company saw in At the Manaus unit, a rainwater collection Y CM 2012. This is relevant because of the large MY system was inaugurated in July, designed CY amount of water at this technology center, CMY to collect an average of 30 m³ per K which has over 300 testing stations for week, cutting down on the amount of washing products. groundwater used. The system allowed for 2010 2011 2012 The project – which received an collection of 1.2 thousand m³ last year. Honorable Mention at the *8th Fiesp * The Fiesp Award ceremony took place in 2013, but *Brasil * Brasil LarInternational and eLar Inter Award for Water Conservation and Reuse the project began in 2012. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 21 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Energy efficiency GRI EN6 GRI EN26 GRI Index Auditing report Corporate information Lower electricity consumption Rate of reduction by product manufactured* Rio Claro 9,1% Joinville 7,7% Manaus 0,5% * The percentage reduced regards consumption per product in relation to the target set for the year With increased production in 2012, have been made since 2010 at reached, since it is solely dedicated to consumer homes. This is not only done 2012, the company’s gross consumption Whirlpool factories through projects administrative activities and does not to achieve savings in energy, but also of electricity was up by 3.82%; yet, focused on new technologies, changing consider gains in efficiency obtained in because, according to the company’s own consumption per product produced was of motors, changing of light bulbs, the manufacture of products. calculations, approximately 80% of carbon lower, which means that management optimization and intelligence of processes. emissions during product lifecycles occur Whirlpool also invests in new was better (see table at right). Only at the São Paulo unit was technologies that ensure greater energy during a product’s useful life while in Improvements, such as those made in the annual goal for the units not efficiency for home appliance products in consumer homes. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 22 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Climate change GRI EC2 GRI EN18 GRI Index Auditing report The topic of climate change is one of the pillars of sustainability management Around 10% of emissions generated by Whirlpool in its manufacturing activities Use of environmental Corporate information at Whirlpool, even though the company are related to the use of energy to power gasses prevented 44 thousand master graficos 16julho v002.pdf 1 07/08/13 23:43 does not generate relevant impacts as machines and create heat. That is why the a result of carbon emissions, as shown intensification of efforts to gain greater tons of CO2 emissions into by data published on the website of the energy efficiency has also resulted in the atmosphere Brazilian Program of the GHG Protocol lower emissions. Likewise, the continual (www.registropublicodeemissoes.com. search for home appliances that perform br). Historically, more than 40% of total better in energy consumption also creates Evolution of emissions GRI EN16 emissions were classified under Scope significant impacts in reducing emissions In tons of CO2e 3, which regards supplier and service that occur throughout the product Increased energy efficiency in 43,558 41,985 provider activities. lifecycle. Whirlpool’s manufacturing operations 38,549 36,438 35,712 35,472 is clear when noting that total Scope 1 C M Y Esc emissions divided by gross revenue fell by CM Esc MY Esc 10% per year on average for the last two CY CMY K 12,045 years; this figure was also down to 9% per 8,942 5,186 year for the last two years when dividing 2010 2011 2012 total Scope 1 emissions by the number of products manufactured. Scope 1: emissions from burning of fossil fuels In 2012, Whirlpool maintained Scope 2: emissions from the use of electricity implementation of gas conversion Scope 3: emissions for which third-parties working for Whirlpool are responsible projects for products, adopting options Obs: the coefficient for conversion of energy to CO₂ defined by the that do not harm the ozone layer. With government is the main cause of variations from one year to the next in this, an average of 44 thousand tons of terça-feira, 16Scope de julho de 13 2 emissions. CO2 equivalent emissions were prevented. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 23 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Restricted substances GRI EN26 GRI Index Auditing report In 2012, the Whirlpool Sustainability inventory on use of new persistent products and innovation, the Design for Corporate information Committee decided to prioritize actions organic pollutants (POPs), in compliance Environment (DfE) methodology will be to control restricted substances, as with the Stockholm Convention used, which measures the categories of a result of increased requirements of 2004. This same Ministry also environmental impacts of new products. regarding this matter in Brazil and other established new rules last year to control Control will be done in the supply chain countries. For instance, in the revised hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC) imports, using the Integrated Management System European RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous in line with the Montreal Protocol of 1987. for Suppliers (IMSS). GRI 4.10 Substances) Guideline, adding to the HCFCs are used in thermal insulation amount of substances monitored and for refrigerators and air conditioner controlled. Products manufactured in refrigeration circuits. These gasses are Brazil that are exported to Europe need not produced in Brazil and based on this Management systems to have proven compliance with this decision, importing done throughout the increase control over the guideline. In the United States, regulatory coming years will go on to be controlled demands were expanded, covering by new rules for calculating quotas for use of restricted substances mining in the conflict zones of the importing each gas. Congo, in Africa, where human rights are in manufacturing The company should use its being violated. GRI 4.9 Integrated Management System (IMS) to Another example from 2012 monitor and track compliance with these was a decision by the Ministry of the legal requirements in the manufacturing Environment to execute a national area. In the process of developing 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 24 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Employees GRI Index Auditing report The company ended 2012 with Corporate information 15,261 workers. This number was higher as a result of increased production, which in turn was mostly driven by the lowering Surveys that assess employee satisfaction of taxes. GRI LA2 Engagement Organizational Climate Periodic internal and external Frequency Annual Biannual surveys show a high degree of employee Coverage International Brazil engagement and satisfaction. Two surveys Administrative Factory workers (hourly Public professionals and are done internally: an Engagement wage earners) global leaders Survey and an Organizational Climate 90% of around 3 89% of the 12 thousand Survey. In both cases, the response rate Response thousand given the given the survey is high and results are considered to be survey competitive in relation to the market. GRI 2012 Results 82% favorability 80% favorability 4.14 GRI 4.16 2% higher than the 4% below the previous Evolution previous year year* Research indicates One of the most credible references Another important reference is the * Drop is the result of the opening of a third shift at regarding personnel management is Best Places to Work (Melhores Empresas that professionals are the Best Companies for You to Work At para Trabalhar) survey done by the the Joinville factory, needed to meet high demand; this (Melhores Empresas para Você Trabalhar) Great Place to Work consulting firm and happy and engaged guide, published by Editora Abril’s Você S/A published by Época magazine. The first created days off on varying days, impacting satisfaction. On-going measures, such magazine. In 2012, the company was once time it was included, the company was as new equipment, should again included in the ranking, where it has in the top 25 and was highlighted in reverse this situation. been listed since the first ranking in 2010, the Socio-Environmental Responsibility in which it was ranked first. GRI 2.10 category. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 25 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans GRI Index Auditing report Training and development Corporate information Programs to manage competencies In 2013, this group will include over 40%. and promote continued employee learning Training and development initiatives GRI LA11 In turn, the Leadership School (Escola permeate every level of the organization. Participants de Líderes) contributes to aligning leaders Program Target Public Locations In the operational area, career plans in 2012 regarding the company’s strategy and are outlined through a program called Directors, general managers, Administrative Center and values. In 2012, topics prioritized by the managers, chiefs/specialists, São Paulo, Rio Claro, Joinville, Carreira Horista (hourly wage earner career 895 (83 more global Engagement survey as priorities Leadership School manufacturing supervisors, Manaus (in Brazil), Miami than in 2011) planning). Hourly wage employees rely trainees and former trainee (in the USA), Argentina and were developed, an initiative which 77% of analysts Colombia Units. on the Super 100 to improve in their jobs participants assessed as “excellent.” Directors, general managers, and grow in their careers, in addition to managers, chiefs, specialists The year was also notable for the undergoing the required training for their Mentoring and trainees, within criteria Same as above 258* structuring of Whirlpool University, which defined by HR and executive positions. GRI LA11 will serve as a large umbrella for the board Whirlpool also maintains a Youth Managers, chiefs, specialists, company’s professional development Administrative Center, and Adult Education (Educação de Jovens former trainee analysts, within initiatives starting in 2013. It will operate on HMM criteria established by HR and São Paulo, Rio Claro, Joinville 258* e Adultos – EJA) program, which in 2012 and Manaus Units four fronts: Whirlpool Academy, Business executive board offered formal education to 6% of operators Academy, Functional Academy and Factory workers (hourly wage Manaus, Rio Claro and Super 100 2.646 who had less than a high school education. earners) and facilitators Joinville Leadership Academy. Training on the Integrated Factory workers (hourly wage Manaus, Rio Claro and 5.603 Management earners) Joinville System (IMS) * Also participate in Leadership School 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 26 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Suppliers GRI 4.14 GRI 4.16 GRI HR1 GRI Index Auditing report Whirlpool seeks to spread the topic will be the basis for holding the annual using the SGIF-MSI for indirect suppliers Corporate information of sustainability throughout its supply Whirlpool Sustainability Award, starting in of materials and services. Both programs chain. The main instrument to do this is 2013. GRI 4.17 establish auditing of 100% of critical the Supplier Excellence program, which suppliers those that have the potential In Brazil, Whirlpool has around led the Exame Sustainability Guide to highly impact Whirlpool in terms of its 500 direct suppliers and around three 2012 (Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade finances, image safety and quality. Audits thousand indirect suppliers of services 2012), published by Editora Abril, to also encompass various aspects related to and materials. To assess their performance give Whirlpool an 8.5 (the average for sustainability including verifying matters in relation to quality, safety, health, companies listed was 5.5). Another such as aspects of child and forced labor environment and social responsibility important initiative is the Supplier Code of and their results are used to outline standards, the company has adopted the Conduct, which these partners formally training and plans for improvement. GRI Integrated Supplier Management System adhere to, renewing their commitment HR2 HR6 HR7 (or SGIF, its acronym in Portuguese), to its clauses every year. In 2012, the Supplier Code of Conduct was revised and enhanced to reinforce certain aspects, such as human rights. GRI HR6 GRI HR7 Constant assessment In 2012, Whirlpool learned about and dialogue have its partners’ sustainability practices and recognized those that are in line with its fostered improvement priorities. Twenty-eight suppliers sent in deliveries in their case studies and were visited by technical inspectors; eight of them were chosen to present their initiatives at Supplier’s Day, an annual meeting that takes place at the factories. This process 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 27 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Government GRI 4.14 GRI 4.16 GRI 4.17 GRI Index Auditing report The company’s relationship with the government at the municipal, state and Corporate information federal levels is based on the Whirlpool Leadership Model, according to which, it is just as important to comply with the law as it is to follow the Whirlpool Code of Ethics and values; in other words, the three aspects should go hand in hand and be in balance. Whirlpool is part of the National Association of the Electronics Manufacturers Industry (Associação Nacional da Indústria de Fabricantes de Eletroeletrônicos – Eletros), through which it advocates for public policies valuing competitiveness of Brazilian companies. In 2012, the main topics in which the company engaged were: GRI SO5 • Lower payroll taxes for companies with large workforces, since employment is a direct indicator of corporate contribution to the country’s economic and social development; • Reassessment of how tax on manufactured products is charged (Imposto sobre Produtos Industrializados IPI) to the sector, in order to raise the value of domestic products versus imported products, as well as their energy efficiency, through lower rates; • Brazilian Tagging Program (Programa Brasileiro de Etiquetagem PBE) – Along with the National Institute of Metrology, Quality and Technology (Instituto Nacional de Metrologia, The electronics Qualidade e Tecnologia – Inmetro), Whirlpool argues that the greater a product’s energy efficiency, the lower its taxes should be, in addition to supporting different criteria for classisector is ready fication according to the market the product is aimed at (that is, giving more consideration to the best possible performance for affordably priced products): to comply with • National Solid Waste Policy – The industry has prepared to comply with the Policy, through Brazil’s National creation of the Brazilian Electronics and Home Appliances Recycling Association (Associação Solid Waste Policy Brasileira de Reciclagem de Eletroeletrônicos e Eletrodomésticos Abree), which will be responsible for reverse logistics. In 2012, the creation of Abree was approved by the Administrative Council on Economic Defense (Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica – Cade). 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 28 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Society GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 GRI 4.16 GRI 4.17 GRI SO1 GRI EC8 GRI Index Auditing report Whirlpool focuses its social gender equality and fair trade. Corporate information investments on entrepreneurship among The social ventures assisted are women, through Instituto Consulado located in 71 cities, in 20 states in Brazil. Rio + 20 da Mulher, a social organization in The Institute works directly in regions the public’s interest sponsored by the One of the most relevant events for the company in where there are Whirlpool factories company and associated with the Consul reporting on good practices and discussing environmental through the Woman Entrepreneur brand. In eleven years, work at the and social challenges was the Rio +20 conference, an event (Mulher Empreendedora) program; in Institute has involved over 32 thousand organized by the UN in Rio de Janeiro. Whirlpool was one other locations, the same methodology is people, with better and better results. of the sponsors of the “Innovation and collaboration for replicated by partner social organizations, The organization was given BRL 3.6 the future we want” Corporate Sustainability Forum and which provide assistance for low-income million in investments in 2012, with 160 promoted debates, one of which was on ways to promote ventures through the Work Plants (Usinas undertakings assisted during this same consumer education for sustainability. Consulado da Mulher do Trabalho) program. period, generating total revenue of BRL also took part in a debate on gender equality. In an effort The methodology developed by to publicize its work, which could be copied by anyone 6.5 million. This means that for each BRL the Institute is recognized as a “social interested in entrepreneurship for women, Consulado da 1 invested, BRL 1.70 is created in wealth technology” by Fundação Banco do Brasil Mulher also took part in ONG Brasil, another major event in for those participating in ventures, their and Unesco, and was systematized in the year, with a talk on the Solidarity Economy. families and communities. 2012 in a basic guide on assisting lowEach venture receives assistance income and supportive ventures. for an average of two years, which is the time needed to gain financial Consulado da Mulher figures independence and autonomy. During this Number of Joint revenue People creating Direct and indirect * Dependent on income Year from venture. To serve period, entrepreneurs acquire essential ventures (BRL) income beneficiaries* women who are heads know-how to manage their activities 2010 174 3.6 million 1.344 5.3 thousand of household, the consistently and sustainably, based on 2011 169 5.9 million 2.306 6.9 thousand benefit covers all of their the principles of the solidarity economy, 2012 160 6.5 million 1.851 8 thousand dependents. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 29 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Consumers GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 GRI 4.16 GRI 4.17 GRI Index Auditing report For Whirlpool, consumer satisfaction 2012, 65% of Service Orders were already hundred and sixty-two activities have Corporate information is a competitive edge and the company done under the new system. As they already been executed at the site, 30% know that to gain this edge, it needs adhere to the Transformation, Authorized of which were related to reoccurring more than good products. Among other Network members can also take part in outages and 53% to outages requiring a requirements, good post-sales service the Excellence Program, which provides product exchange. The next lab will be is a must. Ensuring the efficiency of guidelines on the best management installed in 2013, in Joinville. the Authorized Service Network and practices in the market, with the support Call Center is fundamental to “make of company consultants. GRI PR6 consumers fans,” as proposed in the To increase the chances of repairing slogan for the company’s strategic path for a product right away on the first the coming years. Important investments consumer visit, new spaces were created have been made to enhance these in 2012 for testing and training. At services, and the results are more and Service Schools, authorized professionals more encouraging. undergo technical and behavioral training. Around 150 technicians attended In 2012, there were 25% fewer the Rio Claro and Rio de Janeiro Schools. complaints, even with sales up by 8%. Four more cities will be given Schools GRI PR5 in 2013. The Services Lab in Rio Claro The company is encouraging the brings the factory closer to the reality of Authorized Network to operate with a new the market. There, engineers simulate customer relationship management or the problems found by technicians CRM system through the Transformation during product repair, proposing new project, in order to guarantee procedures. Their tests take into account standardization of operations and ensure ease of repair, time spent, ergonomics greater agility and efficiency. At the end of and technician safety, for example. One2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 30 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Products GRI 1.2 GRI EN6 GRI EN26 GRI Index Auditing report Corporate information In addition to being innovative, master graficos 23julho.pdf 1 07/08/13 23:47 products should incorporate the dimension of sustainability throughout their lifecycle, while still fascinating consumers with unique design, simplicity, practicality, durability and excellence in post-sales service. That is how Patents in expansion Whirlpool manages its portfolio within the Growth in the number of patents strategy to “Lead sustainable innovation, filed in Brazil transforming consumers into fans.” 73 76 In 2012, the company launched 68 140 products, which equals more than C M two launches per week. Its brands have Y CM remained favorites among Brazilian and MY CY CMY Latin American consumers. K 2010 2011 2012 To reinforce its attunement with the public, the Consul brand now highlights the features of creativity, Brazilian-ness and partnership in its new visual and verbal identity. The new positioning, logo, slogan and institutional campaign were launched in January 2013. terça-feira, 23 de julho de 13 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 31 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Find out about some of the main products presented to the GRI Index market in 2012 in the summary below. Auditing report Corporate information Consul Line of built-in products – First built-in Consul line, consisting of a Brastemp Ative water purifier – cooktop, oven and exhaust hood. Products Includes the Smart Panel, inspired by contain educational solutions and the accessibility principles of universal facilitate cooking. Free installation of the design, using Braille buttons and exhaust hood and oven. issuing different sound signals for the keys. Automates and dispenses water in minimum, average or maximum amounts. It also serves water at room temperature, chilled or mixed. Consul Facilite microwave – Has an exclusive Easy Use function, simplifying preparation of foods with the help of the Easy Use pot, which comes with the product. Brastemp You – Line of personalized products. The possibilities for personalizing the refrigerator and cooktop are now at 25 thousand and range from finishings to unique functions and technologies. Consul Bem-Estar Inverter Split-System Air Conditioner – Inverter For example, you can choose between technology causes the compressor to work more constantly, providing for a the conventional or a bottom-freezer significant reduction in energy consumption and a more stable temperature. refrigerator. Products can be purchased R22 refrigerant gas was replaced using R410a, which does not harm the online at www.you.brastemp.com.br. ozone layer if it leaks. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 32 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans GRI Index Brastemp Inverse Maxi – A refrigerator Auditing report notable for its space and intelligence. It Corporate information has separate compartments for fruit and vegetables and functions that speed up chilling of beverages and ice making. Eight-point internal LED lighting lasts longer and lights better. One model has a touch Brastemp Laundry Center – Together, screen panel that allows for management the Ative washer and dryer form a of food expiration dates, makes a shopping smart laundry station, with unique list and shares it with mobile devices, notes performance and design. Sensors on delivery service data and displays photos, among other functions. the washing machine automatically Furthermore, it uses cyclo isopentane and isobutane gasses, adjust the water level and duration which do not damage the ozone layer and have little potential for of the wash according to the volume global warming. of clothes, dosing the detergent and distributing the load for a uniform spin cycle. It has the Bdrive motor, which is quieter and prevents odors, Lavadora Brastemp Ative – An 11 kg washing machine comes and the Eco Inteligente function, with the exclusive Smart&Fast System, combining the which reduces energy consumption, intelligence of a precise dose of detergent, softener and maintaining operating performance. the amount of water, with the fastest cycle in the market. It The dryer also includes smart sensors prevents waste of supplies and of water used with each wash, that allow for uniform drying and in addition to guaranteeing the best performance in caring for prevent the high temperature from clothes. One model includes the Bdrive motor, which is quieter harming clothes. Another convenience and uses hot water to remove stains. is the Anti-wrinkle function, preventing wrinkles. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 33 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Innovation GRI 1.2 GRI 4.9 GRI 4.10 GRI EN26 GRI Index Auditing report Corporate information Whirlpool assesses its performance in innovation by using a set of methodologies known as Design for Since 2012, environmental Excellence, whose focus is geared towards every aspect of product performance is measured for development, such as costs, ease of manufacturing, and simplicity in all new products diagnosing errors and corrections. In 2010, the company began to implement an additional methodology to measure Nearly one-fourth of Whirlpool’s the environmental performance of new revenue in 2012 came from the sale iRevenue products. Developed that same year in of innovative products. This figure Evolution in percent of revenue coming from innovative products Since 1999, the company has had partnership with the University of São was found by iRevenue, a company structured tools to develop products and Paulo and applied as a test to some indicator that measures revenue coming from its innovative solutions. In 2012, 25% optimize processes. The use of these products the following year, Design 23% 23% instruments allows the company to stay for Environment (DfE) assesses the the company changed the criteria for on the cutting edge of innovation in environmental impacts in the entire classification of new product launches home appliances, launching products product lifecycle, from production of raw in the innovation category, increasing that simultaneously meet three material to final post-consumer disposal, requirements. With this, the percentage of prerequisites: they have unique features, to water and energy consumption and products that meet the new requirements they stimulate consumers, and they recyclability. All projects begun in 2012 has fallen slightly (see graph at right), have the potential to create value for already incorporate this methodology. which caused a drop in the year’s 2010 2011 2012 shareholders. GRI PR1 performance indicator for the year. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 34 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Awards and recognition in 2012 GRI 2.10 GRI Index Auditing report Corporate information • Melhores Empresas para Você Trabalhar – of Brazil’s most beloved brands by Consumidor Moderno magazine. Whirlpool has been a fixture in every issue of the • Marcas de Confiança – In the ranking by Seleções magazine of Janeiro interviewed by the Marca dos Cariocas magazine, published guide published by Você S/A magazine, for 16 reliable brands, the Brastemp and Consul brands came in 1st and 2nd by Editora Globo. straight years. place, respectively, for the 11th time in the “Durable Goods” category. • Top of Mind – For the 8th time, Brastemp was the most recalled • Great Place to Work – Outstanding in “Social • Reputation Index – Award given by DOM Strategy and Consumidor brand in the award given by Casa & Mercado magazine. This year, Responsibility” in the ranking published by Época Moderno magazine, winning in the “Company with the best the brand won in the “Portable Electronic,” “Range Hood,” “Major magazine. reputation in the industry” category for the 2nd time. Appliance” and “Water Filter” categories, in addition to being named • Mejores Empleadores 2012 – Once again, “Corporate Citizen.” • Reclame Aqui – Given by the website of the same name to the Whirlpool is recognized in the ranking published Brastemp and Consul (champions) and Compra Certa (finalist) brands, • International Design Excellence Award – Bronze medal given by the by Argentina’s Apertura magazine. in recognition of excellence in service and relations with the so-called Industrial Design Society of America to the Brastemp Retro line in the • As Empresas Mais Admiradas do Brasil – In the ranking of the most “new consumer” (who uses the internet). “Kitchens” category. admired companies in Brazil for the 15th time, published by Carta • Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade – Among the • Best Innovator – Ranked for the 3rd Capital magazine. 20 model companies in the sustainability guide time among Brazil’s most innovative • As Empresas de Maior Prestígio do Brasil – An award for the most published by Exame magazine. companies, according to Época prestigious businesses in Brazil, given by Época Negócios magazine Negócios magazine, highlighted • Prêmios Intangíveis Brasil – Outstanding in the to Brastemp, in the “Major Appliances” category. in the “Process” and “Results of durable consumer goods sector of the ranking put Innovation” categories. • Campeãs da Inovação – An innovation award from Amanhã together by Consumidor Moderno magazine and magazine which Whirlpool won for the 3rd time. DOM Strategy Partners. • Prêmio Planeta Casa – Brastemp was the winner in the Décor Products category with its Brastemp “Ative!” dishwasher, for the award • Empresas mais inovadoras na Prestação de Serviços ao Cliente – • Top of Mind – Brastemp won in the “Oven” and “Washing Machine” given by Casa Cláudia magazine. Whirlpool was recognized in the “Industry” category of this award categories (for the 6th consecutive time in the latter), with Consul given to the most innovative companies in customer service by winning the “Refrigerator” category for the 22nd year in the ranking • Melhores e Maiores 2012 – The company was included for the 3rd Consumidor Moderno magazine. published by Folha de S. Paulo. time in Exame magazine’s annual biggest and best ranking. • Marcas Mais Amadas do Brasil – Brastemp was the most recalled • Top of Mind – For the 3rd time in the “Home Appliances” category, • Valor 1000 – Placed in the ranking by Valor Econômico newspaper brand by consumers in the “Home Appliances” category, in this ranking Brastemp was the most recalled brand by consumers in Rio de for the 8th time. 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 35 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation GRI 3.12 Transforming consumers into fans Company Statement GRI Index Auditing report Whirlpool Latin America states that throughout this report. contains GRI indicators with the Global Corporate information its 2012 Sustainability Report follows the Compact Principles and the systemic The publication presents 39 criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative conditions of The Natural Step. indicators related to the Profile, (GRI) and is aligned with the G3 standard. Governance, Commitments and The document was submitted It furthermore states that it complies Engagement Items. Of the performance to outside verification by KPMG. The with the B+ standard and that the indicators, the company published 39 document with external verification is relevance and organization was defined essential indicators (seven published available on page 45. through a materiality process, discussed partially) and 11 additional indicators, at the start of this publication. All final one of which was partially responded. topics found in materiality were included The index presented below also GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Principles of Principles of Principles of Anti-Corruption Human Rights Labor Rights Environmental Protection Principle 1. Respect and protect human rights; 3. Support freedom of association 7. Support a preventive approach to 10. Work against corruption in all of at work; environmental challenges; its forms, including extortion and 2. Prevent human rights violations; bribery. 4. Abolish forced labor; 8. Promote environmental responsibility; 5. Abolish child labor; 9. Encourage technologies that do 6. Eliminate discrimination in the not harm the environment; workplace; 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 36 Global About the report GRI Reported Compact TNS Página Profile and governance Principle Lead sustainable innovation 1 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Transforming consumers into fans 1.1 Statement of the holder of the most decision-making power at the organization regarding the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Fully 8 and 9 ---04 GRI Index Auditing report 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Partially ------04, 11, 30, 33 Corporate information 2 CORPORATE PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization Fully ------06, 09 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services Fully ------06, 07 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, opeFully ------06 rational units, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Fully ------06, 09 2.5 Number of countries in which the organization operates and name of countries where its main operations are located or are especially relevant Fully ------06 to the issues of sustainability covered by the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Fully ------09 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and Fully ------06, 09, 13 types of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 06 Scale of the reporting organization Fully ------Large scale 2.9 There were no changes to the structure of the organization, Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, size, ownership or the manner in which economic, social Fully ------or ownership and environmental performance is reported in 2012. The only significant change was to the position of CEO. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Fully ------24, 34 3 REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Fully ------02 3.2 Date of the most recent last report (if applicable) Fully ------2011 3.3 02 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully ------Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Fully ------02 Report scope and limits 3.5 03 Process for defining report content Fully ------Online report 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 37 3.6 Boundary of the report (countries, divisions, subsidiaries, joint ventures, About the report Fully ------02 suppliers) Profile and governance 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully ------02 Lead sustainable innovation 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outTransforming consumers into fans sourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comFully ------02 parability from period to period and/or between organizations GRI Index 3.9 Techniques for measuring data and bases for calculations, Auditing report Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including including assumptions and techniques underlying estimates assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the comFully ------Corporate information applied to compiling indicators are shown in the footnotes for pilation of the indicators and other information in the report these indicators 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in There was no re-statement of information provided in earlier Not reported ------earlier reports and the reasons for such re-statements reports 3.11 The main change was the results of the materiality process Significant changes compared to previous years regarding scope, limit, or carried out the year before. Holding a Dialogue with Specialists Fully ------methods of measurement applied in the report allowed for a new approach to relevant topics for company management and sustainability. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the information in the report Fully ------02, 35 Verification 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for Fully ------02, 45 the report 4 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under Partially ------09 the highest governance body responsible for 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an The Chair of the highest governance body (the Board of DirecFully ------executive officer tors) is not also an executive officer at the company. 4.3 Members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or One of the three members of the Board of Directors (33.3%) is Fully ------non-executive members independent 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of Fully ------10 interest are avoided 4.8 Statements of mission and values, codes of conduct, and internal prin1, 2, 3, 4, ciples relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance, as Fully 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 ---08, 10 well as their stage of implementation and 10 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and Fully -------11, 23, 33 adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 38 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own perforAbout the report mance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social Fully -------11, 23, 33 Profile and governance performance Lead sustainable innovation Commitment to external initiatives Transforming consumers into fans 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary principle is approached by the organization. Fully ---Online report Index GRI Index 4.12 Letters, principles or other initiatives developed externally that are of an 1, 2, 3, 4, Auditing report economic, environmental, and social nature and which the organization Fully 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 ---12 undersign or endorses and 10 Corporate information 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international organizations Fully 1, 2 ---12 Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Fully 02, 31 ---24, 26, 27, 28, 29 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engaFully 02, 31 ---28, 29 ge 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engageFully 02, 31, 33 ---24, 26, 27, 28, 29 ment by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Main themes and concerns that were raised through engagement of stakeholders and measures that the organization has adopted to deal Fully 03, 31 ---03, 26, 27, 28, 29 with them ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Description of Economic Performance Reported Global Compact TNS Page Principle Economic performance ES EC1 Direct economic value (DEV) generated and Partially ----1, 2, 3, 4 Online report Index distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments ES EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities Partially 7, 8 and 9 1 Online report – Index, 22 for the organization due to climate change ES EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit Fully 1 ----Online report Index plan obligations ES EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Partially 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 28 investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 39 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE About the report Management Profile and governance Materials Lead sustainable innovation ES EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Fully 8 3 Online report Index Transforming consumers into fans ES EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Fully 8, 9 3 Online report Index GRI Index Energy Auditing report ES EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Fully 8 1 Online report Index Corporate information source ES EN4 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Fully 8 1 Online report Index source AD EN6 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Fully 8 and 9 ---21, 30 source Water ES EN8 Total water used, by source Fully 8 3 Online report Index ES EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withFully 8 3 Online report Index drawal of water ES EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Fully 8 ---Online report Index, 20 and reused Emissions, effluents and waste ES EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emisFully 8e9 2 22 sions by weight ES EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emisFully 8e9 2 sions by weight Accounting: 1) Air transport of employees in Brazil on work trips (methodology: Brazilian GHG Protocol Program) and 2) distribution of products in Brazil, from factories to distribution centers (methodology: The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative). in tons of CO2 2012 2011 2010 43,558 35,712 38,549 AD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Fully 7, 8, 9 Online report – Index, 22 and reductions achieved ES EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by Fully 8 ---Online report Index type and weight ES EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destinaFully 8 3 Online report Index tion ES EN22 Total weight of waste, by type and method of Fully 8 3 18 disposal 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 40 ES EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Fully 8 3 There were no significant spills on record for About the report 2012 Profile and governance Products and services Lead sustainable innovation ES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Fully 7, 8, 9 1, 2, 3 17, 20, 21, 23, 30, 33 Transforming consumers into fans products and services ES EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packagPartially 8, 9 ---Online report Index GRI Index ing materials that are reclaimed Auditing report Overall Corporate information AD EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transportPartially 8 1, 2, 3 Online report Index ing products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce AD EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures Fully 7, 8, 9 ---Online report Index and investments by type LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Management approach Employment ES LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employFully ---4 Online report Index ment contract, and region 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 41 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region GRI LA1 About the report Job level 2010 2011 2012 Profile and governance Executive Board 16 14 19 Lead sustainable innovation Management 198 192 217 Transforming consumers into fans Administrative Production 2490 12,112 2341 11,534 2571 12,313 GRI Index Trainees 36 44 37 Auditing report Interns 157 64 92 Corporate information Third Parties 78* Apprentices 32 18 12 Total 15,041 14,207 15,339 Type of contract Fixed term 394 Indefinite term 14,647 Total 15,041 14,207 15,261 Type of employment Full time Part time Total 15,041 14,207 15,261 Employees by region South Region Joinville 7,733 7,361 7,417 Southeast Region – São Paulo 655 635 600 Southeast Region Administrative Center 535 467 533 Southeast Region – Rio Claro 4,056 4,235 4,201 Southeast Region – Compra Certa 83 79 78 North Region Manaus 1,979 1,430 2,098 Argentina 168 Chile 33 Peru 21 Colombia 64 Ecuador 3 Miami 10 Guatemala 35 Total 15,041 14,207 15,261 * Number of third parties only corresponds to LAR International 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 42 ES LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by Fully 6 4 24 About the report age group, gender, and region Online report Index Profile and governance AD LA3 Benefits offered to full time employees that are Fully ---4 Online report Index Lead sustainable innovation not offered to temporary or part time employees, listed by main operations Transforming consumers into fans Labor/management relations GRI Index ES LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Fully 1, 3 4 In Brazil, 100% of employees are covered by Auditing report bargaining agreements collective bargaining agreements and accords. Online report Index Corporate information Occupational health and safety AD LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Fully 3 ---Online report Index formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. ES LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Fully ---4 16 and absenteeism, and work-related fatalities by region ES LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Fully 1 ---Online report Index risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases AD LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Fully ------Online report Index agreements with trade unions Training and education AD LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong Fully ---4 25 learning and management of career endings Online report Index AD LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Fully ---4 All employees are reviewed annually and performance reviews receive periodical feedback (100%). Online report Index Diversity and equal opportunity ES LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakFully 1, 6 ---Online report Index down of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 43 HUMAN RIGHTS About the report Management approach Profile and governance Investment and procurement process practices Lead sustainable innovation ES HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Fully 1, 2, 4, 5 ---26 Transforming consumers into fans investment contracts that include clauses regarding human rights or that underwent Online report Index GRI Index assessment regarding human rights Auditing report ES HR2 Percentage of companies contracted and Fully 1, 2, 4, 5 4 26 Corporate information critical suppliers who underwent assessments Online report Index regarding human rights and measures taken ES HR3 Total training time for employees on policies Partially 10 08 and procedures related to aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including percentage of employees who received training Child labor ES HR6 Operations with significant risk for incidents of Partially 1, 2, 5 4 26 child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Forced or compulsory labor ES HR7 Operations identified as having significant Partially 1, 2, 4 4 26 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Indigenous rights AD HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involvFully 1 and 2 ---Organization activities do not involve indigeing rights of indigenous people and actions nous people taken SOCIETY Management approach Community ES SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any proFully ---4 28 grams and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 44 Corruption About the report ES SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Fully 10 ---Online report Index Profile and governance analyzed for risks related to corruption Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans ES SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organizaPartially 10 4 Online report Index tion's anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI Index Public policies Auditing report ES SO5 Public policy positions and participation in Fully ------27 Corporate information public policy development and lobbying PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Management approach Customer health and safety ES PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Fully 1, 8 4 33 impacts of products and services are assessed Online report Index for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Product and service labeling ES PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Fully ------Online report Index with regulations and voluntary codes concerning impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information reOnline report Index quired by labeling procedures AD PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, includFully ------29 ing results of surveys PR6 Programs to comply with laws, standards, and Fully 29 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including publicity, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Compliance ES PR9 Fines for non-compliance concerning the proFully ------Whirlpool had a total of 128 fines applied by vision and use of products and services. the Brazilian Consumer Protection Agency (PROCON), totaling BRL 381,149.16 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 45 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Independent assurance report GRI Index Auditing report To the Board Members and Directors of Whirlpool S.A. São Paulo – SP and that work be executed with the goal of gaining limited assurance that the Corporate information information contained in the Sustainability Report, taken as a whole, is free of material misstatements. Introduction A limited assurance engagement conducted according to NBC TO 3000 (ISAE We were contracted by Whirlpool S.A. to submit our limited assurance report 3000) consists mostly of questioning the Company’s management and other on the Information compiled for the Whirlpool S.A. Sustainability and Social Company professionals involved in preparing the information contained in the Responsibility report, relative to the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2012. Sustainability Report, as well as for application of analytic procedures for finding evidence that allows us to make limited assurance conclusions regarding Company management’s responsibilities the information considered as a whole. A limited assurance engagement The management at Whirlpool S.A. is responsible for appropriate drafting and also requires the execution of additional procedures, when the independent submission of the Information contained in the Sustainability Report pursuant auditor is made aware of matters that lead him to believe that the information to the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI (GRI-G3) Guidelines and for internal contained in the Sustainability Report, considered as a whole, may present controls that management determines necessary to enable preparation of this material misstatements. information free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The procedures selected are based on our understanding of aspects related to compilation and submission of the information contained in the Sustainability Report and on other circumstances of the engagement and our consideration Independent auditors’ responsibility regarding the areas where material misstatements may exist. Procedures Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the information in the included: Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance work conducted according (a) planning of work, considering the relevance, coherence, volume of to Technical Notice (Comunicado Técnico or CT) 07/2012, approved by Brazil’s quantitative and qualitative information and operational and internal control Federal Accounting Board (Conselho Federal de Contabilidade) and prepared based on NBC TO 3000 (Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits and systems that served as the basis for drafting the information contained in the Reviews), issued by Brazil’s Federal Accounting Board – CFC, which is equivalent Whirlpool S.A. Sustainability Report; to internal standard ISAE 3000, issued by the International Federation of (b) understanding of the methodology for calculations and procedures for Accountants, applicable to non-historical information. These standards require compiling indicators through interviews with the managers responsible for compliance with ethical demands, including requirements of independence preparing information; 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 46 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans GRI Index Auditing report (c) application of analytical procedures concerning quantitative information accuracy of the data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. Corporate information with questioning regarding the qualitative information and its correlation Furthermore, our engagement covered neither data reported in prior periods with the indicators reported in the information contained in the nor future projections and targets. Sustainability Report; and (d) cross-checking of indicators of a financial nature with accounting Conclusion statements and/or accounting records. Based on the procedures performed, described in this report, nothing has come The limited assurance engagement also included adherence to the Global to our attention that causes us to believe that the information contained in Reporting Initiative – GRI (GRI-G3) Guidelines applicable to preparing the the Whirlpool S.A. Sustainability Report has not been compiled, in all material information contained in the Sustainability Report. respects, according to the Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting We believe that the evidence found in our engagement is sufficient and Initiative – GRI (GRI-G3). appropriate to base our conclusion in a limited manner. São Paulo, July 23, 2013 Scope and limitations KPMG Risk Advisory Services Ltda. The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less Brazilian Regional Accounting Board (CRC) 2SP023233/O-4 detailed than those applied in an assurance engagement aimed at issuing an Eduardo V. Cipullo opinion on the information contained in the Sustainability Report. Therefore, we Accountant CRC 1SP135597/O-6 were unable to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all matters that would be identified in an assurance engagement where the objective is to issue an opinion. If we had performed an engagement with the objective of issuing an opinion, we might have identified other matters and possible misstatements that may exist in the information contained in the Sustainability Report. Accordingly, we have expressed no opinion on this information. Non-financial data are subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate or estimate these data. Qualitative interpretations of materiality, relevance and 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 47 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans GRI Index Auditing report São Paulo Administrative Center Rio Claro Ecuador Corporate information Edifício Plaza Centenário Avenida 80, 777 Av. Las Americas, Piso 3, Oficina 301, Avenida das Nações Unidas, 12.995, 32º andar 13506-095 – Distrito Industrial – Rio Claro (SP) Eliodoro Arboleda – Quito 04578-000 – São Paulo (SP) Phone: 55 19 2111 9100 Phone: 15 571 489 2121 Ext 3500 Phone: 55 11 3787 6100 Argentina Guatemala São Paulo Unit Av. Int Crovara, 2.550, Torre Sol, Nivel 12 12C & 12 D Rua Olímpia Semeraro, 675 1766 – Tablada – Província de Buenos Aires 01011 – Guatemala City 04183-901 – São Paulo (SP) Phone: 54 11 4480 7100 Phone: 15 502 2326 7272 Phone: 55 11 3566 1000 Chile Peru Jaboatão dos Guararapes Distribution Center Alcântara 44, piso 7 Av. Benavides, 1.890 Av. Eixo da Integração, 533, Bloco D 755000 – Las Condes – Santiago do Chile 4469604 – Miraflores – Lima 54360-000 – Jaboatão dos Guararapes (PE) Phone: 56 2 753 2630 Phone: 15 5 11 242 6753 Phone: 55 81 2127 7700 Colombia Puerto Rico Joinville Calle 72 # 8-56, Piso 10 Carretera 177 km 8.1, Mminillas Rua Dona Francisca, 7.200, A.A. 241312, Bogotá, D.C. Colombia Industrial Park, Bayamon, PR 955, Bayamón, 89219-900 – Distrito Industrial – Joinville (SC) Phone: 15 1 8000 112 365 Puerto Rico Phone: 55 47 3803 4000 Phone: 15 1 877 629 8243 Dominican Republic Manaus Calle Jose Amado Soler, Esquina Lincont, Torre Miami Estrada Torquato Tapajós, 7.500, Km 12 Progressus, 4To Piso, Suite 4D, 5301 Blue Lagoon Drive # 700, Miami, FL, 33126 69093-415 – Colônia Terra Nova – Manaus (AM) Ensanche Piantini Santo Domingo Phone: 1 305 593 6486 Phone: 55 92 3301 8500 Phone: 15 809 412 7714 2012 Sustainability Report Whirlpool Latin America 48 About the report Profile and governance Lead sustainable innovation Transforming consumers into fans Credits GRI Index Auditing report Coordination GRI Consulting, production of content and Corporate information Whirlpool Latin America Communication and Sustainability graphic-digital design Teams: Adriana Cattelani, Milton Mondardo Filho, Regina Scriba Comunicação Corporativa: Camila Baltrusch, Cilene Belletato, Vanderlei Niehues, Camila L Pereira. Marcondes, Claudio Paiva, Daniela Beilich, Elaine Carvalho and Érico Padrão Support Whirlpool Latin America sustainability multipliers: Anna C. Photography Araripe, Anny O. Nascimento, Carlos Eduardo V. Prestes, Enzo Ricardo Teles and Whirlpool Latin America Documentation C. Cruz, Geraldo L. Thomaz, Guilherme Nehring, Henrique Center and Archives C. Gaspari, Hepaminondas R. Rigo, Jaqueline M. Batista, José S. Almeida, Juvino S. Rodrigues, Leda S. Böger, Luciana Aguiar, Maria Elisa F. Curcio, Marta N. Cerqueira, Pablo D. Illustration Borghi, Paulino T. Hashimoto, Sheila C. Amaral, Sulivan S. Carol Smokowisk Silva, Karen S. Faria, Christiano F. Basile, Wanderly T. Limeira, Elias L. Junior, Christian C. Viaes, Elisangela C. Souza, Eduardo T. Neto, Adriel B. Santos, Cláudia W. Tridapalli, Juliana M. Video Malvasi, Cintia Sanocky, Enzo Chamma, Nelson L. Tesser, Marcos Lamego Cláudia O. Santos, Lincoln Duarte.
