building a better future 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT next> building a better future SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 REPORT next> Our cover: Supreme Tribunal Library in Puerto Rico, 4,200 m3 of readymix concrete. TABLE OF CONTENTS Contact Information 2> ABOUT CEMEX CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. 4> TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Corporate Communications and 6> SUSTAINABILITY VISION AND MODEL Public Affairs 7> PROGRESS TOWARDS OUR TARGETS Av. Ricardo Margáin Zozaya 325 OUR SEVEN PRIORTIES San Pedro Garza García, NL. 8> LEAD IN SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION CP 66265 Mexico 14> AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND INFRASTRUCTURE Tel: +52 (81) 8888-8888 www.cemex.com/sustainability 19> ENHANCE OUR CARBON STRATEGY sd@cemex.com 24> EXCELLENCE IN ENVIRONMENT AND BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT 30> HIGH PRIORITY TO HEALTH AND SAFETY 34> STRENGTHEN LOCAL COMMUNITIES 38> PARTNERSHIP WITH KEY STAKEHOLDERS 45> MANAGING OUR BUSINESS FOR THE LONG TERM 48> OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 53> AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS 54> ADVISORY PANEL MEMBERS AND STATEMENT 55> ASSURANCE STATEMENT 56> GRI APPLICATION LEVEL CHECK 57> ABOUT THIS REPORT Connect: www.facebook.com/cemex www.flickr.com/cemex www.twitter.com/cemex www.youtube.com/cemex Bay Bridge in San Francisco. 199,000 m3 of ready-mix concrete. < previous 1 next> 50+ about CEMEX countries in our operations network 2011 global operations cement production capacity (million metric tons/year) employees (thousand) Founded in Mexico in 1906, CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. is the world’s leading supplier of ready-mix concrete, a leading cement and aggregates producer, Other: 3.5 Northern Europe: 11.9 / 14.0 one of the world’s largest producers of White Portland Cement, and one of (including Corporate) the top cement and clinker traders in the world. CEMEX is an established brand that represents our entire organization as well as the bulk aggregates, ready-mix concrete, and cement we distribute. In many markets, we also have individual brands for our local bagged cement and some of our USA: special concrete products. Our customers range from governments to 17.1 / 8.3 global construction firms to individuals building their own homes. Asia: 5.7 / 1.3 Mexico: 29.3 / 10.3 quick facts as of December 31, 2011 South, Central America and the Mediterranean: 18.8 / 2.1 l CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. (NYSE: CX / BMV: CEMEX), a holding company, Caribbean: is a public stock corporation with variable capital (S.A.B. de C.V.) 12.8 / 4.5 organized under the laws of Mexico. l Presence in more than 50 countries and trade relationships in approximately 100. SALES DISTRIBUTION BY PRODUCT NET SALES GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION percentage percentage l 44,104 employees worldwide. 1 l Annual production capacity of 95.6 million tons of cement. 3 3 15 Mexico 12 23 l Annual production levels of approximately 55 million cubic meters of Cement USA ready-mix concrete and more than 160 million tons of aggregates. Ready-mix concrete Northern Europe 47 11 Mediterranean Aggregates l 59 cement plants, 1,921 ready-mix concrete facilities, and minority Others 17 South, Central America 37 & the Caribbean participation in 12 cement plants. Asia 31 Other l 377 aggregate quarries, 226 land-distribution centers, and 70 marine terminals. < previous 2 next> our products and services 2011 performance summary (in millions of US dollars1, except per-ADS data) Cement The main ingredient in ready-mix concrete. Financial highlights 2010 2011 % CEMEX offers a portfolio of high-quality brandNet sales 14,069 15,139 8 ed cement products, including Gray Ordinary Operating income 856 960 12 Portland Cement, White Portland Cement, MaOperating EBITDA 2,314 2,332 1 sonry or Mortar, Oil-well Cement, and Blended Controlling interest net income (loss) (1,304) (1,533) (18) Cement. Earnings (loss) per ADS 2 (1.30) (1.47) (13) Free cash flow after maintenance Aggregates capital expenditures 512 386 (25) Materials such as stone, sand, and gravel are Total assets 41,675 39,276 (6) the primary ingredients in ready-mix concrete, Total debt plus perpetual notes 17,729 18,067 2 asphalt, and mortar. Total controlling stockholders’ equity 15,710 13,683 (13) 1 For the reader´s convenience figures are presented in US dollars. For statements of operations accounts, these Ready -mix concrete figures result from translating the local currency amounts into US dollars at the average exchange rate for the year, which approximates a convenience translation of the Mexican peso results for 2011 and 2010 using the average Made from a mixture of cement, aggregates, exchange rates of the year of 12.48 MXN/US$ and 12.67 MXN/US$, respectively. For balance sheet accounts, US water, and admixtures, concrete is an extremely dollar figures result from translating the local currency amounts into US dollars at the closing exchange rate for the year, which approximates a convenience translation of the Mexican peso amounts at the end of each year using the durable building material that can be casted end-of-year exchange rate of 13.96 MXN/US$ and 12.36 MXN/US$, respectively. 2 Based on an average of 1,042.2 and 999.2 million American Depositary Shares (ADSs) for 2011 and 2010, respectively. into many different shapes. Direct economic impacts 2009 2010 2011 Services We are increasingly positioning our company as Customers: Net sales 1 14,544 14,069 15,139 a provider of value-added services to assist our Suppliers: Cost of sales and operating expenses 2 9,309 9,240 10,283 customers in identifying and addressing trends Employees and their families: Wages and benefits 3 2,605 2,516 2,524 that affect their industry and in maximizing the Investments: CAPEX plus working capital 4 862 601 485 sustainability attributes of our products. Among Creditors: Net financial expense 914 1,118 1,278 these services are bioclimatic architecture and Governments: Taxes 291 335 287 engineering, modeling of energy performance Communities: Donations 5 19 29 11 of buildings, LEED certification, and developCommunities donations as % of pre-tax income (5.57%) (3.02%) (0.85%) ment of customized sustainable building Shareholders: Dividends 6 0 0 0 solutions. Others (261) (156) 34 Free cash flow 805 387 237 Net income (loss) before taxes (341) (946) (1,271) For more information about our company, brands, and 1 Excludes sale of assets. 2 Excludes depreciation and amortization. 3 Wages reported in 2009 were non-operational financial performance, please visit our corporate website and operational employees. 4 Capital Expenditure for Maintenance and Expansion. 5 5.57% of loss before taxes. 6 at www.cemex.com Dividends paid in cash. < previous 3 next> to our stakeholders: Sustainability is central to CEMEX. It is core to our business strategy, as well as key to our growth. In a world characterized by expanding population, increasing urbanization, growing demand for natural resources, and changing climate, the only future CEMEX can possibly aim for is a sustainable one. Lorenzo H. Zambrano Chairman of the Board and A sustainable business model is clearly in the best interests of all our Chief Executive Officer stakeholders. It is the surest way to produce economic value for our shareholders, to contribute to a cleaner environment for our employees and their communities, and to reduce the carbon footprint of our production and logistics activities. It is both good business and good for the planet. AS THE LARGEST CONCRETE Moreover, as the largest concrete producer in the world, we have a special obligation to play a creative role in defining and supporting a truly sustainable PRODUCER OF THE construction industry. Meeting this obligation takes many different forms. For example, through our WORLD WE HAVE AN partnership with the Urban Infrastructure Initiative in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development we focus on developing urban transit infrastructure OBLIGATION TO DEFINE AND that minimizes greenhouse gas emissions on new streets and highways. Through our participation in the MIT Concrete Sustainability Hub we are increasing the understanding of the performance characteristics of concrete and its main SUPPORT A SUSTAINABLE applications from a life cycle perspective. And, working with partners in a number of countries, we continue to develop financing schemes that allow for more CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY families who are in the bottom of the socio-economic pyramid to gain access to resilient and dignified housing. Last year alone, this effort financed homes for approximately 3,200 families. < previous 4 next> RECESSIONS COME AND An integral part of our sustainability commitment is our GO, BUT RELATIONSHIPS, continuing, company-wide effort to improve workplace and community safety. Nevertheless, it is with great sadness PROPERLY NURTURED, and regret that we report that in 2011, 44 employees, contractors, and third parties died in connection with CEMEX’s activities. CONTINUE TO CREATE Such losses are deeply distressing to the entire CEMEX STAKEHOLDER VALUE YEAR community. We have redoubled our safety efforts—especially regarding transport activities and contract drivers, which Finally, our relationships with our key stakeholders— accounted for a majority of fatal incidents—and we will not customers, employees, shareholders, civil society AFTER YEAR rest until we can report that no lives were lost in CEMEX’s organizations, suppliers, communities, and governments—are worldwide operations. fundamental to the success of our business over the long term. Recessions come and go, but relationships, properly Indeed, there are many ways to measure CEMEX’s I want to stress that our goal is not only zero fatal accidents, nurtured, continue to create stakeholder value year after sustainability impacts. but zero accidents, period. That is ambitious, but aiming for year. That is part of the reason that we have subscribed to anything less would be unfair to our employees and to the the United Nations Global Compact since 2004, joining likePerhaps most importantly, in 2011 we increased the rate of communities in which we operate. minded companies and organizations in subscribing to ten substitution of alternative fuels in our cement kilns to 25 universally accepted human rights, labor, environment and percent. We also adopted the most ambitious target rate I am pleased that we are heading in the right direction: anti-corruption principles. among the global competitors in our industry, 35 percent, our lost-time injury rate for employees (per million hours which we expect to achieve by 2015. The overall result worked) decreased significantly to 2.3. Our 2015 goal is 0.5, This report is itself a vital component of our ongoing of our carbon reduction strategy—which also includes and I am confident we will get there—and beyond. dialogue with stakeholders. We are grateful to the members reduction in clinker factor in our production processes, of our Sustainable Development Advisory Panel for their investment in clean development mechanism projects, and In addition, I want to underline our steadfast devotion to valuable input into our ongoing efforts to report more increased use of renewable energy from initiatives like our corporate social responsibility (CSR). Our CSR commitment transparently on our challenges as well as our successes; Eurus wind farm in Mexico—has been to reduce our specific is based on a simple, powerful idea: empowerment and to the many organizations and communities with which we net CO2 emissions per ton of cement by almost 23 percent the creation of self-employment opportunities, rather than interact each day; and to you, whose thoughts and feedback from 1990 levels. That is the equivalent of the emissions charity, are the most durable form of community support and we welcome. generated by 900 thousand homes per year. development. We look forward to working with you not only in 2012, but As a leading producer of aggregates, we maintain a network There are many examples of how this idea gets translated for many years to come as we work together to build a more of quarries and other mining facilities around the world. We into practice. For example, during 2011, we incorporated sustainable future for us all. aim to manage those facilities, both during and after their 45,545 additional Latin American families into our productive lives, to the highest environmental standards, “Patrimonio Hoy” program. This brings the cumulative total Sincerely, including biodiversity. Last year, in partnership with BirdLife participants to more than 350,000 families and 2.5 million International, we developed our own Biodiversity Action square meters of built surface. Another initiative is the Plan (BAP) Standard to guide our biodiversity management. “Centros Productivos de Autoempleo” (Productive Centers of This standard is the first of its kind in our industry. Our plan Self-employment) program: small factories where people is to introduce a BAP on at least one site in each of the six are self employed manufacturing concrete blocks. During Lorenzo H. Zambrano CEMEX regions worldwide during 2012, and we expect to 2011, CEMEX established 16 new centers, bringing the total Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer implement BAPs for all our priority sites by 2015. number to 38 and benefiting more than 44,000 families. < previous 5 next> CEMEX sustainability vision and model MANA FOOTGE O PR IR U T N HANCE OU EN UE CREAT R SUSTAINABILITY L I ON AT CEMEX VA Given the importance of the sustainability-related challenges that society and business face, CEMEX has integrated sustainability into its business strategy. With the help of our Sustainability Model, we are incorporating sustainability practices into R R U EO S substantially all of our day-to-day operations and decision-making processes worldENGAG LDE STAKEHO wide. Our model ensures that we concentrate our efforts and resources on the issues of highest relevance to our business and greatest concern to our stakeholders. CEMEX’s sustainability model our seven priorities CEMEX’s key stakeholder groups We have three main sustainability objectives: We have identified seven priorities in our Sustainability Model. A deep knowledge of our stakeholders allows us to better The definition of these priorities has followed a structured understand their needs and concerns. Enhance Our Value Creation: CEMEX aims to deliver the inprocess of both internal and external consultations where we novative, high-performing products, services, and solutions that Our People have measured the impact that the main sustainability issues our resource-constrained society requires in order to create a We aim to be the employer of choice in our markets. We seek have on our stakeholders and on CEMEX operations. For this growing and profitable low-carbon economy. By fulfilling the to provide the most attractive opportunities for employees’ matter, in 2010 we performed a Materiality Analysis that we needs of the construction sector in its efforts to adopt more personal and professional development. consider to remain valid as we are addressing the main consustainable operating practices, we aim to create long-lasting cerns of our stakeholders. Our Neighbors competitive advantages. We are a good neighbor. We participate with communities Our seven priorities aligned to each of our three objectives are Manage Our Footprint: CEMEX strives to minimize the ecologiopenly and directly in order to build trust and address their the focus of our 2011 Sustainable Development Report: cal impacts of its operations on the communities in which we concerns. operate. Such impacts are carefully identified and measured Enhance our Value Creation: Our Business Partners so that we can continuously reduce our footprint to the lowest • Lead in Sustainable Construction We work to be the business partner of choice. We seek to help level that is both technically and economically feasible. We • Affordable Housing & Infrastructure our suppliers and customers build their businesses and to crealso have a robust pipeline of projects that provide carbon Manage our Footprint: ate enduring value for our shareholders. offsets to further reduce our net impact. • Enhance Our Carbon Strategy Our World Engage Our Stakeholders: CEMEX fosters positive, long-term • Excellence in Environmental & Biodiversity Management We are a responsible global citizen. As a global company, we relationships with key stakeholders to address the pressing Engage our Stakeholders: work to contribute to international efforts to address some needs and concerns of society. With a highly committed and • High Priority to Health & Safety of the world’s most complex challenges, including climate empowered employee base, CEMEX closely collaborates with a • Strengthen Local Communities change, access to housing and community infrastructure, and broad variety of institutions that allow us to complement our • Partnership with Key Stakeholders the conservation of biodiversity. core competencies and enable us to generate social benefits that contribute to strengthening local communities. < previous 6 next> progress towards our targets Target 2009 2010 2011 2015 Progress Assurance Lead in Sustainable Construction Production covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) 1 NA 60 87 100 Cement NA 100 100 100 Aggregates NA 50 83 100 Ready Mix 1 NA 41 83 100 Enhance our Carbon Strategy Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of cementitious product) 2 627 629 612 594 4 Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious product from 1990 baseline (%) 20.7 20.5 22.7 25 Alternative fuels rate (%) 16.4 20.3 24.7 35 4 Excellence in Environmental and Biodiversity Management Clinker produced with continuous monitoring of major emissions: Dust, NOx and SOx (%) 60 74 80 100 4 Specific dust emissions (g/ton clinker) 2 106 89 101 120 4 Specific NOX emissions (g/tons clinker) 2 1,063 1,134 1,094 1,600 4 Specific SOX emissions (g/ton clinker) 410 334 335 520 4 Active sites with quarry rehabilitation plans (%) 82 85 89 100 Active sites with high biodiversity value where biodiversity action plans are actively 29 38 38 100 implemented (%) Operations with an Environmental Management System implemented (%) 50 76 86 100 High priority to Health and Safety Lost-time injury (LTI) frequency rate, employees (per million hours worked) 3.2 2.6 2.3 0.5 4 Compliance with CSI Driving Safety Recommended Practices (%) NA 64 79 100 Compliance with CSI Contractor Safety Recommended Practices (%) NA 63 82 100 Operations with a Safety Management System implemented (%) 98 98 99 100 Operations with a Health Management System implemented (%) 76 79 82 100 Fully achieved target On track to achieve target Extra effort required to achieve target 1. Data recalculated taking into consideration the scope set: fixed and managed plants 2. Target restated setting a more challenging goal < previous 7 next> priority 1 lead in sustainable construction Through stakeholder collaboration and companywide commitment, CEMEX is uniquely positioned to proactively contribute to the transformation of the construction sector. performance highlights • We have expanded coverage of the CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool to 88 percent of our total cement, ready mix, and aggregates facilities. WE ARE LEVERAGING • CEMEX expanded its portfolio of innovative concrete technologies with the release of three new products: Promptis®, OUR STRENGTHS AS A Hidratium®, and Fortium. HIGHLY INNOVATIVE • CEMEX’s participation in the WBCSD Urban Infrastructure Initiative (UII) has yielded sustainable infrastructure and buildAND COLLABORATIVE ing solutions Action Plans for three cities. BUILDING MATERIALS COMPANY Ponce Musuem in Puerto Rico. CEMEX provided tailor-made products and services < previous 8 next> our approach applying MIT research findings We are collaborating internally across our company to develop innovative products and solutions that address some across our business Through its work with clients, collaboration with organizaBased on historical data, MIT calculates that of our customers’ most salient environmental issues. We are tions such as the UII, and research and development efforts, working to understand the environmental impact of our conover a 50-year time frame, the mean “real price” CEMEX is working to promote the sustainability attributes crete products and to promote their sustainability attributes of asphalt can be expected to increase by 95 of concrete, confirmed by MIT’s 2011 Concrete Sustainability over their life cycle. Our industry’s collaborative research Hub (CSH) research. percent while the mean “real price” of concrete with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and our annual CEMEX Building Awards advance these efforts. Concrete in commercial and residential buildings would decrease by 20 percent. Concrete building materials offer significantly greater efIn addition, we are developing tools that enable us to ficiency than light-frame wood construction—particularly transparently communicate to our clients the environmental in terms of heating and cooling. The research indicates that impact of our products. We initiated this effort by launching higher albedo (light reflectivity) of concrete pavement helps homes built with insulated concrete forms can see life-cycle our CO2 Footprint Tool in 2010. keep road surfaces cooler and therefore reduces warming energy savings of 5–8 percent compared with their woodIn 2011, CEMEX began positioning itself as a consultant to at both local (urban heat island effect) and global (climate frame counterparts. These benefits derive from concrete’s its customers in the construction of sustainable buildings. In change) scales. higher thermal mass, which reduces the effects of outdoor doing so, we are moving beyond supplying building materitemperature fluctuations on building interiors—thus reducThe research identified options for reducing emissions als to providing advisory services, solutions, and technoloing the energy requirements of HVAC units and other electrithrough building and maintaining concrete roadways, and gies that help customers develop their own capabilities in cal components. stressed the importance of good roadway design. sustainable construction. We will continue to develop our skills and expertise in this area. In addition, the CSH research confirms that 88 to 98 percent Life-cycle cost of concrete of CO2 emissions associated with concrete construction are While concrete building materials may require higher upStrategic and selective external collaborations are key to produced in the usage phase of buildings—meaning during front investments than steel, wood, or asphalt, MIT’s research CEMEX success. Our ongoing participation in the WBCSD’s a building’s usable life—and that only a small percentage of indicates that, due to concrete’s superior durability and therUrban Infrastructure Initiative (UII), for example, has allowed life-cycle emissions come from the concrete manufacturing mal efficiency, the full life-cycle costs of operating concrete us to become more deeply involved in city planning and process. buildings and roadways are actually lower than with the infrastructure projects. As a result, we are gaining a deeper alternatives. Findings also note that the relative price stabilunderstanding of how our products and solutions contribConcrete roadways ity of concrete offers long-term project costing benefits. ute to solving the challenges of growing urbanization and Among the preliminary CSH findings with respect to conincreased urban density. crete highways are that the majority of emissions from Continuous improvement highways come from their use rather their construction. The Although the MIT work shows that GHG emissions related research indicates that the smoother, stiffer characteristics to the production of concrete construction materials are building blocks of the future: of concrete roadways (compared with those constructed of dwarfed by those in the use phase, it also highlights a numthe advantages of concrete asphalt) may result in improved vehicle fuel efficiencies and ber of ways in which concrete producers can help reduce the As a building material, concrete has a number of fundamental lower GHG emissions. It is also widely understood that the life-cycle impact of buildings and structures. These include attributes—its durability, thermal mass, versatility, and costinnovative design features and increased use of clinker effectiveness—that, together, underscore its importance in substitutes such as fly ash. sustainable construction and development. Among its other Using these strategies, CEMEX can significantly reduce the advantages, concrete contains no VOCs1, may be recycled for life-cycle GHG emissions of its concrete building materials, use as aggregate material, and can often be locally sourced. To while helping customers cut down on their own operating better understand and fully utilize these traits, CEMEX stays expenses, maintenance, and environmental impacts. closely abreast of current research such as that conducted at (continues on next page) 1 Volatile organic compounds < previous 9 next> (continued from previous page) the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Concrete Sustainability Hub (CSH). Through a partnership with the Portland Cement Association and the National Ready Mixed Concrete challenges ahead: Association in the USA, the CSH explores the life-cycle impacts of concrete when used in commercial and residential As CEMEX introduces sustainable building products and servicbuildings, roadway paving, and other infrastructure projects. es to the market, a balance must be struck between offerings Spotlight on the CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool that satisfy short-term market demands, and those that will In December 2010, during COP16 in Cancun, Mexico, CEMEX address important issues over the long term. We work to stay a focus on life-cycle sustainability unveiled the first CO2 Footprint Tool in the buildingclosely abreast of the sustainability challenges our customers While the concept of “sustainable construction” is relatively materials sector and began measuring direct and indirect face—issues such as energy efficiency and emissions reducnew to the building industry, CEMEX is aggressively pursuCO2 emissions at 29 percent of our manufacturing facilities. tion—to help align our products and services with foreseeable ing a leadership role in the development of products and Within a single year, we expanded the tool’s implementation market demands. building solutions that reduce the environmental impacts to 88 percent of our facilities, with the ability to estimate of construction projects while fostering social and economic CO2 emissions at the plant, regional, or national level or Supporting designers and developers in the first phases of growth. We work toward this goal by addressing the sustaincompanywide. On the road to a 100 percent coverage (our project execution is another long term challenge for CEMEX. ability of our products from a life-cycle perspective. Our 2015 target), we hope to more fully account for our direct As we begin to offer a broader spectrum of building solutions efforts fall into three main categories: and indirect CO2 emissions while also enabling clients to and services—in addition to supplying building materials—our better estimate the CO2 embedded in their own construction value propositions and customer relationships are evolving. 1. Responsible manufacturing practices that reduce our projects. This approach addresses a widespread need for Embracing these new business opportunities requires that we environmental impacts and waste generation during the accountability and transparency in the construction industry stay open minded in the development of integral construction building materials production process. around CO2 emissions, and CEMEX remains committed to solutions, while maintaining a focus on our company’s core 2. Developing high-performance products and technologies providing the best available data and guidance in this effort. mission and principles. that address key construction challenges for buildings and infrastructure projects, such as GHG emissions, energy Some features of sustainable buildings imply a higher initial Spotlight on the CEMEX Industrial Ecology Initiative consumption, and water use. investment in return for savings that can be obtained over the The goal of industrial ecology is to create closed life-cycle 3. Early and ongoing collaboration with customers and complete life cycle of the building. Developers and construcloops so that waste products from one industrial activity urban planners to help them better manage the life-cycle tion companies are often concerned that they will not be able become feedstock for another—thus reducing net waste impacts of construction projects. to command a price premium that reflects the benefit of a generation and demand for virgin natural resources without higher initial investment in sustainable building solutions. compromising economic activity. Responsible manufacturing Therefore, CEMEX must contribute to better communicate to Over the years, CEMEX has made powerful and consistent We already use waste products from other industries in our end users the long-term benefits of sustainable buildings. improvements to its cement and aggregates manufacturing cement manufacturing process. For example, we use materials processes, including: like fly ash and blast furnace slag, which serve as effective clinker alternatives, helping us to lower our overall CO2 emissions. • Reduced use of clinker in our cement production • Alternative fuel substitution at most of our manufacturing To further our progress in this area, CEMEX is actively enplants gaged in the testing of industrial ecology principles through • Development of renewable energy sources to power our a pilot study at its Beckum plant in Germany. Through a thoroperations ough analysis of the cement value chain and life cycle, we • Waste minimization efforts through our industrial ecology are investigating ways that our Beckum plant can coordinate initiative with other industrial players to maximize CEMEX’s role in • Development of CO2 measurement tools the recycling of building materials, with particular attention to aggregates recycling. We expect to share identified best See the full details of these initiatives at www.cemex. practices with other cement manufacturing plants. com/SustainableDevelopment/CarbonStrategy.aspx < previous 10 next> SOME OF THE CEMEX PRODUCT PORTFOLIO WITH OUTSTANDING SUSTAINABILITY BENEFITS • Promptis®. CEMEX’s first global ready-mix concrete brand. A rapid hardening/high early strength development concrete designed for fast formwork removal. Unique characteristic: workability retention upto at least 90 minutes. Products & Integral solutions solutions • Stormceptor. A concrete-based system to collect rainwater and treating it to remove sedant and hydrocarbons. Treated water is then Promptis® re-used in the development. • Pervious Concrete. Combining alternative mix design approaches and admixtures to develop StormCeptor (continued from previous page) pervious concrete that is very effective in Developing high-performance products reducing storm water and runoff drainage. Pervious Concrete As the world’s largest concrete producer, CEMEX has a pow• Cement produced with low energy consumption. erful opportunity to influence the evolution of the construcCements produced with low temperature clinCement produced tion industry. From our Global Center for Technology and kers, thereby reducing CO2 footprint and fuel with low energy Innovation in Switzerland, we develop products and soluusage. Increased reactivity of the clinker, can consumption tions that address the diverse needs of our customers while lead to reductions in clinker factor. promoting environmental responsibility, social cohesion, and Cement with low • Cement with low clinker factor. Production of clinker factor economic inclusiveness. cements with increasingly low clinker factor We offer a range of cement and concrete solutions that help through the effective application of processing Hidratium® reduce the energy consumption, GHG emissions, and water technology coupled with chemistry. consumption of building projects during their construction, • Hidratium®. Technology that renders concrete Self Compacting useful lives, and demolition. tolerant to poor curing practices and condiConcrete with low tions. The need for external curing is eliminatCO2 footprint Product launches in 2011 ed. Ease of application and important savings We seek to continually expand the range of applications and in labor costs proprietary admixtures are Fortium/ICF sustainability benefits that our products support. In 2011, introduced directly to concrete during batching. CEMEX released globally the following three new concrete • Self compacting concrete with low CO2 footprint. Concrete Pavement products: A concrete that offers all the advantages of conventional SCC, but with lower CO2 footprint • Fortium fiber-reinforced concrete for structural walls (-40%). A combination of special admixtures • Hidratium® self-curing ready mix concrete designed by CEMEX researchers and a unique Land use • Promptis® rapid hardening/high early strength concrete mix design approach. Water management • Fortium/ICF. Concrete technology for reinfoced Energy & emissions structural wall. A special fiber-reinforced concrete technology that reduces/replaces reinforced structures in vertical applications (walls). • Concrete pavement. Higher durability and lower maintenance requirements make concrete pavement a sustainable and economical solution. < previous 11 next> University Library in Split, Croatia. European Union 2010 Green Building Award winner WE SEEK TO CONTINUALLY EXPAND The goal of the UII is to develop sustainable, cost-effective THE RANGE OF solutions to address the basic infrastructural needs of growing cities. The UII draws upon the expertise of a diverse membership base, including companies in the building APPLICATIONS AND materials, energy, transportation, and engineering sectors, among others. In 2011, the UII launched pilot studies in a BENEFITS THAT OUR number of European cities to determine “issue landscapes” of urban areas in need of infrastructural updates. The trends PRODUCTS SUPPORT identified in the study include growing and aging urban populations with rising expectations for personal mobility, more local deliveries associated with internet shopping, and increasing consciousness of energy use and climate change. In each of the engaged cities, company experts, city officials, and representatives of local businesses took part in workcollaboration efforts to promote shops to identify practical solutions such as traffic managesustainable buildings and improve ment and building control systems. The workshops demonstrated the value of providing early business input into city urban planning planning and set the stage for ongoing work. While independently CEMEX is a diligent supporter of sustainable construction and development, our company’s efIn 2012, additional assessments will be conducted in Latin forts are greatly magnified through close collaboration with America to determine how sustainable infrastructure action governments, nonprofit organizations, and our customers. plans might take shape in cities such as Puebla and GuadaOur guidance—in the earliest stages of urban planning—can lajara in Mexico, and Panama City, in Panama. drastically improve the ultimate infrastructural efficiency and quality of life in cities and buildings, while providing Sustainable Construction Consulting ongoing business opportunities for CEMEX. To meet the increasing demand for sustainability expertise in construction markets, CEMEX has taken the first steps to Partnership with the WBCSD’s Urban Infrastructure position itself as consultant to its clients in the construction Initiative of sustainable buildings. As an example, the new San Bernabé Among our most significant long-term partners is the World Community Center in Monterrey, Mexico, will be built with the Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). advice and counsel of CEMEX regarding the latest sustainable Since 2006, CEMEX has collaborated with the WBCSD on a design and technology elements. These will include the use number of projects, including the Energy Efficiency in Buildof key concrete products that allow for more efficient use of ings (EEB) initiative—exploring efficiency standards and best energy. The San Bernabé project is part of a comprehensive practices for commercial buildings—and, most recently, the Urban Infrastructure Initiative (UII). < previous 12 next> Additional resources THE CITY OF THE FUTURE > MIT Concrete Sustainability Hub (CSH) Concrete’s Solutions for: > WBCSD Urban Infrastructure Initiative Mobility provides a (UII) durable wearing surface for transport systems. > WBCSD Energy Efficiency in Buildings project (EEB) Energy efficient buildings Reduces energy consumption for heating and cooling through thermal mass. Urban Design widely used in major urban infrastructure projects in issues such as water management, re2011 Building Awards newable energy generation, landfills, among others. Sustainable Buildings Julio Mario Santo Domingo Library This project, located in Colombia’s capital, is an example of a large-scale public cultural project that factors in bioclimatic architectural principles for enhanced user comfort, environmental soundness, and resource conservation. The project features a natural ventilation system that draws public initiative to improve skills training and social cohesiveair from the concrete basement to cool other parts of the CEMEX Building Awards 2011 ness in fragile communities. With the support of CEMEX, San building, preventing the need for air-conditioning equipment Each year, CEMEX gives recognition to building projects that Bernabé will combine environmental, social, and economic and significantly reducing electricity requirements. The entire make positive impacts through superior innovation. best practices to provide a truly sustainable community building enjoys natural lighting thanks to various architectural institution. As part of this initiative, CEMEX is partnering with The CEMEX Building Awards is an annual contest that seeks solutions that provide the correct amount and intensity of light various players in the construction value chain to provide the to distinguish the best in construction in Mexico and around for each activity. In spaces requiring artificial lighting, motion full set of skills and solutions required to design and implethe world. Throughout the course of each contest, CEMEX sensors reduce unnecessary energy use. ment sustainable solutions for buildings. encourages a culture of innovation in construction, acknowledging the talent of those whose building projects are most creative and influential. In addition to the regular award Atlacomulco-Maravatío highway rest areas Envisioning the City of the Future Located on the Mexico-Morelia highway, these elegantly simAs CEMEX engages with others in developing the solutions categories, a special Sustainable Building category was creple modules boast a comprehensive sustainable design. This required to fulfill the current and future demands from sociated in 2002, reflecting our company’s commitment to the low-cost, high-quality solution provides effective and digniety, we have created a vision of what we think are going to be minimization of environmental impacts and maximization of fied public services to the highway. Each module contains two some of the most relevant challenges faced by cities as they social benefits in the construction process. The 2011 firstgroups of restrooms, an information way, and a convenience grow and the ways in which we expect concrete and concreteplace winners in the sustainable construction category were store—all under a single roof, and with minimal use of walls. based solutions will respond to those challenges. This vision the Julio Mario Santodomingo Library in Bogotá, Colombia, allows us to have a better understanding of the initiatives we and the rest areas built along the Atlacomulco-Maravatío From the highway, the entire facility can be easily identified, need to implement in the short term to prepare the capabiliHighway in Mexico. night or day, due to its distinctive physical and landscape ties that our organization will need to have in the future. design characteristics. To learn more about the advantages of concrete, as well as For more information about the CEMEX Building the solutions and technologies we envision for tomorrow’s awards and winning projects in 2011, please visit low-carbon society, see our City of the Future interactive www.cemex.com/MediaCenter/BuildingAward.aspx web application at www.cemex.com/SustainableDevelopment/CityOfTheFuture.aspx < previous 13 next> priority 2 affordable housing and infrastructure CEMEX is expanding the scope of its project portfolio with comprehensive building solutions tailored to the needs of developing economies performance highlights • The Affordable Housing Program assisted in building more than 3,200 homes for families in the bottom of the pyramid segment. • CEMEX’s affordable housing solutions were made available in five new countries—Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama, Guatemala, and Haiti. • We completed 188 infrastructure projects, representing WE HAVE MADE more than 8 million square meters of concrete pavement for highways, mass transit projects, airport runways, and SIGNIFICANT city streets. PROGRESS IN MEETING • CEMEX has expanded its portfolio of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects, securing additional contracts in four THE NEED FOR important Mexican cities. Baluarte Bridge in Sinaloa and AFFORDABLE HOUSING Durango, Mexico. One of the tallest bridges in the world with a height of 390 meters IN OUR MARKETS < previous 14 next> our approach CEMEX is a leading provider of affordable housing and high-scale infrastructure and a strong partner in the socioeconomic development of emerging markets throughout the world. We anticipate that, in the coming years, the sustainable growth of cities and communities will hinge upon increased population density and strategic urban planning. To this end, our early involvement and close collaboration with Developing prototypes for affordable housing a variety of stakeholders—from microfinance lenders and community-development NGOs to governments and developers—is critical to our success in addressing housing and them with the engineering, technology, and construction infrastructure needs in these markets. We believe that the techniques needed to build their own homes. social and economic empowerment of low-income communities represents a significant opportunity for our company CEMEX has also continued to pursue public-private partnerto develop productive, diversified business relationships and ships for the development of infrastructure projects that use establish natural project feedback loops to fuel our business concrete, a sustainable building material. Our paving and as cities mature. mass-transit solutions are essential to the flow of urban and suburban commerce and are designed to reduce the greenWe have made significant progress in meeting the need house gas emissions typically associated with city transit. for affordable housing in our markets. In 2011 alone, we contributed to the construction of approximately 3,200 Our overarching strategy for affordable housing and infraaffordable homes. We will accelerate this growth in 2012 structure projects reflects a broadening approach to stakeby engaging directly with potential homeowners to provide holder engagement and deeper vertical integration of our building solution services. Ultimately, we expect our work in emerging markets to foster community connectedness and accelerate economic development. growing need for affordable challenges ahead: housing and infrastructure In 2012, we expect additional expansion of our In a recent study of global development trends, the United affordable housing initiative to Bangladesh, Nations Human Settlement Programme (UN-HABITAT) noted Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, that, for the first time, the world’s urban population has Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand. come to exceed the world’s rural population. With urbanism We also plan to develop new BRT projects becoming a global norm, the creative and effective managethroughout Mexico, and we will continue to ment of population density will be essential to the sustainimprove our internal skills to face the growing able growth of cities and communities. needs for infrastructure projects as cities in our To aid in the cultivation of healthy urban density, CEMEX key markets expand. focuses on the development of affordable housing and CEMEX helps promote sustainable and equitable infrastructure—two areas that are closely interrelated and transportation through BRTs, “a high-quality that critically influence the cohesiveness and scalability of bus-based system that delivers fast, comfortable, growing economic centers. and cost-effective urban mobility” Institute for Transportation and Development Policy < previous 15 next> “In all developing regions, improving the lives of slum dwellers calls for macro-level programmes that include housing infrastructure and finance, To address these challenges, CEMEX offers customizable improved water and sanitation, and adequate home prototypes for both urban and rural settings in diverse living spaces. However, these macro-level climates. Our modular designs allow for different floor programmes must be associated with micro-level configurations, compatibility with numerous appliances, and schemes, including micro-credit, self-help, the option for multi-floor expansion to accommodate groweducation and employment.” ing families. Housing prototypes also include features to — UN-Habitat, 2010 improve their comfort and performance, such as: • Concrete insulation for thermal protection • Antibacterial and waterproofing additives Case Study: • Ventilation systems • Energyand water-management technologies dignified living in Nicaragua’s • Resilience to adverse weather conditions and earthquakes “Canada District” By collaborating with an international network of developCEMEX’s affordable-housing engagements are ers, CEMEX has been able to help expand the affordable designed to benefit both local communities and our housing market while securing a position as a leading business. In 2011, our Canada District 2nd Stage vendor of streamlined, low-cost housing solutions. CEMEX housing project in Nicaragua brought this strategy to Affordable Our affordable housing solutions are already available housing program is also working to meet increased demand for direct-to-conthe fore: Among the 143 families receiving low-inthroughout much of Central America and will be introin place sumer building services by providing individual home buyers terest loans to build their houses, at least 50 benefiIntended area duced to a number of new markets in 2012. and builders with the materials and technical assistance ciaries will be CEMEX’s own employees. Homes built of expansion for CEMEX housing needed to accelerate their construction projects. through the Canada District 2nd Stage project will solutions be 42 square meters in size and will include access We believe that home ownership, particularly in low-income to energy, clean water, and properly paved roads. empowering a new class of communities, is a major stepping stone toward social and This scenario exemplifies our vision for building homeowners economic inclusion, and can greatly increase neighborhood trust and mutual commitment between CEMEX and CEMEX’s work to increase the availability of high-quality, health and cohesiveness. Wherever possible, CEMEX engages the communities in which it operates. affordable housing options in low-income communities local governments and lending institutions to develop around the world is based upon the belief that socioecofavorable financing options for potential homeowners. nomic status should not constrain one’s access to safe shelter and healthy living conditions. Yet global housing deficits pose a serious threat to the prosperity and in3,200 tegrity of communities in and around urban centers. The United Nations estimates that 48 percent of urban growth is attributable to the expansion of slums, where social inequalities, poor infrastructure, and lack of access to basic resources all inhibit sustainable development. affordable homes constructed through our Affordable Housing Program < previous 16 next> AS A PROVIDER OF HIGH Case Study: SCALE INFRASTRUCTURE Guadalajara paving project CEMEX’s concrete has been shown to offer a number of SOLUTIONS, CEMEX advantages over conventional asphalt materials. Not only do roadways paved with concrete have a longer useful life, HELPS CONNECT recent research conducted by MIT suggests that the rigidity of concrete road surfaces can help to improve vehicles’ fuel economy. CITIES AND THEIR These advantages have spurred many cities and municipaliSURROUNDING AREAS ties around the world to consider concrete as a basic building block for sustainable urban development. Among our successful infrastructure projects in 2011 was the repaving of 21 city avenues in Guadalajara—Mexico’s second largest urban center. In response to public demand for repair of the keeping cities connected city’s damaged asphalt streets, Guadalajara’s public-works department engaged CEMEX to lay 41 kilometers of conWith the expectation that 70 percent of the world’s population crete pavement, equal to seven percent of the city’s total will live in urban areas by the year 2050 comes the challenge paved area. of maintaining efficient flows of people, products, and services in and out of cities. In the developing world, the prevalence of deteriorating urban infrastructure inhibits both social and economic progress and limits cities’ potential for sustainable development. As a leading provider of high-scale infrastructure solutions, CEMEX helps connect cities and their surrounding areas in a number of ways. In 2011, we completed 188 infrastructure projects, representing more than 8 million square meters of pavement for highways, mass transit projects, airport runways, and city streets. TOTAL PAVED AREA thousands of square meters PROJECTS Mexico 7,752,600 172 Colombia 41,300 5 Panama 88,100 2 Costa Rica 12,000 1 Nicaragua 58,800 2 Newly paved streets in Guadalajara -The GuadalaDominican Republic 61,950 5 Tianjin Express Road jara paving project provides a long-term solution to in China, 123,000 m3 the city’s transportation infrastructure needs while Puerto Rico 30,600 1 of ready-mix concrete offering a number of sustainability advantages. Total 8,045,350 188 < previous 17 next> Additional resources > UN-Habitat > Institute for Transportation and Development Policy benefits of concrete paving “Due to a rise in private automobile ownership, the CO2 emissions of transportation sectors in developing countries can be expected to grow 67% between Concrete paving 2000 and 2030”. According to CEMEX Mexico’s experience: · 7 to 25% higher in initial cost McKinsey & Company · 27 to 49% lower life-cycle cost According to CEMEX USA’s experience: · 3 to 30% higher in initial cost · 5 to 40% lower life-cycle cost Pavement recovery with cement According to CEMEX Mexico’s experience: leadership in bus rapid transit Given the success and practicality of Line 3 and other BRT · 11 to 17% higher in initial cost CEMEX continues to position itself as a leading provider of inprojects, CEMEX is better positioned to meet escalating · 13 to 19% lower life-cycle cost frastructure solutions throughout Mexico. In 2010, CEMEX was demand for efficient public-transit systems. In 2011 alone, awarded a contract for the construction of a high-occupancy, CEMEX secured new construction contracts in Acapulco, Monlow-emissions Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) line running through terrey, Puebla, and the municipalities of Nezahualcoyotl and one of Mexico City’s central corridors. With full responsibilChimalhuacán, making it the top BRT developer in Mexico. Our ity for the project’s financing, raw materials, construction, and expertise in this area enables us to target developing cities Roller compacted concrete oversight, CEMEX was able to demonstrate the full range of its with cost-effective and durable BRT projects while operating According to CEMEX USA’s experience: expertise as a project developer. under traditional public-works contracts or public-private part· 10% lower initial cost nerships. In addition, our concrete-based BRT lines reduce the Over the course of 2011, the Line 3 BRT was developed to · 20% lower life-cycle cost number of cars on the road and offer significant environmental cut down on traffic congestion along the avenue Calzada · 40% faster construction advantages over asphalt lines. These include longer life cycles Vallejo—one of the busiest in the city. With two dedicated bus and higher light reflectivity, which helps to reduce road-surlanes now in place, Line 3 reduces commuters’ travel time into face temperatures and mitigate the urban heat-island effect. Mexico City by as much as 40 percent while eliminating the need for more than 500 microbuses. < previous 18 next> priority 3 enhance our carbon strategy Our carbon strategy helps us target opportunities for longterm savings and environmental leadership through alternative fuels and energy substitution, emissions reductions, and efficiency improvements. performance highlights • CEMEX achieved a 22.7% reduction in specific net CO2 emissions from its 1990 baseline. CEMEX’S CARBON • CEMEX expanded its use of alternative fuels to 24.7% of STRATEGY HAS HELPED the total fuel mix—an increase from 16.4% in 2009 and 20.3% in 2010. CEMEX TO REDUCE • Clinker content in our cement has been reduced to 75.1%, ENVIRONMENTAL down from 84.3% in 1990. IMPACTS AND CREATE • Four new projects have qualified for Certified Emission Reduction (CER) credits under the Clean Development ECONOMIC VALUE Mechanism (CDM). Our full CDM portfolio implies a reduction of 1.4 million CO2 tons annually. EURUS Wind Farm in Oaxaca. Production capacity for 25% of CEMEX Mexico´s energy needs < previous 19 next> • Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) within the WBCSD demonstrates CEMEX’s ongoing commitment to industry best practices, idea sharing, and transparency. For example, our approach CEMEX participates in Getting the Numbers Right (GNR), carbon emissions in context a sector-wide global information database covering more CEMEX operates in an energy-intensive industry facing For more than 200 years, advances in human industrial and agricultural than 800 facilities in more than 100 countries. GNR proseveral environmental challenges. Given this reality, applyactivities have contributed to increased concentrations of greenhouse vides accurate, verified data on the cement industry’s CO2 ing a comprehensive carbon strategy is at once a necessity gases—namely carbon dioxide—in the Earth’s atmosphere. Today, climate emissions and energy performance. and an opportunity for our business. CEMEX has designed its change and many forms of environmental degradation are understood • Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project, a voluntary carbon strategy to help reduce the environmental impacts of to have strong linkages to the burning of coal and fossil fuels, as well as initiative that requests annual information on climateits operations, while creating economic value and driving the deforestation. Understanding the environmental challenges we face and change performance and risk management. construction industry’s participation in the development of a responding with decisive actions are matters of paramount importance • Compliance with the mandates of the European Union low-carbon economy. for people and societies everywhere. At CEMEX, these imperatives influEmissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) prepares CEMEX for ence many aspects of our business operations and strategic planning. The following are the key components of our carbon strategy: ever-increasing regulatory stringency around emissions and environmental stewardship, and provides a platform for The production of cement is a particularly carbon-intensive process, 1) Reducing the ecological footprint of our production process CEMEX’s participation in the emissions-trading market. requiring high temperature sintering of limestone, clay, and iron oxide to • Replacing traditional fossil fuels with lower-emission • Participation in Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and create clinker—the base material for cement. This heating process takes alternatives other market-driven emissions-reduction programs provides place in large rotary kilns that reach temperatures over 1,400˚C (2,500˚F) • Reducing the clinker content in cement a cost-effective option to distinguish CEMEX’s GHG reducto catalyze proper chemical reactions. Both the fuel requirements of • Increasing our use of renewable electricity and the energy tion efforts. our kilns and these reaction processes, themselves, result in significant efficiency of our operations • Due to CEMEX’s strong sustainability performance, we were releases of CO2 into the atmosphere. In fact, the cement industry as a 2) Aligning our operations and initiatives with international selected to become part of the new Sustainability Index of whole represents 5% of all carbon emissions associated with human acstandards, regulations, and market-based mechanisms for the Mexican Stock Exchange (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores) tivity—an issue that has spurred widespread effort to reduce the carbon emissions reduction along with other high-performing companies. footprint of cement production. Despite the nature of our manufacturing processes, we do not feel reducing the ecological footprint that our environmental and economic priorities are at odds with one of our production process another. Instead, CEMEX has made ongoing, concerted efforts to reduce challenges ahead: Our carbon strategy helps us take a broad view of the impacts the carbon intensity of its operations and equip customers with tools Reducing the clinker factor in our cement to understand the full life-cycle impacts of materials used in their own associated with concrete production. To reduce our direct products is an ongoing effort and a chalconstruction projects. emissions, we focus on curbing our reliance on carbon-intenlenge due to the limited availability of sive inputs—such as fossil fuels and clinker—and replacing alternative raw materials (fly ash, slag, and them with more sustainable alternatives. This process not only pozzolan), the high logistics costs related presents immediate environmental benefits; it also enables to their transport, and limited market acCEMEX to diversify its supply chain as traditional fuels and ceptance of cement and concrete products feedstocks become scarcer and more costly. In a complementausing these clinker substitutes. ry effort to reduce our CO2 emissions, we continue to increase We also face the challenge of securing the use of alternative raw materials to reduce the clinker long-term supply contracts for alternative usage in cement production. In addition, we are able to reduce fuels and complying with more stringent our indirect emissions by sourcing clean, renewable energy environmental permitting processes for our wherever possible. Furthermore, we continue to develop and operations. implement carbon reduction projects such as CDM’s, that allow for additional optimization of our footprint. < previous 20 next> ALTERNATIVE FUEL SUBSTITUTION RATE CEMEX in the Philippines is percentage partnering with two environmental leading our industry in the use of alternative fuels groups to implement a USD10 In an effort to reduce GHG emissions and improve our fuel million, alternative-fuels project at 24.7 and energy security, we have explored a wide variety of coal its Solid Cement plant near Manila. and fossil-fuel alternatives to power our cement operations. The joint project will convert 20.3 Alternative fuels are predominantly residues or byproducts from industrial, domestic, agricultural, and forestry processes— biodegradable, non-recyclable 16.4 including used tires; spent solvents and waste oils; processed waste into alternative fuels municipal solid waste; and biomass such as rice and coffee husks, animal meal, and sewage sludge—all of which contain 5.1 recoverable energy. 0.8 90 05 09 10 11 CEMEX is one of the leading users of alternative fuels in the cement industry. CEMEX is pursuing a goal to reach an alternative fuel substitution rate of 35 percent by 2015—the most ambitious rate among its global competitors. ExemplifyAlternative fuel substitution rates for cement ing current trends, we scaled up the use of alternative fuels at clinker reduction operations CEMEX has significantly increased our Brocēni plant in Latvia from 32.1 percent in 2010 to 58.2 In 2011, our overall clinker factor (the ratio of clinker content its usage of alternative fuels as a percentage percent in 2011 during the plant’s first year of full-scale proto total cement production) was 75.1 percent—down from 84.3 of total fuel usage, companywide by investing duction. Building upon technologies and operational expertise percent in 1990. We have achieved this overall reduction by inmore than US$ 175 million since 2005. from other CEMEX plants—particularly those in Germany—the creasing the use of alternative cementitious materials, many of Brocēni plant utilizes an advanced kiln design that reduces enwhich are derived from the waste streams of other industries. ergy consumption by 50 percent compared with its traditional These materials include, among others: counterparts and allows for broader fuel compatibility. • Fly ash – a combustion residue from coal-fired power plants CEMEX’s longstanding commitment to fossil-fuel reduction is • Blast furnace slag – a by-product of pig iron production evident throughout our worldwide operations. In 2011, nine • Pozzolan – a fine, sandy volcanic ash cement plants surpassed a 50 percent alternative fuel rate, with three of them reaching a rate above 75 percent. Though we strive to maximize our usage of alternative raw materials, the reduction of our clinker factor depends largely on market demand for our products—some of which require higher clinker content than others. Additionally, the avail90% ability of high-quality clinker alternatives poses a significant bottleneck to our rate of substitution. Nonetheless, we are committed to finding new ways of sourcing and using clinker alternatives without compromising the performance of our building materials. of our cement plants burned alternative fuels during 2011, thus avoiding the use of around 2 million Chelm Cement Plant in Poland. tons of coal 76% of the energy required comes from alternative fuels < previous 21 next> AVOIDED CO 2 EMISSIONS VS. 1990 BASELINE thousand tons long-term impacts of emissions developing alternative energy sources Our EURUS wind farm in Oaxaca, Mexico, has the capacity to reduction efforts 7,072 provide 25 percent of the energy needed to run our Mexican 6,603 6,483 In 1990 our clinker factor stood at 84 percent and no alternaoperations, and in 2011, allowed us to avoid 489,169 tons of tive fuels were used in our production processes. Since then, 6,000 CO2 emissions. we have taken significant steps to reduce our CO2 emissions We are exploring ways to further reduce our carbon footprint and overall environmental footprint. Clinker reduction and 4,000 by using efficient process technologies and changing the way alternative fuel substitution have greatly reduced the direct 2,199 we source electricity. In 2011, for example, CEMEX Philipemissions from our manufacturing processes, while projects 2,000 pines launched a collaborative project with Sinoma Energy such as our EURUS wind farm help to curb the indirect CO2 imConservation Ltd to devise a system for capturing waste heat pacts associated with our power needs. Together, these efforts from our kilns to produce clean, alternative electricity. At our represent more than 7.5 million tons of avoided CO2 emissions 05 09 10 11 Solid Cement plant in the island of Luzon, this technology is compared with our 1990 baseline. That’s equal to offsetting expected to yield 6 MW of onsite energy production each year, the annual emissions of 1.3 million passenger vehicles, or savrepresenting 27 percent of energy needs at the Solid plant and ing nearly 16 million barrels of oil from being consumed. Through alternative fuel substitution producing an annual cost savings of approximately 35 percent Through clinker factor reduction from grid rates. Through these and other projects, CEMEX will continue to evaluate the feasibility of low-carbon and renewable energy 1990 2005 2009 2010 2011 solutions, including the possibility of wind and solar energy Lead in Sustainable Construction generation at many of our operations. Clinker factor (%) 84.3 81.4 75.1 75.9 75.1 Alternative fuels rate (%) 0.8 5.1 16.4 20.3 24.7 Direct emissions CO2 emissions avoided from clinker factor (tons) – 1,943,054 5,472,510 4,909,144 5,316,862 CO2 emissions avoided from alternative fuels factor (tons) – 256,468 1,130,068 1,574,212 1,755,724 Total CO2 emissions avoided vs. business as usual 1990 baseline (tons) – 2,199,522 6,602,578 6,483,355 7,072,586 Indirect emissions CO2 emissions avoided from Eurus Project in – – 149,760 440,939 489,169 Mexico (tons) < previous 22 next> Additional resources > CEMEX Position Paper on Market Mechanisms for Mitigating Climate Change WE HAVE BEEN > Clean Development Mechanism SUCCESSFUL IN > IEA Cement Technology Roadmap 2009 compensation for reducing emissions > Verified Carbon Standard DEVELOPING PROJECTS CEMEX stays closely abreast of international discussions and > WBCSD Cement Sustainability Initiative policy developments addressing climate change and is sup> CSI Getting the Numbers Right: portive of environmental regulations that are fair and well THAT GENERATE · Database designed. Within our key markets, a number of market-based · Report mechanisms for emissions reduction have been established, CERTIFIED EMISSION and we are well positioned to take advantage of these opportunities. The European Union Emissions Trading System (EU REDUCTIONS ETS) and the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) are both important platforms for emissions trading that allow us to purPROJECT YEAR CERs/YEAR sue a variety of carbon-reduction projects more economically. EURUS Wind Farm 2007 599,571 Thus far, we have been particularly successful in developing Costa Rica Alternative Fuels 2008 42,040 collaborating to determine industry key performance Colombia Alternative Fuels 2008 169,565 projects that generate Certified Emission Reductions (CERs). indicators and best practices Issued under the CDM, a provision of the Kyoto Protocol for Zapotiltic Alternative Fuels 2010 47,043 In the year 2000, the World Business Council for Sustainable emissions-reduction projects in developing countries, CERs Egypt Alternative Fuels 2011 416,528 Development (WBCSD) convened a group of leading cement can be sold on the open market or used to offset emissions. companies and related stakeholders to identify key challenges Panama Alternative Fuels Kiln 1 2011 29,212 Structured in this fashion, the CDM plays an important role in facing the industry. One of the most critical challenges identiTepeaca Alternative Fuels 2011 103,359 supporting the sustainable development of nations with less fied was the industry’s CO2 emissions, and the development of Merida Alternative Fuels 2011 41,513 stringent environmental regulations, by rewarding projects long-term actions to address them. The result of this collabothat go above and beyond basic efforts to manage direct emisReduction Potential (tCO2/year) 2011 1,448,831 ration was the formation of the WBCSD Cement Sustainability sions. CEMEX has registered eight projects under the CDM— Initiative (CSI) and its Agenda for Action, published in 2002. including four additions in 2011—for a total carbon offset Since then, the CSI has focused on the proactive management potential of 1.4 million tons per year. And with more than ten and communication of issues ranging from CO2 emissions and CDM projects in the pipeline, as well as two additional initiaAssiut Cement Plant in Egypt responsible fuel usage to sustainability reporting and socialincreasing the use of alternative fuels tives currently in validation process under the Verified Carbon impact monitoring. Standard (VCS), CEMEX expects to make significant additional As a founding member of the CSI, CEMEX has committed to reductions to its carbon footprint in the coming years while monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions from all producing valuable CO2 credits. its cement plants, in accordance with the CSI Cement CO2 and Energy Protocol. In 2011, the CSI released the third edition of the Protocol, introducing. • New KPIs The CSI regularly publishes aggregate data on energy • Updated definitions around biomass fuel content consumption and CO2 emissions in our sector; for more • More thorough accounting standards for on-site power information visit the online database or download the generation report “Getting the Numbers Right” at www.wbcsdcement. • Greater compatibility with international carbon accounting org/pdf/CSI%20GNR%20Report%20final_updated%20 and reporting guidelines Nov11_LR.pdf < previous 23 next> priority 4 excellence in environment and biodiversity management Proactive management of environmental risks and opportunities is an essential component of our day-to-day activity. We work to safeguard the long-term availability of natural resources and ecosystem services needed for our business operations, and we strive to achieve excellence in environmental and biodiversity management. Performance highlights • CEMEX’s global Environmental Management System (EMS) on schedule to launch in 2012. • We reported zero Category 1 environmental incidents. • We increased the percentage of clinker produced with continuous monitoring of major emissions (dust, NOx and SOx) from 74 PROACTIVE to 80 percent. MANAGEMENT OF RISKS • In collaboration with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) we concluded that only 9 percent of our producAND OPPORTUNITIES tion sites are located in areas that may suffer water shortages. IS AN ESSENTIAL • Water consumption in our production processes decreased by 8 percent in cement and 9 percent in aggregates, and increased COMPONENT OF OUR Quarry Rehabilitation in by 5 percent in ready-mix. the UK. Attenborough OPERATIONS Nature Reserve • We completed a Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) Standard in collaboration with BirdLife International to be tested during 2012 in six pilot quarries throughout the world. < previous 24 next> our approach environmental risks, in context CEMEX is focused on achieving strong environmental perforEnvironmental and biodiversity conditions are changing at unprecemance by systematically controlling and effectively managdented rates throughout the world, often irreversibly. Leading research ing the impacts of its activities, products, and services and by from organizations such as the World Resources Institute, the US EPA, making efficient use of natural resources. Our efforts center and the United Nations Environmental Programme suggests that on five main action areas: pollution and climate change pose serious threats to our most basic resources—such as clean air, fresh water, and arable land—and have • A global Environmental Management System (EMS) that contributed to the decline of many plant and animal species. What’s at provides for the monitoring and reduction of environmental stake, should these trends continue, is a complex and delicate set of incidents and prepares us to achieve external environmenecosystem services that support the basic needs of life on Earth. Food, tal certification (such as ISO 14001, EMAS, or Energy Star) at fuel, clean water, climate regulation, pollination, and disease control 100 percent of our operations by 2015. are just a few of the ecosystem services that humans and other spe• Managing our air emissions through expanded monitoring cies enjoy. Yet the protection of these natural systems is a challenging, throughout our operations and by setting new emissionsmultifaceted endeavor. reduction goals for 2015. • Assessing our water usage and impacts to better underAt CEMEX, we understand the need for a holistic approach to envistand and mitigate the water risks facing our business. introducing the new CEMEX ronmental and biodiversity management. Our quarries, plants, and • Advancing our waste-reduction strategy through improved environmental management logistics operations all pose unique environmental challenges, and recycling efforts and ongoing collaboration with industry we have thoroughly analyzed the actual and potential impacts they partners. system may cause for local habitats, communities, and our customers. Through In 2011, CEMEX completed an intensive, multi-stakeholder • Deepening our commitment to biodiversity management this process we have found that air quality, biodiversity, water use, and review of its new global EMS, which will launch in 2012. with the introduction of biodiversity action plans (BAPs) at waste are the most significant environmental factors facing our comThe objective of the new EMS is to facilitate the consistent, all of our quarries located in areas of high biodiversity value. pany—and those requiring the most proactive, systematic handling. complete implementation of risk-based environmentalTo minimize our overall environmental footprint, we have developed management tools across its entire business structure. The issue-specific management priorities for each of these high-risk areas. CEMEX EMS comprises key mechanisms for environmental impact assessment, stakeholder engagement, and accident challenges ahead: response based upon input from a range of environmental MOST SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL Having improved our management and prevenand biodiversity specialists. Our EMS is designed to ensure IMPACTS FACING OUR COMPANY tion of Category 1 environmental incidents, legal and regulatory compliance and it’s full compatibility we will refocus our energies on monitoring with the ISO 14001 standard and the EU Eco-Management air quality and reducing the occurrence of lower-severity and Audit Scheme (EMAS). As of the end of 2011, 86 percent incidents. of CEMEX operations have implemented internal environmental management systems, and 23 percent have achieved waste With increased knowledge of our company’s ISO 14001 certification. As we approach full implementation impacts upon water resources, we must improve of our global EMS in 2015, it is our goal to reach 100 perour water-measurement systems in order to find cent compliance with our internal environmental criteria at viable ways to reduce water usage. all facilities. In addition, we have a goal to achieve external biodiversity We must undertake additional efforts to imenvironmental certification (ISO 14001, EMAS, or Energy prove the way we measure and monitor the Star) at 100 percent of our cement manufacturing facilities. generation of waste in our facilities. water use < previous 25 next> CEMEX reports zero Category 11 managing our air emissions The cement-manufacturing process involves significant environmental incidents in 2011 releases of atmospheric pollutants, including nitrogen oxides Through rigorous efforts to standardize implementation of (NOx), sulfur compounds (SOx), and dust. Other pollutants, our environmental management processes, we have steadily released in very small or negligible quantities, include dioxins, decreased our annual Category 1 incident rate from 19 in furans, volatile organic compounds, and heavy metals (includ2008—when we first began reporting—to zero in 2011. ing mercury). To control these major and minor emissions and CEMEX is now prioritizing the reduction of Category 2 and 3 stay in compliance with local and national regulations, we incidents using root-cause analysis, training, and continued have steadily expanded our emissions monitoring efforts at process improvements through our new, risk-based EMS. We manufacturing operations. In 2011, 80 percent of our clinker will begin reporting on Category 2 and 3 incidents in our was produced with continuous monitoring of major emissions 2012 Sustainable Development Report. Rüdersdorf Cement Plant (dust, NOx and SOx), while 82 percent was produced with monitoring of both major and minor emissions. CATEGORY 1 INCIDENTS To further improve upon these efforts, we have updated our performance targets for 2015, contributed to multi-stakeholder dialogues in our sector to address the handling of dioxins 20 and mercury emissions, and aligned our emissions disclosures with the CSI reporting protocol. While our NOx, SOx, and dust 15 emissions did increase in 2011, in all cases we are still below 10 our new 2015 targets, which are more stringent than many local air-control limits and emissions regulations. 5 New target 0 reduction Original New vs. 2005 08 09 10 11 2009 2010 2011 target target baseline Emissions targets for 2015 Dust specific emissions (g/ton of clinker) 106 89 101 155 120 61% NOx specific emissions (g/ton of clinker) 1.063 1.134 1.094 1.667 1.600 18% 1 Category 1 incidents are defined as major, uncontrolled spills SOx specific emissions (g/ton of clinker) 410 334 335 520 520 10% or releases beyond site boundaries, and in breach of internal control procedures and/or standards. These may imply major damage and/or destruction to protected habitats or species, During 2011, we reduced our specific NOx emissions from 1,134 to 1,094 g/ton and/or material spillage greater than 1,000 liters or 2,000 Kg. clinker, maintained our specific SOx emissions at 335 g/ton clinker and increased Such incidents require immediate notification and follow-up our specific dust emissions from 89 to 101 g/ton clinker. The increase in specific with regulators, and may involve legal action. Dust emissions is mainly due to inaccuracies related to monitoring not done on a continuous basis in some of our kilns, as we have yet to install monitoring equipment in 20 percent of our kilns. < previous 26 next> “It is expected that within two decades, the collective demand of humans for water will exceed foreseen supply by about 40 percent.” assessing our water usage and — Water Resources Group, 2009 impacts Through continued engagement with the IUCN, CEMEX has created the basis for a materiality analysis addressing water-related risks and opportunities, and helping define a 3. A data-gathering template to enable standardized roadmap toward strong management of water issues. reporting on water usage, metering, watershed condiThe availability of clean, potable water has become a matter tions, best practices, and local challenges across all of of global concern. Less than 0.5 percent of global water our business segments and operations. resources are available for human consumption, even as 4. Geographical mapping of more than 2,000 CEMEX populations continue to grow and widespread water consites—cement, ready-mix, and aggregates facilities— tamination and the effects of climate change further stress for comparison with areas identified as water-stressed supplies. zones. While it is estimated that the concrete value chain rep5. A materiality assessment, based upon findings of the resents only 1 percent of global industrial water demand preceding steps, to gauge and prioritize our water risks and 0.2 percent of total global water demand, the risks of and opportunities. shortages are increasing. Currently, 9 percent of CEMEX operations are located in officially designated water stressed The results of our final materiality assessment will become zones, based on water data from the WBCSD Global Water available in early 2012 and will be fully discussed in our Tool. In addition, water regulations in many of CEMEX’s 2012 Sustainable Development Report. countries of operation are now imposing time-limited water abstraction licenses, stricter water metering requirements, and new water-discharge constraints. advancing our waste-reduction These developments, combined with increased stakeholder strategy Our processes generate waste that is disposed of accorddemand for disclosure around water usage, demonstrate the ing to our own standards and the requirements of local need for proactive management of water resources in our regulations. In terms of operational wastes, cement-kiln dust business. To address this challenge, CEMEX worked with the represents the largest amount of waste we produce. We now IUCN in 2011 to produce the following deliverables: reuse it in the production process and in other processes. As 1. Setting the Scene, a research document evaluating we follow the waste hierarchy, we seek to monitor, minimize, global water issues, associated stakeholders, key issues reuse, and recycle our wastes. The actions we undertake in of water use in CEMEX’s productive processes, and this area include: methods for assessing water impact. • Monitoring of hazardous and non-hazardous waste genera2. A water benchmark to understand CEMEX’s water tion in all our operations usage in an industry context, and to assess peer best • Replacing primary aggregates with other discarded materipractices. als (e.g. demolished concrete) • Reusing and recycling, as much as possible, the fresh concrete returned from construction sites < previous 27 next> 10,964 During 2011 we carried out a detailed revision of the tons of hazardous methodology applied in all CEMEX production sites in our waste disposal reduction three main businesses (cement, ready mix, and aggregates) to measure waste disposal. In this review we developed a during 2011 standard way of calculating the figures and we have identified CEMEX operations that were using different criteria or methods. As a result of this review we are restating our figdeepening our commitment to ures for both hazardous and non-hazardous waste disposal corresponding to the years 2009 and 2010, so that they can biodiversity management be comparable to those obtained for 2011. The changes we In 2010, CEMEX completed a biodiversity scoping study in made are not material and they allow us to better reflect the collaboration with BirdLife International, determining that reality in our operations. 131 of its operations are situated in proximity to areas update on El Carmen of high biodiversity value. These areas include wildlifeThrough our signature conservation initiative, El Carmen, we continue We have reduced our hazardous waste disposal from 50,868 working to protect a variety of plant and animal species in one of the protection zones, important bird habitats, and other areas of to 39,904 tons during 2011. By business, hazardous waste world’s most biologically diverse regions. With approximately 200,000 national, regional, and international biodiversity significance. disposal increased in cement from 14,164 to 15,492 tons, hectares of land under management, El Carmen is home to a variety of While some facilities operating in these areas have already it also increased in ready mix from 1,272 to 1,784 tons and ecosystems, including riparian areas along the Rio Grande River, Chihualaunched voluntary conservation projects and other activiit was reduced in aggregates from 35,433 to 22,628 tons. huan desert lowlands, grasslands, pine-oak woodlands, and high-elevation ties to address biodiversity issues, CEMEX has committed to Furthermore, we have increased our non-hazardous waste pine-fir forest. establishing comprehensive Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) disposal from 385,977 to 414,600 tons. By business, nonat 100 percent of its active sites adjacent to high biodiverDuring 2011, the region has experienced a severe drought condition (the hazardous waste disposal in cement significantly increased sity value areas by 20151. worst in the last 70 years for this region), requiring supplemental wildlife from 66,139 to 96,372 tons, we had a slight increase in ready During 2011, CEMEX and BirdLife International worked to feeding and oversight efforts. Fortunately, animal population surveys show mix from 313,515 to 315,476 tons and and it was signifimeet this goal by creating a standard for the development stable numbers for the mammals that have been reintroduced to El Carcantly reduced in aggregates from 6,322 to 2,752. of BAPs. The standard ensures that individual operations are men, with desert bighorn sheep maintaining a population of 200, mule deer The volume of returned concrete material as a percentage 900, and pronghorns 95. able to produce, quickly and systematically, their own BAPs of the total volume we delivered was 0.76% in 2011, a slight tailored to the particular biodiversity values they possess One of the main objectives of El Carmen is to educate, share knowledge increase over the 0.73% shown in 2010. Secondary and and challenges they face. The CEMEX BAP Standard includes and cooperate with our neighbors. El Carmen staff members offer workrecycled aggregate used as a direct replacement of primary methodologies for the following: shops to local communities and landowners on avoiding conflicts with aggregates (as a percentage of the total volume sold) was • Assessing biodiversity value black bears, and in 2011, provided support to the Mexican government in 0.27% in 2011, a slight increase over the 0.25% we showed • Setting appropriate targets for biodiversity management efforts to control a wildfire and rescue wildlife in areas near El Carmen. for 2010. • Developing effective action plans to reach performance Each year, an average of two research projects are conducted at the reserve. goals In 2011, El Carmen supported the completion of two Master of Science • Engaging external stakeholders and partners around biodiresearch projects, the results of which will be used to inform future wildlife versity issues conservation activities. 1 As the number of active CEMEX operations can change year to year, there are currently 103 active sites that meet our criteria for BAP implementation. To learn about El Carmen, visit http://www.cemex.com/elcarmen/default.asp < previous 28 next> Additional resources > International Union for Conservation Case Study: of Nature CEMEX quarries and plants receive broad > El Carmen recognition for conservation efforts > BirdLife International CEMEX works to minimize environmental disturbances CEMEX UK throughout its entire manufacturing process and even In October 2011, CEMEX UK received the Natural England after the use of facilities has been discontinued. Our plant Biodiversity award for rehabilitation efforts at its Rugeley management and quarry rehabilitation efforts, in particular, quarry in Staffordshire. CEMEX voluntarily avoided quarrying have received international attention for drawing together the site to maximum permitted depths, to ensure that the strategic environmental protection processes, educational 80-hectare area could be rehabilitated into a lowland dry In 2012, pilot-stage BAPs will be launched in at least one resources for communities and stakeholders, and compreheathland—an essential habitat for local species. site in each of the six CEMEX regions: South America and the hensive conservation initiatives. In Branton, England, a former CEMEX mining site was sucCaribbean, Asia, Northern Europe, the Mediterranean, Mexico, CEMEX USA cessfully converted into a 29-acre bird and wildlife sanctuand the USA. A continuing relationship with BirdLife InternaFive of CEMEX’s mining, quarry, and plant sites have been ary—inhabited by over 140 different animal species—and is tional and its national partners will be an instrumental part inducted into the Wildlife Habitat Council’s Collaborative now open for public enjoyment. of this process, and CEMEX has authorized a new budget to Conservation Program as Partners. These sites include quarmake this collaboration possible. In turn, BirdLife InternaCEMEX Poland ries in Fairborn, Ohio, and Brooksville and Miami, Florida; tional has reinforced its staffing by adding a new Program The year 2011 was a productive one for CEMEX’s Chelm a sand mine in Clermont, Florida; and a cement plant in Manager to the partnership, whose work will be dedicated to plant in Poland. Not only did the plant win two awards at Louisville, Kentucky. advancing collaboration with CEMEX in the coming years. the 2011 International EcoForum conference—in recognition Each of these operations has been recognized for having of environmental responsibility through innovation—Chelm progressive land-management and wildlife conservation also became one of only 28 Polish business operations to programs as well as environmental education initiatives. meet the criteria of the European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). Registration with EMAS—an advanced, The partially active CEMEX quarries in Fairborn, Ohio, have voluntary environmental management instrument—reflects received a 2011 Reclamation Achievement Award from the the integrity of management practices at Chelm and signals Ohio Aggregates and Industrial Minerals Association. Ongoing the plant’s ongoing commitment to transparency and its efforts to rehabilitate the Fairborn quarry sites have helped environmental priorities. reduce environmental disturbances and improve long-term options for repurposing the land. In 2008, a CEMEX clay mine site in Beavercreek, Ohio, received the same award. Left: Demopolis Cement Plant in Alabama, Portland. Cement Association´s Sustainability Award Winner Right: Quarry rehabilitation in the UK < previous 29 next> priority 5 high priority to health and safety Our rigorous focus on the health and safety of employees, contractors, and the public has enabled us to improve our performance in 2011; nevertheless we are aware that much more improvement is needed and we continue to introduce initiatives to help us meet our long-term objectives. performance highlights • The employee lost-time Injury rate (per million hours worked) ENSURING THE decreased to 2.3, a 12 percent reduction vs. 2010. SAFETY, HEALTH, AND • CEMEX’s Sustainability Committee endorsed the new Global Health and Safety Management System and began its roll-out. WELLBEING OF OUR • 2,914 supervisors and managers completed training in STAKEHOLDERS IS A LEGACY, the company’s in-house flagship safety leadership program—800 more than in 2010. CORE COMMITMENT FOR CEMEX < previous 30 next> our approach Ensuring the safety, health, and well-being of our employ72% employees participating in annual medical exams, a 31% increase from 2010 28% ees, contractors, and the third parties affected by or dealing reduction in sickness absenteeism rate, to 1.8 in with our operations is a core commitment for CEMEX and an ongoing challenge that we work to address in the decisions 2011 from 2.5 in 2010 we make each day. By emphasizing the importance of health 96% and safety and the value and quality of the lives of all of our stakeholders, we are fostering a culture that ensures everyone operations with a qualified health professional gives health and safety the high attention that is needed. onsite or with access to an external health provider Our structure ensures that safety teams in every country coordinate with one another to regularly share knowledge and develop programs aimed at advancing employee health and reducing incidents. Our reporting systems provide for the analysis of the root causes of each incident and for the health and safety management findings to be communicated across the entire organization system and to the highest levels of the company’s leadership. We also In our 2010 SDR report, we announced that we were in the explicitly align our safety goals with managers’ performance process of developing a new Health and Safety Management requirements in a way that ensures personal accountability for System (HSMS), a risk-based system that clearly establishes the well-being of those under their supervision. the company’s expectations of managers in terms of health and safety performance. Aligned with OHSAS 18001:2007, a leading international standard for occupational health and safety management systems, our new HSMS is designed to enable us to accomplish the following: challenges ahead: • Identify and reduce safety risks Despite our best efforts, we regret to report that • Develop supporting standards and guidelines 44 employees, contractors, and third parties • Share best practices throughout the company died in connection with CEMEX’s activities. We • Continually improve the health, safety, reliability, and efneed to redouble our efforts, especially regardficiency of operations With full implementation of the program beginning in ing transport activities and contract drivers, • Be fully implemented in all operations 2012, specialists in each country of operation are currently which represent a majority of fatal incidents In 2011, the CEMEX Sustainability Committee endorsed the training all managers in its application. This work includes within our operations, with a focus on countries HSMS and CEMEX began its roll-out by first presenting the conducting a gap analysis in each country to identify issues where road safety cultures are still developing program to all national Health and Safety directors and nawhere compliance currently lags and defining action plans in general society. tional senior management teams. In addition, the company to correct any gaps. We must work harder to ensure all contracinitiated pilot audits. We also expanded our Global Health tors working at our production sites across our and Safety Council to reflect organizational restructuring worldwide operations perform to the same high and to ensure representation of all six global regions. health and safety standards we expect from our own employees. < previous 31 next> In 2011, the CEMEX Sustainability Committee endorsed the HSMS and CEMEX began its roll-out by first presenting the program to all national H&S directors and national senior management teams. Health and safety programs are, by necessity, implemented at the country and site level, but the chain of responsibility and monitoring extends to CEMEX’s top management team and Board of Directors. Line management is responsible and accountable for implementing initiatives, investigating incidents, and demonstrating correct safety behaviors. Overview, review, and guidance continue all the way up through LEGACY safety leadership program incidents: lost-time injuries and regional and company-wide levels to the Sustainability Committee, which reports progress and challenges to the top manageDuring 2011, CEMEX guided 2,914 supervisors and managers through training in LEGACY, the company’s in-house flagship fatalities ment team. In 2011, we had a lost-time injury (LTI) rate of 2.3, with 213 safety leadership program; that’s about 800 more than completsuch injuries in total. This marks an improvement over 2010’s ed the program in 2010. LEGACY is designed to help us achieve CEMEX HSMS ORGANIZATION AND rate of 2.6 but still requires a concerted effort for us to reach our goal of zero incidents by helping managers to adopt key COMMUNICATION STRUCTURE our 2015 target of 0.5. We are deeply sorry to report that, safety leadership skills to help influence positive safety cultures despite our best efforts and the improvement in our LTI rate, in the workplace. When fully implemented, the program will 44 people—5 employees, 24 contractors, and 15 third parCEO equip managers at all levels with the tools, skills, and behavties—died in 2011 in connection with CEMEX activities. Nearly ioral standards required to lead safer, more efficient operations. half, 21 people, lost their lives in driving-related accidents. It is organized around the seven behaviors of effective safety These tragedies are absolutely unacceptable, and significant CEMEX Executive Committee leadership and covers themes such as leading by example, unimprovement is still needed, especially with regard to transderstanding processes and people, and ensuring accountability. port activities and contract drivers, which represent a majority of fatalities within our operation. We will continue to work Central H&S Country & Business Country & Business diligently to bring that number to zero. Direction H&S Direction Management H&S Coordination Network Collaboration < previous 32 next> Additional resources driving safety: road transportation > CEMEX health and safety safety group and driving essentials Driving-related incidents involving our employees, contractors, and the public represent the majority of fatalities in our company and the industry. We continue to face numerous challenges, including operating in many areas where road Case Study: infrastructure is poorly developed and road safety culture is still maturing. innovative practices recognized by In 2011, CEMEX established the Road Transportation Safety CEMEX Safety Awards ENSURING THE SAFETY Ensuring the safety and well-being of our employees, Group, a new group representing all six CEMEX regions and contractors, and communities is of paramount importance comprising leaders of road transportation and logistics, to to our company. Since 2000, we have presented the Annual AND WELLBEING OF OUR develop continuous improvement initiatives globally that can Global Safety Awards to those operations that have achieved reduce safety risks on the road. Each country is now in the process of implementing action plans and reporting progress in outstanding safety performance during the year and consisEMPLOYEES, CONTRACTORS, tently improved their safety performance year over year. order to achieve 100 percent compliance with the CSI Recommended Good Practices guidelines by the end of 2014, a goal The winners in 2011 have demonstrated how a clear comAND COMMUNITIES IS OF we are on track to meet. mitment to safety, combined with innovative practices and We also rolled out the Driving Essentials program last year, visible leadership, can ultimately lead to injury-free operaPARAMOUNT IMPORTANCE tions. Learning from their outstanding example and good which raises awareness with drivers to follow 12 key behaviors known to improve road safety. We also continue to emphasize practices, we look forward to continually improving our TO OUR COMPANY safety performance in the coming years. selection and training of drivers, attention to vehicle specification, and site safety as important practices. In addition, CEMEX will continue to be an advocate for stricter driving regulations and enforcement in countries that have less well-defined standards compared with those that are more developed. We believe these efforts, taken together with other initiatives, will Best Safety Performance Most Improved Safety Performance not only reduce the risks to CEMEX but also make the commuCement Falcon L.L.C, Cement Operations UAE CEMEX Colmbia Cúcuta Plant nities in which we live and work safer. Concrete Arizona/Southern Nevada Region, PhoeReadymix Northern, UK nix Readymix Concrete, USA Road Transportation Logistics Aggregates Southern, UK Coatzacoalcos and Huichapan Bases, Mexico Aggregates Central Florida Aggregates Operations, Baleares Aggregates Region, Spain USA Others Concrete Pipe Division, Houston Plant, UK Asphalt USA Country ≤500 employees CEMEX Austria CEMEX China Country 500> employees CEMEX Croatia CEMEX UAE < previous 33 next> priority 6 strengthen local communities Helping sustain the health and prosperity of the communities in which we operate is a matter of material significance to CEMEX. Through our social responsibility efforts, we look to become a key partner in improving living conditions in developing economies while cultivating new generations of construction professionals. performance highlights • 45,545 Latin American families benefited from Patrimonio Hoy, bringing the accumulated total to AT CEMEX, WE 353,856. RECOGNIZE THAT • CEMEX established 16 new “Productive Centers of Self-employment” – 14 in Mexico and 2 in Colombia EMPOWERMENT IS -benefiting more than 44,000 families. THE MOST DURABLE • 51 sustainable community development projects participated in the CEMEX-TEC Transforming FORM OF COMMUNITY Communities Award. SUPPORT < previous 34 next> Through major initiatives such as Patrimonio Hoy, our Productive Centers of Self Employment (PCS) program, and our 353,856 new Construction School launched through CEMEX-TEC, we our approach leverage our operational capabilities and business skills to help community members address these issues, improve the At CEMEX, we recognize that empowerment is the most quality and dignity of their lives, and secure better futures for durable form of community support. Through productive and themselves. Supporting the socioeconomic development of families benefited since the ongoing dialogues with our host communities, we are able to target the issues that are most socially and economically our markets in this way, we are building strong relationships Patrimonio Hoy inception, restrictive on local scales, and respond with practical soluthat will help not only communities, but also our own busihelping them build 2.5 million ness, to grow and prosper. tions. We develop programs and tools that catalyze skills square meters of housing. development, self-sufficiency, and entrepreneurship among their participants. Patrimonio Hoy: much more Given the scope of CEMEX’s community involvement, each than a house initiative is built around our Social Investment Guidelines, Patrimonio Hoy is our flagship community initiative, which Responsible Operation Guidelines, and our stakeholder-enis dedicated to helping low-income families reach their selfgagement parameters. In this manner, we are able to maxiconstruction goals. Established in 1998, the award-winning mize the effectiveness of our community initiatives for local program combines the global presence of CEMEX distribuconstituents as well as our business. tion centers with the power of microcredit, to offer families financial and technical assistance in the construction of their Throughout our global markets, we have observed many homes. With more than 100 offices in Latin America, Patriconsistent community challenges, some of which include the monio Hoy enables families to build or improve their homes following: more quickly, more efficiently, and with better materials— • Access to housing concrete, cement blocks, and steel—that otherwise would • Integrity of local infrastructure not be possible within their means. • Quality and conditions of community institutions (schools, While Patrimonio Hoy was first launched in Mexico, we have hospitals, community centers, etc.) steadily increased the presence and impacts of the program • Disaster relief imperatives in other Latin American countries. In Colombia, for example, • Insufficient educational resources families benefitting from Patrimonio Hoy have increased nearly tenfold since the program entered the country in 2005. This growth pattern speaks to the widespread need for improved access to affordable housing, and CEMEX is challenges ahead: committed to meeting this demand both through innovative Speeding the process to replicate community community programming and by expanding the availability engagement initiatives in our operations, espeof comprehensive housing solutions. cially in countries with emerging economies. Dom. Rep. Mexico Colombia Nicaragua Costa Rica Total Continuing to raise the profile of social proExpansion of the Patrimonio Hoy program grams so all our employees become engaged and play an active role. New partners 2010 134 42,345 1,992 561 67 45,099 New partners 2011 168 41,692 2,520 998 167 45,545 Total partners 267 335,865 11,383 5,613 728 353,856 Total square meters built 1,707 2,532,252 39,327 18,219 1,589 2,593,094 Read more about Patrimonio Hoy at www.cemex.com/SustainableDevelopment/LowIncomeHousing.aspx < previous 35 next> ConstruApoyo and Construimos Juntos: two models for disaster response and long-term relief CEMEX offers two mechanisms for fast and effective response to disaster situations: • Through its ConstruApoyo program, CEMEX facilitates the distribution of government relief funds with a debit card Colombia opens a new Productive system, creating a transparent process through which aid Center of Self-employment (PCS) recipients are able to purchase the building materials they need. Launched in 2005 to help with disaster-relief In June of 2011, a new PCS center was opened in the city efforts in Mexico following hurricanes Stan and Wilma, of Payandé, Colombia, as part of the latest expansion of the ConstruApoyo model has been replicated in subseCEMEX housing programs in the country. Throughout the quent emergency situations. Ongoing support has been remainder of the year, 120 individual participants in the provided to the victims of Hurricane Alex—which devasPCS center collectively produced 45,511 concrete blocks, tated parts of Nuevo León in 2010—as well as the earthhelping 12 families to start building their homes. By year quake in Haiti in 2010. In 2011, a total of USD1 million end, 108 square meters of construction had been completwas administered through the ConstruApoyo distribution ed through efforts of the program participants. empowering self-sufficiency network, helping more than 2,000 families with home rebuilding efforts. Through our community-involvement efforts across the • Construimos Juntos is a rapid-response system for the esglobe, we have learned that self-sufficiency and the detablishment of PCS in disaster-stricken areas. Leveraging the velopment of practical skills are integral to the long-term effective, repeatable model of the PCS program, Construiprosperity of individuals and communities. In many of our mos Juntos expedites the availability of essential building markets, however, poor access to jobs, skills-training, and education opportunities limit individuals’ ability to meet materials to help communities begin rebuilding efforts. their basic needs. To address this challenge, CEMEX has developed a number of programs that simultaneously improve FAMILIES BENEFITED BY PCSs communities’ access to building materials for their homes, thousands and provide mechanisms to improve training and employment options. Productive Centers of Self-employment (PCS) 8,475 PCS are community spaces where individuals manufacture 2010 concrete blocks and other precast forms, keeping half of their production for personal construction purposes while 45,511 selling the other half to state and municipal governments. 44,013 CEMEX helps PCS manage purchase agreements to ensure that each center uses proceeds to ultimately become self2011 concrete blocks produced sufficient. In 2011, CEMEX introduced 16 new PCS to the by 120 individuals in overall program helping over 44,013 families have build and The number of CEMEX PCS increased by 60 percent in 2011, improve their housing conditions. with 38 self-sustaining centers now in existence. The overall Colombia’s new PCS program is currently being strengthened to allow for more rapid expansion of PCS locations beyond Mexico, and into CEMEX’s other countries of operation. < previous 36 next> Additional resources • The CEMEX-TEC Transforming Communities Award, > Patrimonio Hoy granted annually to support research projects and initia> CEMEX-TEC tives focused on sustainable development throughout > CEMEX-TEC Sustainability Research In 2011, CEMEX continued its support of the population Mexico. Projects on topics such as economic growth, large Cathedra affected in 2010 by Hurricane Alex through the Construimos scale adoption and implementation of technology, social Juntos Nuevo León program. In alliance with the governcohesiveness of communities, and preservation of natural ments of 10 municipalities and the state government of resources are all considered for the award. Nuevo León, CEMEX provided volunteers and packets of • The CEMEX-Tec Development of Sustainable Communibuilding materials to 200 displaced families, who were able ties Research Chair, which explores the creation and to build their new homes themselves. CEMEX also donated implementation of sustainable development strategies in 500 tons of cement for use in the 13 PCS established in different communities throughout Mexico. The CEMEX-TEC Nuevo León. Overall, Construimos Juntos has provided supSustainability Research Chair focuses on a number of issues port to more than 3,771 families in 15 municipalities who and sustainability indicators, including the following: 2011 winners of the Transforming have suffered from the impacts of Hurricane Alex. • Urban regeneration • Environmental quality Communities Award supporting community • Economic development • Technological development infrastructure and education • Social, political, and cultural development In addition to addressing the immediate housing needs of • Citizenship the communities where we operate, CEMEX is committed to bolstering communities’ fundamental capacities for longWater treatment plant donated in Colombia term self-sustenance and upward mobility. We assist with Infrastructural damage and inadequate public services can the improvement of local infrastructure, educational facilipose serious risks to the health and safety of communities, and cultural institutions to support community health, ties. Such was the case in Payandé, Colombia, a small town social cohesion, and opportunities for economic advanceoutside of the nation’s capital where, prior to 2011, local ment. residents did not have access to clean drinking water. With operations in the neighboring community of Caracolita, CEMEX-TEC: for the development of sustainable communities CEMEX took action to solve this problem with the donation In 2011, the first place Transforming Communities Award An estimated 87% of Mexican homes are constructed by of a water treatment plant in early 2011. The facility will was presented to a research team proposing the developa mason or a family member having no formal training in provide clean drinking water to 3,800 people in the town of ment of social housing for abandoned elderly people living construction—a clear indication of the need for construction Payandé and will help to protect the health of the broader in low-income areas where instances of crime and conflict skills development in the Mexican economy. To address this community. are high. The proposed solution would enable a more soissue, CEMEX and Tecnológico de Monterrey—the Monterrey cially active community with better local economic develInstitute of Technology (TEC) have collaborated to establish “Building the Future” Foundation in the Czech Republic opment, safer public spaces, and accessibility to all people. extensive educational programming in the area of sustainWith worldwide operations, CEMEX must adapt to a host of able construction. This partnership, CEMEX-TEC, has develdifferent cultures, geographies, and challenges among its For more information, visit www.cdcs.com.mx/en/premio_ oped three key initiatives: host communities. categorias • The CEMEX-TEC Construction School program focuses In 2011, CEMEX launched a regional “Building the Future” on developing students’ skills and capacities in self-conFoundation initiative in the Czech Republic, to support struction and in the construction industry, with the goal communities that periodically suffer from serious floods. If of stimulating the creation of micro businesses in the and when flooding does occur, CEMEX will be available to construction sector. By 2015, CEMEX-TEC has the potential provide financial assistance for response efforts. to offer 1,800 technical courses through the Construction School, benefiting 52,000 students, with program coverage extended to 27 Mexican states. < previous 37 next> priority 7 partnership with key stakeholders Our relationships with stakeholders are essential to our ability to succeed; accordingly, we seek their valuable input and collaboration wherever possible. performance highlights • Even though the Transformation project included a CEMEX restructuring process among other initiatives, focused efforts were implemented to foster employee retention, VALUES THE engagement, and training with renewed efficiency. CONTRIBUTIONS, • We implemented 207 employee engagement initiatives throughout the world, reaching around 70 percent of our LOYALTY, AND workforce. SUPPORT OF ITS • CEMEX countries that conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys increased to 86 percent. STAKEHOLDERS • More than 1,000 suppliers were surveyed regarding their sustainability practices. • Working with more than 300 global and local NGO’s on environmental, educational, social, and other policy and development programs. < previous 38 next> employee engagement In 2011, the CEMEX Transformation project—a comprehensive effort to restructure our business and streamline schedules for working mothers in Mexico, Panama, Colombia operations to strengthen our competitiveness—drove an and UK, and allowing employees to work from home as apimportant effort from the Human Resources function. Among propriate in Ireland. the more difficult decisions we had to make in connection our approach with the Transformation initiatives, was to reduce 6 percent Employee Training and Development Our stakeholders depend on us as a supplier of products and of active positions. However, with this process complete, the Our development philosophy considers on-the-job experiences services as an employer, customer, investment, taxpayer, and company is focusing on retaining key talent, ensuring strong as a cornerstone of employee professional and personal growth, neighbor. Likewise, CEMEX values the contributions, loyalty, employee engagement and commitment, and maintaining which in turn is supported by mentoring and traditional learning and support of its stakeholders. We therefore take their needs a pipeline of talented employees who will contribute to the programs. During 2011, we have targeted our training efforts on and concerns very seriously, have built longstanding relagrowth and strength of our company. sales, health and safety, ethics and compliance, and leadership. tionships with them over the years, and engage with them Human Resources identified three key levers to focus on in proactively to address their concerns and to create trust and In 2010, we developed a Manager Training Program that focuses the mid-term to drive excellence within the company: mutual long-term value. on providing basic management tools for collaboration. In 2011, 1. Developing capabilities. We will focus on developing we began implementing the program in our business units, Having restructured the organization as part of the companyfour organizational capabilities: operational excellence, which we expect will reach 4,000 employees by the end of wide Transformation project to be leaner and more efficient, entrepreneurship, market-driven innovation, and closer 2012. During 2011, we also began efforts to redefine our Leadwe are now able to better focus our efforts and capabilities customer relationships. We will achieve these objecership Development and Training for Performance programs, on meeting the needs of our customers, shareholders, and tives through job training, mentoring and coaching, and both of which will be deployed during 2012. employees in ways that will ensure sustainable profitability academic training programs. and value in the years to come. Approximately 55 percent of our executives and employees 2. Being closer to our customers. Our overall strategy is have access to a formal online system to register evaluations, to ensure that our structure allows us to be as close as and 97 percent of these employees report receiving feedback possible to customers and provide better construction through this channel. Other employees receive regular perforsolutions. For example, in CEMEX Spain, the commercial mance and career development reviews directly from managers. challenges ahead: activities from all the regions were consolidated under Enabling an entrepreneurial spirit within the one leader in order to provide better and faster service to Promotions and Compensation company. our customers on all product lines. We have a Job Opportunity Policy in place to ensure that all employees are made aware of and have the opportunity to apply Engaging talent. 3. Aligning incentives to value creation. CEMEX is aligning for open positions to support their professional growth. Hiring variable compensation with the company’s new organizaMaintaining and improving service levels for decisions are made regardless of race, color, age, religion, mental tion and value-creation objectives. It is also advancing in customers. or physical disability, sex or national origin of any employee. the provision of health, insurance, and pension benefits Communicating effectively to investors the which in many cases are beyond those required by law. Our compensation packages are based on the responsibility effects our Transformation project is having level of the position and not related to race, gender, religion, age In 2011, we also focused our efforts to support and engage within the company. or any other protected traits. To ensure the competitiveness of employees. For example, we implemented 207 employeeour compensation we monitor the standards of the market base engagement initiatives that were based on employee pay and total cash compensation of comparable companies, suggestions or feedback. Altogether, engagement programs through independent, professional and third party surveys. and events reached around 70 percent of our workforce. In addition, we continued to encourage initiatives that support work-life balance, particularly those related to childcare, healthcare, and continuing education. We have implemented For more information on our development initiatives 93 such programs in numerous countries, reaching a total for employees, please visit www.cemex.com/ of 28 percent of our workforce. Examples include flexible SustainableDevelopment/TalentDevelopment.aspx < previous 39 next> our global workforce customer satisfaction Under the Transformation reorganization project completed WORKFORCE BY TYPE OF CONTRACT WORKFORCE BY LEVEL in 2011, CEMEX is now even better prepared to focus on the percentage percentage feedback and needs of our customers. Our new structure 1 not only allows us to work more closely and responsively with customers, it also better supports product and service 5 innovations that will benefit these relationships. Full time Executive positions Our approach to innovating for customers has been very Part time 37 Non-executive positions much driven by insights gained from careful listening to Operational positions 99 our customers via interviews and other feedback channels. 58 86 percent of our countries performed surveys to measure customer satisfaction. We have identified four key focus areas for innovation and customer satisfaction: construction competence, personalized construction, legacy building, and national development. WORKFORCE BY AGE WORKFORCE BY SENIORITY percentage percentage Our findings indicate that customers are often frustrated by the difficulty of finding providers who can meet their needs; the complexity of building processes, technologies and 17 15 materials; and the lack of trust and cooperation among the 23 many entities operating in the field. We will therefore focus Under 30 39 Less than 1 year on improving customer satisfaction through the following: 31-40 1-5 years 41-50 21 5-10 years 31 • Making construction easier for customers to plan for, Over 50 Over 10 years 29 execute, and manage 25 • Providing knowledge that gives customers and tradespeople the confidence to build • Enabling an open and transparent platform for matching skilled help with construction projects WORKFORCE BY GENDER percentage 11 Male 86% Female of our countries performed surveys to 89 measure customer satisfaction < previous 40 next> improving supply-chain performance Our responsibility for sustainable business practices extends to the farthest reaches of our supply chain. Our customers listening to our suppliers Some of the findings from our global supplier sustainand other stakeholders hold us just as accountable for the ability survey: sustainability of our sourcing and procurement practices as for the sustainability of our products and services. Thus, our 41% of our global suppliers are signatories or comsuccess in part relies on the support and participation of our mitted to the United Nations Global Compact, whose suppliers, who provide valuable local perspectives, expertise, ten principles seek to address human rights, labor, and practices and whom we view as partners. environment and anti-corruption challenges. 62% have specific projects or social programs to Local Sourcing promote the development of the communities where We see local sourcing as a sustainable business practice: it they operate. creates jobs, which in turn stimulates local economies while developing new skills among local workers. We support 32% work with their suppliers in social programs small and locally based suppliers everywhere we operate for the communities. Case Study: (we define transactions with local suppliers as those pur79% have a written ethics policy or internal code of CEMEX distribution card delivers chases that do not include an importation code). In 2011, conduct. customer convenience 94 percent of our purchases were made from locally based suppliers. While some of our national suppliers are large 70% have a written sustainability policy. CEMEX Philippines, in partnership with Banco de Oro, the companies, our procurement teams participate regularly in country’s largest bank, issued in 2011 the first ever Distribu71% have staff responsible for sustainable developevents to identify new, local suppliers, in particular smalltion Card in the Philippine cement industry. The Distribument or corporate responsibility. to-medium-sized enterprises, which typically have revenues tion Card offers payment and credit solutions exclusively to of less than USD50 million. We also provide training and 70% offer CEMEX sustainable products/services (for CEMEX customers across the Philippine archipelago—supdevelopment programs to help suppliers strengthen their example, 100% biodegradable kraft paper bags). porting the company’s thrust into newer markets throughout business practices and integrate sustainability into their the nation. In 2012, we intend to conduct a deeper analysis of the business processes. survey data to uncover additional insights we can apply The Distribution Card provides a secure channel to acto supplier relationships. We will also work with the 30 celerate the procure-to-pay process for CEMEX clients. The percent of suppliers who lack an ethics or sustainability 70% card not only increases credit lines but also offers payment policy to help them establish these. flexibility, affording customers assistance in growing their businesses. The Distribution Card is an innovation that exemplifies CEMEX’s growing array of customer-focused products and of our suppliers offer services designed to build client satisfaction and loyalty. CEMEX sustainable products/services, such as 100% biodegradable kraft paper bags < previous 41 next> responsible sourcing Our Supplier Sustainability Program is being embraced by our local operations and our suppliers and we are glad to mention some of the advances, according to its four phases: 1. 2. 3. 4. QUESTIONNAIRE COMMUNICATION POLICIES SCORECARD > Supplier Sustainability > Definition of the > Code of Conduct when > Include in our Survey: communication strategy: doing business with us: scorecard an evaluation > Sustainable practices > Communicate to our > Sustainability clauses in of sustainable > Social behaviors suppliers the CEMEX contracts and purchase practices. > Environmental measures sustainable commitment, orders practices and beliefs Each CEMEX Country has a different pace of implementation Phase I. Assessment during 2011, CEMEX conPhase II. Communication: In 2011, we created Phase III. Policies: We have developed the Code Phase IV. Scorecard: We are moving forward tinued assessing the sustainability practices a new section in the CEMEX website for Supof Conduct when doing business with us, which will with the application of a scorecard for sourcing and performance of current suppliers with the pliers. In this section, our suppliers can find all be rolled out in a schedule defined by each of the decisions that take into account sustainability supplier survey. In addition to the suppliers the relevant information of our Four Phases different CEMEX countries during 2012. This code considerations. More and more, CEMEX awards in Mexico, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Program. We have also developed an internal of conduct is the result of a benchmark study anacontracts to suppliers with the best sustainability and the Philippines that received the survey in global community within our internal collaboralyzing industry best practices, the 10 UN Global performance under similar economic conditions. 2010. In 2011 CEMEX sent the survey to a total tion platform, Shift, with a special section for Compact principles, and the procurement clauses For example, in Colombia, CEMEX has reinforced of 1,004 suppliers in the UK, Germany, Panama, Supplier Sustainability. Through this platform, contained in the Company´s Code of Conduct. The the negotiation evaluation standards that will be Costa Rica, Nicaragua, USA, UAE, Puerto Rico, and we share the progress of countries in each phase Code of Conduct when doing business with us can applied in every key negotiation or strategy of the a multinational group of suppliers categorized of the Program, share best practices and allow be found on our website. country’s operation. These standards will: as Global Sourcing. worldwide network and support. The CEMEX Procurement and Legal teams have • reinforce industrial safety, norms for environdeveloped sustainability clauses, aligned with the mental protection, and risk coverage Code of Conduct when doing business with us, to • standardize recruitment principles be included in supplier contracts and purchase • incorporate supplier sustainable practices, proorders. These include requirements regarding moting the principles of the UN Global Compact confidentiality, anti-bribery, human rights, labor, of which CEMEX is already a member health and safety, and environmental practices. In this way we will be able to encourage, from For more information, please visit the Supplier the moment we sign a contract, adherence of the Sustainability Program at www.cemex.com/ suppliers to this important initiative. Suppliers/SupplierSustainabilityProgram.aspx” < previous 42 next> Additional resources our partnerships > Stakeholder Engagement We leverage our knowledge and resources and promote our sustainability priorities and vision through > Life at CEMEX strategic global partnerships and memberships with more than 300 global and local organizations, > Global Partnerships including NGOs, trade associations, educational institutions, and intergovernmental organizations such as the United Nations. Partner Objective Activities in 2011 fulfilling our global commitments BirdLife International To address biodiversity challenges in CEMEX’s Developed, with the support of BirdLife International, CEMEX continues to participate in the United Nations Global sites worldwide. our own standard (Biodiversity Action Plan Standard) Compact (UNGC) Advisory Group on Supply Chain Sustainto manage biodiversity on our sites. ability. CEMEX shares best practices regarding sustainable Agreed on a working budget for the next three years procurement with the Advisory Group and also learns from and finalized a workplan for 2012 in which 6 pilots the practices of others. Some of these lessons were applied have been defined in order to test the BAP. during the development of the Code of Conduct when doing Conservation International; Publishing partnership for the Conservation Book Launched 19th edition of the CEMEX Conservation business with us, which is comprised of ten principles to International League of Program. Book: Oceans, Heart of Our Blue Planet. which CEMEX expects its business partners to adhere. The Conservation Photographers (ILCP) code is published online and publicly available through our new website section for suppliers. Prince of Wales’s Corporate Engage proactively in activities to deliver a robust Discussed climate change issues during highLeaders Group on Climate climate change agreement, based on market level dialogue in Brussels, Belgium, that also Change mechanisms, giving businesses more certainty for included European authorities on climate change, investments in low-carbon solutions. environmental NGOs, think tanks, and research bodies. engaging with investors and MIT Concrete Sustainability Analyze and improve sustainability of concrete. Refined lifecycle cost analysis studies for buildings Hub and pavement. analysts We engage with our investors and analysts, whether instiUnited Nations Global Shape global business practices, particularly in Active member of the Steering Committee of the Compact the field of climate change, beyond the scope of Caring for Climate initiative. tutional equity and bondholders or retail investors, through our own organization and sector. a variety of means. These engagements include annual and Cement Sustainability Exchange best practices and develop We applied the following CSI standards in our quarterly financial reporting, conference calls, roadshows, Initiative (CSI) – WBCSD sustainability-related management and policy operations and reporting on CO2 emissions and investor days, and one-on-one meetings. Our CEMEX Day tools among leading cement companies. safety incidents: investor event, held in New York on September 29, 2011, New guidelines for emissions monitoring was our most widely attended event ever: 110 participants Development of Quarry Rehabilitation Guidelines attended in person and 1,145 followed it via webcast. Development of Product Category Rules for Participants included institutional investors, analysts, lenders, standardized Environmental Product Declarations and journalists. Urban Infrastructure Develop and employ new models of public-private In addition to acting as co-chair of the initiative, Initiative (UII) of the partnership in order to make the word’s cities CEMEX participated in the work with selected cities We are transparent, forthright, and consistent in our dealings World Business Council for more sustainable. and took the lead in the collaboration with Latin with investors and analysts. More and more, we are seeking Sustainable Development America. to serve their growing information needs by communicating International Union for Identify CEMEX’s water-related material issues in Defined CEMEX water baseline; achieved a better our environmental, social, and governance performance. For Conservation of Nature order to define a corporate strategy, work to close understanding of CEMEX’s water-related issues, example, we include in our quarterly and annual reporting” the identified gaps and mitigate our risks, and challenges, gaps, and opportunities; renewed and after “efforts” so the sentence reads: For example, we include share water-related best practices. Also, conclude updated our Supplemental Agreement and Terms phase 1 of the water footprint project in order of Reference, reinforcing our commitment to this information on our sustainability efforts in our quarterly and to better assess and understand CEMEX’s water relationship. annual reporting. related challenges and opportunities. For more information, please visit the investor center at www.cemex.com/InvestorCenter/CorporateGovernance.aspx To see a full list of partnerships and memberships, visit www.cemex.com/SustainableDevelopment/GlobalPartnerships.aspx < previous 43 next> Audit Board of Committee Directors Corporate Practices managing our Committee Chairman & CEO Finance Committee business for the long term EVP Strategic Regional EVP Organization EVP Finance and Sustainability Planning and Business Presidents (6) 1 and HR Administration Committee 4 Development Regional Sustainability Corporate Energy Coordinators 3 and Sustainability 2 At CEMEX, we think of “sustainability” in the most fundamental Country Corporate sense of the term: as the ability to address current business Sustainability Sustainability teams team needs while managing for sustained, positive performance in future business climates. Defines sustainability guidelines and priorities 1 Regions include Northern Europe, South America and Caribbean, Mediterranean, Proposes and defines global sustainablity Asia, Mexico, USA 2 Reports to the President of CEMEX Northern Europe initiatives through Sustainability Committee 3 Reports to corresponding Regional President Executes global sustainability initiatives 4 Consists of 12 members: 9 members of Management Team, Senior VP Corporate Energy and Sustainability, Senior VP Technology and Safety, and one regional sustainability coordinator (alternates) advancing our priorities through Governance structure supporting sustainability managing our risks appropriately Responsibility for sustainability begins with our Board of A multitude of risks can affect CEMEX’s operations, assets, strong governance Directors and flows through all areas of our company to our employees, and neighbors. Accordingly, we use risk manageLed by our Chairman of the Board and CEO, Lorenzo H. local operations. ment systems and tools to gather information from a range of Zambrano, the CEMEX Board of Directors is responsible for suThe Sustainability Committee comprises of 12 members: nine sources, analyze the data, identify and assess potential risks, pervising the overall direction and operation of the company. members of our management team, the Senior Vice President and then respond to them. Since 2007, these processes have As of December 31, 2011 the board comprised 13 directors, of Energy and Sustainability, the Senior Vice President of Techincluded an evaluation of environmental, health, and safety nine of whom qualified as independent directors according to nology and Safety, and the Corporate Director of Sustainability. risks. criteria specified under Mexican Securities Law. On February This committee meets quarterly to assess and guide CEMEX 23, 2012 CEMEX’s General Shareholder’s Meeting appointed We have several processes that test the robustness of our in its sustainability efforts. Through their work, sustainability 11 directors to the board, 8 of whom qualify as indepensystems, evaluate compliance across all business units, and priorities are defined and resources allocated to initiatives dent directors according to criteria specified under Mexican encourage continuous improvements. These processes include that have the highest impact and provide the most significant Securities Law. The board is responsible for determining and compliance training for employees, periodic reviews of our improvement opportunities. overseeing our efforts to advance our seven sustainability policies and procedures, and regular internal audits. priorities—performance on which is critical to our ability to Decisions made by the Sustainability Committee and validated The company’s sustainability-related risks are addressed by execute our business strategy. by the CEO, the management team, and the Board of Directors our Enterprise Risk Management System, which is ultimately are swiftly executed by the Senior VP Energy and Sustainabilsupervised by our Board of Directors and the management For more on our governance structure, processes, and sysity in coordination with the different regional/country presiteam. The day-to-day responsibility for risk management at tems, please visit the governance section of our website at dents and leaders of other relevant corporate functions. www.cemex.com/InvestorCenter/CorporateGovernance.aspx < previous 44 next> We then matched these issues with the definition of seven 5 health and safety sustainability priorities to ensure that our business strategy is community engagement aligned with the main concerns of our stakeholders. The seven quarry rehab/ stakeholder corporate CEMEX has been delegated to the Executive Vice President of biodiversity dialogue gov. & ethics priorities are being addressed through CEMEX’s governance 4 other air Finance and Administration, who works with the departments emissions energy use/ climate structure and management approach. The materiality analysis efﬁciency & CO2 STAKEHOLDER CONCERN that have the relevant skills and expertise such as the Process employee conducted in 2010 remains valid and updated, as the main sustainable Assessment Department, the Global Risk Department, the construction relations concerns of our stakeholders have not changed and our comGlobal Legal Department, and the Internal Control Depart3 supply chain customer relations pany is still focused in improving the performance of those economic value creation ment, among others. We have also formalized the integration water issues identified as top priorities (see left). of the ETHOS committee, which supports the operative functransport/ risk management tions of the Global Ethics Committee. The ETHOS Committee 2 logistics raw materials guiding ethical and responsible vibrations is composed of representatives from Legal, Process Assessment, Internal Control, Human Resources and Information and noise R&D/ innovation behavior Through the CEMEX Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Security. 1 products for product safety (Code of Ethics), we seek to ensure that all employees underlow-income and quality public policy stand and share CEMEX’s high standards of conduct. For more on how we manage our risks, please visit http://www.cemex.com/SustainableDevelopment/ To achieve this objective, we have launched global communiMaterialityAnalysis.aspx 0 1 2 3 4 5 cations campaigns emphasizing expected behaviors. POTENTIAL IMPACT ON CEMEX In 2011, we trained around 10,500 employees on various topIdentifying our priorities through materiality analysis High-priority issues ics covered by the Code of Ethics, we delivered approximately In 2010 we conducted a materiality analysis to assist in 1,700 trainings on workplace behavior and more than 2,000 identifying areas of key risk and opportunity, and to refine and related to anti-bribery, among other topics. Additionally, we confirm CEMEX’s strategic approach and priorities. Sustainability Priorities Material issues conducted a significant number of internal audits with our exTo conduct the analysis, we reviewed a wide variety of materiHigh priority to health and safety Health and safety ecutives in Mexico, Europe, and South America and Caribbean als indicating stakeholder opinions and concerns, including region on antitrust and anti-bribery issues. This is an annual Partnership with key stakeholders Corporate governance and ethics customer inquiries, supplier requirements, competitor and Stakeholder dialogue/collaboration compliance program that will continue to be conducted in peer disclosures, industry association papers and position Community engagement future years, covering all relevant geographic regions where statements, investor criteria as defined in ratings and rankEmployee relations/engagement CEMEX operates. ings inquiries, and sustainability reporting standards. From Lead in sustainable construction Sustainable construction these sources we built a preliminary list of issues and sought Enhance our carbon strategy Climate change/CO2 emissions/energy management’s perspective regarding their impact on the Excellence in environmental and Climate change/CO2 emissions/energy company. CEMEX’s management analyzed the results of the biodiversity management Other air emissions (dust, etc.) stakeholder review and company survey and approved a final Quarry rehabilitation/biodiversity list of material issues. Strengthen local communities Community engagement Affordable housing and infrastructure The material issues identified through our materiality assessment process align well with our seven sustainability priorities. < previous 45 next> Online Number of courses in 2011 Instructor led training Total Anti-bribery 1,862 150 2,012 10,000 Antitrust 1,559 225 1,784 Avoiding conflicts of interest 142 142 CEMEX’s Code of Ethics 375 153 528 Confidential information 1,796 2,231 4,027 employees were trained Insider trading 48 48 We also launched communication efforts focusing on: antiIntroduction to compliance 184 184 on various topics covered trust, anti-bribery, customer relations, workplace environment, Introduction to Sarbanes-Oxley 6 6 by the Code of Ethics giving/ receiving gifts and information security. Over 200 compliance communications were delivered. Workplace behavior 1,641 141 1,782 We also updated it to improve understanding of regulations Total 7,465 3,048 10,513 focused on particular issues, such as human rights and anticorruption. To ensure effective comprehension, we enhanced its design and added example scenarios and frequently asked questions. New employees are required to sign the Code of Ethics as part of their orientation. The Code of Ethics is availpublic policy activities able through our website and intranet. We actively follow public policy developments in many of the countries and regions in which we operate, and we ETHOSline is our safe and confidential tool to ask questions advocate for our business and sustainability priorities. CEand report potential violations related to ethics, governance MEX’s Chairman of the Board and CEO and the company’s and compliance. ETHOSline can be accessed either online executive management team determine the company’s through our intranet, or via telephone; telephone accessibilpriorities and public positions on issues. Our Vice President ity was extended to all employees during 2011. ETHOSline is for Corporate Communications, Public Affairs and Investor managed by a third party that gathers the incident informaRelations then works with regional managers to devise an tion, documents the concerns, and relays the information to appropriate strategy for each region and collaborate with CEMEX. relevant stakeholders. Current priorities include: For more about our ethics and compliance policies, please • Environmental protection visit www.cemex.com/AboutUs/EthicsAndCompliance. • Climate change and carbon markets aspx • Sustainable construction • Infrastructure development Company Policies • Community engagement In addition to our Code of Ethics, we communicate our CEMEX also maintains active relationships with governexpectations and set global standards through the following ments at all levels to discuss and clarify perceptions of our company-wide policies, which can be found in our internal company and our industry maximize our ability to collaboPolicy Center and on the CEMEX website: rate productively. The need to reconcile economic develop• Health and Safety ment with protection of the environment requires effective • Environment solutions between states and private enterprises. CEMEX • Biodiversity holds that the fastest way to a solution is often through • Anti-bribery • Antitrust < previous 46 next> Additional resources > Stakeholder Engagement > Life at CEMEX > Global Partnerships Pursuant to these commitments, we do more than merely comply with local employment laws. We forbid all forms of discrimination, do not use child or forced labor, and guarantee the right to freedom of association, and have implemented company procedures and training to prevent inadvertent violations of these policies: open dialogue. These dialogues are important in order to • Our selection and hiring process requires the presentation maintain our license to operate, generate institutional sales, of government-issued identification, as well as a rigorous strengthen our reputation and support the development of investigation of the person’s information. This process the communities in which we participate. also extends to our contracted labor suppliers in countries like the Dominican Republic and Mexico. In fact, in For more information, please visit www.cemex.com/SusAs mentioned before, we have a Job Opportunity Policy to Mexico, CEMEX itself checks that all suppliers’ employees tainableDevelopment/PublicPolicy.aspx ensure that all employees are made aware of and have the are over the age of 18. opportunity to apply for open positions to support their profocus on human rights • As part of our prohibition on forced or compulsory labor, fessional growth. Hiring decisions are made without regard We are committed to supporting and respecting the protecwe do not require anyone to perform hazardous tasks to applicants of race, color, age, religion, mental or physical tion of internationally proclaimed human rights, as well as against their will or tasks that are detrimental to their disability, sex, or national origin. ensuring we are not complicit in any human rights abuses. health or wellbeing. In addition, we take measures to This obligation is reinforced by our ongoing commitment as prevent workers from falling into debt bondage through Our compensation packages are based on the responsibility a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and our company loans. For example, in Colombia we offer loans level of the position and not related to race, gender, religion, membership in Foro Soria 21, an international organization only through the employee fund and only after completage or any other protected trait. To ensure the competitivefocused on social ethics and values. We are currently evaluing an analysis of the worker’s borrowing capacity and ness of our compensation, we monitor the market base pay ating the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human minimum earnings. Naturally, all employees are free to and total cash compensation of comparable companies Rights, sometimes referred to as the Ruggie framework, and leave the company at any time. through independent, third-party surveys. its implications for our business. Based on stakeholder concerns and CEMEX’s greater • Approximately 19,000 employees are represented by a union. CEMEX fully acknowledges, supports, and respects understanding of the human rights risks the company may its employees rights to freedom of association, provided be exposed to, we are taking steps to ensure that human all actions are legal and that they do not interfere with rights are respected not only across all of our company’s the employees’ duties and responsibilities. operations but also to the full extent of our influence. We are including explicit references to the Code of Ethics and • We also engage with employees through: collective barour human rights commitments in vendor and supplier gaining processes, quarterly meetings of the board of contracts, and are enhancing the systems we use to screen directors with workers, monthly meetings by specific departsuppliers’ social and environmental performance. ments, and individual meetings within departments. In certain countries, including Croatia and Mexico, we host forums specifically to gather opinions on particular issues. Employees can also communicate recommendations and concerns to management through our ETHOSline, several surveys the company conducts, Open Dialogues, and Town Halls. < previous 47 next> our performance in detail 2009 2010 2011 Lead in Sustainable Construction Production covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) NA 1 60 87 Cement 100 100 Aggregates 50 83 Ready Mix 1 41 83 Sites covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) NA 29 88 Cement 100 100 Aggregates 42 84 Ready Mix 22 89 CO2 Footprint Annual Average NA Cement (Kg CO2e per ton cement) 798 798 Aggregates (Kg CO2e per ton aggregates products) 5.3 4.9 Ready Mix (Kg CO2e per m ) 3 298 275 1 Data Recalculated taking into consideration the scope set: fixed and managed plants Affordable Housing and Infrastructure Number of houses built under CEMEX affordable housing program NA 1,572 3,259 Thousands of square meters of concrete paving completed NA 7,907,968 8,045,350 < previous 48 next> 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Carbon Strategy Other carbon strategy indicators Absolute gross CO2 emissions (million metric tons) 41.7 43.5 43.1 Alternative raw material rate 12.2 11.8 12 Absolute net CO2 emissions (million metric tons) 39.7 41.0 40.0 Clinker/Cement factor (%) 75 76 75 Specific gross CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of Indirect Energy Consumption (GWh) 6,887 7,108 7,164 cementitious product) 658 667 660 Specific energy consumption, cement (Kwh/ton cement) 115 118 118 Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of ceSpecific energy consumption, ready-mix concrete mentitious product) 627 629 612 (Kwh/cubic meter) 3.1 3.3 3.3 Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious Specific energy consumption, aggregates (Kwh/ton) 6.2 6.0 6.9 product from 1990 baseline (%) 20.7 20.5 22.7 Direct energy consumption (TJ) 183,154 195,043 191,323 Thermal energy efficiency of clinker production (MJ/ton clinker) 3,693 3,696 3,757 Air Quality Clinker produced with continous monitoring of major Fuel Mix (%) emissions (dust, NOx and SOx) (%) 60 74 80 Total alternative fuels 16.4 20.3 24.7 Clinker produced with monitoring of major and minor Coal 26.1 25.3 26.9 emissions (dust, NOx, SOx, Hg, Cd, TI, VOC, PCDD/F)(%) 47 69 82 Petroleum coke 46.8 45.0 38.5 Absolute dust emissions (tons/year) 5,052 4,421 4,978 Fuel oil 10.1 8.8 9.4 Specific dust emissions (g/ton clinker) 106 89 101 Natural gas 0.6 0.6 0.5 Absolute NOx emissions (tons/year) 50,562 56,239 54,182 Specific NOx emissions (g/ton clinker) 1,063 1,134 1,094 Absolute SOx emissions (tons/year) 19,499 16,556 16,601 Alternative fuels rate 16.4 20.3 24.7 Specific SOx emissions (g/ton clinker) 410 334 335 Alternative fossil fuels rate 13.2 15.7 20.1 Biomass fuels rate 3.2 4.6 4.6 Water Consumption1 Cement (l/ton) 344 277 257 Waste types used as alternative fuels (%) Ready-mix (l/cubic meter) 213 202 213 Industrial and household waste 64 61 65 Aggregates (l/ton) 193 199 182 Tires 17 16 16 Operations with water recycling systems (%) 72 75 79 Animal meal 6 4 4 Cement 74 75 77 Agricultural organic waste 11 14 10 Ready-mix 76 86 89 Other biomass 2 5 5 Aggregates 64 65 71 1 Under the Framework of CEMEX’s Water Project, during 2010 we started the process of adjusting, improving, and standardizing our water KPIs definitions to achieve more accurate figures that in the future will align with the CSI’s ongoing work on water KPI. < previous 49 next> 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Waste Management1 Environmental Management Total disposed hazardous waste (tons) 76,543 50,868 39,904 Operations with an Environmental Management Cement 17,681 14,164 15,492 System implemented (%) 50 76 86 Operations with ISO 14001 Certifications NA 367 448 Ready-mix 3,087 1,272 1,784 Operations with ISO 14001 Certifications (%) NA 18 23 Aggregates 55,775 35,433 22,628 Environmental investment (US million) 77 93 95 Total disposed non-hazardous waste (tons) 362,313 385,977 414,600 Major environmental incidents (#) 8 2 0 Cement 69,278 66,139 96,372 Environmental non-compliance cases (#)1 67 65 129 Ready-mix 282,033 313,515 315,476 Associated fines (US million)2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Aggregates 11,002 6,322 2,752 1The rise in incidents is due to the implementation of a new alternative fuel feeding system in Egypt, which caused many irregular conditions to the kiln and filters, leading to an increased level Volume of returned ready-mix concrete material from of CO2 emissions. Egypt is currently proposing an investment in a more efficient filter system. Note: total delivered Costa Rica did not report this indicator. % 0.78 0.73 0.76 2 The United States paid a US 1.4 million dollar fine due to an Environmental Protection Agency Cubic meters 323,963 279,909 284,910 violation reported in 2005. Note: Costa Rica did not report to this indicator Secondary and recycled aggregates used as a direct replacement of primary aggregates (tons) Health and Safety % 0.2 0.25 0.27 Total fatalities 33 46 44 Cubic meters 261,800 284,356 312,276 Employees, total 8 2 5 1 During 2011 we carried out a detailed revision of the methodology applied in all CEMEX producEmployees, cement 2 2 2 tion sites in our three main businesses (cement, ready mix, and aggregates) to measure waste Employees, ready-mix 3 0 3 disposal. In this review we developed a standard way of calculating the figures and we have identiEmployees, aggregates 2 0 0 fied CEMEX operations that were using different criteria or methods. All past waste figures were recalculated to conform to the new standard. Employees, other businesses 1 0 0 Contractors, total 11 15 24 Contractors, cement 5 7 10 Biodiversity Management Contractors, ready-mix 3 7 4 Active sites with quarry rehabilitation plans (%) 82 85 89 Contractors, aggregates 3 1 8 Cement 79 82 87 Contractors, other businesses 0 0 2 Aggregates 83 86 90 Third-parties, total 14 29 15 Number of active quarries within or adjacent to high biodiversity value areas 112 105 103 Third parties, cement 2 7 7 Cement 11 12 14 Third parties, ready-mix 9 7 7 Aggregates 101 93 89 Third parties, aggregates 0 0 1 Active sites with high biodiversity value where biodiverThird parties, other businesses 3 15 0 sity action plans are actively implemented (%) 29 38 38 Fatality rate, employees (per 10,000 employed) 1.56 0.43 1.21 Cement 45 58 50 Cement 1.68 1.71 1.75 Aggregates 28 35 36 Ready-mix 1.81 0 1.95 Aggregates 3.54 0 0 Other businesses 0.58 0 0 < previous 50 next> 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Lost-Time Injuries (LTIs) Lost-Time Injuries (LTIs) (continued) Employees, total 360 268 213 Sickness Absence Rate (%) 5.2 2.5 1.8 Employees, cement 61 52 44 Operations with a Health Management System implemented (%) 76 79 82 Employees, ready-mix 151 125 107 Operations with a qualified health professional onsite Employees, aggregates 41 18 20 or with access to an external health provider 96 96 96 Employees, other businesses 107 73 42 Contractors, total 154 123 124 Corporate Governance Contractors, cement 50 32 50 Reports of alleged breaches to the Code of Ethics Contractors, ready-mix 36 27 38 received by local ethics committees (#) 216 184 221 Contractors, aggregates 24 12 8 Reports related to employee relations 70 31 29 Contractors, other businesses 44 52 28 Reports related to a form of harassment 14 46 40 Lost-time injury rate (LTI) frequency rate, employees Reports related to discrimination 9 11 9 (per million hours worked) 3.2 2.6 2.3 Disciplinary actions taken as a result of reports of nonCement 2.4 2.1 1.7 compliance with the Code of Ethics, other policies, or Ready-mix 4 3.3 2.9 the law (#) 92 77 119 Aggregates 3.3 1.7 2 Countries with local mechanisms to promote employee Others 2.9 2.4 1.9 awareness of procedures to identify and report inciCompliance with CSI Driving Safety Recommended dences of internal fraud, kick-backs, among others (%) 90 90 100 Practices (%) NA 64 79 Investigated incidents reported and found to be true 10 0 0 Compliance with CSI Contractor Safety Recommended related to internal fraud, kick-backs, among others (#) Practices (%) NA 63 82 Operations with a Safety Management System Partnership with Key Stakeholders implemented (%) 98 98 99.6 Workforce 47,624 46,533 44,104 Cement 95 98 98.5 Mexico 10,663 11,409 10,333 Ready-mix 99 99 99.8 United States 10,065 8,860 8,322 Aggregates 95 97 99 Northern Europe 1 15,786 15,054 13,994 Operations certified with OSHAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) Africa, Middle-East, Asia 2 3,976 3,646 NA (%) NA 9 8 Mediterranean 3 NA NA 2,089 Cement NA 32 34 Asia NA NA 1,319 Ready-mix NA 7 5 South/Central America and Caribbean 4,226 4,317 4,501 Aggregates NA 16 15 Others (including Corporate) 2,908 3,247 3,546 Employees trained in our CEMEX LEGACY Safety 1The 2011 figure has partly decreased reflecting an organizational change. Croatia and Spain are Leadership Program (#) 533 2,108 2,914 now part of the Mediterranean region. Employees trained in the CEMEX Root Cause Analysis 2 Israel, UAE and Egypt are now part of the Mediterranean region. Incident Investigation methodology (#) 956 623 857 3 The region includes Spain, Egypt, UAE, Israel, and Croatia. < previous 51 next> 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Partnership with Key Stakeholders (continued) Partnership with Key Stakeholders (continued) Breakdown of workforce by type of contract (%) Online courses through CEMEX Learning (#) 683 1,036 1,121 Full time 86 99 99 Employees with access to CEMEX Learning (#) 15,621 19,002 18,767 Part time 14 1 1 Sites conducting social impact assessments (%) 67 67 68 Breakdown of workforce by level (%) Cement 75 75 75 Executive positions 6 5 5 Ready-mix 61 61 67 Non-executive positions 32 36 37 Aggregates 67 67 70 Operational positions 62 59 58 Sites with community engagement plans (%) 85 97 97 Cement 88 96 96 Breakdown of workforce by age (%) Aggregates 86 97 97 Under 30 19 19 17 Operations with employee volunteering programs (%) 41 41 43 31-40 32 32 31 Countries that conduct regular customer satisfaction 41-50 28 27 29 surveys (%) 78 84 86 Over 50 21 22 23 Purchases sourced from locally-based suppliers (%)1 93 93 94 Breakdown of workforce by gender (%) Countries with a process to screen suppliers in relation Male 88 87 89 to social and environmental aspects (%)2 84 84 86 Female 12 13 11 1 The results for 2011 have decreased due to a change in definition from national /local suppliers to only local suppliers. Female employee representation by level (%) 2 The results for 2011 have decreased due to a change in definition from national /local suppliers Executive 13 13 13 to only local suppliers. Non-executive 28 24 23 Operational 3 6 4 Strengthen local communities Male to female wage ratio 1.09 1.02 1.04 Engagement level* 88 83 NA Families participating in Patrimonio Hoy in Latin Participation rate in engagement survey (%) 77 64 NA America Initiative (# accumulated) 263,212 308,311 353,856 Employee turnover rate (%)** 5 6 5 Mexico 251,828 294,173 335,865 Employees represented by an independent union or Other Latin American Countries 11,384 14,138 17,991 covered by a collective bargaining agreement (%) 51 54 54 Total meters square built in Patrimonio Hoy Initiative Notice to employees regarding operational changes (# accumulated) NA 1,984,500 2,593,094 (average days) 30 30 40 Number of families participating in Productive Centers Countries with policies to promote local hiring (%) 76 76 76 of Self Employment, CPA’s (# accumulated) NA 8,475 44,013 Training provided by operations (average hours) Executive 33 20 20 Non-executive and operational 24 22 15 * A survey is generally completed once every two years; however, due to the Transformation Project in 2011, the 2011 Survey was postponed to 2012. ** Voluntary turnover < previous 52 next> awards and recognitions We are pleased that the hard work and commitment to sustainability of our employees across the world have been recognized in many ways during 2011, including through numerous awards: Wildlife Habitat Council Certification Environmental Protection Agency ENERGY STAR Award Croatia Index of Socially Responsible Business Five of CEMEX’s sites in the USA have earned certification The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the For the third time, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, in with the Wildlife Habitat Council for superior management U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) have awarded five of its cooperation with the Croatian Business Council for Sustainof wildlife enhancement and land conservation projects. The CEMEX’s cement manufacturing plants in the United States able Development named CEMEX in Croatia to the Index of five sites are cement manufacturing plants in Fairborn, Ohio the 2011 ENERGY STAR® award. The company’s plants in Socially Responsible Business. and Louisville, Kentucky, and the FEC Quarry, 474 Sand Mine, Clinchfield, GA.; Louisville, KY.; Miami, FL.; New Braunfels, and Brooksville Quarry in Florida. TX; and Demopolis, AL. received the awards in recognition Council for a Beautiful Israel “Five Stars of Beauty” Award of superior energy performance. These awards mark the CEMEX in Israel’s Modi’im aggregates quarry was awarded EcoForum Conference Awards fifth consecutive year for the plants in Clinchfield, Ga., and the “Five Stars of Beauty” designation by the Council for a CEMEX in Poland’s Chelm plant received two awards at the Louisville, KY. to receive the award and the third consecutive Beautiful Israel, a non-profit public organization whose aim second International EcoForum Conference, held in Lublin, year for the plant in Demopolis, Ala. is to improve the quality of life in Israel through preservaPoland: “Environment First,” carrying the title as an envition of the environment. ronmentally friendly company; and the “Man and Company” Mercado Magazine Best Place to Work Award prize, granted for introducing innovative technology to CEMEX has been named the best place to work in the DoUNICEM Biodiversity Certificate minimize the plant’s impact on the environment. In 2011, minican Republic by Mercado Magazine after an assessment A CEMEX aggregates quarry in central France was awarded the plant also became one of the 28 elite organizations which took into account a reader poll and the opinions of a the first Biodiversity Certificate by the French aggregates in Poland to meet the requirements of the European Ecogroup of experts who weighed organizational culture, poliassociation, UNICEM. The certificate recognizes numerous Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). cies and practices, and human resources processes. activities to promote biodiversity in the quarry as well as efforts to raise awareness about preserving local wildlife. Dayton Power & Light Rebate Golden Carbon Award CEMEX’s cement plant in Fairborn, Ohio decreased electric CEMEX in China won the highest honor, The Golden Carbon CEMEFI Recognition power consumption used for compressed air by more than Award, in the “Environment-Friendly Building Solutions” catCEMEFI, the Mexican Center for Philanthropy, recognized half, earning the company a $226,000 rebate from Dayton egory at the first environmental protection innovation ideas CEMEX for the CEMEX-TEC Construction School program, Power & Light.The decrease in electricity consumption also competition, held at Qingdao Technological University. created to spur economic development and micro-enterprise reduces the amount of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere anamong low-income families through technical and adminisnually by more than 1,475 metric tons. The Trust for the Americas and Organization of American trative courses in construction. States Award Austrian Ministry of Social Affairs Health & Safety Award CEMEX has been recognized with the 2010 Corporate Citizen CEMEX in Austria was awarded the second prize for Health of the Americas Award in the Economic Opportunity Cat& Safety from the Austrian Minister of Social Affairs for its egory, given by the Association of American States (OAS) and project “Stress management—integral part of employee the Trust for the Americas, for the positive social impact of motivation and accident prevention.” its Centros Productivos de Autoempleo (Productive Selfemployment Centers) program. < previous 53 next> advisory panel members and statement CEMEX 2011 sustainable development report Sustainability Reporting Advisory Panel Statement Fair reflection Biodiversity CEMEX is operating in an extremely difficult business It is helpful that CEMEX has clearly outlined future challengThe report should note the future challenge posed by the climate and in 2011 consolidated its activities to ensure it es in each priority area. However, the challenges faced durtarget of implementing biodiversity management at 100 key remained competitive. These changes, many painful, have ing 2011, a year of extreme business pressure for CEMEX, are sites by 2015, given that this indicator was static in 2011 (at 38 placed increased pressure on securing resources to implenot so well reported. We find that the report thus presents sites) while a new biodiversity action plan standard was being ment its sustainability strategy. We are pleased to note the an overly positive view. We ask for the reporting to deal with developed. We reiterate the call we made last year for CEMEX continued commitment of CEMEX to sustainability and how the inevitable challenges in implementing the sustainability to move beyond the fairly vague commitments in the CEMEX integral sustainability is to its business strategy, including strategy in difficult economic times. Such honesty is not only Position Statement on Biodiversity and develop a biodiversity seeking leadership in sustainable construction. This report good reporting practice and required by the Global Reportstrategy with additional clear and quantifiable impact (not just is a testament to that strategic imperative and conveys an ing Initiative guidelines, but it makes the many successes of process) targets, based on an overall commitment to Net Posiimportant message to the market. CEMEX stand out. tive Impact on biodiversity across the company’s operations. In future reports, it would be good to see case studies that Scope of our review Governance detail the results of the implementation of Biodiversity We reviewed an advanced draft of the CEMEX 2011 SustainWe reiterate our previously noted concerns about how goverAction Plans at priority operations, as this is where the real able Development Report. We shared with management our nance is described. We would like to see greater clarity on the challenge now lies for CEMEX’s biodiversity management. detailed comments and specific suggestions for improverisks faced and what is being done to manage those risks. ment. We list here our general observations and concentrate Stakeholder engagement on those aspects that will further enhance the company’s Human rights We are pleased that CEMEX now provides detailed descripreporting in the future. As noted last year, reporting on human rights remains inadtions of its engagement with stakeholders. In future, we would equate. But we are pleased to read that CEMEX is reviewing like greater clarity on how CEMEX is turning itself into a buildCompleteness and clarity the implications of the UN’s Ruggie process, completed in ings solution provider, as opposed to a supplier of construction We like the use of the seven priorities as a reporting structure 2011, and look forward to learn about the company’s actions materials, and how it is communicating this to the market. and are pleased to see its further development in the 2011 to promote human rights. report. The report covers the important topics defined as Water material by CEMEX and we find it largely complete when read Safety Water is becoming an increasingly important environmental in conjunction with supporting material on the web. We have As noted by ourselves and the previous panel, safety remains issue and we are pleased that CEMEX reports on its use some reservations and concerns, which we note below. a major concern. The number of fatalities, especially among of water. We look forward to more information on how it We encourage CEMEX to find ways to help the reader uncontractors, is unacceptable. The Chairman confirms this in intends to improve its performance. derstand HOW it is implementing its sustainability strategy his letter and we urge him to put the necessary resources, beyond policies, in place to make the dramatic improveWe have reached the end of our two-year period of engageand to provide more evidence of the effects. The report still ments necessary. ment and thank CEMEX for taking our views seriously. We wish contains too many general assertions and too little evidence the company well in its endeavors and urge CEMEX to keep of performance. making progress in its contribution to sustainable development. < previous 54 next> assurance statement Independent Limited Assurance Report on the CO2 emissions, safety, environmental incidents and other emissions Key Performance Indicators reported by CEMEX for the year 2011 To the Board of Directors of CEMEX At the request of CEMEX, we have carried out an The KPIs have been prepared by, and are the  We selected a sample of operations for site visits, and Conclusions: independent limited review of CO2 emissions, safety, responsibility of, CEMEX Management. Our for each one of them: environmental incidents and other emissions Key responsibility consists of issuing conclusions about their we reviewed site organization and procedures, Based on the results of our review, and taking into Performance Indicators (“The KPIs”) reported by consistency and reliability based on our review work especially those regarding KPIs reporting; account our recommendations above, nothing has come CEMEX for the year 2011 11. This assurance process described in the next paragraph. paragraph we assessed the control procedures on key to our attention that causes us to believe that: covers The KPIs disclosed in the 2011 20 Sustainable parameters, and Development Report identified with the symbol : Bases, objective and scop scope of the verification on a test basis, we performed reconciliation of reported data with the supporting documentation The KPIs have not, in all material respects, been  CO2 emissions,, as calculated according to the Our work was performed based on verification and verified the arithmetical accuracy of prepared in accordance with the “Cement CO2 WBCSD-CSI “Cement CO2 Protocol” (June 2005 standards established by the International Federation of calculations. Protocol”, the ““Safety in the cement industry: version 2.0): Accountants, under the International Standard for reporting”, the Guidelines for measuring and reporting” Absolute gross and net CO2 emissions Assurance Engagement ISAE 3000 pertaining to limited  We analyzed the consolidated KPIs reported by revised CEMEX “Environmental Incident Specific gross and net CO2 emissions assurance. We planned and performed pe the procedures CEMEX in the 2011 Sustainable Development Reporting” procedure and the“Guidelines for Alternative fuels rates (alternative fossil and set out below to obtain limited assurance as to whether Report to verify the coherence with the results of our Emissions Monitoring and Reporting in the Cement biomass fuels) The KPIs are free of material misstatements. A higher work. Industry”.  Safety indicators, as calculated according to the level of assurance would have required more extensive WBCSD-CSI CSI Guidelines “Safety in the cement procedures. Recommendations: The KPIs contain material misstatements. industry: Guidelines for measuring and reporting” We assessed CEMEX reporting procedures for The We included and detailed the following Mexico, April 10th, 2012 201 (updated October 2008 version 3.0):  KPIs with regard to their consistency with the recommendations in the report submitted to CEMEX Fatality rate for directly employed “Cement CO2 Protocol”, the “Safety in the cement management, with the intent to strengthen processes Lost Time Injury Frequency rate (LTI FR) for industry: Guidelines for measuring and reporting”, reporting” and systems for management information: directly employed Lost Time Injury Severity rate (LTI SR) for the internal Administrative and Operative Procedure ntal Incident Reporting” and the “Environmental Ensure the date on returning to work employees who directly employed  “Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and Reporting suffer a lost time injury is timely registered in the  Number of Category 1 Environmental Incidents, as Industry” respectively; in the Cement Industry”, safety indicator consolidation database. defined by CEMEX Corporate in the Administrative  Strengthen training on roles and responsibilities of Enrique Alejandro Bertran Sánchez and Operative Procedure “Environmental Incident At corporate level, we conducted interviews with the those responsible for the lost time injury reports. Partner Reporting”.  individuals responsible for the preparation and  It is necessary to strengthen internal controls over the Sustainability Business Solutions  Other emissions (dust, NOx and SOx) indicators, as application of the reporting procedures as well as for non kiln fuel consumption to keep accurate records, PricewaterhouseCoopers, S.C. calculated according to the WBCSD-CSI WBCSD the consolidation of data. At this level, we performed because, currently there are different systems of “Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and analytical procedures and verified, on a test basis, the control of these inputs. Reporting in the Cement Industry” (version 1, March 2005): calculations and data consolidation; Overall coverage rate Coverage rate continuous ontinuous measurement  At regional coordination level, we conducted Absolute and specific emissions data of dust interviews with the individuals responsible res for The Absolute and specific emissions data of NOx KPIs reporting and performed analytical tests; Absolute and specific emissions data of SOx PricewaterhouseCoopers, S. C., Mariano Escobedo 573. Col. Rincón del Bosque. 11580 México D. F. Teléfono: 5263 6000. 0. Fax: 5263 6010. www.pwc.com < previous 55 next> GRI application level check < previous 56 next> about The information for this report came from several sources, • Clinker factor and alternative fuels. All material consumpincluding internal management systems and performance tion is reported to internal CEMEX databases in which databases and our Sustainable Development Report Survey, a “alternative materials” are defined following the standards this report questionnaire sent to all countries where we have operations. from the CSI Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Fuels Data from this survey is then aggregated. This approach has and Raw Materials in the Cement Manufacturing Process. enabled us to report progress on our key performance indicaThe “clinker/cement factor” is calculated using the procetors for the company as a whole. dures from the CSI Cement CO2 protocol spreadsheet with information obtained from the databases. We aim to improve the transparency and completeness of • Safety. An internal CEMEX safety database collects all each report that we produce while streamlining our processes related safety information from each site and automatiand the way in which we provide information. We include a cally provides the appropriate information to calculate the statement from PricewaterhouseCoopers, which verified our indicators. The database is configured using the WBCSD / data on greenhouse gas emissions; atmospheric emissions; CSI definitions. alternative fossil and biomass fuels rates; environmental Reporting history and cycle incidents; and safety indicators for our cement, ready-mix, and CEMEX began publishing annual environmental, health, and Deviation from protocols aggregates operations. safety reports in 1996, and then in 2003 published its first We have adhered to the GRI Protocols where applicable and Sustainable Development Report. The company has been In addition, we engaged with our Sustainable Development feasible. As our data-collection systems are still in development, engaged in annual sustainability reporting since then and Reporting Advisory Panel, which provides feedback on our however, there are instances in which we have not applied GRI published its most recent report in April 2010. This, the comreporting. protocols. In such cases the data we have is the best manner in pany’s full 2011 Sustainable Development Report, is our ninth which we can currently communicate our performance. such report that covers the broad range of our environmental, Data measurement techniques social, and governance issues and performance. We employ the following protocols and techniques for measurUnited Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress ing the key performance indicator (KPI) data that we report: This report constitutes our Communication on Progress toWe applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Susward the commitments of the United Nations Global Compact tainability Reporting Guidelines to produce the report, • CO2 Emissions. CEMEX reports absolute and specific CO2 (UNGC). As a signatory to the Global Compact, we work to which meets an application level of A+ for the fourth emissions following the CSI Cement Protocol CO2 Accountalign our company’s operations and strategies with its ten consecutive year. ing and Reporting Standard for the Cement guidelines and principles. We are also committed to helping the world meet spreadsheet. As defined in the protocol, it considers direct the targets of the Kyoto Protocol and Millennium DevelopBoundary and reporting period emissions excluding CO2 emissions from biomass fuels ment Goals. This report covers our global cement, ready-mix concrete, and and purchased electricity. All historical information from aggregates operations, presenting our sustainability perforbaseline to current year is calculated under these proceThe GRI index is cross referenced to the UNGC principles; it mance, progress, achievements, and challenges for the 2011 dures to reflect appropriate trends and allow year-to-year can be found on our website and is available for download at calendar year, which is also the company’s fiscal year. We have comparison analysis. www.cemex.com/sustainability emphasized those issues identified as high-priority through • Dust, NOx and SOx emissions. Absolute and specific figures We welcome your feedback on our sustainability reporting both our materiality analysis and our sustainable developare calculated based on kilns emissions measurements and performance. Please send your comments and suggesment strategic planning process, as reflected in the seven pritaken from Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems (in tions to sd@cemex.com, or write to us at: ority areas of our Sustainable Development Model. For more those sites where kilns are equipped with such technolinformation as well as updates throughout the year, please ogy) or spot analysis. These methods fully comply with the CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. visit the Sustainable Development section of our website. CSI Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and Reporting. All Corporate Communications and Public Affairs information is reported to CEMEX databases, processed, Av. Ricardo Margáin Zozaya 325 Unless otherwise indicated, the information provided in calculated, and validated to provide a final group value. San Pedro Garza García, NL this report is for the company as a whole. We have included • Energy. Fuel consumption indicators are reported to CP 66265 Mexico information for the operations in which we have financial internal CEMEX databases in which “conventional”, “alTel: +52 (81) 8888-8888 and operative control. If a plant is sold, its information is no ternative”, and “biomass fuels” are classified according to longer included in our data or considered in our targets. If we the CSI Cement CO2 protocol spreadsheet. Heat values are have restated certain data sets from previous years because of obtained from on-site analysis (where applicable), values improvements to our data-collection systems or changes to our provided by suppliers or standards from the CSI Guidelines business, each case is clearly marked. All monetary amounts are for the Selection and Use of Fuels and Raw Materials in reported in US dollars. All references to “tons” are to metric tons. the Cement Manufacturing Process. < previous 57 next> Panama Canal. 500,000 tons of cement for the third set of locks www.cemex.com
