Making Sense of Sustainability BrownFlynn 2012 Sustainability Report and Communication on Progress 1 Table of Contents Our Report ..................................................................................................................................... 3 Making Sense of Sustainability .......................................................................................... 3 Report Parameters ............................................................................................................. 3 Materiality.......................................................................................................................... 4 Principals’ Letter ............................................................................................................................ 5 About Us......................................................................................................................................... 6 Making Sense of Sustainability…for Our Clients ............................................................................ 8 Making Sense of Sustainability…for Our Partners ......................................................................... 8 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ........................................................................... 9 United States Business Council for Sustainable Development (US BCSD) ............ 9 Commit!Forum ....................................................................................................... 9 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) ......................................................................... 10 Other Valued Partnerships .................................................................................. 10 Making Sense of Sustainability…for Our Business ....................................................................... 11 People .................................................................................................................. 11 Planet ................................................................................................................... 12 Prosperity ............................................................................................................. 15 Making Sense of Sustainability…for Our Communities ............................................................... 16 Reporting Frameworks................................................................................................................. 18 Our Commitment to the UNGC........................................................................................ 18 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index ............................................................. 20 Appendix A: Sustainable Speak – Helping to Make Sense of Sustainability Terminology........... 40 2 Our Report Making Sense of Sustainability At BrownFlynn, it’s easy to say that we “walk the talk”. But at its core, our Sustainability Report is a platform for engagement and dialogue with anyone seeking to understand how we define and practice sustainability.. Our 2012 Report, Making Sense of Sustainability, describes how BrownFlynn manages its own impacts and acts to enable its clients and community stakeholders to better manage their own impacts and actions. We articulate our approach in clear, easy to understand terms and in ways that anyone can emulate and tailor. In other words, this report is primarily an education and awareness tool. We define “sustainability” as the integration of three pillars People, Planet and Prosperity. We have integrated this triple-bottom-line thinking into our management ethos and support a consulting business around guiding companies in developing strategies that are focused on their social, environmental and economic impacts. This report marks the fifth successive year that BrownFlynn has publicly disclosed its sustainability performance and the third release of a Sustainability Report. We are proud of this tradition and remain firmly committed to transparency and sharing our story. Our engagement with stakeholders through this report strengthens our position as a trusted advisor to our clients, a valued employer to our staff and a leader to the communities we serve. Report Parameters Our report covers the year beginning January 1, 2012 and ending December 31, 2012. This report does not cover the impacts of our adjunct professional staff or suppliers. In line with our best practice commitments, we have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s G3.1 Guidelines as the basis for our reporting. We apply the GRI G3.1 Reporting Framework as a process and tool for more thorough reporting rather than as an end in itself. Our Report focuses on significance and relevance, based on our materiality process and ability to measure performance data. Our overriding consideration is to ensure that we account for our key impacts and respond to our stakeholders. 3 Materiality Our materiality approach is informed by the GRI’s Defining Report Content” to determine our most relevant report topics and areas of impact. We use this process as part of our management decisionmaking and stakeholder engagement. In 2012, our approach to materiality considered the results of our Client Satisfaction Survey, employee engagement, dialogue with our business partners, plus feedback from our previous report. Our material issues identified several topic areas impact and influence with clients and community; professionalism and dedication to sustainability; employee work-life balance; relevance in the marketplace as a thought leader and champion of sustainability; and integrity and staying true to our values. 4 Principals’ Letter Dear Valued Stakeholders, As long-ago communications majors, you might imagine our frustration around the ever-increasing, ever-evolving language of sustainability. There is no easy “elevator pitch” to describe what sustainability is and, for that matter, what we do. To put it simply, it’s complicated. We are constantly educating clients, prospects, suppliers, community members and really anyone who will listen on what sustainability “is”. Just pause for a moment and consider the multitude of sustainability ’jargon’ being bantered about in the world; it can be overwhelming. That’s why we felt compelled to have our Sustainability Report be a vehicle for Making Sense of Sustainability. As our Report tells our story, you will find call-out boxes featuring an aspect of sustainability we believe you should know about. We have also refreshed the Glossary page on our website (aptly titled Sustainable Speak) by adding new terminology, definitions and links to help everyone continue to make sense of sustainability. We believe it is part of our mission to increase understanding of sustainability, to facilitate discussions and to guide our clients in maximizing the return on their investment. Our message is clearly being heard—the sustainability industry is approaching $1 trillion, and growing. We are fortunate to have clients who believe in the value of our work and, because of the trust they place in the BrownFlynn team, 2012 was a record year in terms of revenues for our Firm. As we enter our 18th year in business, we commit to continuing to earn that trust. To our clients, employees, families, advisors, partners and community, we sincerely thank you for your belief in BrownFlynn and for the many contributions you have made in order for us to Do Good. Do Well. Win. With appreciation, Barbara Brown Margie Flynn 5 About Us BrownFlynn is a corporate responsibility and sustainability consulting firm headquartered in Highland Heights (Greater Cleveland), Ohio. We partner with clients to integrate environmentally and socially responsible practices into their business strategies and help them communicate those messages internally and externally, creating a cultural shift that results in bottom-line impact. The principals at BrownFlynn have established a legacy of honesty, accountability, flexibility, open communication and innovation for employees, clients and partners of the Firm. We believe it is an extraordinary place to work and learn. When our Firm was established, we also established our Firm values. Every BrownFlynn team member values integrity and hard work, and possesses a strong desire to exceed our clients' expectations. We welcomed several new team members in 2012 and decided it was time to re-evaluate our Firm values. After coming together as a team and reassessing our current ‘words to live by’, we collectively refreshed our original tagline “I Am BrownFlynn” philosophy. I have integrity I am genuine I anticipate I am open minded I do my best the first time I am respectful I value other's opinions I listen I seek opportunities I take action I take risks I make a difference I am an outstanding communicator I build relationships I collaborate I ask questions I delight our clients I walk the talk I am accountable 6 I am resilient I am dedicated I am creative I am valued I embrace laughter & levity I am fun We Are BrownFlynn. We recognize we are only as strong together as we individually live out our values every day. BrownFlynn comprises highly talented consultant team members with experience in corporate responsibility, sustainability strategy and execution, stakeholder engagement, finance, organizational development and marketing communications. Barb Brown and Margie Flynn, our principals and coowners, provide leadership to the team and offer strategic counsel and direction to clients. Recognizing that no two clients are alike, we strive to match client needs with the most creative, effective and efficient resources. We have established relationships with a variety of technical and creative experts – from lawyers and engineers to designers and multimedia producers – that allow BrownFlynn to leverage our expertise while delivering on specific client needs. In 2012, we expanded our team to allow us to better serve our existing clients while obtaining new ones. We hired more analysts to provide valued support to our senior consultants, as well as adjunct consultants who help us serve geographic markets that we might not otherwise have access to. As we grow, the reporting process helps us to continue to ‘walk the talk’ internally and hold ourselves to the same standards and commitments our clients expect of themselves. BrownFlynn also works with an external stakeholder council to advise us on our business and service offerings. For more than a decade, BrownFlynn has benefited from its counsel and industry expertise. The stakeholder council provides non-binding advice to BrownFlynn and possesses no fiduciary or legal responsibilities to the Firm. The council serves two primary purposes: 1. Members act as a “sounding board” on a variety of critical business issues— those of utmost importance to the Firm and its future growth and success. 7 2. The council creates a “networking community” and generates business leads and suggestions, especially in BrownFlynn’s growth areas. Making Sense of Sustainability…for Our Clients Our service offerings have everything to do with making sense of sustainability for our clients. We often tell people we meet our clients where they are on their sustainability journey, because that’s exactly what we do. BrownFlynn has three practice areas that are highly integrated to provide our clients with the most robust strategy possible consulting, communications and training. Our expert staff has many years of consulting experience in sustainability strategy, impacts assessment, issues prioritization and stakeholder engagement that either helps to build the foundation of an effective sustainability program, or enhance an existing program to take a client to the next level. We often use Appreciative Inquiry (AI) building on a company’s strengths rather than focusing on its weaknesses. AI emphasizes the positive and engages all levels of the organization to ensure everyone’s voices are heard. Consulting is often coupled with communications, including branding, sustainability reporting and stakeholder communications, that helps give the program an identity and voice. Ensuring the sustainability strategy, vision, goals and achievements are understood by both internal and external stakeholders is just as important as development of the program itself. Not only does it need to be understood and embraced internally by the leadership and the employees, it needs to be communicated externally for transparency. Over the past two years we have seen a significant growth in sustainability reporting, not only from our clients but from business in general. Investors and stakeholders are demanding U.S. companies to be more transparent and to produce reports that speak to sustainability performance, a trend we only see increasing in the future. Making Sense of Sustainability…for Our Partners Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) In 2009, we became the first certified training partner in the United States for the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a non-profit based in Amsterdam that provides organizations with the most widely used, 8 comprehensive sustainability reporting framework in the world. GRI promotes the importance of practicing sustainability and reporting on sustainability performance. Our signature GRI training course, The GRI Process, provides participants with an overview of the GRI reporting framework, including the five phases of the GRI process. To date, we have trained more than 500 individuals and organizations on the GRI Process. We also provide sustainability training courses through other forums including webinars, workshops and customized training for our clients. Some of these topics include governance, materiality and a deep-dive into the GRI Performance Indicators, called “Line by Line”. We also had the opportunity to collaborate with another U.S.-certified training partner, ISOS Group, to provide an overview of GRI at the first GRI USA Conference in Saint Louis, Missouri. The event attracted students, government officials and business leaders to raise awareness of sustainability reporting and GRI in the United States. This year, on April 18th, ISOS and BrownFlynn are partnering with St. Louis University’s John Cook School of Business, St. Louis University Center for Sustainability and the St. Louis Regional Chamber of Commerce to deliver the full two-day curriculum at St. Louis University. United States Business Council for Sustainable Development (US BCSD) We partner with the USBCSD on a webinar series covering topics that include engaging employees around sustainability and understanding the risks and opportunities of water use. The depth of knowledge and experience of our staff and partners allows us to develop curriculum on any topic related to sustainability, and intend to expand our training offerings in the coming year. Commit!Forum For the past two years, the Corporate Responsibility Officer Association (CROA) hosts The Commit!Forum, bringing together corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability practitioners and thought leaders from around the world to share best practices and learn from industry experts. In 2011 and 2012, BrownFlynn conducted pre-conference workshops on the GRI Process and Governance, respectively, for some of the world’s largest companies and their senior leadership. We are an exclusive conference partner and are looking forward to continuing this partnership into the future. 9 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) In 2011, we became a Silver Consultancy Partner for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), a non-profit organization working to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions and manage water and forestry resources sustainably by businesses and cities. As a Partner, we have the ability to review a company’s CDP questionnaire response from submitting companies. This allows us to provide clients valued guidance which, in turn, improves their CDP climate change disclosure and performance scores. We also participate in events such as the annual CDP conference from the New York Stock Exchange and webinars. We look forward to continuing our partnership into the future and sharing our expertise with others. Other Valued Partnerships BrownFlynn believes in the power and value of collaboration with other organizations. That’s why we belong to and work with several industry associations that bring like-minded companies together to work towards a shared vision. In addition to GRI and CDP, we also work with:  Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG)  Corporate Responsibility Officer’s Association (CROA)  Corporate Sustainability Network (CSN) at Cleveland State University  GreenBiz  International Association of Business Communicators (IABC)  Industrial Minerals Association of North America (IMA-NA)  National Investor Relations Institute (NIRI)  National Stone, Sand and Gravel Association (NSSGA)  Net Impact  PRSA  Sustainable Cleveland 2019 (SC2019)  United States Business Council for Sustainable Development (US BCSD)  United States Green Building Council (USGBC)  United States Social Investment Forum (US SIF) In 2012, we entered into a partnership with The GreenBiz Group, specifically GreenBiz.com, to author a monthly column that is featured on their website and other social media platforms. GreenBiz is an 10 online sustainability news platform considered the most credible in the field, and we were thrilled to be chosen to contribute to the publication as a content expert. The monthly column, Shift Happens, is focused on positive organizational change and development around sustainability and corporate responsibility. This column gives many of our employees the opportunity to provide valuable insight and knowledge on a variety of topics within this focus area. Furthermore, it provides BrownFlynn the opportunity to be seen and heard as a thought leader in our field. This partnership is a great example of collaboration in the marketplace, and we look forward to continuing our valued relationship in 2013 and beyond. Making Sense of Sustainability…for Our Business BrownFlynn has three main practices areas Consulting, Communications (which includes Reporting) and Training. This holistic approach to sustainability consulting meets clients where they are on their sustainability journey. Every client engagement is a collaborative process. Through our proven facilitation methods and techniques, we help clients discover and make sense of their unique sustainability opportunities. For some, that means establishing a vision and framework for creating a sustainability strategy—we can uncover the bold sustainability goals, metrics and action plans that will generate bottom-line results. For others, it means helping to uncover new opportunities and unleashing the innovation and creative “spirit” within these organizations. Throughout any engagement, we help create sustainability champions who are instrumental in driving an organization’s success. Our sustainability training services teaches companies how to realize an integrated triple bottom line— environmentally, socially and economically—through workshops, webinars, on-site training, conferences and other venues. We designed and facilitated several customized workshops to fulfill the specific sustainability education needs of our clients. These workshops reached a variety of audiences including C-level executives, sustainability councils and teams, plant operational staff, and sales and marketing teams. People BrownFlynn’s success and growth is dependent on its most valuable asset – our employees. At the end of 2012, the BrownFlynn team comprised 12 full-time employees and two adjunct consultants. We are 11 planning for staffing growth and look forward to welcoming additional analysts and other staff during 2013. We are proud of our Firm and our staff’s personal achievements. We are constantly seeking to improve our internal processes and consulting capabilities in support of our goals. At our annual employee retreat in October 2012, we undertook a review of key internal performance objectives and measures of success. We reviewed and enhanced the measures of performance and commenced development of a talent strategy that will help frame our consulting resources approach – a more efficient and effective service delivery “pyramid” model. We are focusing on our capacity to better predict and proactively respond to client demands and routines to counter the peaks and troughs in our annual workload. Our Firm’s Performance Dashboard highlights these annual People objectives and performance measures. The Dashboard consists of overall goals that every team member must contribute to achieving. These goals are organized into overarching themes that help us keep them top of mind every day. Highlights of ‘People’ goals we achieved in 2012 were:  Improved employee well-being.  Ongoing monitoring of healthcare options and alternative provider plans with regard to both employer and employee benefits and costs.  Alignment of performance reviews with personal career development goals and firm-wide goals. We took a number of steps during the year to enhance our employee processes and systems to enable employees to develop in-line with business needs and their own career aspirations:  Increased employee training and public speaking opportunities.  Consistently and creatively brought the “I/We are BrownFlynn” culture to life.  Reinforced service mentality in both internal and external-facing interactions. Planet Our conviction to improve our environmental sustainability is stronger than ever. As a small, professional services business, our environmental footprint is modest, but we believe everything we can do to use energy and resources efficiently, reduce waste and use less water counts. We strive to make a difference through our internal operations and through our influence as leading practitioners of sustainability. 12 An accurate measure of our environmental impact has been impeded partly by access to reliable data, as well as our own resource limitations. In 2013, we will undertake an office-wide audit to measure our energy consumption, waste output and recycling rate and then set absolute and normalized intensity targets over a five year timeframe, and continue to make improvements to realize these goals. Energy and GHG Emissions Our carbon footprint is derived primarily from waste consumables and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the electricity and gas heat used at our office and from the consumption of transport fuel. We engage in energy conservation by shutting down computers and power sources at the end of each workday, lowering the thermostat in the winter, turning off lights every time we leave a room, and maximizing the use of natural light and passive solar heat whenever possible. We also exchanged office lighting and computer hardware for more efficient units and plan to implement additional solutions to reduce our consumption of energy and fossil fuels. Our goal is to reduce our greenhouse gasses and to mitigate the emissions associated with travel that cannot be avoided. In our business, we accept that travel is necessary, such as trips to meet with clients, attend conferences, or engage with our community leaders and other stakeholders. When feasible, we use teleconferencing and web-enabled presentation options. Not only does this help to reduce our carbon footprint, it provides an opportunity for our employees to enjoy a healthy work-life balance. Figure 1. Annual electricity consumption, kWh (kilowatt hours), 2010-2012 4,500 4,000 3,500 3,000 2,500 2010-2011 2,000 2011-2012 1,500 2012-2013 1,000 3 per. Mov. Avg. (2010-2011) 500 0 13 Figure 2. Annual gas consumption, MCF (thousand cubic feet), 2010-2012 80.0 70.0 60.0 50.0 40.0 2010-2011 2011-2012 30.0 2012-2013 3 per. Mov. Avg. (2010-2011) 20.0 10.0 0.0 Our year on year consumption trend has been consistent. This is largely a result of maintaining the same office building and having a relatively flat staff headcount over the past three years. The challenge to adapt to climate change and to use lower carbon energy sources presents opportunities to reduce our costs and risks associated with the dependence on fossil fuels, especially coal. BrownFlynn participates in the Council of Smaller Enterprises (COSE) Natural Gas Discount Program through which the natural gas we purchase is partly offset through a blend of renewable gas procurement and carbon offset options. We will consider, in 2013, to use a COSE free energy efficiency assessment (up to a $6,000 value) of our building. Waste and Recycling Minimizing office waste represents an opportunity to make positive environmental impacts. Raising awareness with our employees has encouraged all of us to be more conscious about what gets thrown away. We launched an on-site composting system and we recycle a wide array of materials such as paper, paperboard, plastic, aluminum, glass and electronic waste. We’ve reduced the amount of waste we produce in the office by switching from paper towels to cloth hand towels; using silverware and ceramic dinnerware instead of plastic and paper plates. 14 Water Water is a more complex issue. While our consumption has been benign relative to our costs and maintaining high sanitary standards, we are conscious of how much water we consume as citizens and the abundant opportunities to conserve and re-use water in our daily lives. Water management is an area we intend to improve over the coming years through heightened awareness, efficiency of use and reporting. Procurement and Sustainable Supply Chain In 2012, we made modest progress with our Sustainable Purchasing Policy. We believe our policy provides a clear process for evaluating and selecting products and will allow us to be more effective in tracking and improving our environmental impact and creating a healthier workplace. We also believe that part of bringing the highest value possible to clients includes choosing local suppliers who understand and respond to environmental and social concerns. We currently select our vendors based on location, cost, and environmental and social performance. We purchase cleaning and landscaping materials with minimal environmental impacts. We also try to buy in bulk to reduce the amount of packaging that goes to the landfill. With regard to procurement decisions, we prioritize products with the most environmental benefits—high-recycled content, energy efficient and prefer suppliers who share our principles and priorities. We are patronizing hotel franchises and travel companies that actively manage their own impacts and publicly disclose/report (using GRI) their footprint, as well as serve as role models for their customers and industry peers. Prosperity Defining and designing BrownFlynn's future in a rapidly changing and increasingly competitive market has been a priority over the past year. This included re-assessing our business services and how best to deliver and price them. The specific impacts we want to make in the marketplace and with industry and civic leaders, the things that will differentiate us in the minds of our stakeholders, how we work, where we work and who we work with. In 2012, we sought a better understanding of our longer term clients with an objective of building more effective and enduring relationships. We aspire to having the majority of our client work be of a longer term, high impact nature. Client feedback during the year revealed an overall high satisfaction level with our service delivery and project outcomes, as well as highlighting specific areas where BrownFlynn 15 excelled as a consulting resource. Clients indicated that they valued the industry experience and technical knowledge that our team brought to their projects and also appreciated BrownFlynn’s facilitative style of working. Making Sense of Sustainability…for Our Communities At BrownFlynn, our work doesn’t just exist within our four walls, nor does it only extend to our clients. We have always been, and will continue to be, an active member of our community. From volunteering to charitable donations to speaking engagements and board commitments, our employees understand the value of giving back in any way we can. In 2012, our staff collectively logged 525.75 hours (nearly 66 man-days) of volunteer time.. We use this time to educate others on the importance of sustainability and what everyone can do to help make the world a better place. This aspect of our business brings us full circle in making sense of sustainability. Our principals, Barb Brown and Margie Flynn, are active on the speaking engagement circuit and have been since the Firm’s inception. On average, both participate in at least one speaking engagement a month that can be local, regional or national in reach. They have moderated and participated in panel discussions for NIRI, US SIF, US BCSD, NSSGA, IMA-NA, IABC, Commit!Forum, The Conference Board and the Sustainability Leadership Forum. Also, many of our consultants participate in speaking engagements, teach at local colleges and universities and are regular contributors to sustainability publications. Serving on a board is another significant way we give back to the community. Our board commitments demonstrate our passion for social issues, and we take them very seriously. We also serve as an advisor on several councils and steering committees for local organizations to offer guidance on strategic initiatives. In 2012, our staff has given their time and treasure to the following organizations:  Adoption Network Cleveland  American Red Cross Blood Services of Northern Ohio  Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Cleveland  Catholic Diocese of Cleveland Foundation (now Catholic Community Foundation)  Cleveland Carbon Fund  Cleveland Leadership Institute 16  Corporate Sustainability Network  Fowler Center for Sustainable Development  GreenCityBlueLake  John Carroll University  JumpStart  National Investor Relations Institute  Saint Martin de Porres High School  Sustainable Cleveland 2019 Though we are busy serving our clients, we try to take the time to engage in professional development activities, trainings and events. This is encouraged at BrownFlynn and our staff takes advantage of these opportunities as often as we can. We have attended workshops on Appreciative Inquiry (AI), Socially Responsible Investments (SRI), civic leadership, organizational behavior, marketing and social media, and, of course, sustainability reporting. Our staff is always eager to learn new things and enhance our knowledge and expertise in certain topic areas to better serve our clients and potential clients. Unfortunately, 2012 saw many tragedies in our society, including the devastation of Hurricane Sandy. Compelled to join the cause and help those who were displaced by the storm, 100% of our staff donated to the American Red Cross with BrownFlynn matching our gift. Though we cannot give the victims of the hurricane their lives back, we were proud to have contributed to the fund and hope we were able to help at least one person affected by the storm. We donated to the Chardon Healing Fund to help the students and families affected by the Chardon High School shooting. One of our clients, Fairmount Minerals, is based in Chardon, Ohio and played an integral role in setting up the Fund and contributing time, talent and treasure to the cause. Throughout the year, BrownFlynn donates to many local charitable organizations aimed at providing support to those in need. As a team we strike a balance between work, community engagement and having fun. We volunteer at the local food bank and other non-profits, but also make the time to get together outside of the office and continue to bond our team. We have gone kayaking, played bocce ball, attended plays and movies, had dinner out and engaged in other fun activities. Each year we have a staff retreat where we spend equal parts planning for the coming year and participating in team building activities. At our retreat this past year, each of our senior consultants made presentations on their particular area of expertise to 17 share knowledge, experiences and lessons learned among the team. In general, we also take the time every day to stop at each other’s desks and just say hello. To reinforce “walking the talk,” we gave our employees “clean energy generators” called nPower® PEGs that are made locally in Cleveland by Tremont Electric. The nPower® PEG is a small device which creates power through kinetic energy (movement) that can be used to charge cell phones and other electronic devices. And, to encourage them to get moving, each employee was given the One™ by Fitbit to track their physical activity day and night. All employees now have a personal sustainability goal embedded in their performance reviews—these range from how frequently they exercise to eating healthy to committing to coaching their kids. We hope this range of activities our staff engages in outside of the office is a good indication of the dedication we have to our work, our clients, our families, our communities and most importantly, each other. We would not be as successful as we are without working together as a team. We function as a family and a small firm, supporting each other both professionally and sometimes personally. What better way to sustain ourselves well into the future? Reporting Frameworks Our Commitment to the UNGC BrownFlynn is committed to the belief that by doing good and doing well for our clients, as well as society as a whole, we will win. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) embody this belief, and therefore we are in full support of the UNGC and its mission. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 18 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 19 GRI Content Index Full Response Partial Response No Response PART I. STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PROFILE 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Disclosure Statement from the most senior 1.1 Principals’ Letter decision-maker of the organization. Description of key 1.2 impacts, risks, and About Us opportunities. 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Name of the 2.1 BrownFlynn, Ltd. organization. Primary brands, 2.2 products, and/or About Us services. Operational structure of the organization, including main About Us. BrownFlynn is a partnership with no subsidiaries, joint 2.3 divisions, operating ventures or additional operating entities. companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Location of 2.4 organization's About Us headquarters. Number of countries where the organization About Us. BrownFlynn operates solely from the United States, 2.5 operates, and names however we serve clients globally. of countries with either major 20 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Nature of ownership 2.6 BrownFlynn is a registered, limited commercial partnership. and legal form. Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors We have no geographic limitations and our target sectors and 2.7 served, and types of types of customers are proprietary. customers/beneficiar ies). Scale of the reporting 2.8 About Us organization. Significant changes during the reporting 2.9 period regarding size, No significant changes to report. structure, or ownership. Awards received in Great Blue Heron Award, Ohio 2.10 the reporting period. Honorable Mention, Best Decorated House in South Euclid, Ohio for Christmas 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar 3.1 Report Parameters year) for information provided. Date of most recent 3.2 previous report (if 2011; covering the period June through December 2011. any). Reporting cycle Annual. Our last report (Communication on Progress) was unique 3.3 (annual, biennial, in that it covered only a half-year period. etc.) 21 Contact point for questions regarding We would love to hear from you. E-mail feedback to us at 3.4 the report or its socialmedia@brownflynn.com . contents. Process for defining 3.5 Report Parameters report content. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased 3.6 facilities, joint Report Parameters ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see 3.7 Report Parameters completeness principle for explanation of scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that 3.8 Not applicable can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, Variations in measurement or calculation from established 3.9 including protocols or industry standards will be disclosed with the data in the relevant sections. assumptions and techniques underlying 22 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.10 No changes to report. (e.g., mergers/acquisitions , change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in 3.11 the scope, boundary, No changes to report. or measurement methods applied in the report. Table identifying the location of the 3.12 Right here! GRI Content Index Standard Disclosures in the report. Policy and current practice with regard We have determined that external assurance does not offer 3.13 to seeking external sufficient value add for our report, given our material impacts and assurance for the stakeholders. report. 23 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, and ENGAGEMENT Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governance body About Us responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 4.2 governance body is Not applicable also an executive officer. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of 4.3 members of the Not applicable highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide About Us. Employees at BrownFlynn enjoy an open door policy 4.4 with senior management and the Firm principals. BrownFlynn recommendations or does not have shareholders. direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for 4.5 members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 24 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance For reporting purposes, we do not disclose proprietary 4.7 body and its remuneration or financial data. committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 Our Business Operations and Impacts economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the 4.9 highest governance We do not report. body for overseeing the organization's 25 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own 4.10 performance, We do not report. particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary The activities and services of BrownFlynn do not lead to instances 4.11 of grave harm ; however, we consider the safety of our approach or principle employees and clients in everything we do. is addressed by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 4.12 principles, or other About Us initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as 4.13 industry Collaboration with Our Partners associations) and/or national/ 26 international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. List of stakeholder 4.14 groups engaged by Materiality the organization. Basis for identification and 4.15 selection of Materiality stakeholders with whom to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, 4.16 including frequency Materiality of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and 4.17 Materiality how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 27 PART II. STANDARD DISCLOSURES: DISCLOSURES on MANAGEMENT APPROACH DMA EC: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH ECONOMIC Economic performance Aspects Market presence About Us. We have not quantified our market presence or our indirect economic impacts, nor have we identified a reliable Indirect economic approach to this issue. impacts DMA EN: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL Materials Our Business Operations and Impacts Energy Our Business Operations and Impacts Water Our Business Operations and Impacts Not material. We manage our office property, including some wooded habitat, to have the least amount degradation as possible. Aspects Biodiversity Our nutrient-rich, composted waste is returned to the property grounds. Emissions, effluents and waste Our Business Operations and Impacts (Commentary) Products and Our Business Operations and Impacts services Compliance Our Business Operations and Impacts Transport Our Business Operations and Impacts Overall Our Business Operations and Impacts DMA LA: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH LABOR PRACTICES and DECENT WORK Employment Our Business Operations and Impacts. We comply with all applicable (Commentary) labor laws. Aspects Labor/management relations Our Business Operations and Impacts (Commentary) 28 Occupational health and safety Our Business Operations and Impacts (Commentary) Training and Our Business Operations and Impacts education Diversity and equal Our Business Operations and Impacts opportunity DMA HR: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH HUMAN RIGHTS Investment and procurement Our Business Operations and Impacts practices Non-discrimination Our Business Operations and Impacts Freedom of association and We comply with all applicable labor laws. collective bargaining Aspects Our Commitment to the UNGC. We comply with all applicable labor Child labor laws. Prevention of forced Our Commitment to the UNGC. We comply with all applicable labor and compulsory laws. labor Security practices Not material. Indigenous rights Not material. (Commentary) DMA SO: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH SOCIETY Local communities Supporting Our Communities Corruption We comply with all applicable commercial laws. Aspects BrownFlynn does not engage directly with policy makers, although Public policy we view our role as sustainability consultants to be relevant for civic discourse and influence within industry. Anti-competitive We comply with all applicable commercial laws. behavior 29 Compliance We comply with all applicable commercial laws. DMA PR: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and Not material. safety Product and service We follow all applicable laws and regulations relative to marketing, labeling labeling and communications. Marketing We follow all applicable laws and regulations relative to marketing, communications labeling and communications. We follow all applicable laws and regulations relative to marketing, labeling and communications. BrownFlynn, as a standard practice, Customer privacy signs non-disclose agreements with all clients and we ensure this confidentiality by establishing firewalls between engagement teams where there may be conflicts of client interest. Compliance We comply with all applicable commercial laws. PART III. STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Indicator ECONOMIC Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, As a private company, we elect to not disclose proprietary and EC1 employee compensation, donations and other sensitive financial performance community investments, retained earnings, and data. payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and Our Business Operations and EC2 opportunities for the organization's activities Impacts due to climate change. While we elect to not disclose proprietary and sensitive financial Coverage of the organization's defined benefit performance data, we are fully EC3 plan obligations. transparent with our employees about the terms of coverage and the Firm’s financial performance. Significant financial assistance received from As a state registered Small and EC4 government. Disadvantaged (woman-owned) Business, we can qualify for 30 procurement incentives for certain contracting opportunities. For reporting purposes, we do not disclose specific awards or financial data. Market presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage For reporting purposes, we do not EC5 compared to local minimum wage at significant disclose specific financial data. locations of operation. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Our Business Operations and EC6 locally based suppliers at significant locations of Impacts operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of EC7 senior management hired from the local Not applicable. community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for EC8 Not applicable. public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant EC9 indirect economic impacts, including the extent Not available. of impacts. ENVIRONMENTAL Materials Our Business Operations and EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Impacts Percentage of materials used that are recycled Our Business Operations and EN2 input materials. Impacts Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy Our Business Operations and EN3 source. Impacts Our Business Operations and EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Impacts 31 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Our Business Operations and EN5 improvements. Impacts Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, EN6 Not applicable. and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Our Business Operations and EN7 consumption and reductions achieved. Impacts Water Our Business Operations and EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Impacts Water sources significantly affected by Our Business Operations and EN9 withdrawal of water. Impacts Percentage and total volume of water recycled EN10 Not available. and reused. Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, Not material. Our only office is managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and located in suburban area and is not EN11 adjacent to protected areas or site areas of high biodiversity value outside in an area of high biodiversity protected areas. value. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 Not material. protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not material. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for EN14 Not material. managing impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas EN15 Not material. affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Not available. emissions by weight. 32 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas EN17 Not available. emissions by weight. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Our Business Operations and EN18 and reductions achieved. Impacts Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by EN19 Not available. weight. NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by EN20 Not available. type and weight. Total water discharge by quality and EN21 Not available. destination. Total weight of waste by type and disposal EN22 Not available. method. Not applicable. We do not EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. purchase, use, or transport significant hazardous materials. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Not applicable. We do not EN24 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, purchase, use, or transport and VIII, and percentage of transported waste significant hazardous materials. shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats EN25 Not available. significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Our Business Operations and EN26 products and services, and extent of impact Impacts mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their packaging EN27 Not applicable. materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonOur Business Operations and EN28 Impacts. No fines incurred or compliance with environmental laws and pending. regulations. 33 Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and EN29 Not available. materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall Total environmental protection expenditures EN30 Not applicable. and investments by type. LABOR PRACTICES and DECENT WORK Employment In 2012, we had 12 full-time employees including two co-owner Total workforce by employment type, principals based in Ohio, one LA1 employment contract, and region. adjunct consultant based in Texas and one adjunct consultant based in California. Total number and rate of employee turnover by LA2 age group, gender, and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that For reporting purposes, we do not LA3 are not provided to temporary or part-time disclose specific proprietary and employees, by major operations. financial data. Labor/Management Relations Percentage of employees covered by collective LA4 Not applicable. bargaining agreements. Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant We comply with all applicable labor LA5 operational changes, including whether it is laws. specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and LA6 Not applicable. safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, No incidents or injuries reported. and absenteeism, and number of work-related 34 fatalities by region. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist Making Sense of Sustainability…for LA8 workforce members, their families, or Our Business community members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal LA9 Not applicable. agreements with trade unions. Training and Education Average hours of training per year per Making Sense of Sustainability…for LA10 employee by employee category. Our Business Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Making Sense of Sustainability…for LA11 employability of employees and assist them in Our Business managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular 100 percent of all employees LA12 receive regular career development performance and career development reviews. planning and performance reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category LA13 About Us according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Of the twelve full-time employees, LA14 employee category. two are male; ten are female (1:6). HUMAN RIGHTS Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant Not available. Our primary investment agreements that include human investment means is through HR1 rights clauses or that have undergone human defined-contribution retirement rights screening. planning i.e., 401(k). Percentage of significant suppliers and HR2 contractors that have undergone screening on Not available. human rights and actions taken. 35 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR3 Not available. that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-Discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and HR4 No incidents reported. actions taken. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective We comply with all applicable labor HR5 bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions laws. taken to support these rights. Child Labor Operations identified as having significant risk We comply with all applicable labor HR6 for incidents of child labor, and measures taken laws. to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and We comply with all applicable labor HR7 measures to contribute to the elimination of laws. forced or compulsory labor. Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning HR8 Not applicable. aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving HR9 No incidents reported or pending. rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Percentage and total number of operations that We comply with all applicable labor HR10 have been subject to human rights reviews laws. and/or impact assessments. 36 Number of grievances related to human rights HR11 filed, addressed and resolved through formal No incidents reported or pending. grievance mechanisms. SOCIETY Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage Collaborating with Our SO1 the impacts of operations on communities, Communities including entering, operating, and exiting. BrownFlynn considers its impact on local communities, mainly through Operations with significant potential or actual sourcing of suppliers, and SO0 negative impacts on local communities. determined that there could be a negative impact to our local design studio. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10 Not material. potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption BrownFlynn operates according to Percentage and total number of business units high ethical standard practices and SO2 establishes processes and firewalls analyzed for risks related to corruption. where there may be conflicts of interest, or risk of corruption. Every employee of BrownFlynn Percentage of employees trained in receives a copy of the Employee SO3 organization's anti-corruption policies and Handbook which outlines procedures. expectations and codes of conduct with regards to ethical behavior. Actions taken in response to incidents of SO4 No incidents or actions taken. corruption. Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in SO5 Not applicable. public policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions Not applicable. to political parties, politicians, and related 37 institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for antiSO7 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly No incidents or actions pending. practices and their outcomes. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total No fines incurred or sanctions SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for nonpending. compliance with laws and regulations. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed PR1 for improvement, and percentage of significant Not applicable. products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of Not applicable. products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of PR3 Not applicable. significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes We follow all applicable laws and PR4 standards relative to marketing, concerning product and service information and labeling and communications. labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, PR5 including results of surveys measuring customer Materiality, Enabling Our Clients satisfaction. 38 Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing We follow all applicable laws and PR6 standards relative to marketing, communications, including advertising, labeling and communications. promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, No incidents reported or pending. including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints No complaints or legal actions filed PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and or pending. losses of customer data. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations PR9 No fines incurred or pending. concerning the provision and use of products and services. 39 Appendix A: Sustainable Speak – Helping to Make Sense of Sustainability Terminology Accountability: being answerable to all stakeholders, including any natural or social systems affected by a business such as customers, employees, and communities AccountAbility: a sustainability organization known for developing the AA1000 series of principlesbased standards to help organizations become more accountable, responsible and sustainable, e.g., AA1000AS = Assurance Standard. Appreciative Inquiry (AI): a philosophy of organizational assessment and change that seeks examples of success to emulate and organizational or personal strengths to build upon, rather than focusing upon fixing negative or ineffective organizational processes Anti-Corruption: a standard or practice acting in opposition to impropriety or unlawful behavior Assurance: the act or action of inspiring confidence in specified criteria Audit: a systematic, documented, periodic and objective evaluation of how well a project, organization, individual, or service is performing in terms of specified criteria Best Practice: an effective, innovative solution, process, or procedure that demonstrates a business' dedication to making progress in environmental and corporate social responsibility; sometimes shared with collaborators and competitors to shape standards for an industry Biodiesel: a type of fuel made by combining animal fat or vegetable oil (such as soybean oil or used restaurant grease) with alcohol; biodiesel can be directly substituted for diesel (known as B100, for 100% biodiesel), or be used as an additive mixed with traditional diesel (known as B20, for 20% biodiesel) Bioenergy: energy generated from renewable, biological sources (biomass) such as plants, to be used for heat, electricity, or vehicle fuel Biofuel: fuel created from renewable, biological sources such as plants or animal byproducts, but excluding biological material (such as natural gas, coal, or methane) which has been transformed by geological processes Biomass: living or recently-dead organic material that can be used as an energy source or in industrial production; excludes organic material that has been transformed by geological processes (such as coal or petroleum) Biomimicry: a science that studies natural processes and models in order to imitate the designs to solve human problems, i.e. studying a leaf to better understand and design solar cells 40 Brown Power/Energy: electricity generated from the combustion of nonrenewable fossil fuels (coal, oil, or natural gas) which generates significant amounts of greenhouse gases Brownfield: land previously utilized by commercial or industrial facilities that remains abandoned with known or perceived environmental contamination By-Product Synergy: the matching of under-valued waste or by-product streams from one facility with potential users at another facility to create new revenues or savings with potential social and environmental benefits Calvert: an investment firm that highlights socially responsible investing and publishes an annual index of the largest U.S. companies that represent socially responsible investments Cap and Trade System: a strategy to reduce carbon emissions via financial incentives; caps establish emissions limits and fines for exceeding those limits, while companies operating below their carbon limits can sell or trade their offsets to companies that are operating above the limits Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): an independent not-for-profit organization working to drive greenhouse gas emissions reduction and sustainable water use by business and cities Carbon Footprint: the total amount of greenhouse gases emitted directly or indirectly through any human activity, typically expressed in equivalent tons of either carbon or carbon dioxide Carbon Trading: a trading system for countries, companies and individuals designed to offset carbon emissions from one activity with another, whereby those who cannot meet their emissions goals may purchase credits from those who surpass their goals Cause-related Marketing: a business strategy whereby a company aligns its mission and goals to create a specific and tailored partnership with a nonprofit organization or cause Ceres: a national network of investors, environmental organizations and other public interest groups working with companies and investors to address sustainability challenges such as global climate change; Ceres hosts an annual competition to highlight the best examples of sustainability reporting in North America; pronounced series Child Labor: the practice of employing children under a specified legal minimum age as set by a country or government; more frequently exploited in developing countries in order to establish competitive labor costs Clean Air Act: federal legislation passed in 1970 and amended in 1990 that authorizes the EPA to set National Ambient Air Quality Standards and to regulate industry in order to meet those maximum emissions levels Clean Production: a concept developed under the Kyoto Protocol in which manufacturing processes reduce environmental impact and decrease ecological problems by minimizing energy and raw materials 41 use, and making sure emissions and waste are as minimal and as non-toxic to environmental and human health as possible Clean Water Act: federal legislation passed in 1972 and amended in 1976 that requires the EPA to set maximum pollutant levels for each known contaminant in U.S. surface waters and authorizes the EPA to regulate industrial discharge in order to meet those standards Climate Change: changes in global climate patterns (such as temperature, precipitation, or wind) that last for extended periods of time as a result of either natural processes or human activity; the contemporary concern is that human activity is now transcending natural processes in causing the most prevalent climate changes of our time Closed-loop Recycling: a process of utilizing a recycled product in the manufacturing of a similar product or the remanufacturing of the same product Closed-loop Supply Chain: an ideal in which a supply chain completely reuses, recycles or composts all wastes generated during production; at minimum closed-loop supply chain indicates that the company which produces a good is also responsible for its disposal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA or Superfund): federal legislation passed in 1980 that established a tax on the petroleum and chemical industries to fund cleanup of hazardous waste sites, as well as establishing EPA authority to assign responsibility for that cleanup to the polluters or purchasers of contaminated land Corporate Citizenship: a company's responsible involvement with the wider community in which it is situated Corporate Health: the idea that companies, especially commercial businesses, have a duty to care for all of their stakeholders in all aspects of their operations Corporate Responsibility: the degree to which companies manage business practices to produce an overall positive impact on society Corporate Responsibility Report: a periodically-published report of a company's corporate responsibility practices, goals, and progress toward achieving those goals that may be included with the company's annual report or as a separate publication that focuses on the company's social and environmental impact; the process of creating this report is meant to uncover strengths and weaknesses as well as enhance transparency for all company stakeholders; see Corporate Sustainability Report Corporate Social Responsibility: the continuing commitment by businesses to behave ethically and contribute to economic development while improving the quality of life of the workplace as well as the local community and society at large; a company's obligation to be accountable to all of its stakeholders in all its operations and activities (including financial stakeholders as well as suppliers, customers, and employees) with the aim of achieving sustainable development not only in the economic dimension but also in the social and environmental dimensions 42 Corporate Sustainability Report: a periodic report published by a company to outline its progress toward meeting its financial, environmental, and social sustainability goals; often published in compliance with third-party standards such as the UN Global Compact or Global Reporting Initiative: see Corporate Responsibility Report Council: an assembly or meeting for consultation, advice or discussion Cradle-to-Cradle: a design philosophy put forth by architect William McDonough that considers the lifecycle of a material or product, and ensures that the product is completely recycled at the end of its defined lifetime Demand-Side Management (DSM): the implementation of policies that control or influence demand of certain products or services Dematerialization: the reduction of total materials used in providing customers with products or services Domini Social Investment: an investment firm specializing exclusively in socially-responsible investing based on its own development and application of social and environmental standards Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI): the first global indexes to track the financial performance of sustainability-driven companies Eco-Efficiency: the creation of more goods and services while using fewer resources and creating less waste and pollution Eco-friendly: a product, practice, or process that is green or good for the environment, creating no unnecessary or hazardous waste and minimizing use of non-renewable, natural resources Ecological Economics: see Natural Capital, Ethical Investments, Environmental Valuation Ecological Footprint: the total amount of land, food, water, and other resources used by, or the total ecological impact of, a person or organization's subsistence; usually measured in acres or hectares of productive land Ecological Justice, a.k.a. Ecojustice: the concept that all components of an ecosystem (such as plant and animal life as well as natural resources) have a right to be free from human exploitation and free from destruction, discrimination, bias, or extinction; distinct from Environmental Justice Employee Engagement: a management concept aimed at measuring and benefitting from employee enthusiasm to move a project or objective forward Energy Efficiency: the result of actions taken to reduce dependence on or to save fuels, i.e., selection of road vehicles with higher MPG or the use of renewable sources of power for heating and cooling 43 Environmental Audit: a systematic, documented, periodic and objective evaluation of how well a project, organization, individual, or service is performing in terms of environmental impact, including, but not necessarily limited to, compliance with any relevant standards or regulations Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA): an assessment of potential environmental effects of development projects; required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) for any proposed major federal action with significant environmental impact Environmental Justice: the concept of equal access to environmental resources and protection from environmental hazards regardless of race, ethnicity, national origin, or income; distinct from Ecological Justice Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA): the tracking and rating of environmental risks, such as emissions, associated with a product and its manufacturing Environmental Standards: see Standards Environmental Sustainability: see Sustainability Environmental Valuation: the inclusion of environmental costs and benefits into accounting practices using such mechanisms as taxes, tax incentives, and subsidies; by quantifying environmentally-related costs and revenues, better management decisions and increased investment in environmental protection and improvement are encouraged Environmental, Social and Government (ESG): an acronym commonly used by investment firms to refer to the types of issues or factors considered in measuring a company's responsible practices ; these issues or factors include the environmental effects of a company's business practices, social metrics such as fair pay and treatment of labor and community involvement and ethical corporate governance practices that are both transparent and anti-corruption Environmental, Social, Economic and Government (ESEG): an acronym similar to ESG (see above) that includes a company’s economic impact in addition to its environmental, social and governance actions Ethical Investments: see Socially Responsible Investing Fair Trade: an international trading partnership that seeks to help marginalized producers and workers achieve financial self-sufficiency by establishing direct lines of trade between producers and consumers, guaranteeing producers fair prices for goods, restricting exploitative labor processes, and favoring environmentally-sustainable production processes through a system of labeling products as fair trade Fossil Fuels: fuels, such as natural gas, coal, and petroleum that formed from the fossilized (or geologically transformed) remains of plants and animals FTSE4Good: a financial index designed to objectively measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards 44 Geothermal Energy: a natural and sustainable form of heat energy derived from steam and hot water found below the surface of the Earth Global 100: the most extensive data-driven corporate sustainability assessment in existence and inclusion is limited to a select group of the top 100 large-cap companies in the world; launched in 2005, the annual Global 100 is announced each year during the World Economic Forum in Davos Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): a reporting standard generally accepted to be the leading international standard for reporting social, environmental and economic performance Global Warming: the gradual, average increase of temperature of the Earth's near-surface atmosphere that is accelerated by the greenhouse gases emitted by human industry; global warming is one type of and a contributor to other types of global climate change in general, such that at individual locations the temperature may fluctuate or drop even though the global average is rising Governance: the roles and relationships between an organization’s management, board, shareholders and stakeholders, as well the goals and mission by which the organization is governed Green Accounting: the incorporation of the amount of natural resources used and pollutants expelled into conventional economic accounting in order to provide a detailed measure of all environmental consequences of any and all economic activities Green Building: a comprehensive process of design and construction that employs techniques to minimize adverse environmental impacts and reduce the energy consumption of a building, while contributing to the health and productivity of its occupants; a common metric for evaluating green buildings is the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification Green Claims: a company’s public advertisements or marketing tools aimed at informing consumers about its environmentally-friendly products or practices Green Design: the design of products, services, buildings, or experiences that are sensitive to environmental issues and achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness in terms of energy and materials use Greenhouse Effect: the trapping of heat within the Earth's atmosphere by greenhouse gases such as CO2, which is necessary to keep the planet at a temperature warm enough to sustain life, but becomes dangerous when greenhouse gases produced by humans cause the effect to intensify and push the global temperature to too high a level Greenhouse Gas: a gas that contributes to the natural greenhouse effect, whereby heat is trapped within the Earth's atmosphere, including: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride Green Guides: a set of guidelines produced by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) providing the basis for voluntary compliance with laws pertaining to environmental advertising and marketing practices 45 Green Teams: dedicated groups of employees, regardless of discipline or organizational level, which facilitate the pragmatic implementation of sustainable operations principles on their unit Greenwashing: the process by which a company publicly and misleadingly declares itself to be environmentally-friendly but internally participates in environmentallyor socially-unfriendly practices G3.1: version 3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Framework G4: the fourth generation of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines currently in development by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Health and Wellness: the condition of good physical and mental health, especially when maintained by proper diet and exercise habits Human Rights: inalienable fundamental rights to which a person is inherently entitled simply because he or she is a human being, e.g. freedom, justice and equality International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC): a global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, standard setters, accounting professionals and NGOs Impact Assessment: an assessment of the positive and negative consequences of a proposed action or project ISO 14000: a family of accounting standards addressing various aspects of environmental management; provides practical tools for companies and organizations looking to identify and control their environmental impact and constantly improve their environmental performance ISO 26000: a family of accounting standards intended to assist organizations in contributing to sustainable development; also intended to promote common understanding in the field of social responsibility, and to complement other instruments and initiatives for social responsibility Kyoto Protocol: an international agreement reached during a summit in Kyoto, Japan in 1997, the Kyoto Protocol builds upon the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and sets targets and timetables for industrialized countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions; 175 parties have so far ratified the Protocol and are legally bound to adhere to its principles Key Performance Indicators (KPIs): quantifiable measurements of performance in areas critical to an organization’s progress or performance LEED Certification: an acronym for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design sponsored by the United States Green Building Council that creates standards for developing high performance, sustainable buildings Life Cycle Assessment (LCA): a process of evaluating the effects of a product or its designated function on the environment over the entire period of the product's life in order to increase resource-use efficiency and decrease liabilities; commonly referred to as cradle-to-grave analysis 46 LOHAS Market: an acronym for Lifestyles of Health and Sustainability; a market that consists of mindful consumers passionate about the environment, sustainability, social issues and health Materiality: a legal or accounting concept aimed at emphasizing the importance of a specific action, transaction, or discrepancy Measurement and Management: terms used to describe an organization’s efforts to measure and manage its environmental, social, economic, and governance impact Meta-Trend: a global and overarching force that will affect many multidimensional changes; for example, environmental impacts on business, individuals and countries Natural Capital: a company's environmental assets and natural resources existing in the physical environment, either owned (such as mineral, forest, or energy resources) or simply utilized in business operations (such as clean water and atmosphere); often traditional economic measures and indicators fail to take into account the development use of natural capital, although preservation of its quantity and quality and therefore its sustainable use is essential to a business' long-term survival and growth Newsweek Green List: annual rankings published by Newsweek examining the most eco-friendly companies in the U.S. and around the world Non-Governmental Organization (NGO): a private, non-profit organization that is independent of business and government that works toward some specific social, environmental, or economic goal through research, activism, training, promotion, advocacy, lobbying, community service, etc. Non-renewable Resource: a natural resource that is unable to be regenerated or renewed fully and without loss of quality once it is used, i.e., fossil fuels or minerals Open-Loop Recycling: a recycling process in which materials from old products are made into new products in a manner that changes the inherent properties of the materials, often via a degradation in quality, such as recycling white writing paper into cardboard rather than more premium writing paper; often used for steel, paper, and plastic, open-loop recycling is also known as downcycling or reprocessing Organic: a term signifying the absence of pesticides, hormones, synthetic fertilizers and other toxic materials in the cultivation of agricultural products; ‘organic' is also a food labeling term that denotes the product was produced under the authority of the Organic Foods Production Act Paid Volunteer Time Off: administrative approval for employees to volunteer during work hours without forfeiting wages People, Planet, Profit: the expanded set of values for companies and individuals to use in measuring organizational and societal success, specifically economic, environmental and social values; people, planet, profit are also referred to as the components of the triple bottom line ; see Triple Bottom Line 47 Profile disclosures: four areas of company disclosure, stipulated by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as Strategy and Analysis; Organizational Profile; Report Parameters; and Governance, Commitments and Engagement Rankings: generated lists of projects or organizations recognized for achievement based on individual performances in terms of critical performance areas Ratings: evaluations of performance in specified criteria that are typically quantitative in nature Renewable Energy: energy derived from non-fossil fuel resources (such as solar, wind, or geothermal energy) that can be replenished in full without a loss of quality; separate from sustainable energy because of emissions or other unsustainable impacts of the process of creating renewable energy Renewable Portfolio Standard: a state policy that requires that state to meet a certain percentage of its energy needs with renewable energy by a certain date Responsible Practices: business practices that exemplify corporate responsibility; see Corporate Responsibility Shareholder Resolution: a corporate policy recommendation proposed by a shareholder holding at least $2,000 market value or 1% of the company's voting shares presented for a vote by other shareholders at the company's annual meeting; an increasing number of shareholder resolutions request a company and/or its board of directors to carry out responsible business practices, especially regarding social, environmental and human rights issues Social Entrepreneurship: an entrepreneurial endeavor that focuses on sustainable social change, rather than merely the generation of profit Social Responsibility: see Corporate Social Responsibility Social Return on Investment (SROI): a monetary measure of the social value for a community or society yielded by a specific investment Social Standards: see Standards Socially Responsible Investing (SRI): an investment practice that gives preference to companies that value social and environmental impacts in addition to financial gain; socially responsible investments, also known as ethical investments, involve companies and practices that cause little or no depletion of natural assets or environmental degradation, and that do not infringe the rights of workers, women, indigenous people, children nor animals Stakeholder: an individual or group potentially affected by the activities of a company or organization; in sustainable business models the term includes financial shareholders as well as those affected by environmental or social factors such as suppliers, consumers, employees, the local community, and the natural environment 48 Stakeholder Engagement: the ongoing process of soliciting feedback regarding a company's business practices or major decisions from financial shareholders, as well as individuals or groups effected by corporate environmental or social practices such as suppliers, consumers, employees, and the local community Standards: government or privately-created lists of social and environmental criteria used to regulate or evaluate the corporate responsibility of various companies; examples include the Global Reporting Initiative and UN Global Compact as well as indexes used by socially responsible investment firms such as CERES, Calvert and Domini Strategic Philanthropy: a corporate philanthropy or community giving program that maximizes positive impact in the community as well as for the company, including bolstered employee recruitment, retention and a stronger company brand Supply Chain Responsibility: a commitment to integrating responsible behavior into an organization’s supply chain or logistics in terms of the environment, risk, and waste Supply-Side Economics: the use of policies such as tax cuts and business incentives to control to supply of certain goods or services Survey: an examination of a condition, situation or value Sustainability: the successful meeting of present social, economic, and environmental needs without compromising the ability of future generation to meet their own needs; derived from the most common definition of sustainability, created in 1987 at the World Commission on Environment and Development Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB): a non-profit organization engaged in the development and dissemination of industry-specific sustainability accounting standards Sustainable Design: a process of product, service, or organizational design that complies with the principles of social, economic, and environmental sustainability Sustainable Development: development that utilizes tools, supplies and strategies that protect and enhance the earth's natural resources and diverse eco-systems so as to meet the social and economic needs of the present without compromising the ability to meet the needs of the future Sustainable Energy: energy produced either from renewable resources or by use of clean production technology Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System (STARS): a transparent, self-reporting framework for colleges and universities to measure their sustainability performance that was established by the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE) Sustainable Supply Chain: an organization’s supply chain or logistics network that exhibits sustainable practices in terms of the environment, risk, and waste 49 Sustainable Supply Chain Policy: a policy aimed at promoting sustainable practices in an organization’s supply chain Sustainable Supply Chain Survey: an examination of an organization’s practices in terms of the environment, risk and waste Tragedy of the Commons: the inherent conflict between individual interests and the common good, based on the assumption that an individual uses a public good without considering the impact of his or her use on the availability of that good, therefore resulting in the over-exploitation of a public resource; the concept is explored in a 1968 essay written by Garrett Hardin Transmaterialization: the process of substituting a service for a product in order to meet customer needs while reducing the use of materials and natural resources Transparency: a measure of increased accountability and decreased corruption in which a business reports on its ethics and performance results through accessible publication of the business' practices and behavior; there is a strong movement to increase the transparency of business processes via independently-verified corporate responsibility reporting Triple Bottom Line: an expansion of the traditional company reporting framework of net financial gains or losses to take into account environmental and social performance; see People, Planet, Profit Triple Top Line: a phrase describing a company's improved top-line financial performance over the long term due to sustainable business practices, including less capital investment and increased revenues United Nations Global Compact: an international initiative that seeks to bring businesses together voluntarily in order to promote socially and environmentally responsible practices; signatories pledge to uphold the Compact's 10 Principles United States Business Council on Sustainable Development (USBCSD): a non-profit organization promoting sustainable development by establishing networks and partnerships between American companies and government entities; the USBCSD provides a voice for industry and is the U.S. branch of the World Business Council of Sustainable Development U.S. SIF: the U.S. membership association for professionals, firms, institutions and organizations engaged in sustainable and responsible investing (formerly called the Social Investment Forum) Venture Philanthropy: a charitable giving model that bridges venture capital strategies with philanthropic giving, creating strategic relationships among individuals and nonprofit organizations Volunteerism: use of or reliance on volunteers, especially to perform social or educational work in communities Waste: unwanted materials or by-products 50 Waste Diversion: the prevention and reduction of generated waste through source reduction, recycling, reuse, or composting Waste-to-Energy: a recovery process in which waste is incinerated or otherwise turned into steam or electricity, and used to generate heat, light or power through the process of combustion Waste-to-Profit: the process of using one company's waste or by-product as the input or raw material for another company, thereby increasing business profits and decreasing waste; also referred to as byproduct synergy Water Disclosure Project (WDP): a component of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) promoting sustainable water practices by businesses and cities Water Footprint: the total volume of water an organization uses to produce goods and services Wellness Program: a program initiated to promote good physical and mental health among its participants, especially in regards to proper diet and exercise habits World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD): an association of 170 international companies that provides business leadership with support to operate, innovate, and grow through sustainable development initiatives that incorporate the three pillars of economic growth: environmental protection, social development and economic growth Zero Waste: a production system aiming to eliminate the volume and toxicity of waste and materials by conserving or recovery 51
