About this Report: Corporate Core Values Time Covered Integrity, Cooperation; Jan 01, 2012 – Dec 31, 2012. When appropriate, the report includes additional conContinuous Innovation and Progress; tent and information that pre-dates the stated reporting period. Performance-oriented and Serving the Nation. Reporting Cycle Our sustainability report is published annually, this being the seventh report since 2006. Declaration on Sustainable Development Main Contents This report outlines our performance in 2012 on safety, environmental, economic Persist in serving national interests and development strategies, so as to set an example in and social issues. It includes information and typical cases from documents, statements and information platforms of the Company and its grassroots-level enterprises. promoting economic and social development in all respects. Compilation Conformance Persist in scientific development and technological innovation, so as to set an example in This report is compiled in accordance with the Guidelines on Performing Social Responsibility by Central Enterprises released by the State-owned Assets Supervision building a resource-conserving and environmentally-friendly society. and Administration Commission (SASAC) of the State Council and in light of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises Persist in pursuing operational performance in a rational way, so as to set an example in (CASS-CSR 2.0) by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS), ISO 26000: promoting harmony between enterprises and society. Guidance on Social Responsibility by International Organization for Standardization, and Guidelines on Social Responsibilities of Chinese Industrial Enterprises and Industrial Associations by the China Federation of Industrial Economics (CFIE). Persist in relying on employees and working with the public to develop the enterprise so as Major Changes to set an example in putting people first and sharing benefits. The report’s main theme is “Improving Management·Striving to Create the Best.” It further improves Huaneng’s sustainable development model, systematically ilPersist in contributing to society and benefiting the people, so as to set an example in lustrates the concepts, objectives, measures, performance and typical cases of the Company in promoting safe development, optimal development, green developpracticing social ethics. ment, healthy development, innovative development and harmonious development. The report includes a special feature that demonstrates the Company’s practice of improving management and building a world-class energy group, as well as the progress of promoting demonstration project in technological innovation. References to China Huaneng Group In this report, “China Huaneng Group”, “Huaneng Group”, “Huaneng”, “the ComBeautiful China Beautiful Huaneng pany” and “we” refer to China Huaneng Group. Online Access to the Report The report is prepared and released in Chinese and English. For more information, please go to our website: http//www.chng.com.cn. 华能可持续发展模式 Huaneng’s Sustainable Development Mode Contents 01 Message from Company Leaders Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best Special Feature: Improving Management • Striving to Create the Best Special Feature: Building Demonstration Projects • Leading Future Development Social Responsibility Management 4BG Z 13 Strategy and Management F%FWFMPQNFOU 4BG ) 0 F 21 Q MU B  UJ N Safe Development OH I )V B OF Z % N VB M F BO % W G ) JT F FM P (PWFSONFOU UJ WF &O 4UBGG 4UBG BOE*OWFTUPST &D WJS UZ D MP PQ SJ ) N QN POP 29 V Optimal Development H PON FO UF BO *O FO FO NJD3FTQPOTJCJ U 4PDJBM U $MJFOUT $VMUVSF (SPVQTBOEE H FO 0SHBOJ[BUJPOT BO 4U BH SB FN UF FO *OO 37 HZ U 3 FT . (S Green Development PW $PNNVOJUZ H F Q BOEUIF1VCMJD 1BSUOFST BU P O FO O F  MJU JW T O B % JCJ F JCMF V F Z ) MJU % ) G WF V P E Z F BO MP 45 O Healthy Development W F P FO # SB N Q M Q H N F O F U O U )B SN OU POJP NF VT%FWFMPQ 53 Innovative Development 4PDJBM UZ 3 59 Harmonious Development Building an integrated energy group with world-class international competitiveness that takes power generation as its core business, coal development as its basis, finance as its supporting business, and technology as its driving force, while striving for industrial synergy. 67 Prospect in 2013 Indicator Index Rating the Report Terminology 01 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 02 Message from Company Leaders In 2013, Huaneng Group will further study and carry out the guiding principles of the 18th National Congress of the CPC; we will deepen reforms and innovation, optimize structures, and enhance management and team building so as to build Huaneng into a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness. President of China Huaneng Group and Vice Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee and Cao Peixi Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee Huang Yongda Vice President of China Huaneng Group The 18th National Congress of the Communist Party of China Responsibility guides our direction and development into future put forward measures to accelerate strategic structural adjustand leads to prosperity. The reinvigoration of the Chinese nament of the economy, to foster new vitality, driving forces for tion and to bring moderate society to China are the dreams In 2012, China Huaneng Group has made signiﬁcant progress in building itself into a world-class enterprise with international competithe growth of the economy, to signiﬁcantly promote ecological and pursuit of all the Chinese people. As a large and integrated tiveness. Facing difﬁculties and challenges, with the Scientiﬁc Outlook on Development as guideline, Huaneng Group focused on imand environmental health, and to promote energy production energy Group, Huaneng will always bear the sacred responsibilproving quality and efﬁciency, took transformation and upgrading as the priority, and has overcome difﬁculties and achieved remarkable and consumption reforms. In response to the new situation, in ity on our shoulders and follow the Ten Principles of the United results in production and operation. In 2012, the installed capacity of Huaneng in China and abroad totalled 135.08 GW, among which 2013, Huaneng Group will further study and carry out the guidNations Global Compact and abide by international standards low-carbon installed capacity constituted 28.3 GW. For the year, 608.7 billion kWh power was generated and 68.59 million tons of coal ing principles of 18th National Congress of the CPC; we will and principles pertaining to enterprises. We will actively respond was produced. Operation income mounted to 277.7 billion yuan, the highest proﬁt since the inception of the Group. In the meantime, deepen reform and innovation, optimize structure, and enhance to the difficulties and challenges ahead, and continue to be a coal consumption, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emission per kWh continued to drop, maintaining a leadership position in the indusmanagement and team building so as to build Huaneng into a responsible corporate citizen. Huaneng will continue to pursue try. We have consecutively achieved A-level performance evaluated by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Comworld-class enterprise with international competitiveness. We the comprehensive value of an enterprise, steadily promote the mission (SASAC) for the seventh year, and ranked 246th globally among Fortune 500 companies. Huaneng Tiajin IGCC Demonstration will further strengthen safety management to consolidate our balanced and sustainable development of the economy, society, Power Plant, the ﬁrst IGCC power plant in China, started to generate power, which marked a crucial breakthrough in China’s clean enerfoundation of safe production; we will give full attention to busiand environment. We will spare no efforts in ensuring China’s gy power technology. China’s key science and technology project, the nuclear power plant demonstration project with high-temperature ness management to enhance our proﬁtability; we will accelerate energy security and power supply, so as to build a beautiful gas-cooled reactor technology, over which China owned independent intellectual property rights, started contruction. Huaneng ofﬁcially structural adjustments and continue to beneﬁt from quality deHuaneng Group and a beautiful China! became the fourth central SOE that acquired the qualiﬁcation to develop nuclear power. velopment. Huaneng will promote industrial synergy to maximize our efficiency of the utilization of resources. We will put great It is the honorable mission of central SOEs to fulﬁll corporate social responsibilities, tackle challenges in resources and environment and stress on capital management and internationalized managepromote the comprehensive, coordinated and sustainable development, which is also the path to become an outstanding and worldment. Huaneng Group will make further efforts to save energy class enterprise. As a key SOE, Huaneng has always integrated CSR into our whole process of production, operation and management. and reduce emissions and build our company into an energyWe stick to the path of safe development, optimal development, green development, healthy development, innovative development, and saving and environmentally friendly enterprise. We will promote harmonious development. To fulﬁll our economic responsibilities, we provide sufﬁcient and stable power supply to support China’s social science and technolgy innovation and improve our ability to inand economic development; we ensure the maintenance and appreciation of state owned assets. To fulﬁll our environmental responnovate independently. Huaneng will consolidate Party building, sibilities, we enhance energy conservation and emission reduction and promote green and low-carbon development, so as to build a and make Party building more scientiﬁc in all respects, so as to energy-saving and environmentally friendly society. To fulﬁll our social responsibilities, we sincerely respond to all the stakeholders, and take Huaneng’s sustainable development to a new level. have made important contributions in building a harmonious society. March 2012 012 03 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 04 Members of the Management Team Key Performance Indicators Environmental Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Proportion of clean energy % 12.40 15.01 17.70 19.12 20.95 Coal consumption rate for g/kWh 333.59 327.70 322.72 318.68 316.52 power generation Comprehensive servicepower consumption rate % 5.90 5.61 5.22 5.08 4.84 of power plant Slag and ash utilization % 63.03 70.24 74.15 76.34 77.08 rate Economic Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Installed capacity 10 MW 8586.20 10438.20 11343.42 12537.84 13507.66 Power production 100 million kWh 3645.00 4200.95 5376.44 6046.31 6087.00 Coal production 10 thousand tons 2249 4408 4886 6406 6859 100 million yuan Total asset (RMB) 4635.94 5782.81 6623.99 7531.88 7950.24 100 million yuan Total revenue (RMB) 1513.75 1777.40 2279.94 2681.73 2797.78 100 million yuan Tax delivery (RMB) 141.20 166.48 172.66 195.78 261.43 100 million yuan Proﬁt (RMB) 58.41 68.85 77.83 61.41 139.52 Social Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Equivalent utilization coefﬁcient of power generation % 91.69 92.27 94.87 94.17 94.46 equipment Cao Peixi, President of CHNG and Vice Secretary of the CPC Ma Jing, Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee and Discipline Major injury and death acNo. 0 0 0 0 0 cident Huaneng Committee (third from left in the front row) Inspection Group Leader (third from left in the back row) Major equipment accident No. 0 0 0 0 0 Huang Yongda, Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee and Hu Jianmin, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Vice President of CHNG (third from right in the front row) Huaneng Committee ( second from right in the back row ) Common equipment acNo. 4 3 0 6 1 cident Zhang Tingke, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Kou Wei, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Huaneng Staff No. 98560 129992 131816 133270 136510 Huaneng Committee (second from left in the front row) Committee (second from left in the back row) Female staff No. 26633 27088 31384 32636 34400 Na Xizhi, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Wu Dawei, Chief Economist of CHNG (first from right in the back Huaneng Committee (second from right in the front row) row) Signing rate of labor con% 100 100 100 100 100 tract Huang Long, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Hu Shihai, Chief Engineer of CHNG (ﬁrst from left in the back row) Coverage rate of collec% 100 100 100 100 100 tive contract Huaneng Committee (ﬁrst from left in the front row) Membership rate in labor % 100 100 100 100 100 union Guo Junming, Chief Accountant of CHNG and Member of the 10 thousand yuan CPC Huaneng Committee (ﬁrst from right in the front row) Donation amount 11465 11107 10770 4603 7439 (RMB) The Integrity of Huaneng The Humanistic Huaneng The Responsible Huaneng The Brand of Huaneng The Integrity of Huaneng The Humanistic Huaneng The Responsible Huaneng The Brand of Huaneng On October 9th, 2012, the opening On December 18th, the ceremony ceremony of preparatory office of of 2012 National Enterprise Culture Huaneng Tibet Medog Electric (Huaneng Power International Inc.) Power Co., Ltd. was held in Lhasa, on-the-spot meeting and the demonwhich marked that power assistance stration base of enterprise culture was to Tibet in the 12th Five-year Plan host in Beijing by China Enterprise was ofﬁcially carried out after supConfederation and China Entrepreporting transition power sources in neur Association. Huaneng Power Lhasa and Ali during the 11th FiveInternational Inc. was awarded the tiyear Plan. It was another concrete tle of Demonstration Base of National practice while Huaneng has been Enterprise Culture. It was another always actively supporting Tibet’s major achievement when Huaneng economic and social development. actively promoted the construction of Humanistic Huaneng in recent years. Responsibility Integration Responsibility Communication Social Responsibility Management Combining fulﬁlling the corporate social responsibility with promoting the The Company set up a platform to communicate with the stakeholders scientific development, the Company paid great attention to production and made smooth the communication channels. We established spokessafety, energy-saving and emission reduction, promoting the transformaperson system and set open days for media and communicated effection and upgrading as well as innovation, continuously strengthening the tively with stakeholders. We regularly delivered sustainable development comprehensive ability to create value, and promoted the all-round develreports and set up a “Social Responsibility Column” on the Company’s opment of staff, to realize the balanced development of the Company, the website, to let the public know better about Huaneng. Meanwhile, the society, and the environment. Company actively participated in industry exchanges, and sought cooperation and partnership from the upstream and downstream of the industry In 2012, the Company listed social responsibility management as one chain, so as to continue to contribute to the healthy development of the of the 20 key areas of Management Improvement activity. We further industry. strengthened the plan of work and the construction of management system, and improved the index evaluation system. The Company also actively carried out the pilot projects of harmonious enterprise construction, and strived to improve our management in social responsibility. Responsibility Research Responsibility Performance In 2012, the Company implemented the guiding principles of Social Responsibility Conference for Central SOEs held by the State-owned Assets SuperviCombining with the practices, the Company actively carried out social reIn 2012, our social responsibility management systems and communicasion Administration Commission (SASAC) of the State Council. We implemented a harmonious development strategy and further enhanced social responsponsibility researches, and participated in the development and research tion mechanism have been further improved. Social responsibility training sibility management, combining with activities including Creating a World-class Enterprise with International Competitiveness and Management Improveof social responsibility standard. We also participated in the activities of has been carried out, and employees have enhanced their awareness on ment, and further strengthened the management of social responsibility. We have integrated social responsibility into the our entire process of operation the United Nations Global Compact, and took part in major social responsocial responsibility. The brand of our social responsibility has better covand development, while intensifying works of responsibility planning, responsibility governance, responsibility integration, responsibility communication, and sibility research activities at home and overseas, so as to lay a theoretical erage and inﬂuence. Huaneng’s campaign of Adhering to Green Developresponsibility research, so we could further improve our social responsibility performance. foundation for further carrying out practices of social responsibility. ment and Building a World-class Enterprise was named the best case in environmental protection by the China Network Center of Global Compact. In 2012, as an expert company, we took full participation in the data colIn the Social Responsibility Report on China’s Enterprises (2012) released Responsibility Strategy Responsibility Governance lection, discussion and results audit of Research on the Content and by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Huaneng’s social responsiMethod of Electric Power Enterprises Sustainable Development Reports, bility development index ranks the forefront in the power industry. Adhering to the “Three-color” corporate mission, the Company earnestly imThe Company established Social Responsibility Management Comwhich was held by China Electricity Council. This research made solid plemented the four responsibilities including safety responsibility, economic mittee, which is responsible for deliberation and decision making of theoretical preparation for the compilation of sustainable development responsibility, social responsibility and environmental responsibility, and proimportant events in relevant with corporate social responsibility. The reports on the power industry. moted the comprehensive, balanced and sustainable development of enterCompany also formed a social responsibility management system with prises, and strived to realize the ﬁve objectives in Declaration on Sustainable well-structured organization and clear regulations, and a working mechThe Company pays great attention to communication with various communities and social groups and earnestly respond to the concerns of stakeholdDevelopment of the Company. In 2012, the Company developed The Action anism. ers. In February 2012, a group of journalists, from Xinhua News Agency, CCTV, The Central People’s Broadcasting Station, Economic Daily , GuangPlan to Create a World-class Enterprise and to Implement Harmonious DeIn 2012, the Company further improved the social responsibility manming Daily , China News Agency, China Daily , China Electric Power News and others, went to interview the Company and Huaneng Lancang River velopment Strategy. Taking strengthening the construction of the Integrity of agement system, set up specialized agencies which were equipped with Hydropower Co.,Ltd. Through the interviews the journalists gained a good understanding of Huaneng’s measures and achievements in performing Huaneng, the Humanistic Huaneng, the Responsible Huaneng, the Brand professional personnel, so as to strengthen and reﬁne the Company’s our social responsibilities and a good understanding of Huaneng’s social responsibility ideas—“Five Principles”: building a power plant, stimulating the of Huaneng as the carrier, we will take the sustainable development of the social responsibility management. local economy, protecting the environment, bringing beneﬁt to the people, and building a harmonious place. The media gave in-depth reports which Company up to a new level. The Company was identiﬁed as a key enterprise have received wide attention and acknowledge from people from all walks of life. in implementing the harmonious development strategy by SASAC. Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 14 Company Profile China Huaneng Group is a key state-owned enterprise approved by the State Council. The registered capital of China Huaneng Group is RMB 20 billion yuan. The Company is engaged in the following businesses: development, investment, construction, operation and management of power sources, power (thermal power) production and sale, production and sale of business and products related to ﬁnance, coal, transportation, new energy and environmental protection, as well as industrial investment, operations and management. Strategy and Management China Huaneng Group was ﬁrst incorporated in 1985. Since then, the Company has provided experience in the reform, development, and technological innovation for the power industry. The Company has played an exemplary role in improving enterprise management and increasing economic beneﬁt for power enterprises. Also the Company made great contribution in meeting power demand for economic and social growth, as well as maintaining and adding value to state-owned assets. The Company has adhered to the concepts of “clear direction, continuous innovation, extensive cooperation, and mutual beneﬁts”, and has cultivated corporate culture with Huaneng characteristics, such as the “three-color” corporate mission of “a Red company serving the need of socialism, a Green company advocating technology advancement and environmental protection, a Blue company emphasizing continuous innovation and internationalization”, and the core values of “Integrity, Cooperation, Innovation, Performance-oriented, and Serving the Nation” etc. Safe Development China Huaneng Group is committed to building itself into a large enterprise group with international competitiveness. By the end of 2012, the Company had total installed capacity of 135GW, with assets distributed in 30 provinces (municipalities, and autonomous regions) of China and overseas. The Company is also engaged in sectors of coal, ﬁnance, technology R&D, and transportation etc. that support the core business of power. The Company was the ﬁrst Chinese power producer to join the ranks of Fortune 500 Companies, ranking 246th in 2012, while 376th in 2011. Optimal Development Industrial Distribution Green Development Electric It’s the core industry of the Company. In 2012, the Company has total installed capacity of 135.08GW, ranking Power 01 the ﬁrst in Asia, second in the world. Among them, 133.01GW was in China and 2.07GW abroad; 112.35GW Industry was from thermal power, 14.17GW was from hydropower and 8.48GW was from wind power. Strategy and Healthy Development Serving the electric power industry and ensuring safety, the Company actively seeks high-quality coal reManagement Coal Industry sources and subsequent resources, and promotes the transformation and expansion of the existing coal mines. We focused on the coal mine projects with strong cooperative ability and functional beneﬁts. Meanwhile, we also sped up the construction of large-scale coal (coal power) bases. In 2012, our coal production capacity has Innovative Development reached 78.17million tons per year. Events TransServing the coal transportation, the Company achieved overall development in port, shipping and railway lo◆| On January 1st The Company issued the “General Guidance for Further Promoting the Creation of a World-class Enterprise portation gistics business, and has built a stable, reliable and efﬁcient coal transportation system. In 2012, the Company Harmonious Development with International Competitiveness”, and made overall plans and arrangements to build the Company into a has its port (wharf) handling capacity of 28.2million tons per year and shipping capacity of 1.297million tons per world-class enterprise. Industry year. ◆| On February 13 th The Company held a general meeting of cadres from headquarters to make arrangements for strengthening the building of the headquarters from eight aspects and to ensure the achievement of the objectives and The Company attaches great importance to the integration of industry and ﬁnance, and owns ﬁnancial compatasks of the year. Financial nies, such as Huaneng Capital Service Co., Ltd, the Great Wall Securities, Alltrust Insurance. Each company Industry operates steadily around their main business, and gives full play to the service function and performance sup◆| On June 6th The Company held a meeting to make further plans and mobilization to promote Creating the World-class port of ﬁnance in the Company. Enterprise and Management Improvement . ◆| On July 9th Fortune magazine released the list of the world’s top 500 companies in 2012 and Huaneng ranked 246th, TechThe Company owns six national key labs (research centers) as well as Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute up by 30 places over the previous year. and Clean Energy Technology Research Institute. We actively promote the application of advanced technology, nology equipment, research and develop advanced power generation technology, promote the transformation of scien◆| On July 25th SASAC ranked Huaneng as an A-level Enterprise for Business Performance among central SOEs. Since Industry tiﬁc and technological achievements into practical productive forces. the implementation of this assessment, it’s the seventh consecutive time that the Company wins an A-level. 15 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 16 Management System The Company continues to strengthen its three-level management system, comprised of the “headquarters-regional companies/industrial companies-grassOrganization Structure roots companies”. Along with building itself into a world-class enterprise and improving management, Huaneng made further adjustments to deﬁne job responsibilities, and implemented the mechanism that HPI participates in the Group’s decision-making. We gave full authorization to six branch companies and established Coal Company, Materials Company and Nuclear Power Department to promote the steady improvement of specialized management. FurDepartments of the Headquarters Regional Branch Companies thermore, Huaneng improved evaluation and management systems centered on the “Four Evaluation Systems”, namely security, management, development and party building, in the secondary and tertiary companies, and improved indicators and way of calculation, so as to better mobilize responsible entiGeneral Administration Department China Huaneng Group Northeast Branch ties. Huaneng also formulated and promulgated an internal control manual for the headquarters and rules for collective decision-making system, and gave Department of Capital Operations and Equity Management China Huaneng Group Jiangsu Branch full play to the role of the professional and specialized committees such as the Management Committee, the Committees of Experts, Production Safety, Strategy and Management Supervision Department China Huaneng Group Hunan Branch Financial Budget. As a result, there is a further improvement in the Company’s abilities in decision-making, management, and execution. Department of Planning and Development China Huaneng Group East China Branch Department of Safe Production China Huaneng Group Zhejiang Branch Auditing Department China Huaneng Group Chongqing Branch Strategic Planning Center Department of Budget and General Planning China Huaneng Group Central China Branch Production Safety Department of Environmental Protection and Science and Technology China Huaneng Group Anhui Branch Decision-making Center for Investment and Financing In ﬁnancial level Operation Safety Department of Ideological and Political Work China Huaneng Group Qinghai Branch Resource Allocation Center In business level Department of Corporate Governance and Legal Affairs China Huaneng Group South China Branch Political Safety Performance Management Center Safe Development Engineering Department China Huaneng Group Fujian Branch Group Image Safety Safety Operating In beneﬁt level Decision-making Center for Major &Important Issues ny Performance Performance Labor Union Working Committee China Huaneng Group Guangxi Branch (Preparatory ofﬁce) Compa Department of Operations China Huaneng Group Hebei Branch Responsible for Development, Construcl International Cooperation Department China Huaneng Group Jiangxi Branch tion, Production and Operation Activities Regiona ie s/IndusFinance Department China Huaneng Group Guizhou Branch (Preparatory ofﬁce) Compan Development Optimal Development Party Building Proﬁt-earning Center Ideology/Organipanies Performance Performance Human Resources Department China Huaneng Group Shanxi Branch trial Com zation/Style/System Preparatory Work China Huaneng Group Henan Branch Responsible for Safe Production ots Anti-corruption Grass-ro Infrastructure Work Cost Control Center rises Corporate DemocEnterp racy Green Development Units Directly under China Huaneng Group Regional Subsidiaries CPC China Huaneng Group Party School North United Power Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Technical Economics Research Institute Huaneng Jilin Power Generation Co., Ltd. Corporate Strategy Healthy Development China Huaneng Group IT Center Huaneng Gansu Energy Development Co., Ltd. Huaneng Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd. Transforming and Focus on optimizing and adjusting the power structure, industrial structure and regional distribution. Concentrate on the Huaneng Heilongjiang Power Generation Co., Ltd. Upgrading development of new energy, high-efﬁciency and clean use of traditional energy, energy service and others, eliminate Strategy backward production capacity, and build a synergistic and efﬁcient industrial system. Huaneng Tibet Power Generation Co., Ltd. Industrial Companies Huaneng Hulunbuir Energy Development Co., Ltd. Persist in supporting the core business while being geared to the needs of production, the Company’s forward position, Innovative Development Technology Huaneng Hainan Power Generation Co., Ltd. Innovation and industrialization. Improve technological innovation system and mechanism. Enhance the capacity of independent Huaneng International Power Development Corporation (HIPDC) Huaneng Xinjiang Energy Development Co., Ltd. Strategy innovation and research on international cutting-edge technology to lead technological progress of the power industry. GreenGen Co., Ltd. Huaneng Shandong Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Properties Co., Ltd. Huaneng Shaanxi Power Generation Co., Ltd. Green Intensify our effort in the development of low-carbon and clean energy and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and Development pollutants, rely on technological progress and scientiﬁc management, develop the circular economy, constantly improve Huaneng Power International Inc. (HPI) China Huaneng Group Hong Kong Co., Ltd. Harmonious Development Strategy the level of energy conservation and environment protection. Huaneng Energy and Transportation (Holding) Co., Ltd. Huaneng Sichuan Hydropower Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Clean Energy Technology Research Institute Huaneng Ningxia Energy Co., Ltd. Internationalized Based on global perspective, speed up the pace of “going global”, deepen international exchange and cooperation, alHuaneng Renewables Corporation Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute Management locate the resources of capital, talent and markets effectively, gradually expand the business abroad, strengthen the Huaneng Capital Services Co., Ltd. Strategy operational supervision and risk prevention, and improve the level of international operations. China Huaneng Group Fuel Co., Ltd. Huaneng Nuclear Power Development Co., Ltd. Excellent Give full play of the supporting role of scientiﬁc management, constantly improve the management of production and Operational operation, marketing, ﬁnancial costs and project construction, effectively integrate economic factors and system reChina Huaneng Group Technology Innovation Center Units Directly Managed by China Huaneng Group Strategy sources, and continuously improve the proﬁtability and management of the Company. China Huaneng Group Coal Industry Co., Ltd. Huaneng Shandong Shidaowan Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Stick to the “Scientiﬁc Outlook on Development” as the overall guidance in human resources, constantly improve the incenHuaneng Hainan Industrial Co., Ltd. Talent-Intensive tive mechanism for fostering, attracting, employing and managing human resources, while positively developing high-end, Strategy Huaneng Caofeidian Port Co., Ltd. complex, innovative and international talent team to support the Company’s development. China Huaneng Group Human Resources Base Management Center Harmonious Operate the business according to laws and regulations, strengthen the construction of corporate culture, wholeheartDevelopment edly rely on employees in conducting the business, and actively perform corporate social responsibilities, while enhancStrategy ing the economic, social and environmental value creation capabilities, shaping Huaneng’s good image and striving to build a harmonious enterprise. 17 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 18 Opportunities and Challenges Corresponding Measures Major Opportunities Strengthening International Operation ◆The 18th CPC National Congress and Central Economic Work ◆The long-term prospects of economic and social development are Adhering to the principles of “advancing in some areas while retracting in othConference put forward new requirements, new plans and new measpromising, and the effects of macro-control policies are gradually realers”, we optimized the stock assets, and intensiﬁed the asset liquidation. With ures for the economic work in the current time and coming years. ized. The three markets, including electric power, coal, and finance Laying Solid Safety Foundation Strategy and Management improving the internationalized management, and improving management Therefore, the Company saw new opportunities in changing our demarket are generally stable. The external environment for the Comsystem of overseas projects, we did well in overseas project investment and Strengthening the building of long-term mechanism of production safety and development, actively explored overseas market of electric power technology, velopment mode and promoting transformation and upgrading. pany’s production and management maintains steady. All of these promoting the construction and standardization of electric power production and expanded exportation of technology, products and service. aspects are favorable for this year’s management operation of the safety management system, the Company enhanced supervision, guidance ◆We set the overall goal of speeding up building Huaneng into a Company. and one to one assistance, and paid great attention to equipment manageworld-class enterprise with international competitiveness. The Comment and technological transformation. We also strengthened safety management of outsourcing projects and the construction of emergency mechanism, Strengthening Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction pany has reached a broad consensus in improving the quality and ◆By carrying out activities including Excelling in Performance and and concentrated on safety supervision in the ﬁeld of coal and wind power, so efﬁciency of development, and creating a world-class enterprise. We learning the spirit of the Eighteenth National Congress of the CPC, as to further improve the level of safety in production. We strengthened statistical analysis, the construction of monitoring and evaluhave made signiﬁcant progress in turning losses into proﬁts, struccadres and staff are of one mind and committed to overcoming difation system of energy saving and emission reduction, and promoted the Safe Development tural adjustment, reform and innovation. ﬁculties, so as to enhance our ability to promote development and crecomprehensive upgrading of coal-ﬁred power plants. We also enhanced the ate favorable conditions for the completion of the tasks. operation and maintenance management of the environmental protection faReducing Cost and Increasing Efficiency cilities to build Huaneng into an excellent environmentally-friendly enterprise, and improved the mechanism of carbon asset management, to make sure that the main index of energy consumption and emissions maintain continuWe took measures to turn losses into proﬁts, further strengthened the marOptimal Development ous improvement and a leading position in the industry. Major Challenges ket expansion and marketing management, and actively responded to the changes of the fuel market. Effectively controlling the fuel cost, we spared no efforts to keep down the operating costs, and reduce the occupation of work◆The world economy is still in stagnation, and the Chinese economy is still confronted with unbalanced, uncoordinated and unsustainable contradictions and ing capital, so as to further enhance the level of proﬁtability. Promoting Science and Technology Innovation problems and complicated with increasing instability and economic recovery uncertainties. These issues will affect the growth of electric power, especially in some We strengthened the construction of science and technology innovation manareas. agement system, and improved the evaluation standard, the incentive mechaGreen Development nism and the mechanism to translate science and technology innovation into ◆The integration of coal price and electric power price will bring new inpacts to the coal market. Certain relevant policies and external conditions for some productions. We have steadily pressed ahead with demonstration projects grass-roots enterprises, such as policies and conditions concerning including power delivery, power consumption, price subsidies and others, need to be like the high temperature gas-cooled reactor nuclear power plant and Tianjin further implemented. The above factors make the Company’s business environment remain complex. Optimizing and Readjusting the Structure IGCC power plant. Also, we pressed forward the construction of research and develop platform and accelerated the research and development of such projects as 700℃ ultra-supercritical power generation technology and 1260MW Healthy Development Implementing the principles of “extensive investigations, selection of the best, ◆The Company’s proﬁtability, competitiveness and sustainable development capacity didn’t match the goal of creating a world-class enterprise, and the large-scale high-efﬁcient generation units. Therefore, the independent innovagood construction, strict management”, the Company straightened the relalevel of proﬁtability is still not stable enough. The losses of some grass-roots enterprises and the losses of thermal power enterprises remain relatively seritionship between preliminary work, budget and infrastructure, and strengthtion capacity of the Company has been improved. ous. ened the input and output management. We also made great efforts to develop clean energies, including hydropower, wind power, gas-ﬁred generation, Improving Management Level nuclear power and others, and optimized the development of coal-ﬁred power ◆The basis for sustainable development of the company is not solid enough, and the index level including EVA, the rate of return on net assets, net proﬁt generation, to achieve orderly, moderate, effective development. Innovative Development The Company strengthened the study on strategic planning, improved attribution to the parent company is still relatively low. The structural adjustment is not harmonized with some external conditions, and the work progress specialized management system in areas including regional management, between enterprises is not balanced. wind power, materials, fuels and others. By carrying out the activities such as Creating the Best Campaign and Management Improvement Compaign, Promoting Industrial Synergy we enhanced benchmarking management and overall budget management. Promoting the information system construction, we gave full play to the roles Harmonious Development Shuiniujia Hydropower Station of internal control system, supervision, audit and supervision, to effectively Adhering to the market-oriented operation, maximizing the releasing and prevent business risks. digesting of internal coal production capacity, the Company strived to establish a long-term coordinated mechanism of coal and electricity, and concentrated on coal resources and project development. We also developed the transportation industry, and optimized ﬁnancial industry and the Strengthening Party Building industry of science and technology, to achieve the maximization of Group’s overall beneﬁts. Thoroughly studying and fully implementing the guiding principles of the 18th National Congress of the CPC, we focused on keeping and maintaining the Party’s advanced nature and purity, and strengthened the building of grass-roots Party organizations and Party member teams. We also have continued to strengthen the building of our cadre team and staff team as well as the talent team, effectively changed the style of work and prevented corruption, so as to enhance the team’s cohesion and competitiveness, and ensure the Company can retain its vitality. 19 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 20 Anti-corruption Stakeholders Stakeholders Major Concerns Communication and Exchange Promoting Accountability for Carrying out Effectiveness All levels of leading groups for anti-corruption conscientiously In 2012, we carried out 196 actions on effectiveness supervision and Implement earnestly national energy policy Safe supply of power performed their duties, and arranged the work to promote antiinspection in all subsidiary and afﬁliated companies, covering 15 areas, Strategy and Management Value preservation and growth of state-owed assets Participate in studies and discussions conducted by corruption. The main leadership of the Company signed 3014 including the important decision-making management, fuel, bidding relevant state ministries and committees responsible agreements of anti-corruption with the headquarters and material purchasing. We received 1267 supervision suggestions, Abiding by relevant laws and regulations, paying departments, each company and unit, and the major party and worked out 1182 rules, reduced economic losses of 60.1794 million taxes according to law Accept supervision and assessment government leadership of each company and its subordinate yuan, increased economic revenue of 19.4178 million yuan directly. The Government and Coordinate with local government for common deInvestors Return to investors enterprises, to further consolidate the work pattern of “the upper empirical materials of strengthening the effectiveness supervision were velopment Anti-corruption Supervision and Inspection level governs the next level and implementation in all levels”. All compiled into the Enterprise Anti-corruption Management Handbook Employment of these efforts were made to ensure the effective implementation by SASAC. The fuel management efﬁciency supervision in Luohuang Give full play to the role of the labor union of accountability at all levels. In 2012, there was no major and Power Plant and Baotou Ⅱ Thermal Power Plant was rated as demonCareer development Ensure transparency of company affairs serious criminal cases inside the Company. stration projects of central enterprises effectiveness inspection. Safe Development Rights and interests protection Improve Workers’ Congress system Health and safety Establish multiple communication channels Staff Corporate culture Optimal Development Strengthening the Team Maintain close relationship with clients Fully Intensifying the The industrial companies, regional companies and subsidiary In 2012, the Company appointed 27 discipline inspection team Supply adequate, reliable, environmentally-friendly, reasonably-priced electric power Execute on-grid contracts and Power Purchase companies carried out in-depth risk investigation and assessment, leaders from secondary companies, and established 8 discipline Agreements and sorted out the measures for corruption risk prevention and inspection groups. Since the end of 2010, the number of disciSupply safe and good-quality coal resources control as well as supervision and evaluation methods. Also, we pline inspection groups increased from 173 to 199, the number of Maintain the stability of power grid Prevention and Control Clients Building of Inspection and Green Development compiled the Manual on Prevention and Control of Corruption supervisory organs increased from 122 to 162, and the discipline Risks , and all the companies have passed the examination and inspection and supervision personnel number increased from inspection. All units of the Company actively explored the normal 435 to 547. Also, 92 discipline inspection cadres participated in Strategic cooperation, commitments fulﬁllment operating mechanism of risk prevention and control, and achieved the training of “state-owned enterprises discipline inspection and Negotiations for strategic corporation of Corruption Risks Implement National License System Supervision positive progress. In the past year, we held three seminars on supervision”, so as to further improve their ability in anti-corruption High-level meetings Shoulder responsibilities in purchasing and influHealthy Development anti-corruption of cadres, and all the 241 members of the leaderinspection and supervision. ence Routine business communication ship from secondary enterprises participated. Consequently, we further enhanced the anti-corruption awareness of the Company. Partners Achieve win-win in the industrial chain Innovative Development Participation in community construction Community environment Support public welfare causes Community harmony and stability Organize poverty-alleviation activities Community and the Social and public welfare Public Harmonious Development Attend industrial meetings Experience sharing Technical competition and exchange Technical exchange Routine communication Industry CounterCompetition and cooperation parts Support and participate in social groups and organiTake an active part in relevant meetings zations Take the initiative in making suggestions Abide by the articles of associations Social Groups and Organizations Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 22 Objectives of Safe Development Safe development is the precondition for sustainable de◎ To prevent serious equipment malfunctions, ﬁres, or related trafﬁc accidents; Concept of Safe Development velopment. In order to achieve safe development, we must ◎ To prevent any other incidents that may affect the image of the Company. stick to the scientiﬁc concept of “putting people ﬁrst,” regarding Strategy and Management safety as benefits, reputation and competitiveness. Huaneng aims to be the safest company Measures of Safe Development and raise safety at all levels through the following endeav◎ Building a comprehensive production safety management system, strengthening the building of Safe Development ors: building a comprehensive the emergency management mechanism and implementing the safety responsibility; safety management system, improving the system, implement◎ Promoting the standardized criteria for team safety, strengthening the safety supervision over ing production safety responoutsourcing projects and coal mine safety management, and solidifying foundations of safety; sibility system, and enhancing ◎ Carrying out safety evaluation, identifying and removing hidden dangers, strengthening equipment our emergency management checking and management and improving our ability to prevent risks and ensure safe production; mechanism. ◎ Emphasizing on safety education, carrying out safety culture campaigns and improve staff’s Optimal Development safety awareness and ability in handling accidents. Improving Safety Management System Systems Development Green Development 02 The Company continued to create and improve rules and regulations concerning production safety, to promote the systematization and standardization Safe of safety production management. In 2012, the Company revised and issued Electric Power Production Accident Investigation Procedure (2012 Edition) , Healthy Development Wind Power Enterprises Production Safety Management System Standard Normative Text (Trial) and other ﬁve regulations. The Company also issued 11 thermal power, 12 hydropower and 8 wind power technical supervision standards to further consolidate the basis of safety production system. Development The Company steadily promoted the building of safety production management system for power plants. Companies at Lancang River, Shandong and Sichuan, and many other companies worked to create their systems. The companies at Hulun Buir, Hainan and Shaanxi focused on the construction of key Innovative Development power plants. Grass-roots power enterprises strengthened the leadership and organization of systematic construction, and compiled system ﬁle, carried out system operation. Companies at Nantong, Shantou, Taicang and Nanjing passed the Group’s system veriﬁcation. Power plants at Haikou, Yimin, Kangding, Rizhao completed their self-evaluation system. Events Harmonious Development The Company held the year’s ﬁrst enlarged meeting of the Production Safety Committee and made arrangements In 2012, Shandong Company further promoted ◆| On January 6th on production safety work in 2012. the building of safety management system and The Company started a ﬁve-month campaign of “Against Violations of Regulations and Rules” to ensure the safe all thermal power enterprises have completed the ◆| On May 1 st production of electric power enterprises. management system documentation, and began The Company carried out a “Safety Production Month” Campaign with the theme of “Scientiﬁc Development and trial operation in succession. Shandong Company ◆| On June 3rd Safe Development”. also carried out the construction activities of safety The Company was awarded the “Safe Production and Well-being Enterprise” by Work Safety Committee of the standardization in grass-root companies, and 17 ◆| On June 16th State Council. power plants were up to the standard of safety level 2 enterprise standards. Dezhou Power Plant and ◆| At Zhamei Coal Company, the Company held a meeting of building the Six Systems for coal production safety and On July 27th Huangtai Power Plant, have passed the check and avoiding risk, and made arrangements to accelerate the building of coal safety system. acceptance of creating the A-level enterprises by the State Electricity Regulatory Commission. Rizhao Power Plant 23 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 24 inspection for system building work in power plants of Yimin, Rizhao and Haikou and took audit inspection in Shantou and Taicang power plants. In 2012, Work Deployment pilot work of safety management system construction in Qidong, Huitengxile, Tongyu, Tongjiang and Laizhou Wind Power has achieved progress. Seven The Company has always persisted in the safety as the ﬁrst priority, carefully analyses and manages the situation of production safety. Every year on the power plants including Yuhuan, Fuzhou, Dezhou, Huangtai and Haimen won the honor of “Standard A-level Enterprise”. ﬁrst weekday, the Company will hold its ﬁrst enlarged meeting of the Production Safety Committee and make deployments on production safety work for next year. In 2012, giving full consideration to the main tasks and new focuses of the year, the Company held a series of events to discuss production safety, including conference on power production safety work, a video conference on the quarterly safe production of electric power and energy consumption index release, a brieﬁng meeting on typical accidents, a mobilization meeting for summer peaks and ﬂood control work, a symposium with the responsible Strategy and Management persons of safety supervision agencies in regional companies, a mobilization meeting for guaranteeing power supply during the period of the 18th National Congress of the CPC. Through the above mentioned activities, the Company summarized the work accomplished and analyzed the existing problems. The Company also made the deployment of production safety for the next stage, to ensure the safety production. Implementing Responsibility Safe Development We implemented the nation’s policies, laws, and regulations on production safety through our Safety Production Responsibility System, which used a closed-loop management system that ensured decomposition, implementation and performance assessment of responsibility. All companies have signed a Production Safety Responsibility Agreement to guarantee the implementation of the safe production responsibility system. In this way, responsibilities for safety are designated level by level to each subsidiary, grass-roots company, department, team and post. We quantiﬁed our safety indicators, and divided them into four major indicators covering production safety, operational safety, political safety, and image safety for measurement and assessment. These indicators became the basis for assessing performance and determining responsibility. In addition, we Optimal Development have strictly implemented Accountability and Punishment Measures for Accidents to strengthen investigations into whoever is responsible for accidents. We assessed annually each company’s safety performance targets and issued warnings and corresponding penalties to those that fell short of their targets. Emergency Management Green Development The Company has improved the emergency management system, formulated preventive action plans, carried out emergency drills, and formed an Team Building emergency response team. We believe that preventive measures should We treated team building as an essential aspect of safety management. Zhamei Coal Company regarded building “Five-A Team” as the guidebe implemented effectively and that emergencies need to be controlled. line, the improvement of staff’s quality as the focus. Zhamei Coal Healthy Development We reinforced the concept of “ensuring zero death with zero breach of In 2012, the Company formulated and revised 4 emergency plans includregulations, and ensuring zero accident with zero defect.” We continued to Company strived to realize the goal of safety production through “well ing emergency accidents, and held drills to prevent ﬂooding at the Rizhao carry out the activities of “being an excellent group and excellent employstructured and detailed requirements, indicator indexes, standard Power Plant. The grass-roots companies comprehensively revised site procedures, evaluations based on data, and standardized manageees.” We encouraged each group to innovate around safety management, disposal plans and carried out training more than 1500 times over the ment, “Zhamei Coal Company has pushed forward their team building. and have comprehensively advanced group safety standardization, inyear, so as to improve the emergency response and disposal capacity. Innovative Development creased safety education and training. We have continuously consolidated Zhamei Coal Company’s Tiebei mine excavation team Unit 91 won the Power plants such as Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant and Tianjin Yanthe foundations of the enterprise’s safe production. title of “Five-A Team” of the Group. gliuqing Power Plant organized meticulously and took measures in place The coal mine rescue team of Huaneng Diandong Energy Corporation to achieve the successful completion of power guarantee task during the 18th National Congress of the CPC. Management on the Safety of Infrastructure Construction Harmonious Development Taking the standardization of infrastructure construction safety as the starting In 2012, power plants of Yuhuan, Dalian and Weihai promptly launched the emergency plans, successfully carried through strong typhoon of point, the Group improved the infrastructure construction safety management “Saolaa”, “Damrey”, “Bolaven”, “Tembin”, “Haikui” and heavy rainfall and therefore ensured safe and stable production. system, strengthened the safety education and training of infrastructure construction. In addition the Group has implemented the system that only staff with qualification certificate can work on the infrastructure construction. The Group has strengthened management of outsourcing projects and made strict requirements on construction teams. We carried out the campaign of “Against Violations of Regulations and Rules”, and have identiﬁed and removed hidden dangers, so as Consolidating the Foundations for Production Safety to maintain the infrastructure construction safety. In 2012, the Company strictly carried out the “Black List” system of the outStandardization for safety management sourcing construction companies, and enlisted into the “Black List” equipment manufacturers which have poor credit and poor performance and frequent quality The Company took solid measures to meet the production safety standard and compiled the Group’s Plan to Meet the Production Safety Standard, which accident. In consequence, we have barred eight companies from participating in enabled Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute to become qualiﬁed to assess levels of production safety, and guided secondary companies and grassequipment manufacturing projects and from bidding for equipment projects. Infrastructure Safety Inspection roots enterprises to complete of the building of management system. Meanwhile, the Company began the standardization of safety levels, and took on-site 25 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 26 Coal Safety Management Overview of Prize-winning Coal-fired Generating Units in National Competition Further strengthening production safety speciﬁcation construction for coal enterprises, enhancing the management and control in process of coal production, the Company carefully drew lessons from major coal mine acCapacity Awards Prize-winning Units cidents happened to similar coal mines, and carried out comprehensive safety inspection. The Company paid great attention to the investigation Unit 1 of Yuhuan Power Plant Strategy and Management 100 MW Second Prize and rectiﬁcation of hidden dangers, so as to raise the level of safety in Unit 1 of Haimen Power Plant coal production. In 2012, the safety condition of coal production maintained stable. More than 30 coal mines, including Lingdong, Chenjiagou Second Prize Unit 5 of Weihai Power Plant and Gaotouyao had seen zero casualties. Ten coal mines, including 600MW USC Unit Lingquan, Shanzai, Matigou and others, won the title of “Safety Quality Third Prize Unit 3 of Shidongkou Ⅱ Power Plant Standard Coal Mine of the National Level”. And Zhongxu Coal Chemical Safe Development Company received the honor of “Second Level Standard Company”. The comprehensive mining highwall of Datong Coal Mine Second Prize Unit 4 of Rizhao Power Plant 600MW Supercritical Unit Unit 4 of Taicang Power Plant Third Prize Unit 3 of Rizhao Power Plant First Prize Unit 6 of Dezhou Power Plant According to different types of work, Wusigedu Coal Mine popularized the safe operation method of “Gesture and Statement” in different teams and districts. Through a series of actions, including thinking, watching, pointing by ﬁnger and talking, workers managed “the mouth follows the eyes, 600MW Subcritical Unit Second Prize Unit 6 of Luohuang Power Plant Optimal Development the eyes follow the mind and the hands follow the mouth” during the operation. As a result, they formed a closed-loop process of identiﬁcation, conﬁrmation and operation, so as to prevent man-made unsafe operations. This method has been applied to the workers of different departments Third Prize Unit 2 of Diandong Ⅱ Power Plant of Wusigedu, including automobile drivers, machine transport team, fully-mechanized mining team, mechanized excavation team, shearer drivers, First Prize Unit 6 of Shang’an Power Plant 600MW Air Cooling (Ultra-)Sudevelopment machine drivers, scraper conveyor drivers, emulsion pump station drivers, winch drivers, equipment maintenance staff, etc. percritical Unit Second Prize Unit 6 of Pingliang Power Plant Green Development 600MW Air Cooling Second Prize Unit 2 of Tongchuan Power Plant Subcritical Unit Third Prize Unit 1 of Tongchuan Power Plant Extended Reading: Unit 4 of Dezhou Power Plant Healthy Development The Six Systems of safety and risk-preventing in coal mines mainly includes: monitoring system, personnel positioning system, comFirst Prize Unit 8 of Haikou Power Plant munication system, emergency risk-preventing system, air pressure self-help system and water supply rescue system. Strengthening the building of the Six Systems is an important measure in coal mine production safety areas which emphasizes preventive Unit 3 of WeihaiPower Plant measures in the coal mines so as to effectively reduce and curb accidents, and minimize possible harms incurred. 300MW Pure Condensing Wet Unit 3 of Huaiyin Power Plant Innovative Development Second Prize Cooling Unit Unit 2 of Shantou Power Plant Unit 4 of Huaiyin Power Plant Prevention and Control of Safety Risks Third Prize Unit 1& 2 of Taicang Power Plant Harmonious Development Carrying out Special Action of“Against Violations of Regulations and Rules” Unit 1 of Pingliang Power Plant Holding the concept of “Regulation violations equal to accidents”, the Unit 3 of Fuzhou Power Plant Company has carried out the special action of “Against Violations of First Prize Regulations and Rules” and worked to identify and remove hidden danUnit 4 of Dalian Power Plant gers and rectify breach of rules. We compiled and enforced “Action Plan Against Violations of Regulations and Rules for Electric Power EnterUnit 4 of Luohuang Power Plant Second Prize prises” and “Action Plan for Identiﬁcation and Rectiﬁcation of Hidden DanUnit 1 of Fuzhou Power Plant gers”. The secondary companies and grass-roots enterprises carefully ful350MW Imported Unit ﬁlled their safety responsibilities, enhanced efforts to investigate, identify Unit 2 of Fuzhou Power Plant and punish violations of regulations. In 2012, we altogether discovered and punished 10,478 actions breaching regulations, including 5,265 cases Unit 1 of Dalian Power Plant concerning behaviors, 4,265 concerning devices or equipment and 948 Third Prize concerning management. 22,364 hidden dangers were identiﬁed, in which Unit 4 of Nantong Power Plant 21,269 were rectiﬁed and we have identiﬁed 22 major hazards and 10 in On-site Safety Production Check Unit 1 of Ruijin Power Plant them have been rectiﬁed. 27 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 28 Safety Inspection Safety Culture Activities The Company organized safety evaluation review and production safety supervision, and The Company promoted the campaign of “Production Safety Month” with provided guidance and assistance on safety supervision to some enterprises. In 2012, the “scientiﬁc development and safe development” as the theme. All the comCompany and Huaneng Power International Inc. respectively set up the expert groups of panies actively participated in the electric power production safety knowlsafety production management, to carry out safety inspection and “looking back” activities edge contest. We carried out a series of activities such as vowing and for 26 power plants and 10 coal mines, including Baotou Second Thermal Power Plant, Xisigning for safety, essay competition themed production safety, speeches Strategy and Management aowan Power Plant, Huating and Yanbei coal mine. We carried out safety evaluation review on safety and other forms of publicity and education activities. These in 7 power plants, including Jiutai and Jinghong power plants; they offered production safety activities helped to create a strong safety culture atmosphere. In 2012, technical advisory for coal mines, for example Xicuan, and put forward 1430 rectiﬁcation ideas the Company was named outstanding company in the organization of the and suggestions. Huaneng Renewables Corporation and Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd. “Production Safety Month” by State Adminiation of Work Safety. Safety Supervision and Inspection enhanced the frequency and depth of safety inspections in grass-roots enterprises, so as to further improve the safety capability. Safe Development Safe Development Performance No serious equipment accidents, no serious In 2012, one serious operation-related One common equipment accidents in powIn 2012, Huaneng Renewables Corporation strengthened the building of production safety management system, formulated and implemented “Assessment Methods of Production Safety”. In March and the second half of the year, the Company carried out comprehensive safety inspection in 19 ﬁre accidents, no major trafﬁc accidents, or accident leading to death occurred in a er generation occurred in 2012, five less grass-roots enterprises in 7 areas including Shandong and Shanxi, and in wind power enterprises in Inner Mongolia, Jilin, Liaoning and other places. large-scale pollution accidents occurred in power enterprise. than the previous year. We implemented the standardized safety rating and organized safety training, so that 6 companies completed the standard rating, and more than 2012. Optimal Development 400 people received training on safety management, emergency management and standardization. Fifty-two Class 1 equipment failures ocThe ratio of unplanned outages was No incidents or accidents that may impact curred in 2012, a decrease of 10 com0.14%, 0.02% higher than 2011. the stability and image of the Company ocpared with 2011. curred in 2012. Equipment Management Green Development Adhering to the goal of “ﬁrst-class equipment management” and “excellent maintenance Overview of the Company’s Production Safety (2008-2012) quality”, the Company promoted the quality control over the whole process of mainteIn May 2012, in the National Electric Reliability Sunance and standardized management and carried out on-site overhaul inspection and pervision and Management Conference as well as Item Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 “reduce defects and control non-planned stop” campaigns. The Company also strengthHealthy Development the Electric Reliability Index Conference, the Unit 4 of Major equipment accident times 0 0 0 0 0 ened technical supervision management, and had the equipment reliability level inShang’an Power Plant won the Annual Gold Metal of creased. In 2012, the Company has ﬁnished the overhaul of 36 units, and after the overState Electricity Regulatory Commission for 2011 in Common equipment accident times 4 3 0 6 1 haul, 26 units continuous operated for more than 100 days. Moreover, the excellent rate group of 300MW thermal power generation unit, for its increased, and equipment equivalent available coefﬁcient and unplanned outage factor Casualty-causing accident times 3 2 1 1 1 stable operation for more than 700 days. At the same Innovative Development maintained a leading position in power generation industry. Ten thermal power units ran time, Shang’an Power Plant was named the National Class1 equipment failure times 114 53 54 62 52 continuously for more than 365 days, among them, the Unit 4 of Shang’an Power Plant Electric Reliability Supervision and Management Adand Unit 6 of Xindian Power Plant has continuously operated for 700 days and 628 days vanced Unit for years 20082011. Unplanned outages times 173 84 83 91 89 respectively. The Unit 4 of Dalian Power Plant won the title of National Reliable Thermal Power Unit Gold Metal, and seven units including the Unit 6 of Dezhou Power Plant won Equipment utilization ratios % 91.69 92.27 94.87 94.17 94.46 Harmonious Development the ﬁrst prize of the national thermal power unit competition. Fostering Safety Culture Alarm Bells and Reflection In 2012, the Company maintained a general stable situation We shall remain constantly on guard, ﬁrmly putting people ﬁrst and Employee Training on Safety as regards the safe production, but did not put an end to persist in the idea of “scientific development and safe developcasualty-causing accidents. We must realize soberly that the ment”. Regarding strengthening production safety infrastructure The Company has constantly improved the safety education and training system for staff, and established the concept that “Being short of training is a great production safety situation is still grim, and systematic safe construction as the focus, we shall concentrate on production hidden danger”. According to the demands and requirements of different posts, we increased the safety training. We strengthened training in safety manproduction level is not balanced. The order of safe producsafety management system construction and standardization, and agement, qualiﬁcation certiﬁcation and professional skills as the main content of the staff’s safety education and training, so as to improve employee safety tion management needs to be improved in some enterprispay attention to the violations of regulations and the identiﬁcation awareness and ability. es, and we have not normalize activities against violations and treatment of hidden dangers, and stress staff training and of regulations and the identiﬁcation and treatment of hidden outsourcing project management. Through measures concerning In 2012, the company has organized 22 programs of qualiﬁcation certiﬁcation and training class for main leaders of the grass-roots companies, production dangers. In a word, there is still a long way to go to build the management improvement, accountablity, improving the system manager and technical supervision, and 1473 persons had been trained. The number of registered safety engineers in the company system has reached effective long-term mechanism of safety production. and guaranteeing investment, we shall improve the safe production more than 700 people, up by 26%. Besides, Huaneng Power International Inc., Shidao Bay Company and Hulun Buir Company carried out unique safety management level and ensure intrinsic safety. education and training activities. Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 30 Objectives of Optimal Development Optimal development is ◎ To achieve coal production capacity of 15.2 million tons per year; the intrinsic requirement for ◎ To increase generating capacity of clean energy to 4457.3 MW. Concept of Optimal Development sustainable development. To promote optimal developStrategy and Management ment, we should take building a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness as the driving force, take Measures of Optimal Development improving the quality and efﬁSafe Development ciency as the center, and take ◎ Making greater efforts in hydropower, optimizing the development of coal-ﬁred power, striving speeding up transformation to develop nuclear power, developing wind power and other clean and low-carbon energy; and upgrading as the focus. We should focus on optimiz◎ Actively developing coal resources, planning the development of the transportation industry ing and adjusting the power as a whole, enhancing industry-ﬁnance integration, and emphasizing the supporting role of sciOptimal Development structure, industrial structure ence and technology; and regional distribution, and ◎ Optimizing and readjusting regional distributions and striving to form new advantages in this achieve effective, moderate respect; and orderly development so as to further enhance our ◎ Implementing the international development strategy, cultivating the internationalized operate abilities to pursue sustainable subject, preventing the international business risk and improving the operation and management development. of our overseas assets. Green Development Optimizing the Power Sources Structure 03 Optimal Development Persisting in keeping the electric power industry as the core business and adhering to the concept of green development, the Company accelerated the pace of structural adjustment, optimized the development of coal power, made great efforts to develop hydropower. We also actively develop Low-carbon clean energy installed capacity newly operated in 2012: The Company’s clean energy installed capacity: Healthy Development the wind power, solar energy and other new energy power generation, 4.295 28.3 Innovative Development strived to develop nuclear power, and keep on the development of natural GW GW gas power generation. In consequence, we have continuously improved the low-carbon clean energy installed proportion, and continuously improved the level of efﬁcient and clean use of traditional energy. Proportion: Up by: Proportion: Events 40.90 8.7 20.95 Harmonious Development In 2012, the clean energy installed capacity that was put into operation % % % amounted to 4,295MW, accounting for 40.9% of production capacity, up by 8.7 percentage points, which marked a new record. By the end of 2012, Longkaikou Hydropower Station Project was ofﬁcially approved by the state and it’s the ﬁrst hydropower station ◆| On January 10th the Company’s clean energy installed capacity had reached 28.3GW, acthat the Company builds in the middle reaches of Jinsha River. counting for 20.95%, and maintained the leading position in the industry. Unit 5 of Qinbei Power Plant was put into commercial operation and it’s the tenth 1000MW ultra-supercritical ◆| On March 6th coal-ﬁred generation unit. The Renewables Corporation and Yancheng City People’s Government of Jiangsu Province signed the Jiangsu ◆| On March 16th Dafeng 300MW Offshore Wind Power Demonstration Project Cooperation Agreement. The ﬁrst unit of Nuozhadu Hydropower Station was put into operation, which is part of the two major national ◆| On September 6th projects, i.e., West-East Electricity Transmission Project and Yunnan Electricity Power Delivery Project. 31 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 32 Optimizing the Development of Coal-fired Power The Company actively promoted the construction of high-efﬁciency and large clean coal-ﬁred generating units, and put into operation a number of coal-ﬁred power generating units with high capacity, high parameter, good regional distribution and economic returns. In 2012, thermal power units that the Company put into operation was 6470MW, among them the clean and efﬁcient units accounted for 77%. The Company’s 600MW or over units accounted for 47.9% of the installed coal-ﬁred generating units, up by 1% than the previous year and the number of 1000MW unit has reached 12 sets. Strategy and Management The Company fully implemented national industrial development policies, accelerated the pace of eliminating backward production capacity, and further promoted the work of “developing large generating units, and closing down small ones”. In 2012, the Company shut down small and medium-sized coal-ﬁred generating units that have high energy consumption, long time of service, and poor economic efﬁciency. The capacity of units shut down reached 916MW. Safe Development The Phase Ⅲ of Qinbei Power Plant Project is the ﬁrst 1000MW thermal power unit that the Company invested and built in Nuozhadu Hydropower Station Henan province. It was listed as 21st Century demonstration coal-ﬁred power plant for its optimized design which is of interOptimal Development national design standards. In March and December 2012, two sets of 1000MW supercritical coal-ﬁred generating units have been put into operation. As a result, the installed capacity of On February 10th, Huaneng Longkaikou Hydropower Station was approved by the National Development and Reform Commission. Located in the midQinbei Power Plant has reached 440MW, and Qinbei Power dle reaches of Jinsha River in the Dali Heqing County of Yunnan Province, the station is the ﬁrst hydropower project built by Huaneng in the middle Plant has become the most energy saving and environmentalreaches of the Jinsha River, and it’s the sixth cascade hydropower station planned in the middle reaches of Jinsha River. The power plant has a total friendly coal-fired plant in the central region, with the highest installed capacity of 1800MW, with the installation of 5 units of 360MW, and the average generation capacity reached 7.4 billion kWh per year. After the single unit installed capacity and the largest installed capacity. completion of the station, apart from electricity generation, the station will provide 79.37 million cubic meters of irrigation water for 0.108 million acres of Green Development farmland and 2.02 million cubic meters of domestic water every year in Heqing County and Yongsheng County. Making Great Efforts to Develop Hydropower Pressing Ahead with the Development of New Energy Healthy Development According to the principle of “focusing on river basin development, balancing between large and small, combining purchasing and building”, the Company sped up the hydropower development process in Lancang River and Yunnan region, consolidating and expanding the achievements of Sichuan hydropower development. The Company steadily promoted wind power development, and develThe Company also steadily pushed forward the development of hydropower resources in Tibet, Qinghai, Xinjiang and other places, which has seen positive prooped profit-oriented wind power base in an orderly way including Fuxi, gress. In 2012, hydropower stations of Gongguo Bridge, Biedieli, Xiangqi, Suzi River, Hengdan and the Ⅲ hydropower station of the upper reaches of Dang River and 1,000MW-level of wind power bases including the wind farm at Bayin, Damao. We have built a number of proﬁt-oriented wind farms in Yunnan, In 2012, the 50MW Photovoltaic Generation Project of Golmud were put into operation in succession. By the end of 2012, the Company’s installed capacity of hydropower reached 14,000 MW. Innovative Development Guizhou, Guangdong and other regions. China’s first distributed wind Photovoltaic Power Station has generated 87.5 million kWh power, power project, Shaanxi Dingbian Langergou Wind Power, was put into opexceeding the annual power generation targets. It has gained good eration. By the end of 2012, the Company’s wind power installed capacity economic and social beneﬁts and become the model enterprise of has reached 8480 MW. the Qaidam Basin million-kilowatt photovoltaic base. On September 6th, 2012, the ﬁrst unit of Nuozhadu Hydropower Harmonious Development Station was ofﬁcially put into operation. On September 28th and Additionally, the Company actively developed solar photovoltaic generaDecember 3rd, the second and the third units were put into operation and other clean energy generating projects. The Golmud Photovoltaic tion, and we realized the goal that three units were put into operaPower Station Phase Ⅲ were put into operation, and other photovoltaic tion in a year. The installed capacity of hydropower in Lancang projects including the one in Hami were approved. Apart from that, the River has exceeded 10GW. Company actively promoted shale gas exploration. Nuozhadu Hydropower Station is the ﬁfth station of the “Two reservoirs and eight stations” in the lower and middle reaches of Lancang River. The total installed capacity is 5850MW (9 × 650MW). Striving to Develop Nuclear Power Its capacity is the fourth largest among the built and building hyThe Company conscientiously implemented the national long-term nuclear dropower projects in China. The dam is 261.5 meters high, ranks power development plan, promoted the examination and approval of the the ﬁrst in Asia and the third in the world. With the largest storage high-temperature gas-cooled reactor nuclear power plant demonstration capacity in Lancang River, the station’s total capacity is 23.703 billion cubic meters, almost on a par with Three Gorges Power project and the preparatory work and preliminary work of pressurized joint stock nuclear power projects. In 2012, Shidao Bay High-temperature Station’s ﬂood control capacity. water reactor extension project. We continued to strengthen our manageGas-cooled Reactor Nuclear Power Demonstration Project was ofﬁcially ment and control abilities of nuclear power, further carried the preparatory put into construction. Consequently Huaneng has become China’s fourth work for projects and site resources reserves, and steadily developed central SOE with nuclear power development qualiﬁcation. 33 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 34 Strengthening Industrial Synergy Planning the Development of the Logistics Industry as a Whole The Company fully implemented the industrial development planning during the period of the 12th Five-year Plan, optimizing and readjusting industrial The Company was fully tapping the potential of existing coal transportation structures and strengthening industrial synergy. Taking power generation as the core business, the Company actively developed coal resources, and made assets and has made overall plans to develop its transportation business, overall plans for the development of transportation with coal transportation as the main business. The Company also accelerated the integration between including ports, shipping and private railways. The Company has also strived industry and ﬁnance, and gave full play to the supporting role of ﬁnance. Additionally, the Company sped up the development of science and technology to build a stable, reliable and efficient coal transportation security system. and emerging industries, built high-efﬁciency and synergetic industry systems, and strived to achieve coordinated development between scale, speed, qualStrategy and Management In 2012, shipping enterprises including Shidai, Ruining, Ruitong transported ity and beneﬁts. 40.23 million tons of coal for internal system, accounted for 52.2% of the coal shipped. The construction of Caofeidian, Haimen, Taicang Port, Luoyuan Bay Actively Developing Coal Resources Port were carried out in an orderly way. The Company strengthened the research and analysis on the coal marMine, Lingquan and Jingshigou Coal Mine have been rated as advanced ket. Centering on the electricity transmission and coal delivery channel coal mine of national coal industry. Safe Development construction, we actively explored high-quality coal resources, and focused on the large coal bases and the construction of coal bases such as The Company paid close attention to the changes in the market, strengththose in the “3-west”, Longdong, Xinjiang, East Mongolia, East Yunnan. In ened the internal coordination, coordinated the overall local use and On August 16th, 2012, the Company participated in the signing ceremony of “West Inner Mongolia and Central China Railway Coal-channel Co., 2012, Gaotouyao and Weijiamao open-pit coal mine were put into the pilot export ratio, and made great efforts to improve resource utilization and LTD Sponsor Agreement”, and ofﬁcially invested the construction of coal-channel railway from West Inner Mongolia to Central China. The channel electricity supply security. In 2012, the Company added the coal producwas designed to have a transport capacity of 200 million tons. When the channel was completed, the Company will be in an advantaged position in Optimal Development production; Liuxiang Coal Mine completed joint trial operation; Hetaoyu and Linglu Coal Mine projects were developed in an orderly manner; and tion capacity of 10 million tons / year, and the total coal production capacterms of power coal transport and distribution and others. Consequently, the construction of the channel will open a new path for the transportation Shaozhai and Chicheng Coal Mine projects have been approved. Twelve ity reached 78.17 million tons / year, up by 14.7% compared to the same of fuels for the Company’s power plants in Central China. projects of the Company have been included in the 12th Five-year Plan of period of previous year. Our coal production companies supplied 37,22 China’s coal industry and our total output reached 49.4 million tons / year. million tons of coal to Huaneng’s power plants, the self-supply rate of The Hulun Buir Company and the Huating Coal Industry Company were power coal reached 14%, and internal coordination rate reached 53.78%. named “the Top 50 National Coal Enterprise”, and Shaizai Coal Mine was The supply of coal within the Company increased 3.43 million tons. The Constantly Deepening Industry-finance Integration named the “Double Top Ten” of national coal industry, and Yimin Surfaced industrial synergy has been further enhanced. Giving full play to the service and supporting role of the ﬁnancial industry, the Company insisted on sound Green Development The capital settlement of the operations, focused on industry-ﬁnance integration, and has established a standard and effective ﬁnanCoal Mines Distribution of the Company cial holding operation system and risk prevention system. The Company also continued to strengthen Finance Corporation: 1840 and give play to the role of various ﬁnancial platforms, increased its operating performance, expanded its business ﬁeld, made innovation in products and services, and established a leading brand in Huaneng’s billion yuan Healthy Development Wusigedu Coal Mine: Weijiamao Surface Coal Mine: ﬁnancial market so as to provide strong support for the Company’s capital supply and cost reduction of 2.4 million tons/year 6 million tons/year capital. In 2012, the capital settlement of the Finance Corporation reached 1840 billion yuan. Yimin Coal Mine: Gaotouyao Coal Mine: Huajian Surface Coal Mine: million tons/year million tons/year 3 million tons/year Innovative Development Lingquanlu Coal Mine: Lingdong Coal Mine: Liuxiang Coal Mine: million tons/year 5 million tons/year Adhering to integrity and responsible management, Guicheng 1.2 million tons/year Trust Corporation has established a comprehensive risk manageWumu Coal Mine: Lingquan Coal Mine: ment system which took development strategy as the guide, risk million tons/year 3 million tons/year management organizational structure as the support, risk manHarmonious Development Tiebei Coal Mine: agement information system as the guarantee, risk management 3 million tons/year mechanism and procedure as the basis, and performed faithfully Lingbei Coal Mine: the duties and responsibilities on behalf of the trustees, so as to 0.84 million tons/year maximize the interests of the beneﬁciaries. By the end of 2012, Yanbei Coal Mine: Xinyao Coal Mine: million tons/year million tons/year the number of trust projects due reached 217, accounting for 97.7 billion yuan and the number of existing trust projects came to 306, Huating Coal Mine: Shanzhai Coal Mine: 4 million tons/year accounting for 163 billion yuan. The due projects all realized the Xizhou Coal Mine: 0.21 million tons/year expected revenue, and Guicheng’s business philosophy of “Safety Chenjiagou Coal Mine: and Compliance” continued to be strengthened. As a result, the 1.5 million tons/year safe and steady brand of Huaneng Guicheng has gained more Dongxia Coal Mine: popularity among investors and partners. 1.5 million tons/year Datong Coal Mine: Xicuan Coal Mine: 0.9 million tons/year Xinbai Coal Mine: Daliu Mine: 1.2 million tons/year 1.5 million tons/year 2.4 million tons/year Qinggangping Coal Mine: 1.2 million tons/year 35 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 36 Emphasizing the Supporting Roll of Science and Technology Optimal Development Performance Concentrating on the core business of electric power industry, the Company gave full play to the supporting role of science and technology, Low-carbon clean energy installed capacity （10MW） Hydropower installed capacity （10MW） vigorously carried out energy-saving diagnosis, operation optimization, technical supervision and other work. We provided overall technical support for safe operation of power plants and the continuous improvement Strategy and Management 2830.00 1416.70 of technical and economic indicators, so as to maintain the Company’s leading position in the industry. The Company also further promoted the 2397.45 1133.41 optimization of project designs, supervision of equipment manufacture 1082.09 2003.45 and other technical services, to ensure the quality of power generation 1565.73 859.66 equipment and to provide effective technical support for the production of generation units. In 2012, the contracts of science and technical service 1064.69 519.26 Safe Development Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute carried out technical service increased by 179, compared with the previous year. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Optimal Development In 2012, Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute translated technical advantages into supporting the core business and has undertaken 1860 tasks concerning technical service with the contracted value of 760 million yuan. The technology of the Company expanded from all major aspects of thermal power to nuclear power, wind power, hydropower and other emerging energy. The scope of services covered 31 provinces (cities, areas), and the Company developed more than 40 technical services including unit commissioning, performance test, technical diagnosis, equipment manuWind power installed capacity （10MW） Coal-fire power installed capacity （10MW） facture supervision, system conﬁguration design, water treatment systems in 14 overseas countries. So far, we have received more than 30 praise letters from clients of domestic and foreign projects, and the Company’s professional work and service quality have been highly appreciated. 847.92 11235.00 726.30 10672.14 Green Development 9776.20 484.13 9309.20 7955.10 Planning Regional Development as a Whole 269.31 111.81 Healthy Development The Company maintained pace with national energy development and made changes according to practical needs. The Company also optimized and readjusted its regional distribution, speeding up development in West China, consolidating in East China, stabilizing in the Central China and improving in Northeast China, so as to form new advantages in regional distribution. The Company made further improvements in the distribution of the domestic power supply, increasing its coverage, striving to improve its share in the power market, and constantly optimizing its regional distribution. By the end of 2012, the installed capacity of do2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 mestic and foreign wholly-owned and holding power plants has reached 135.08 GW, among which, the domestic installed capacity accounted for 133.01 GW, and Innovative Development overseas installed capacity accounted for 2.07 GW, increased by 7.74% compared with the same period of the previous year. Strengthening International Operations Coal production capacity （10 thousand tons/year） Coal output （10 thousand tons） Harmonious Development In accordance with the principle of taking the beneﬁts as priority, the Company adhered to the policy of “Equal attention to development and acquisition”, actively developed the use of overseas clean power and coal resources. We actively cul2012 7817 2012 6859 tivated the internationalized operation entities and enhanced management and 2011 6817 2011 6406 operation of overseas assets. The Company made great efforts to prevent the risk in international operation, to tap our potential and reduce cost, so as to take 2010 6412 2010 4886 our international management to a new level. In 2012, the Company further strengthened the management of international 2009 4772 2009 4408 power companies after acquisition, and enhanced risk control, reduced cost and 2008 2724 2008 2249 optimized assets. As a result, the operation performances of Huaneng Power Rochsavage Power Plant in UK International has seen further improvement. The InterGen Australia overcame enormous difﬁculties imposed by the global economic downturn and the Europestable, and the construction of Tembusu Project Phase Ⅰ has enan debt crisis, and completed the reﬁnancing and debt restructuring of M power tered the testing and trial stage; Tuas Power’s has increased its plant and C power plant. The production and operation of Tuas Power maintained market share and competitiveness. Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 38 Objectives of Green Development ◎ To achieve a coal consumption rate of 317.21g/kWh; ◎ To build 10 excellent energy-saving and environmentally friendly coal-ﬁred power plants; Green development is inConcept of Green Development Strategy and Management dispensable to sustainable ◎ To achieve the annual objectives defined in the Special Plan for Energy Conservation and development. Green developEnvironmental Protection (2011-2015) and the Total Emissions Control Plan of Sulfur Dioxide and ment requires maintaining Nitrogen Oxides Reduction in the 12th Five-year Plan. the industrial policy of energy conservation and emission reduction, relies on strict manSafe Development agement and technological progress to tap the potential Measures of Green Development of energy conservation, improves the high-efficiency ◎ Improving management mechanism, strengthening environmental protection infrastructure, nfrastructure, enOptimal Development and clean use of energy and hancing the management in environmental protection of operating units and the newly built projects; resource, and leads to ecological and environmental ◎ Implementing comprehensive benchmarking, carrying out energy-saving diagnosis, strengthenprotection. ing maintenance management, and improving the efﬁciency of energy conversion; ◎ Intensifying the transformation of environmental protection facilities, strengthening the manageGreen Development ment of pollutant emissions, and improving the level of clean production; ◎ Actively promoting circular economy, and protecting the ecological environment in the whole process of production, business operation and project development. 04 Green Development Strengthening the Management of Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Improving Management Mechanism Healthy Development The Company established the leading group and expert panel of energy-saving and emission reduction, to further strengthen the management of energy Innovative Development conservation and emission reduction. Combining with the current situation of environmental protection and the actual situation of the Company, we issued and revised Management Method of Environmental Protection and other standards, to improve the environmental management mechanism. Also, we signed the Major Pollutants Target Assignment Responsibility Agreement in the 12th Five-year with 9 industrial and regional companies, and we issued the Events Creating Energy-saving and Environmentally Friendly Enterprise Planning (20112015) to further deﬁne the indexes and measures in stages. Harmonious Development ◆| On January 31st People’s Daily carried the headline of “Huaneng Group achieved a new breakthrough in energy-saving and emission reduction”. Strengthening the Basic Management ◆| On February 13th The Company and the Duke Energy signed the CO2 Capture Technology Project Cooperation AgreeThe Company issued guidelines on the design, maintenance and operament with Duke Energy Company Gibson Plant. tion for desulfurization equipment, to further improve the technological management standards of desulfurization and denitration. In 2012, the ◆| On April 23rd The Company won the highest social award of the environmental protection in China—the 7th China Company carried out special science and technology projects of environBaogang Environment Prize mental protection, and completed the ﬁrst stage of construction of realtime monitoring platform for more than 50 sets of thermal power genera◆| On December 12th Tianjin IGCC Power Plant Demonstration Project was put into operation and the conference marking the tion unit. We also deepened the training of desulfurization and denitration establishment of “863 Plan” Research and Development Demonstration Base on the basis of the IGCC technology, so as to further consolidate the foundation for energy conserGreenGen was held in Binhai New Area, Tianjin. vation and emission reduction management. 39 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 40 hydropower development in Dadu River basin, which was held by SouthStrengthening the Management of west Inspection Center of State Environmental Protection Department. Strengthening Maintenance Management Construction Projects Carefully implementing the measures of energy-saving diagnosis, The Company has established the assessment report and audit system of Creating an Excellent Enterprise of EnAccording to the Main Techincal Reference for Comprehensive Upgrading North United Power Corporation formulated the technical scheme and and Transformation of Coal-ﬁred Power Plants, the Company determined environmental protection and water conservation, and strengthened the ergy Conservation and Environmental rectiﬁcation plan from several aspects, including equipment managethe transformation projects, and screened the qualiﬁed units, and made training of relevant policies, regulations and important matters concernProtection ment, technical innovation, arrangement of operation mode, optimizagood preparation for application. Strengthening the efficiency of maining project approval. In brief, we strictly implemented the requirements of Strategy and Management tion adjustment and others, and consequently achieved a signiﬁcant tenance and the quality management of energy conservation projects, environmental protection and water conservation in the entire process of The Company carefully implemented the 12th Five-year Plan for Creatimprovement in energy consumption indicators. In 2012, North United we attached great importance to the process control and organization to project planning and construction. ing an Excellent Enterprise of Energy Conservation and Environmental Power Corporation has reduced the coal consumption by 3.2 g/kWh, increase the efﬁciency of turbine and boiler, and the transformation of the Protection, further improved the assessment standards, and strengthened and reduced the power plant electricity consumption rate by 0.43 perIn 2012, the Company carried out on-site inspections on environmental circulation path. We also carried out test performance before and after the statistical study energy on conservation and emission reduction, and centage points. protection for 6 projects including Zuoquan Power Plant, to ensure good maintenance strictly to make sure that the turbine heat consumption rate the construction of monitoring, evaluation system for energy conservaand the efﬁciency of boiler have reached the expected standard. Safe Development facilities construction, operation and management of environmental protion and emission reduction. Seventeen power plants, including Haimen, tection. Five thermal power projects including Xining Thermoelectric and Haibowan, Rizhao, Dongfang, Tongchuan, passed the examination of exIn 2012, after completing the B-class maintenance, steam turbine heat the Mine 6 of Xinjiang Zhundong Dajing Coal Mine have passed the encellent energy-saving and environmentally friendly coal-ﬁred power plant. consumption of the Unit 1 of Jiutai Power Plant reduced by 295.7 kJ / vironmental audit. And the conﬁrmation of emissions indicators and other And 8 power plants, including Yingkou Thermal Power Plant, Diandong kWh. And after completing the comprehensive maintenance, the boiler supporting ﬁles concerning Changxin Power Plant and other 11 projects Optimal Development Power Plant, Jiutai Power Plant, Hailar Thermal Power Plant, Baiyanghe efﬁciency of Unit 2 of Yueyang Power Plant was increased by 1.23%, and were sent to the State Environmental Protection Department. We also Power Plant, have passed the examination of creating energy-saving and electricity consumption decreased by 15.3 g / kWh. Also, Huaiyin Power successfully coordinated the environmental audit of 5 projects including environmentally friendly coal-ﬁred power plant. Plant modified the steam seal of low pressure cylinder during the B+ Huiliuhe Thermal Power Plant, and helped to complete the inspection for maintenance of Unit 6, and after the modiﬁcation, the heat consumption of steam turbine decreased by 29.307 kJ / kWh, and gained a coal saving of Improving the Efficiency of Energy Conversion over 1 g / kWh. Green Development Comprehensive Benchmarking Management Carefully implementing the technical guidelines for energy-saving and power-saving, the Company identiﬁed some advanced units with excellent energy consumption indicators as benchmarking models. Meanwhile the Company managed the comprehensive benchmarking from several aspects, including the After the Unit 1 of Shang’an Power Plant completed its comprehensive system conﬁguration, small target control, operation management, fuel management, auxiliary system consumption and so on, to ﬁnd out the disparity and maintenance, its coal consumption decreased by 10 g, service power the insufﬁciency, and made clear the direction for improvement, so as to make all the small targets and the auxiliary unit consumption rate reach the excelrate has dropped 0.5%, heat consumption of the turbine has reduced lent standard. Using SIS on-line optimal operation system to carry out the analysis of energy-loss and operation optimization, we organized activities to 364 kJ / kWh and the boiler efﬁciency increased by 1.83%. Healthy Development achieve excellent performance in indicators and therefore heated up the indicator competition. The decreased rate The decreased rate In 2012, the Company carried out in-depth energy-saving benchmarking of 1000MW and 600MW supercritical unit. Through extensive research and benchof coal consumption of heat consumption of the turbine marking, Yuhuan, Haimen, Jinling Power Plant and another 5 power plants further deﬁned the approach to energy conservation and laid the foundation for promoting excellent performance in indicators. 10 g / kWh 364 kJ / kWh Innovative Development In 2012, several major models maintained leading poistion in the industry in energy consumption indicators, including the 600MW ultra-supercritical unit, 600MW supercritical aircooling unit, 350MW unit, 300MW condensing unit. The energy consumption indicators of some units have reached the best level of the same type domestically, including the Unit 2 and Unit 4 of Shidongkou Ⅱ Power Plant, the Unit 5 of Weihai Power Plant, the Unit 4 of Optimizing the Design of New Models Harmonious Development Rizhao Power Plant, the Unit 6 of Shang’an Power Plant, the Unit 1 of Dongfang Power The Company actively promoted the application of the research achievements of large units. Plant, the Unit 3 of Fuzhou Power Plant, the Unit 1 of Nantong Power Plant and others. Yichun Thermal Power Plant applied the compact design in single system, which reduced a total investment of 110 million yuan, saved 4.5 hectares of land, and reduced the service power Carrying out Energy-saving Diagnosis by 1.02%. Jingmen Thermal Plant adopted the optimization designs of compact combined coal bunker and two machines in one tower, and saved a total investment of 63.05 million yuan. The Company carried out a series of management activities, including the heat conThe projects of Laiwu and An’yuan applied the double-reheat technology and took the lead in sumption reduction of the turbine, improving the efﬁciency of the boiler, reducing auxthe development direction of thermal power technology. Shangdu phase Ⅳ sent new kinds iliary power consumption, conducting leakage management and other energy saving of coals to Jiutai Power Plant to conduct trial pulverization and trial heating so as to provide management, to organize the research on and to tackle the difﬁcult and common isexperience for the selection of coal mills and boilers. Through implementing typical design of sues. Carrying out the operation optimization test and adjustment of boiler combustion internal combustion engines, the Company achieved great progress in the design of gas turtest, and regular performance test on the turbine and the boiler, we gathered data and Equipment energy-saving diagnosis bines. The designs of gas turbines projects in Jinling, Chongqing Liangjiang, Tianjin were better experience for optimizing operation and changing the maintenance plan accurately. optimized. Adopted the combustion engine in the open air, and exhaust and inlet stream under In 2012, we carried out energy-saving diagnosis for 63 units from 27 power plants, including Shangdu Power Plant, Zuoquan Power Plant, Qinling Power the turbine, we reduced the construction area and the height of plant building. As the result, we Plant, and made a strong reversal of energy consumption rebound momentum in some power plants early this year. Among them, the energy consumption greatly saved the investment in projects. indicators have been greatly improved in Shangdu, Zuoquan, Shang’an, Fukang Power Plant. 41 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 42 Strengthening the Monitoring of Pollutant Emission The Company strengthened the operation, maintenance supervision and management of the environmental protection facilities, strengthened the special inspection and guidance for key enterprises in energy conservation and emission reduction, and carried out statistical monitoring of energy-saving and emisThe Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd. attached great importance to the design optimization in the project development and construction. sions reduction analysis reports. Also, we accepted energy-saving and emission reduction regulatory supervision and environmental inspection held by MinNuozhadu Hydropower Project optimized the design in several aspects, including the general layout of construction, building structure, material selecistry of Environmental Protection and State Electricity Regulatory Commission. After strengthening the rectiﬁcation of the existing problems, the emissions tion and equipment selection and so on. In this way, we have completed 18 major design optimizations, such as dam material zoning, supporting the of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide decreased by about 22% and 14% respectively compared with that in 2010, and we continued to maintain the leading underground caves and so on. Also, Lancang River Hydropower saved the investment of about 1 billion yuan, and put the equipment into operation Strategy and Management position in the industry. Huaneng Power International Inc., Yuhuan Power Plant, Huanglong Power Plant and other 5 enterprises were named the “National ahead of schedule for 2 years. Advanced Company in Energy-saving and Emission Reduction” by four ministries of the state. Carrying out Green Office Safe Development On November 28th, 2012, the selective non-catalytic reduction (SNCR) denitration technology, which was developed independently by the Company and applied to the circulating ﬂuidized bed (CFB) boiler, was put into operation successfully in the 330MW CFB boiler of Baishan Coal Gangue Using the OA network to transfer ﬁles, and advocatStrengthening the electric power equipment managePower Plant. The test results showed that, via optimization control, nitrogen oxides emission dropped from 151 mg / cubic meter to 27.55 mg / ing two-sided printing on paper; ment, and promoting the use of energy-saving lamps; cubic meters, and the denitration efﬁciency was 81.8, with only 0.8 ppm ammonia escaped. Since the SNCR system was put into operation, it was stable, and the automatic control system was sensitive. Also the self-developed ejection gun and injection system, which was suitable to high temOptimal Development Purchasing ofﬁce supplies according to actual need, perature, high dust concentration, high velocity environment, operated reliably. Used in the ﬁrst 330MW-class CFB boiler in the world, this technoland making specifications for the providing, purStrictly controlling Company’s vehicles, and realizing ogy has led the direction of CFB boiler as its low nitrogen oxide emissions met the latest environmental standards. quota management and single vehicle accounting; chasing and receiving of ofﬁce supplies. Green Promoting water-saving device, and using intermeOffice diate water as production assistant water and landSignificantly reducing and simplifying site meetings, Green Development scape water; and taking video conference as the main meeting form; Developing Monitoring Pilot Tests of Strengthening the Management of Mercury Pollution Carbon Asset In summer, the air conditioning temperature is higher than 26 degrees Celsius, and in winter the Promoting reusable tableware in the staff canteens, The Company steadily carried out researches on the control of mercury The Company actively explored ways to strengthen the management of temperature is not higher than 20 degrees Celsius; and reducing the use of disposable products. emission of coal-ﬁred power plants. We began the mercury pollution monicarbon asset, and held a meeting for the management of carbon asset toring pilot tests in Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant, Yushe Power Plant in ﬁve cities and two provinces, and made a clear plan for carbon trading and Fuzhou Power Plant, and submitted monitoring data to the environpilot work. In 2012, the Company completed the Project of Development Healthy Development Strengthening the Management of Pollutant Emissions mental protection departments. We have completed the acceptance check and completed planned stages of tests successfully. and Research of CDM, and started the technological projects including “Carbon Inventory Strategy and Pilot Study”. We also drafted the “Measures to Reduce Greenhouse Emissions”, and gradually improved the Intensifying the Modification of Environmental Protection Facilities In 2012, the mercury monitoring equipment in Beijing Cogeneration Power management system of carbon asset. Plant, Fuzhou Power Plant and Yushe Power Plant maintained the norThe Company continued to strengthen the control of pollutants, such as the smoke and dust of thermal power plant, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and so Innovative Development mal operation, and their ﬂue gas mercury emissions were, far below the In 2012, the Company continued to promote the development of the CDM on. At the same time, high efﬁciency dust collector, ﬂue gas desulfurization, denitration facilities and low nitrogen burners units were equipped and we have requirements in the latest “Thermal Power Plant Air Pollutant Emission project, and 73 CDM projects were successfully registered in the United strengthened the dust removal, desulfurization, denitriﬁcation retroﬁt, operation optimization adjustment and maintenance management for the active units. Standards”. Nations. Huaneng Carbon Asset Development Fund has signed CDM proIn 2012, the company completed the modiﬁcation of denitriﬁcation for 18 units, and completed desulfurization retroﬁt for 16 units, meanwhile the dust reject investment agreements with 19 parties outside the system. moval modiﬁcation were ﬁnished for 11 units. By now, the capacity of units which equipped with desulfurization unit accounted for 97% in all coal-ﬁred units, Harmonious Development and that equipped with denitration unit accounted for more than 37%. On September 5th, the CDM project of Yunnan Gongguoqiao HydroAs the ﬁrst power plant in Fujian Province completed the desulfurization bypass sealing, Fuzhou power Project was successful regPower Plant was equipped with desulfurization denitration device and dismantled the bypass istered in the United Nations CDM ﬂue of desulphurization in 6 units. The desulfurization facilities were 100% put into operation, Executive Board, which marked that and the desulfurization efﬁciency rate was 95.81%, 62,841 tons of sulfur dioxide were removed the 900MW CDM project of Gongper year. Meanwhile, the operation rate of denitriﬁcation equipment was 92.41%, and the comguoqiao Hydropower Project was The reduction of carbon dioxide prehensive denitration efficiency rate went to 68%, 8994.17 tons of NOx were removed per emissions accounted to about officially registered, and the project year. 100% of the electrostatic precipitators were put into operation and the comprehensive dust control rate accounted for 99.69%. Also, no wastewater was discharged into the environment, and the comprehensive utilization rate of solid waste has come to 100%. can reduce about 2.5 million tons of carbon dioxide emission per year. 2.5 million tons 43 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 44 Promoting Circular Economy The Company adhered to the principle of “reduction, recycle, resource”, and struction and management, we promoted the organic integration of electric On November 16, 2012, Longkaikou Hydropower Station carried out continued to promote the circular economy experiences in Yimin “coal elecpower and coal production, and realized the efﬁcient use of coal, water, land their last release of ﬁshes of the year, releasing 4,627 ﬁsh of 10 spetricity integration” development. In regions where conditions were permitted, and other resources and recycling utilization of mine drainage, coal gangue, cies and weighing 312.9 kg, including Jinsha River Schizothorax and the Company sped up the development of coal electricity integration, and built slag, power plant desulfurization by-products and waste heat. In 2012, the Sichuan Schizothorax. In 2012, Jinsha River Hydropower Station Strategy and Management large-scale coal bases. Starting from various aspects, including design, concomprehensive utilization rate of ash has come to 77.08%. released 11,486 wild ﬁsh weighing 763.5 kg, to the upper reaches of Jinsha River, and successful completed the annual task of “Catching the ﬁsh and releasing them over the dam”. Nantong Power Plant took the utilization of ﬂy ash as the “ﬁrst break though” of the comprehensive utilization of resources, and made a total investSafe Development ment of 14 million yuan to purchase the ﬂy ash separator and a series of equipment. Through sorting and processing, the ﬂy ash changed into helpful resources and formed an industrial chain of comprehensive utilization. For example, the crude ash can be used for building insulation layer, the ﬁrstgrade ﬂy ash was used in key construction project, the second-grade ﬂy ash was put into the mixing station for residential, ofﬁce building construction, and the third-grade ﬂy ash became the raw materials of cement factories and brick factories. The ﬂy ash product of Nantong Power Plant has been Green Development Performance Optimal Development successfully used in some key projects including the Sutong Yangtze River Bridge and the Three Gorges Dam. The Company achieved coal consumption rate for power generation of 316.52 g/kWh, down by 2.16 g/kWh over the previous year, which is at the world’s advanced level. Promoting the Protection of Ecological Environment The Company achieved station service power consumption rate of 4.84%, down by 0.24% over the previous year. Green Development Adhering to the policy of “Protection in the development, and development Nuozhadu Hydropower Station successfully treated area of soil erosion of No serious environmental pollution occurred in 2012. in the protection”, and earnestly implementing the “three simultaneous” nearly 900,000 square meters, and completed vegetation restoration of nearly requirements in the environmental protection and water conservation, 800,000 square meters. At the same time, more than 10,000 protected plants the Company took full consideration of the comprehensive requirements, at the national level were planted in the botanical garden for rare species, including power generation, ﬂood control, irrigation, shipping, sediment, more than 30,000 wild ﬁsh were released, and 44 wild animals were cured soil and water conservation, aquaculture, tourism, regional development and kept temporarily in wild animal care center. Gongguoqiao Hydaopower Water consumption per unit of power generated Slag and ash utilization rate and etc. We controlled the scale of the development and the cascade Station invested more than 30 million yuan to build the ﬁsh reproduction staof hydropower station. In the under building and newly built hydropower plants, the aggregate mixing system and sewage treatment system were tion and planned to release more than 330,000 ﬁshes annually. In 2012, the Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd. completed the removal of grade four of 1.25 kg / kWh 77.08 % Healthy Development installed, and the domestic waste was gathered and has undergone depower plants in Jidu River, completed the comprehensive improvement of the contamination treatment. We also invested heavily in planting the ecologiriver path, carried out conservation of aquatic resources, and established a Compared to that in 2011 Compared to that in 2010 Compared to that in 2011 Compared to that in 2010 cal protective forests along the rivers, worked to speed up the recovery down by down by up by up by 0.03 0.05 0.74 2.93 Innovative Development new protection habitat for ﬁshes. of soil erosion and vegetation, built rare ﬁsh reproduction stations, wild kg / kWh kg / kWh % % animal rescue stations and botanical gardens of rare plants, so as to effectively protect the local ecological environment and biodiversity. Harmonious Development Coal consumption rate for power generation (g/kWh) Station service power consumption rate (%) 333.59 5.90 327.70 5.61 322.72 318.68 5.22 316.52 5.08 4.84 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Fish breeding station in Gongguoqiao Hydropower Station Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 46 Objectives of Healthy Development ◎ To achieve 660 billion kWh in power output; Healthy development is the ◎ To achieve coal production of 66.7 million tons; Strategy and Management important foundation for Concept of Healthy Development ◎ To achieve sales revenue of RMB 304 billion yuan; sustainable development. To achieve healthy development, ◎ To secure the approval of power projects above 10GW and coal projects above 11 million we should seek and stick to tons per year. advanced management ideas, Safe Development and persist in intensive and modern management and operate in compliance with Measures of Healthy Development all laws and regulations. We shall expand our business Optimal Development scale, and enhance profit◎Promoting management improvement, deepening the reform of professional system, ability. We must realize value strengthening the budget, performance and risk management; preservation and growth of ◎Implementing the measures to turn losses into surpluses, actively expanding the electric state-owned assets and conmarket, and strengthening the cost control; Green Development tinue to build Huaneng into a highly efficient and profitable ◎Coordinating the management of the preliminary work and the construction of projects, company. steadily promoting the development and construction of projects; ◎Strengthening capital operation, expanding the sources of funds, reducing the cost of ﬁHealthy Development nancing, and ensuring the supply of capital. 05 Healthy Development Promoting Management Improvement Strengthening Budget Management Innovative Development We further improved the comprehensive budget management system with the ﬁnancial budget as the core, and gave full play to its driving role in optimizing the allocation of resources and enhancing our capabilities to achieve sustainable development. In 2012, we comprehensively analyzed both the internal and external business situation, made the budget plan and established an online management system. Deepening the all-round benchmarking, we also kept the dynamic monitoring of business indicators, and strengthened dynamic management, analysis and early warning of the capital budget. Harmonious Development Events Strengthening Performance Appraisal We continuously improved our performance management system with ◆| On March 8th Inner Mongolia Huadian’s private placement achieved the full subscription, successfully raised equity capibudgeting as its core, benchmarking as its focus, responsibility as its cartal of 4.66 billion yuan. rier, and linking performance and payment. We continued to carry out annual performance assessment work for the performance of safety, busi◆| On November 1 st The assets management business of Great Wall Securities reached 11.34 billion yuan. ness, development and Party building as the main body of work. ◆| On November 11th The Company was awarded the honorary title of “Leading Enterprise of Internal Audit” by China Institute of In 2012, the Company further improved the setting of appraisal index and Internal Audit. the rules of calculation, and developed a regular individual reward system. ◆| In 2012 The Company achieved excellent performance in realizing and increasing surpluses, and the proﬁt from We improved the joint mechanism of wages and proﬁts, and strengthened amalgamation set a new high record. the management of position-related consumption and salary of company leaders, to fully mobilize all levels of responsible entities, and promote the completion of the annual business target. 47 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 48 Strengthening Risk Management The Company revised and improved our internal control systems and standIn 2012, the Company issued Annual Risk Management Report, Internal ards, made regulations of internal evaluation and audit management, and Control Manual of the Headquarters and decision-making management regulations. At the same time, we expanded the audit coverage, actively In 2012, Huaneng Power International Inc. (HPI) further improved the marearnestly implemented the internal control and audit evaluation. We also cooperated with the National Audit Ofﬁce and the Board of Supervisors to keting supervision mechanism of “Daily Analysis, Ten-day Benchmarking”, strengthened the construction of legal management system, and fully impleand organized the “Daily Generation Sprint” activity and carried out work Strategy and Management mented the three-year plan of legal work. Strengthening the internal audit, we carry out various types of audit work. By the end of 2012, we completed 1,210 audits and carried out 10 post-project evaluations to power generaof power generation dispatch. By the end of 2012, HPI surpassed the anenhanced the independence of internal audit, improved audit efﬁciency, and tion investment. nual power generation target by 8.58 billion kWh, and the availability hours widening evaluation scope after the projects were completed. What’s more, of thermal power generation units reached 5,580 hours, up by 320 hours, we ensured the implementation of audit ﬁndings and corrective actions, and which exceeded the local directly dispatched thermal power output by 153 gave full play to the role of auditing work in prevention, and supervision. hours. Also, the accumulated availability hours of 1000MW thermal power Safe Development units has come to 6,244 hours, 622 hours more than 600MW units, and 657 hours more than 300MW units. Promoting the Reform of Specialized System The Company set up the Coal Company (Department of Coal Business), Material Company (Material Management Ofﬁce) and Nuclear Power Department. Optimal Development Department of Coal Business was assigned speciﬁc functions, and the coal business of three companies was delegated to the Coal Company, and our specialized management of coal has been strengthened. With our e-commerce platform covering all the thermal power enterprises, we established the mechaControlling the Cost of Fuel nism of material management system, actively pushed forward centralized procurement. At the same time, we carried out comprehensive tendering agency services generally, and pressed forward trial projects of specialized material management service in an orderly way. Also, we completed the reorganization The Company gave full play to the advantages that the centralized procurement of Fuel Corporation, and the intensive management of fuel was further improved to a new level. platform provided, strengthened the market research, timely adjusted procureChangchun Thermal Power Plant revised Measures of ConGreen Development ment strategy, and actively developed the coal market. We also increased coal trolling Coal Loss in Coal Yard, and realized the coordinated imports, and implemented the key coal contracts. Comprehensively coordinating management of coal yard. With average coal storage of over Taking Measures to Make up Deficits and Increase Surpluses external procurement and internal supply, we took the coal price into control, and 150,000 tons, the Plant almost eliminated the self-ignition of effectively controlled the purchasing price of standard coal. In 2012, the Company the coal, and the coal loss during storage was far less than Formulating Plans and Measures imported 38.45 million tons of coal, up by 40.4%, and the internal supply of coal the Company’s target. What’s more, they strictly controlled Healthy Development accounted for 37.22 million tons, increased by 3.43 million tons. the coal caloriﬁc value difference, and coal caloriﬁc value difFormulating special plans for the work of making up deﬁcits and increasing surpluses, the Company clearly deﬁned objectives and the tasks of all levels of enference was reduced by 135 kJ/kg. terprises. We timely tracked the progress of work of all enterprises, and actively participated in various activities to help the enterprises analyze their existing The Company attached great importance to the fuel management, and continued problems, ﬁnd out the causes, and work out solutions. Also, the Company esto strengthen the reﬁned management of fuel in the whole process. At the same tablished the brieﬁng system of making up deﬁcits and increasing surpluses, time, we took good control of coal calorific value difference, and reduced fuel and organized seminars, so as to summarize and promote the experience of storage and transport loss. In 2012, the accumulative total caloriﬁc value differmaking up deﬁcits and increasing surpluses. In 2012, the Company achieved ence is 87 kcal / kg, down by 4 kcal/kg over the previous year. fruitful results in making up deficits and increasing surpluses. Shandong Innovative Development Power Generation Corporation, Hainan Power Generation Corporation, Coal storage yard of Linhe Thermal Power Plant Huaneng Power International Inc. and Shaanxi Power Generation Corporation surpassed the annual proﬁt targets, and Shandong Power Generation Corporation and Huaneng Power International Inc. achieved an increase of North United Power Corporation held work conference on making up deﬁcits and increasing surpluses. proﬁts for more than 2 billion yuan over the previous year. Harmonious Development Developing Power Market The Company strengthened the analysis of electric power market situaand tried the best to realize more additional power production. Also, they tion, to ensure that the availability hours stay ahead. We took the beneﬁts increased incentives and formulated assessment methods to improve the of additional electricity output as the focus of the marketing work throughmarginal beneﬁt of power generation. out the year, improved the tertiary marketing network, and optimized the marketing strategy. Giving full play to the role of the real-time supervision In 2012, the Company realized an overall leading position in compresystem, we also strengthened the dynamic tracking for electric quantity, hensive availability hours, hydropower and coal availability hours, and availability hours, and unit status, and carried out availability hours benchachieved accumulated generating availability hours of 4757 hours, 185 marking and monthly summaries. Deeply carried out benchmarking, all hours more than that of the whole country. The availability hours of industrial and regional companies and grass-roots enterprises clariﬁed the 1000MW thermal power units has come to 5,259 hours, 264 hours more working direction, and paid close attention to the changes of the market, than 600MW units. Also, the availability hours of the 600MW units reached 4,995 hours, 32 hours more than 300MW units. 49 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 50 Strengthening the Control of Costs Strengthening the Management of Infrastructure Construction The Company compiled Financial Management Standardization Manual of Taking putting into operation in compliance with standard, completion acceptance and striving to achieve the Prize of National Excellent Power Project as Thermal Power Enterprises and Tax Management Standardization Manual of the guidance, the Company emphasized the process quality control and process optimization. As a result, the project quality and the level of transferring of Electric Power Enterprises, and further promoted the lifecycle cost management the whole unit have been constantly improved, and the comprehensive performance indicators continued to represent the leading position in industry. with assets as its main line, strengthened the cost management of preliminary In 2012, the Company’s installed capacity of new power projects reached 10.5 GW, including 6.47 GW of coal-ﬁred power, 2.79 GW of hydropower, 1.22 Strategy and Management projects, so as to compress operating costs and unproductive expenditure. At the same time, we intensiﬁed the management of funds collection, further broaden GW of wind power, 20 MW of photovoltaic power. Also, a number of projects were named the Prize of National Excellent Power Project and China Electric the sources of funding, and optimized the ﬁnancing mechanism and internal disPower Quality Engineering Award. The coal production capacity of new projects increased 10 million tons/year, and the total production capacity of coal tribution of capital, to try our best to reduce the cost of capital. What’s more, we reached 78.17million tons/year, up by 14.7 over the previous year. rationally arranged for coal storage, cleared up inventory, accounts and foreign investment, so as to reduce capital occupancy. In 2012, the Company concluded Safe Development the successful experiences in the cost management of infrastructure, fuel, hydropower, wind power and others, and applied them in the whole Company. The Finance Corporation carried out analyses for economic activities The Unit 4 of Haimen Power Plant was a demonstration project in the Company’s Constructing the Best Infrastructure Program. Aiming at the goal of creating a Implementing Electricity Pricing Policies Optimal Development world-class enterprise, Unit 4 of the project was completed innovatively on the The Company earnestly implemented the desulphurization and denitration electricity price policy, and ensured the effective implementation of China’s policies. basis of the “process excellence, ﬁne management” of Units 1&2&3. On SeptemStrengthening the management of collecting the electricity and heat bills, we strived to improve the settlement of integrated electric price. In 2012, we achieved a ber 26th 2012, Unit 4 successfully passed the test run of 168 hours, and created 100.5% collection rate for all annual cumulative electricity bills. We also actively promoted the application and veriﬁcation of pricing for new generating units. At the “7 successes with only one try” in the whole starting process, the 7 successes beginning of 2012, the electricity pricing of Yimin Ⅲ was approved, and the pricing applications of some companies and projects, including Huaneng Power Interreferred to offering service power, water pressure of boiler, boiler acid cleaning, Green Development national Inc., Huaneng Renewables Corporation, Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd., the GreenGen Project, progressed smoothly. boiler ignition, turning the unit and integration to the grid for the ﬁrst time and 168hour trial run. They have created an excellent record with 2.86% service power and coal consumption of 287.4 g / kWh for power supply, built an infrastructure Speeding up Development and Construction benchmarking unit, and realized constructing the best infrastructure. Healthy Development Coordinating Project Preparation Work The total capacity of approved Completing annual target Adhering to the principles of “extensive investigations, selection of the power projects in 2012 best, good construction, and strict management” in the Company’s project management, we strengthened the management of input-output, coordinated the relationship of feasibility studies, budgeting and infrastructure, 14.155 GW 141.55 % List of Projects Named Excellent Power Project in 2012 and achieved “Three Compliance” and ”Three Coordination”. In 2012, the Innovative Development Company’s approved power projects amounted to 14,155 GW, and comThe capacity of newly-approved lowThe proportion in total pleted 141.55% of annual target, including low-carbon and clean energy carbon and clean energy projects approved capacity Prize-winning Projects Prize Capacity projects of 7,475 GW, accounting for 52.8% of total approved capacity. Over the year, the Company secured coal projects of 2.1 million tons. Besides, the preparatory work of Yarlung Zangbo River hydropower devel7.475 GW 52.8 % Project of Ruili River First-grade Hydropower Station Prize of National Excellent Power Project 600MW Harmonious Development opment has made important progress, and solar power projects, including Project of Dongyinghekou Wind Power Plant Prize of National Excellent Power Project 200MW Hami’s, were approved. Phase Ⅱ of Shidongkou Ⅱ Power Plant China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award 1320MW Phase Ⅱ of Pingliang Power Plant China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award 1200MW Phase Ⅲ of Yimin Power Plant China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award 1200MW Project of Santanghu Wind Power Plant China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award 49.5MW 51 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 52 Strengthening Capital Operation Healthy Development Performance The Company adhered to the ﬁnancing strategy that took credit as its core business, bonds as the supplement business and diversiﬁed products as its additional business, and constantly expanded the sources of funds to ensure the effective supply of funds. Actively coordinating and communicating with relevant ﬁnancial institutions, the Company has successfully controlled and reduced the cost of ﬁnancing. Installed capacity (10MW) Power output (100 million kWh) In 2012, the ﬁnancing accounted for 9.864 billion yuan, exceeding the annual target. Inner Mongolia Huadian raised private placement of 4.656 billion yuan, Strategy and Management and completed share acquisition of Mao Wei Coal Mine and of Dalate Power Plant Phase Ⅳ, and optimized the coal assets. We invested the share of companies in the Middle Reaches of the Jinsha River Company into the Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd., introduced external capital of 1.465 billion yuan, 2012 13507.66 2012 6087.00 and enhanced the scale and management advantages of hydropower in Yunnan. Through a series of channels, including stock exchange, price bidding, stock right transfer, share repurchases and reconstructing projects of power plants and ports, the Company completed the ﬁnancing of 3.743 billion yuan, 2011 12537.84 2011 6046.31 and enhanced the ability to guarantee the funds for operating and constructing projects. Safe Development 2010 11343.42 2010 5376.44 2009 10438.20 2009 4200.95 2008 8586.20 2008 3645.00 Optimal Development Total ﬁnancing Up by 9.864 billion yuan 0.41 billion yuan Green Development Total assets (RMB 100 million yuan) Total revenue (RMB 100 million yuan) 7950.24 2797.78 The training for online ﬁnancial service system 7531.88 2681.73 6623.99 2279.94 Healthy Development 5782.81 1777.40 Promoting the Construction of Information System 4635.94 1513.75 Making overall plan for informatization, the Company steadily pressed ahead the construction of information system project. In 2012, the Company improved the level of informatization signiﬁcantly. The integrated ﬁnancial management system of online assets, which has covered nearly 80% of power plants of the Company, was launched in Huaneng Power International Inc. and Shandong Power Generation Corporation. The online business, based on business analysis, mobile ofﬁce, human resources and other applications, has achieved initial success. And the group-level data center progressed steadily and the pilot program in Shandong Data Center worked out smoothly. Also, the construction plan of disaster preparation center has been approved, and the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Innovative Development safety foundation for informatization was further solidiﬁed, and the centralized management capacity of informatization was further enhanced. Tax (RMB 100 million yuan) Total proﬁt (RMB 100 million yuan) Harmonious Development 139.52 261.43 195.78 77.83 172.66 68.85 61.41 166.48 141.20 58.41 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 54 Objectives of Innovative Development Innovative development is a ◎ To further improve the system and mechanism for science and technology innovation; powerful support for sustainable Concept of Innovative Development development. Innovative devel◎ To achieve positive progress in building platforms for research and development; opment must support the core Strategy and Management business and meet the needs ◎ To press forward the construction of major demonstration projects smoothly. of production, target advanced technology and industrialization. The Company must improve the system and mechanism for technology innovation and strengthSafe Development Measures of Innovative Development en the construction of research and development platforms and team building. The Company will ◎ Carrying out the strategy of science and technology innovation, further improving the system and mechanism for technology innovation; promote the development and Optimal Development demonstration of the key sci◎ Strengthening the building of research and development platforms, and establishing scientiﬁc research, experiment and demonstration bases which cover the Company’s core business; ence and technology projects. Consequently, the Company ◎ Paying great attention to both cultivation and recruiting of scientiﬁc and technological talents, could promote the industrializaand constantly improving the career development channel for the researchers; tion development of science and ◎ Focusing on the core business of power, actively implementing the national major scientiﬁc Green Development technology and acquire the ﬁrstresearch projects, and steadily pushing forward the construction of demonstration projects; class capacity of independent ◎ Attaching great importance to strengthening the management of technological industry, supinnovation. porting the application and dissemination of technological achievement, and speeding up the development of science and technology industry. Healthy Development 06 Innovative Improving the System and Mechanism for Technology Innovation Innovative Development Development Implementing the Technology Innovation Strategy The Company carried out the national strategy of rejuvenating the country through science and education, and strived to build a world-class enterprise with Events key measures, including fully implementation of the technology innovation strategy and building an innovation-oriented enterprise. The Company also established and improved system and mechanism for technology innovation, and enhanced investment in research and development, to speed up the pace of technology innovation and industrialization. In consequence, we would build demonstration projects which can stand for advanced direction of power generation technology in the future and serve for the national energy development strategy, and continuously increase the capacity for independent innovation, Harmonious Development ◆| On March 13th The Company held an expert seminar of Thousand Talents Program, and listened to the work report of and strive to promote the development of technology innovation. Thousand Talents Program. The Company also put forward requirements for recruiting talents and serving the experts’ scientiﬁc researches. ◆| On March 29th The experiment of molten carbonate fuel battery achieved success, and this independently developed Strengthening the Management of Science and Technology Innovation technology has reached the internationally advanced level. The Company has strengthened its construction of tertiary innovation system, which was comprised of the “headquarters-regional companies/industrial companies-grassroots companies”, and deﬁned the responsibilities for the main subjects at all levels. We also set up the technical expert committee. Be◆| On October 30 th China’s ﬁrst super 400 ℃ solar thermal power generation technology demonstration project, which was sides the existing Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute, we successively established several technology innovation institutions, including Technical Innoindependently developed by the Company, was ofﬁcially completed and put into operation. vation Center, Clean Energy Technology Research Institute, Huaneng Shanxi Low-carbon Technology Research and Development Center and Department ◆| On December 21st The key state science and technology project — the High Temperature Gas-cooled Reactor (HTGR) of Environmental Protection and Science Technology. And we have improved the technology research and development and the technological industry Demonstration Project of Huaneng Shandong Shidao Bay Nuclear Power Plant, whose ﬁrst layer of conlayout, and intensiﬁed coordinated management of technology innovation. Moreover, we have earnestly formulated and improved systems and measures, crete pouring was completed. such as Long-term Science and Technology Development Plan, Major Science and Technology Project Planning in the 12th Five-year, The Management Regulations for the Work of Science and Technology, Technology Innovation Strategy Implementation Plan of Create a World-class Enterprise. At the same time, we strengthened the top-level design and guidance, and established and improved the system and mechanism for technological project management and funding collection, so as to provide a powerful guarantee for making solid progress in technology innovation. 55 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 56 Strengthening the Cultivation of In March 2012, the Company held a working conference of science and technology in 2012. Technological Talents Extended Reading: In the conference, we reviewed and summarized the Company’s technology innovation Thousand Talents Program: “Thousand Talents Proachievements since the 11th Five-year Plan, and analyzed the situation that we are facing for The Company adheres to the principles of respecting knowledge, respecting gram” referred to the plan of introduction of high-level overthe work of technology innovation. Also, combined with the demand of the Company’s develtalents and respecting creativity, and attached great importance to the cultivaseas talents into China. Around the national development opment strategy, we deﬁned the basic ideas, the main targets and the key tasks of technolotion of technological and innovative talents. We have formulated and implestrategic objectives, this program began in 2008. Focusing gy innovation in the current and the 12th Five-year period. It was the ﬁrst working conference mented China Huaneng Group Long-term Talent Team Construction Plan Strategy and Management on key innovative projects, disciplines, laboratories and the of science and technology for the whole Company these years. (2012--2020), actively introduced high-level technological talents. At the same central SOEs, state-owned commercial ﬁnancial institutions, time, we strengthened the construction of training platforms, continued to imhigh-tech industrial parks, China has introduced about 2000 prove the career development channels for scientiﬁc researchers, and strived strategic scientists and leading talents, who can make breakto foster science and technology leaders with both international perspective throughs in key technologies, develop high-tech industry, Strengthening the Construction of Research and Development Platforms and advanced management concept. In brief, the Company would make and lead the emerging disciplines, and start innovative busiSafe Development great efforts to build a talent team with the qualiﬁcation of high-level technical According to the principles of overall planning and step by step implementation, the Company strengthened the construction of research and development nesses. research and industrialized management, and create a top-level technological platforms, and strived to build the scientiﬁc research, experiment and demonstration bases which covered all the Company’s core business. The Company‘s talent team with high quality. technology innovation research and development system has been improving, which takes “two bases, three research and development organizations, six national research and development platforms, and a number of experimental laboratories” as the main body, and further enhanced the Company’s science By the end of 2012, the Company had established a technological talent team of strong innovative ability, with a total of 1500 members, including one acadOptimal Development and technology innovation ability in the ﬁelds of thermal power, hydropower, renewable energy power generation and other ﬁelds of technology, so as to lay emician, 7 overseas high-level technical talents of National Thousand Talents Program, 124 experts who had made outstanding contributions and enjoyed a solid foundation for speeding up the transformation and industrialization of technological achievements. the government subsidy, and 3657 people who had the senior professional titles and above. In 2012, the construction of ﬁve national research platforms had made steady headway, including the State Key Laboratory of Coal-based Clean Energy and the National Energy and Thermal Power Technology Research and Development Center. Also, the construction of Huaneng Talent Innovation Base Green Development had achieved the periodical results, and Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute had made steady progress in the construction of experimental and industrial base. What’s more, the constructions of the provincial and ministerial key laboratories have been carried out orderly, and the plan for key laboratory of In February and April, 2012, the Company held two recruitment forums of Thousand Talents Program in the United States and UK. At present, the Company level has been fully launched. Company has successfully recruited 7 high-level overseas talents of Thousand Talents Program. Actively arranging the work of research and development for experts of Thousand Talents Program, the Company has signed and disbursed project contracts accounting for 11.5 million yuan. Their research ﬁelds were thermoelectric generation, methanation catalyst, and etc., in which they manifested their research and development ability and Healthy Development Science and Research System Two Bases ◎ Huaneng Talents Innovation Base ◎ Xi’an Scientiﬁc Research and Industrial Base the ability to lead their teams. ◎ Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute Three Organizations ◎ Huaneng Clean Energy Technology Research Institute ◎ Huaneng Technical Economics Research Institute Promoting the Development and Demonstration of Key Science and Innovative Development ◎ The State Key Laboratory of Coal-based Clean Energy Technology Projects ◎ The National Research and Development Base of the State 863 Project—Green Project Based on the IGCC Focusing on the core business of electric power industry, the Company actively organized the implementation of key scientiﬁc research projects of national ◎ The National Energy and Clean Coal and Low-carbon Generation Technology Research Six State-level Relevel. the Company also paid great attention to the research and development of key technology, and steadily pushed forward the construction of demonand Development Center stration projects. During the 11th Five-year Plan period, the Company has made a series of important science and technology achievements in some ﬁelds, search Centers ◎ The National Energy and Efﬁcient Thermal Power Technology Research and Development Center. including the ultra-supercritical coal-ﬁred power generation, coal gasiﬁcation technology, post-combustion CO2 capture in thermal power plant, circulating ◎ The National Energy and Efﬁcient Hydropower and Dam Safety Technology Research and Harmonious Development ﬂuidized bed (CFB) boiler, coal-ﬁred power plant supervisory information system (SIS), ﬁeld bus control system, dam construction technology of hydropower Development Center station, the digital mine and the rock burst prevention and control technology in coal mine. ◎ The National Engineering Research Center of Clean Coal Combustion for Utility Boiler In 2012, the IGCC demonstration power plant in Tianjin successfully passed the test run, and the objectives of the ﬁrst phase of the Company’s GreenGen Twenty-two Company-level ◎ Boiler System and Equipment Laboratory ◎ ··· plan was realized smoothly. As a state key science and technology project, the Shidao Bay High-temperature Gas-cooled Reactor Demonstration Project Laboratories was put into construction. At the same time, the ﬁrst super 400 ℃ solar thermal power generation technology demonstration project was ofﬁcially put into operation and we have started the research and development demonstration and application project of the key equipment for 700 ℃ ultra-supercritical coalﬁred generation. Also, the development of 1260MW high efﬁciency supercritical power generation technology went well, and it has been included in the clean coal technology planning of 12th Five-year Plan by State Ministry of Science and Technology. The preparation work of the demonstration projects was pushed forward solidly, and it will further consolidate our advantaged position in relevant ﬁelds. On October 12th, 2012, the roof-sealing ceremony for the Building B of Huaneng Talents Innovation Base was held in Beijing Future Science and Technology City. The experiment building The master plan of Shidao Bay Nuclear Power Plant has a total construction area of 21,000 square meters, which is the second experiment building in Huaneng Talents Innovation Base. Huaneng Talents Innovation Base is one of the major projects of the science and research system. Building A’s roof has been sealed on April 6th. 57 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 58 Speeding up the Development of Science and Technology Industry The Company attached great importance to strengthen the management of science and technology industry, and developed Implementation Measures on Deepening Technological ExAccelerating and Promoting Technology Industry Development. Introducing policies and measures of supporting popularization and application of science changes and Cooperation and technology achievements, the Company established the system and environment conducive to the development of science and technology industry, and pushed the popularization and application of technologies and products with independent intellectual property rights. Consequently, we have made a The Company attached great importance to strengthen the international good performance in some aspects, including development of some related products, design, integration, engineering contracting, debugging and technical and domestic science and technology cooperation and exchanges, and Strategy and Management advice, services and so on. We have obtained market inﬂuence in some products and technologies, including electric bag composite dust collector, lowcreated an open atmosphere for innovation. Giving full play to the imporNOx combustor, high efﬁciency and energy-saving fan, water treatment equipment and reagents in power plant, thermal power plant supervisory informatant role of National Industrial Innovation Alliance, the Company actively tion system (SIS) and group (regional) company real-time monitoring system, simulation and training system, and ﬁeld bus control system. participated in the building of all kinds of associations and standard committees. We also cooperated with higher education institutions and In 2012, the Company published Advanced Technology Application Directory in 2012, and gave priory to recommend 25 items of independently developed research institutions, and carried out academic researches and technical achievements with advanced technology and high popularization value. We also improving incentives policies and accelerated the transformation of related exchanges with them, so as to promote the combination of policy, producSafe Development technologies into productivity. In the past year, we have popularized 96 sets of equipment with contracted value of 530 million yuan. The revenue from the tion, study, research and application. In the end, we formed an open techcore business of science and technology industry has reached 1.07 billion yuan, and the proﬁt exceeded 165 million yuan. The international counterparts visited Huaneng’s Pavilion at the Fourth nological cooperation mechanism with complementary advantages, clear International Energy Exposition division of responsibilities, sharing both achievements and risks. Xi’an Thermal Power Re20 20 Clean Energy Technology Research Institute Optimal Development The Company continued to deepen the cooperation with globally well-known research institutions, and developed international technological cooperation search Institute 12 12 by taking advantage of international technological cooperation platforms, including the Sino-US, the Sino-EU exchange platforms and others. Xi’an Thermal 38 patents were authorized, including 19 Power Research Institute and Clean Energy Technology Research Institute and other institutes have taken an active part in the clean energy technological Declaration of the 85 patents, 52 granted patents invention patents, and 18 software copyrights cooperation between governments, such as the projects between China-Austria, China-Italy and China-US. We cooperated with international counterparts in the ﬁeld of the energy conservation and emission reduction, clean coal power generation and CCS technology, so as to improve the Company’s ability Green Development 2 China Electric Power Science and TechPublished 23 papers, application and promotion of achievements accounted for 30 sets and inﬂuence in participating in the international technological researches. nology Awards, 3 Science and Technology Awards of Shaanxi Province, 11 State Energy Science and Technology Progress Awards China’s ﬁrst super 400 ℃ solar thermal power generation device—the 1.5MWth line concentrator direct steam solar thermal power generation demonstration device Innovative Development Performance Healthy Development The dry pulverized coal pressure gasiﬁcation furnace, with the independent intellecThe National Projects Major Scientiﬁc and Technological Popularization and application of independent technology and developments, including denitratual property rights and the capacity of 2000 tons / day (since the 11th Five-year Plan) Achievements tion technology of ﬂue gas, ﬁre-resistant oil purification and regeneration technology, real-time The cold dry pulverized coal pressure gasiﬁcation furnace with the capacity of 1000 information monitoring system technologies The category of projects Number Achievements Number tons / day Innovative Development The “863 Plan” Major Special Project of the 11th FCS165 ﬁeld bus control system demonstra1 Five-year Plan Authorized patent 235 tion project was completed and passed the The mercury pollution removal system in coal-ﬁred power plants acceptance. The “863 Plan” Major Project of the 11th Five-year Plan 3 Inventive patent 85 The “863 Plan” Project of the 11th Five-year Plan 4 The number of awards for science and technology projects that have been The number of national patents obtained by Xi’an Thermal Power ReThe Science and Technology Support Plan Project 2 The First-class National Science and Technology conferred to Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute search Institute of the 11th Five-year Plan 1 Progress Award The Science and Technology Support Plan Project 4 Harmonious Development of the 12th Five-year Plan 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 The Second-class National Science and Technology 3 The “863 Plan” Major Project of the 12th Five-year Plan 1 Progress Award 16 12 10 38 34 47 The “863 Plan” Project of the 12th Five-year Plan 3 The First-class Provincial and Ministerial-level Science and Technology Progress Award 8 The “973 Plan” Project of the 12th Five-year Plan 2 The Second-class Provincial and Ministerial-level International Science and Technology Cooperation Pro33 2 Science and Technology Progress Award ject National Energy Application Technology Research In April 2012, the experiment of molten carbonate fuel cell (MCFC), which was developed by Clean Energy 8 The Third-class Provincial and Ministerial-level Sciand Demonstration Project 43 Technology Research Institute, achieved great success. It had been proved that, the open circuit voltage ence and Technology Progress Award National Major Technology and Equipment Develop1 of molten carbonate fuel cell would come to 1.28 volts, and the maximum discharge current density would ment Project The First-class Huaneng Science and Technology 2 reach 150mA/cm . After 120 hours of continuous operation testing, the performance of single cell was staNational Major Industrial Technology Development 13 1 Progress Award ble and every performance index appeared no attenuation. Project The Ocean Energy Demonstration Project supported 1 The Second-class Huaneng Science and Technolby national special fund 37 Taking coal gas, natural gas, hydrogen, methane as the fuel, the cell turns chemical energy of the fuel into ogy Progress Award The Technology Development and Research Project electrical energy, and achieves the advantages of clean and efﬁciency. The experiment of single cell suc5 of Science and Technology Research Institutes ceeded, and it has laid a solid foundation for the development of a 5 kW fuel cell stack. The Third-class Huaneng Science and Technology Major Science and Technology Project of National 85 2 Progress Award Energy (2012) Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 60 Objectives of Harmonious Development Harmonious development is ◎ To be responsible to our employees to achieve common growth; an important guarantee for Concept of Harmonious Development sustainable development. To ◎ To be responsible to our clients and partners to achieve mutual beneﬁts and win-win outcomes; achieve harmonious development, the Company must ◎ To be responsible to the community to contribute to society and promote a harmonious society. Strategy and Management adhere to the basic principles of mutually beneﬁcial cooperation, actively fulfill our social responsibility, and strive to create a favorable internal and Measures of Harmonious Development Safe Development external business environment. We will also constantly improve the brand image, and ◎ Protecting the rights and interests of employees, promoting employees’ development, caring for share the fruits of our developthe employees, to develop harmonious labor relations; Optimal Development ment with our stakeholders. We will continue to build up the ◎ Guaranteeing the power supply, strengthening regional cooperation, promoting the construction Integrity of Huaneng, the Huof the industrial chain, and promoting the development of the industry, to build harmonious partmanistic Huaneng, the Brand nerships; of Huaneng, the Responsible ◎ Actively helping the less privileged, carrying out volunteer activities, participating in the work of Green Development Huaneng and become a model corporate citizen. aiding Xinjiang, Qinghai and Tibet, to build harmonious social relationships. Healthy Development Promoting Employees’ Development 07 Harmonious Development The Rights and Interests of Employees The Company strictly abided by Labor Laws of the People’s Republic of China, and other applicable laws and regulations, signed labor contracts and collective contracts with employees according to the law, and achieved 100% of contract signing and honoring. We timely paid the wages, and paid the emInnovative Development ployees’ pension, medical, unemployment and other social insurance in accordance with the law. Respecting and safeguarding the legitimate rights and interests of staff, the Company protected the information and privacy of employees, gave equal remuneration for equal work for men and women workers, 和谐 发展 Development and eliminated employment discrimination in any form. By the end of 2012, the Company had 136,510 staff. Events The Company continued to strengthen the construction and organization of labor unions at all levels, and have realized 100% of labor unions and employee enrollment. Vigorously promoting the establishment of labor unions and workers congress system in industrial companies, regional companies and grassHarmonious roots enterprises, the Company gave full play to the role of democratic management and democratic consultation of workers congress, improved the effec◆| On May 17th As the largest poverty alleviation and welfare project in Xinjiang, Biedieli Hydropower Station was put into tive channels for employees to participate in the democratic management of the enterprise, and promoted the publicity of plant affairs and leadership recepoperation. tion day system, so as to guarantee the employees’ right of information, participation, expression and supervision. ◆| On June 1st The Company and People’s Government of the Tibet Autonomous Region signed the Agreement of Aiding Tibet with Electric Power in the 12th Five-year Plan. ◆| On November 30th Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant was conferred the “Outstanding Contribution Award of Guaranteeing In 2012, North United Power Corporation strengthened the standardiElectric Power during the 18th CPC National Congress”. Shangdu Power Plant and Yangliuqing Power zation construction of the workers congress, and its 19 subsidiaries Plant were awarded the “Advanced Unit Award for Guaranteeing Electric Power during 18th CPC National held the workers congress on a regular basis. Huaneng Shandong Congress”. Power Corporation carried out activities of creating the star workers congress, established three star standards, including “Standard Star, ◆| On December 18th Huaneng Power International Inc. was conferred the title of “National Advanced Unit in Corporate Culture” Advanced Star, Excellent Star”, to further improve the quality and by China Association of Enterprises and China Entrepreneur Association. efﬁciency of the workers congress. Consequently, the proposal implement rate reached 100%. ◆| On December 31st The Company was awarded the title of “Advanced Unit for Poverty Alleviation of Central SOEs in 20012011” by the SASAC of the State Council. 61 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 62 The Company attached great importance to the work of employees’ health and occupation health and safety, strengthened medical security and occupation Employee Development health management system, intensiﬁed the supervision and management of occupation diseases and working environment, and actively carried out safety and health training and emergency drills, so as to ensure the health of the staff. The physical examination rate and health ﬁle coverage rate of the staff have The Company carried out the competitive selection, formulated and issued Guidance of Promoting the Competitive System for Selection and Appointment, both reached 100%. further deﬁned the competitive selection procedures and standards. We also enhanced guidance and supervision to the work of competitive selection in all units, so as to ensure that above 1/3 new cadres in all units come out through competitive selection. Developing Employees In 2012, on the basis of summing up work experience of cadres competiStrategy and Management tion in recent years, the Company deepened the work of cadre competiVigorously implementing talent strategy, the Company formulated and implemented plans of tion, and carried out the competitive selection for 383 management positalent team construction, strengthened the construction of the “three high-level” talent team, tions in the Company. Among them, 2 positions of the department director and optimized the growing environment for talents, so as to promote the development of tallevel at the headquarters were competed and they were the highest posts ents. the Company also intensiﬁed the recruiting of talents, and actively introduced overseas appointed through competition of recent years in the Company, and 15 Safe Development high-level talents, to provide a strong guarantee for the sound and rapid development of people from 9 units participated in the competition. In the competition of the Company. In 2012, the senior and intermediate level professionals accounted for 40.5% 16 section chiefs of the headquarters, 215 people from the headquarters among the professional team in the Company. and 28 secondary units and 79 grass-roots enterprises participated, and Open competition for posts of section chief level at this is the competition for positions in headquarters units with the largest the headquarters in 2012 The Company attached great importance to the improvement of employees’ abilities, improved Optimal Development number and the widest range ever. the education and training system for employees based on job requirements, and optimized and integrated the resources of education and training. We also carried out classiﬁed training, actively organized technical training and skill contest activities, and strengthened the occupation skill appraisal and technician test. In 2012, 163,300 employees attended various types of Caring about Employees training. The Company paid great attention to humanistic concerns, cared for the We provided employees with venues for recreations and sports, and enGreen Development lives of staff, and cared about the staff through the way of material and couraged them to engage in various mass cultural and sport associations. non-material incentives. Actively conducting the employee satisfaction We actively organized sport competitions, knowledge lectures, photograsurvey, the Company increased input to improve the low-score aspects. phy training, art shows, essay competitions and other cultural and sport Chart of Professionals Structure Unit: % Chart of Staff Age Structure Unit: % Consequently, the employee satisfaction rate was continuously improved, activities to enrich their cultural lives. Healthy Development and the employee turnover rate was signiﬁcantly lower than the average level of the industry. During the New Year and Spring Festival in 2012, The number of needy emThe fund to support the 8.08 leaders of the Company went down to the grassroots, visited and exployees visited in 2012: employees: pressed their regards to 5,781 needy employees. With the annual funds 13.28 5781 13.71 27.30 Below 35 years old Innovative Development 34.61 of aiding workers reaching 13.71 million yuan, we have helped workers 36.80 Primary 3640 years old to solve practical difﬁculties. Also, we appropriated 6.42 million yuan of million yuan medical assistance fund to 428 seriously ill employees, and effectively alIntermediate 22.79 4145 years old 6.30 leviated their economic difﬁculties. Senior 21.24 4650 years old 29.60 和谐 发展 Development Else Over 50 years old Harmonious Nanjing Power Plant actively created advantaged conditions for In July 2012, the Company held the skill contest of relay protection. the employees’ growth, and strived to build an effective platform This is the ﬁrst Group-level skill contest registered in the SASAC, for technical talents. In 2012, Nanjing Power Plant issued Impleand all units responded actively, nearly 100 qualification trials mentation Details for Recruiting and Evaluation of the Technical has been held, and more than one thousand professional staff Experts and Skilled Talents, and ﬁnished recruitment of technical participated in this relay protection contest. In the ﬁnal, 16 players experts and skilled talents. Among the 109 applicants, 29 employstood out and won the ﬁrst prize, second prize and third prize. Durees were appointed as plant-level technical experts and skilled ing September 18th to 21st, the Company organized talent teams talents, and obtained allowance for two years. By public recruitto attend the Eighth National Electric Power Industry Vocational ment, they have greatly stimulated the enthusiasm of the staff, Skills Competition of Relay Protection, and won the ﬁrst, second and it triggered a wave of learning technology and competing and third prize in group competitions, and the second, third, fourth, contribution among the staff. sixth, seventh, eighth prize in individual. 63 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 64 Membership in Major Social Groups and Organizations The Growth of the Youth Name of organizations Position Name of organizations Position The Company attached great importance to building the organization and China Center for International EcoChina Association of Chief Financial system of Communist Youth League, and strengthened the ideological Standing Director Standing Director nomic Exchanges Ofﬁcers guidance. Given consideration to hot topics that most young workers were United Nations Global Compact Member National Association of Financial concerned about, the Company compiled an educational reader titled The Standing Director Market Institutional Investors Strategy and Management Mission of Youth , and vigorously carried out various forms of activities, inAssociation of the Electricity Supply IndusChina Federation of Industrial EcoMember Standing Director try of East Asia and the Western Paciﬁc nomics cluding “One Union, One Brand” and “May Fourth” series activities, which Central Enterprises Party Building & suited for the young staff’s characteristics. We actively built platforms and Vice Chairman China Corporate Culture Work SemiIdeological and Political Work Seminar Standing Director nar created conditions for young people to develop themselves, and strived China Electricity Council Vice Director-General China Electric Power Equipment Vice Directorto give full play to the roles of young employees in the work. In 2012, the Management Association General China Electric Power Employees IdeoCompany further strengthened the construction of Communist Youth Vice Chairman Safe Development logical & Political Work Seminar Chinese Nuclear Society Standing Director League at all levels, and the League coverage rate in secondary compaChina Enterprise Confederation & Director nies has reached 100%. Four people won the title of National OutstandChina Enterprise Directors Association Vice DirectorChina Nuclear Energy Association General ing Youth in Their Career, and 16 youth groups and 24 young individuals China Group Companies Association Vice Chairman China International Institute of Multiwere praised by the Youth League Union of Central SOEs. The youth development training of Shidao Bay Company Vice Chairman Chinese Society for Electrical Enginational Corporations Optimal Development Vice Director-General neering Chinese Society for Hydroelectric EnVice DirectorChina Power Supervision Standardizagineering General Member Building Harmonious Partner Relationship tion Technical Committee China Institute of Internal Audit Standing Director China Association of Work Safety Vice Chairman China Electric Power Construction China Association for the Promotion of Vice Chairman Association Green Development Director Power Supply Industrial Development Vice DirectorChina Supervision Association Power China Information Industry Association Vice Chairman General The Company actively prepared against the heavy rainfall, vioIn guaranteeing the power supply during the 18th CPC National Congress, BeiBranch World Association of Nuclear Operators lent typhoon and other extreme weather and natural disasters, China Association of Resource ComFirst-class Member jing Cogeneration Power Plant strengthened organization and leadership, made Vice Chairman (WANO) prehensive Utilization effectively ensured stable power supply to prevent flooding, mobilization and arrangement ahead of time, deﬁned tasks, improved emergency Healthy Development China Electric Power Equipment ManChina Promotion Consortium for SpeVice Chairman Vice Chairman and to meet peak demands for electricity in summer and during responses, and earnestly implemented the measures to guarantee safe and agement Association cial Equipment and Energy-Saving the 18th CPC National Congress. Strengthening the reliability stable operation of the equipment. While the 18th CPC National Congress was management of equipment, the Company employed all available in session, the power plant maintained stable operation, and made an important means to guarantee a safe and steady supply of thermal coal contribution to electricity supply. Therefore Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant was Supporting Public Welfare Innovative Development and went all out to supply power and heat. All power plants did awarded the Outstanding Contribution Prize of Power Guarantee during 18th CPC not stop operation due to coal shortage, so that we ensured National Congress by the State Electricity Regulatory Commission. Alleviating Poverty and Aiding the Poor power and heat supplies to the people, and remained to be a reliable energy supplier to local power grids. The Company actively participated in social welfare efforts such as disaster reliefs, helping the less privileged and vulnerable groups, making donations, 和谐 发展 Development and has encouraged staff to participate in community development, public environmental welfare and student aid projects and other activities, so as to creRegional Cooperation ate a good atmosphere for the construction of a harmonious society and fully demonstrate the good corporate image in returning beneﬁts to society. The Company deeply promoted cooperation with local governments and enterprises, optimized industrial and regional distribution, intensiﬁed efforts in the Harmonious development of clean and renewable energy, implemented the localization procurement and management policy, and actively boosted local economic Volunteer Activities development and employment. In 2011, the Company signed cooperation agreements on energy strategy with the local governments in Shaanxi, Hubei, Huth On September 12 , Lancang River The Company actively organized employees to nan, Zhejiang and other places and promoted local economic development. Hydropower Co., Ltd. donated 3.18 milparticipate in volunteer activities, and continued lion yuan to earthquake stricken area in to improve the rules and regulations concerning Building the Industrial Chain Yiliang, Yunnan. Among this donation, volunteer activities. Also, building volunteer teams 3 million was donated by Lancang River and volunteer service brand, the Company creThe Company always followed operational standards, honored contracts, made payHydropower Co., Ltd., and 0.18 million ated the special webpage of “Three-color Sail”, ments and settlements timely, and achieved a 100% contract fulﬁllment rate. We also yuan by the employees. After the earthand issued Love of Three-color Sail Volunteer strictly examined qualifications in materials procurement and project construction, quake happened on September 7th, the Activity Updates, to create a good atmosphere for conformed to bidding procedures, advocated fair competition, and resolutely resisted Company ensured the safe and stable volunteer activities. In 2012, we set up 6 volunall types of commercial bribery. Additionally, we strengthened our communications and operation of the units, and guaranteed the power supply. At the same time, promoting the traditionteer teams in Beijing, and assisted 300 poor stucooperation with coal suppliers, equipment manufacturers, and ﬁnancial institutions to al virtues of “one in trouble, assistance comes from all quarters”, the Company actively supported dents. We also organized volunteers to carry out expand cooperation ﬁelds, to jointly cope with market risks and achieve mutual beneﬁts. the disaster rescue and relief activities, helped the affected people to tide over the difﬁculties, and the student assistantance activities three times in In 2012, the Company signed cooperation agreements with Zhejiang Energy Group, contributed to help people in the disaster stricken areas rebuild their homes. Huailai. Wuhan Iron & Steel Group, Harbin Electric Group and other units to strengthen cooperation in new energy industry, coal chemistry, technical and management innovation and other ﬁelds. 65 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 66 Support and Aids to Xinjiang, Tibet, and Qinghai The Company earnestly implemented the responsibilities of central SOEs. In 2012, Huaneng Diandong Energy Corporation conducted We perceived our support and aids in bordering regions as part of national Hope Project activities to help and support local schools— development strategy, promoting the development of areas where ethnic In May 2012, as the largest poverty alleviation project in Xinjiang, Duluhe Primary School and Pukeying Primary School, includminorities reside, and ensuring national security. According to the basic Strategy and Management Huaneng Biedieli Hydropower Station has been ofﬁcially put into ing repairing buildings for schools, installing lights, donating principle of combining alleviating poverty with industrial development, operation, with the installed capacity of 248 MW. Being expected uniforms and assigning college student to work as teachers. technology and education, we gave full play to the advantages of our into create profits and taxes of more than 42 million yuan every 20 workers and 20 excellent students who are from poor family dustry, technology and talents, earnestly implemented the work in aiding year for the county, Biedieli Hydropower Station provided strong formed 20 “1+1” study pairs, and every worker aids a student Xinjiang, Tibet and Qinghai. We signiﬁcantly helped the local regions to impetus for local mineral development, water development, ag400 yuan per year to help them ﬁnish their studies. strengthen their social public welfare construction as well as accelerated ricultural transformation, eco-development and other industries. Safe Development the development of energy resources, so as to make our contributions to Since 2005, the Company has invested more than 52.7 million promote the development of the poverty-stricken minority areas and imyuan in aiding Akqi County in Kirgiz Autonomous Prefecture of prove people’s livelihood welfare. Kizilsu, Xinjiang, and greatly promoted the local economic develHuaneng has invested more than 52.7 million yuan in assistance to Akqi opment and the improvement of people’s livelihood. Optimal Development County in Kirgiz Autonomous Prefecture of Kizilsu, Xinjiang since 2005. The Company will continue to invest 37 million yuan during the 12th Five-year Plan to implement nine major projects, including improving local medical Harmonious Development Performance conditions and teaching facilities, building earthquake-resistant housing projects, training minority talents and so on. By the end of 2012, Huaneng has Honors Number Employee Training in 2012 (number of participants) Green Development been invested 15.9 million yuan, and the residential demonstration project of Huaneng Biedieli New Village Harmony Building and other projects that benNational Labor Award 3 eﬁt people’s livelihood have been built and put into use. Business Managers 28440 National Labor Medal 3 The work of supporting Jianzha County in Qinghai Province has been Healthy Development actively pressed ahead. In 2012, the No.2 National Secondary School in Professional Technicians 43828 National Worker Pioneer 6 Jiazha County has been built with the help of Huaneng. Some medical equipment purchased for County People’s Hospital, including CT machines and Skilled National Technical Expert 5 others, have been put into use and provided convenience for local people. 91054 Innovative Development Workers Industrial Technical Expert 21 The construction of： Safety Production and Well-being Enterprise 1 Aiding Tibet with Electric Power in the 和谐 发展 Development Yarang Power Station (5 MW) Outstanding Contribution Award of Guaranteeing 1 12th Five-year Plan Gandeng Power Station (110 kW) Total Donations (RMB 10 thousand yuan) Electric Power in 18th CPC National Congress The number of minisize power stations: 12 Advanced Unit Award of Guaranteeing Electric 2 Harmonious 1 On June 1st, the Company signed the Agreement of AidLocal power grid in Modog County Power in 18th CPC National Congress ing Tibet with Electric Power in the Twelfth Five-year Plan Top 10 Model Enterprise in Construction of Cor2012 7433 1 with Tibet Autonomous Region Government. porate Culture in 2012 2 2011 5674 National Demonstration Base of Corporate Cul1 We planned to invest 108 million yuan in Tibet, three ture times as much as that in the 11th Five-year Plan. The construction of： Tibet Autonomous 2010 12000 National Civilized Unit 12 Jueba Power Station (10 MW) MW 3 We have invested more than 62 million yuan to support Region 2009 19000 Award for National Excellent Organization of Fit1 the construction of power sources in the areas without ness Campaign in 2012 electricity in Medog County. 2008 13600 Outstanding Unit in the All People’s Stay Fitness 4 Lhasa Campaign in 2012 1 We supported the construction of power sources in the areas without electricity in Markam County. Markam Sustainability Report was ranked as the Five-star 1 5 County Report by Chinese Academy of Social Sciences th On October 9 , the Preparatory Office of Huaneng Tibet Medog Power Corporation was unveiled. Modog County Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 68 Objectives Measures Green ◎ To achieve a coal consumption rate of To steadily promote the creation of an excellent energy-saving and enDevelopment 315.5 g/kWh and service power rate of vironmentally friendly enterprise; 4.7%; ◎ To promote the comprehensive upgrading of coal-ﬁred power plants, to ◎ To carry out energy-saving and environimprove the energy consumption index level of main models, and to strengthmentally friendly activities in all enterprises; en the energy consumption supervision of other model types; ◎ To achieve the annual objectives ◎ To strengthen the control of pollutant emission; defined in the Special Plan for Energy Conservation and Environmental Protec◎ To improve carbon assets management, and to realize uniﬁed managetion (2011-2015) and the Total Emission ment of carbon assets. Control Plan of Sulfur Dioxide and Nitrogen Oxides in the 12th Five-year Plan. Objectives Measures Healthy ◎ To achieve 640.3 billion kWh of power ◎ To stress making up deficits and increasing surpluses, to constantly Development generating capacity; improve the level of EVA and the rate of return on equity; ◎To ◎ To achieve coal production of 72 million tons; ◎ To pay great attention to market development, and to maximize the power output of the proﬁtable units; ◎ To achieve sales revenue of 295 billion yuan; ◎ To strictly control the purchase price of coal, to strengthen closed-loop management of fuel, and to reduce the cost of power generation; ◎ To obtain approval for power projects of 12000 MW, and coal projects of 10 million ◎ To pay great attention to the cost management, capital operation and Prospect tons per year. the internationalized management. Objectives Measures Objectives Measures Innovative Safe ◎ To further improve the management ◎ To improve the management system of science and technology innovaDevelopment Development ◎ To prevent serious accidents; ◎ To improve regulations and systems, to strengthen the education and system of technology innovation; tion, to promote the development of science and technology innovation; training, and to further promote the standardization of safety production, ◎ To prevent incidents that may negaso as to lay out a solid foundation for safe production; ◎ To further strengthen the research ◎ To optimize the allocation of resources, and to research and develop and development capabilities which the cutting-edge technology; tively impact the image of our Com◎ To pay great attention to equipment management, to strengthen emerwill play a support and leading role in pany. ◎ To carry out demonstration projects, to further promote the popularizagency management and safety management of outsourcing projects, and building the Company into a world-class to improve the safety production management of wind power; enterprise; tion of science and technology achievements; ◎ To strengthen the safety management of coal, to promote the three ◎ To press forward the science and ◎ To strengthen the construction of science and technology innovation special actions and the construction of Six Systems for underground mine technology industry smoothly. talent team. emergency refuging. Objectives Measures Objectives Measures Optimal Harmonious ◎ To increase coal production capacity ◎ To optimize the readjustment of the structure, and to give priority to ◎ To achieve common growth with our ◎ To improve the quality of our staff, to improve the mechanism of talent Development Development by 8.2 million tons/year; low-carbon and clean energy; employees; cultivation, evaluation, selection and incentive; ◎ To increase the installed capacity of ◎ To promote industrial coordination, to focus on consolidating the basic ◎ To achieve mutual beneﬁts and win-win ◎ To strengthen cooperation with regional and various partners, to actively clean energy by 6410 MW. position of the coal industry, to make better and stronger ﬁnancing platoutcomes with our clients and partners; extend cooperation ﬁeld and improve cooperation quality; forms and technological industry. ◎ To achieve harmonious progress with ◎ To earnestly participate in poverty alleviation activities and provide aids our society. and support to Xinjiang, Tibet and Qinghai, and to actively participate in public welfare and strive to contribute to the society. 69 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 70 Indicator Index 1：GRI Index (G3.1) Note: The level of disclosure ( Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report Not Available ) 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including retirement P46 arrangement), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental) Disclosure in the Degree of GRI Indicators 4.6 Procedures for avoiding conflicts of interests within the highest governance body P16 report Disclosure Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body 1 Strategy and Analysis 4.7 P11 and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity 1.1 Statement from the top decision-maker of the organization on the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy P1-2 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Title page/P22/P30/ 4.8 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation P38/P46/P54/P60 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities P17-18 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of 2 Organization Profile 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or P11/P16/P19 compliance with internationally agreed standards, code of conduct and principles 2.1 Organization name P14 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, P16/P46 environmental, and social performance 2.2 Major brands, products and/or services P14 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization P16/P19 2.3 Operational structure of the organization (including main departments, the operating company, subsidiaries and joint ventures) P15-16 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 Inside front cover organization subscribes or endorses 2.4 Location of Headquarters back flap Back flap 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations P64 The number of countries where the organization operates, names of countries where organization has main businesses,names of countries 2.5 P14/P35 which are particularly relevant to the sustainable development described in report 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization P20 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form P14 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage P20 2.7 Markets served by the organization (including regional markets, trades served, types of beneficiaries) P14 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group P20 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised by stakeholders during their engagement, and how the organization has 2.8 Scales of the organization inside front cover P14 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting P20 2.9 Significant changes in size, structure or ownership of the organization during the reporting period P14 5 Economic Performance P26/P50/P58/ Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period EC1 P36/P52/P66 P66 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 3 Report Parameters EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change P41-42 3.1 Reporting period(financial year or solar year) Inside front cover EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations P60-63 3.2 Date of the previous report (if any) Inside front cover EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 3.3 Reporting cycle(such as annual, biennial) Inside front cover EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation P60-63 3.4 Contact point for inquiring report and report content Back flap EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation P24/P63 3.5 Process of defining report content Inside front cover EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation P63 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or 3.6 Boundary of the report (such as the state, the department, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, and suppliers) Inside front cover EC8 P64-66 probono engagement 3.7 Limits to the cope or boundary of the report Inside front cover EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts P64-66 3.8 Basis for the report on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 6 Environment Inside front cover significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations EN1 Materials used by weight or volume P44 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 3.9 Inside front cover estim ations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 3.10 Explanation of the effect of and reas , base year/year period changes, business nature, design procedure Inside front cover EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source P44 3.11 Significant changes from the previous report in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report Inside front cover EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source P44 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosure in the report P69-76 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements P39-44 The organization listed in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report provides policy and current practice 3.13 for seeking external assurance. If not listed, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided, and also P76 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or recyclable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s) EN6 P39-44 these initiatives 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect consumption and reductions achieved P39-44 4.1 Governance structure of the organization P16 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source P44 4.2 Indicate whether Chairman of the Board is also an executive officer EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water P43-44 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused P41 4.3 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 4.4 Mechanism for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction for the highest governance body P16 EN11 P43 protected areas 71 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 72 8 Human Rights EN12 Description of significant activities, products and service on biodiversity in these areas P43 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights HR1 concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening EN13 Habitats protected or restored P43 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity P43-44 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, HR3 P61 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk P43-44 including the percentage of employees trained No such EN16 Total direct and indirect GHG emissions by weight P41-42 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken incidents EN17 Other relevant indirect GHG emissions by weight P41-42 HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining No such may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights compliance EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and reductions achieved P41-42 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute HR6 to the effective abolition of child labor EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures HR7 P63 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight P41-42 to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are HR8 relevant to operations EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method P41-43 No such HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken compliance EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills P27 HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24 Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the EN25 P43 9 Society reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs P43 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation P38-44 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption P19 No such SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures P19/P63 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulation incidents Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption P19/P63 EN29 transporting members of the workforce SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying P20/P63-64 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type P43 No such SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions, by country contributions 7 Labor practices and decent work No such legal SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices, and their outcomes actions LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender P60 No such SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations compliance LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. P60-63 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations P60-63 P25-27/P37-44/ SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities P63-66 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements P61 10 Product Responsibility LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements P60-63 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of PR1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise significant products and services categories subject to such procedures LA6 on occupational health and safety programs Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products PR2 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region and by gender. P28/P61 and services, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and service subject Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families or PR3 LA8 P61-62 to such information requirements community members regarding serious diseases PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information, No such LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions P61 and labeling, by type of outcomes incidents LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category P61 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction P63-66 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist LA11 P62 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, them with managing career endings PR6 and sponsorship LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender P61-62 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, No such PR7 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes incidents LA13 P60 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity No such PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation P60 incidents LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender P60 No such PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services incidents 73 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 74 Indicator Index 2: Social Responsibility Indicator System for Power Generation Industry Indicator Numbers and Description Report Section(s) Indicator Numbers and Description Report Section(s) Indicator Numbers and Description Report Section (s) Indicator Numbers and Description Report Section(s) G6.2 Cooperation with education and researching agencies on social S2.14 Proportion of female managers to total manpower P60 E1.6 Environmental initiatives P43 Part I: Foreword (P series) responsibility P6364 (P1) Report specifications G6.3 Participation in development of standards on social responsibility S2.15 Rate or Number of disabled employees Not disclosed E1.7 Total investment in environmental protection Not disclosed at home and abroad P1112/P19 P1.1 Reporting period Inside front cover S2.16 Occupational health management policy P61 E1.8 Environmental impact assessment for investment projects P39/P43 Part III: Performances of Market (M Series) E1.9 Research and development and application of environmentP1.2 Scope of reporting organization Inside front cover S2.17 Employee training management system P61 P4143/P5358 (M1) Responsibility to shareholders friendly technology and equipment P1.3 Reporting cycle Inside front cover S2.18 Number of occupational disease P61 E1.10 Biodiversity conservation P43 M1.1 Investor relations management system Not disclosed P1.4 Reported data description Inside front cover S2.19 Systems or measures for employee counseling P6162 ELE1.11 Protection of natural habitat, wetlands, forests, wildlife M1.2 Growth potential P52 P43 corridors and agricultural land in engineering construction P1.5 Reference standards Inside front cover S2.20 Coverage of medical examination and health file P61 M1.3 Profitability P52 E1.12 Information on incompliance with environmental laws, S2.21 System of employee training P61 regulations and policies No such incidents P1.6 Guarantee on report reliability Inside front cover M1.4 Security P4652 P1.7 The contact person for inquiries and questions about the report S2.22 Degree of employee training P61 (E2) Energy and resources conservation and its content, and his or her contact details P72 M1.5 Negative information on responsibility to shareholders No such incidents S2.23 Career path P6162 E2.1 Policy and measures for energy conservation P4143/P5358 P1.8 How to obtain the report and extended reading Inside front cover (M2) Responsibility to customers E2.2 Energy consumption of unit power generation and amount of S2.24 Democratic management and transparent factory affairs P60 energy conservation P44 (P2) From the CEO M2.1 Systems and measures supporting innovation of Technology P54 S2.25 Channels through which employee suggestions are communiE2.3 Policy, measures or technology of water conservation P41/P43 P2.1 Statement of the relation between the organization and social P60 responsibility P12 M2.2 Investment in research and development P58 cated to the top management E2.4 Energy consumption of unit power generation and amount of P2.2 Summary of social responsibility performance and areas for im M2.3 Number of R&D personnel and their proportion to the total S2.26 Expenditure in aiding needy employees P62 energy conservation P44 provement in the reporting year Not disclosed manpower P56 S2.27 Provision of special protection for special group such as pregE2.5 Policy, technology and measures supporting circular economy P43 (P3) Responsibility Model M2.4 Number of patents P5758 P60 nant women, lactating women. E2.6 Rate or amount of utilizing energy and resources P44 P3.1 CSR Model Inside front cover M2.5 New awards for significant innovation P5758 S2.28 Assurance in balance between work and life P62 ELE2.7 Coal consumption for power supply P44 (P4) Company profile M2.6 Negative information on responsibility to customers No such incidents S2.29 Employee satisfaction P62 ELE2.8 General auxiliary power rate P44 P4.1Company name, form of ownership and location of headquarters P14 (M3) Responsibility to partners S2.30 Employee turnover rate P62 M3.1 Evaluation and investigation on social responsibilities of supply ELE2.9 Water consumption per unit power generation (ton, 100 GW) No such incidents P4.2 Main Products and services of the organization P14 P24 S2.31 Negative information on responsibility to employees P62 chain ELE2.10 Policy, rules and measures supporting development of green (S3) wSafety production power P3032 P4.3 Geographic coverage and structure of business operations P1416 M3.2 Strategic sharing mechanism and system P6364 ELE2.11 The proportion of capacity and annual generation of green P4.4 Size of business P14 M3.3 Ethical sourcing system and (or) policy P20/P24 S3.1 Safety production management system P22 power, such as wind power, photo voltaic generation, P36 P4.5 Corporate governance structure P16 S3.2 Emergency management system P23 geothermal power, biomass power, small hydro etc. M3.4 Proportion of ethical sourcing Not disclosed P4.6 Structure of board of directors Not applicable S3.3 Safety education and training P27 ELE2.12 Wastewater recycling rules and measures P43 M3.5 Concept of integrity and supporting policy P20/P63 (P5) Key Performance indicator matrix S3.4 Performances of safety training P27 ELE2.13 Exhaust gas recycling rules and measures P4142 M3.6 Concept of fair competition and supporting policy P20/P63 ELE2.14 Rules and measures for and performances of comprehensive P5.1 Social responsibility performance comparison schedule Not disclosed M3.7 Training on integrity and fair competition Not disclosed S3.5 Investment in safety production P25 utilization of fly ash P43 ELE2.15 Rules and measures for and performances of comprehensive P5.2 Key performance data sheet P4 M3.8 Credit ratings Not disclosed S3.6 Number of accident-caused casualties P28 P43 utilization of sweet gypsum ELS3.7 Equipment management policy and measures P27 ELE2.16 Rules and measures for and performances of recovery of P5.3 List of recognitions received during the reporting period P26/P50/P66 M3.9 Contract fulfillment rate P63 P43 residual heat and energy Part II: Responsibility management (G series) M3.10 Negative information on responsibility to partners No such incidents ELS3.8 Plant equivalent availability coefficient P28 E2.17 Green workplace policy or measures P41 (G1) Responsibility Strategy Part IV Social Performance (S series) ELS3.9 Number of general equipment failures P28 E2.18 Green workplace performance P41 Title page / (S1) Responsibility to government ELS3.10 Number of significant equipment breakdowns P28 (E3) Pollution control and emission reduction G1.1 CSR Concepts P22/30/38/46/54/60 S1.1 Legal and regulatory compliance system P19/P20 ELS3.11 Number of unplanned equipment outage P28 E3.1 Systems or measures for waste gas emission reduction P4143 P2128/P2935/P3744/P45G1.2 Core issues on social responsibility 51/P5358/P5966 ELS3.12 Negative information on safety production P28 ELE3.2 Penetration rate of desulphurization equipment for thermal S1.2 Legal and regulatory compliance measures P19 P4142 power plant G1.3 Planning on CSR Not disclosed (S4) Community Responsibility ELE3.3 Penetration rate of denitration equipment for thermal power S1.3 Legal and regulatory compliance training P47 P4142 (G2) Responsibility management plant S1.4 Negative information on Legal and regulatory compliance No such incidents S4.1 Impact of business operations on local communities P43 ELE3.4 Nox emissions and emission reduction per unit power generaS4.2 Education and study supporting community members tion (g/kWh) P42 G2.1 Social responsibility leadership P1112 P6466 S1.5 Response to national policy P20/P6366 (esp. disadvantaged group) ELE3.5 SO2 emissions and emission reduction per unit power generaG2.2 Social responsibility management organization system P1112 tion (g/kWh) P4142/P44 S1.6 Total tax payments P4/P52 S4.3 Policy of recruiting local employees P63 ELE3.6 Fume and dust emissions and emission reduction per unit G2.3 Social responsibility management system P1112 power generation (g/kWh) P41 S1.7 Information on tax evasion No such incidents S4.4 Proportion of local employees to total manpower Not disclosed G2.4 Social responsibility training P1112 S1.8 Policy or measures ensuring employment and (or ) promoting E3.7 Systems or measures for wastewater effluent reduction P41/P43 P6061/P65 S4.5 Policy of local procurement P63 employment E3.8 Wastewater effluent and reduction per unit power (G3)Responsibility Blend S4.6 Proportion of local procurement Not disclosed generation (g/kWh) P44 S1.9 Number of jobs created during reporting period P60 G3.1 Promoting the transformation of special work P1112/P19 S4.7 Give-back policy or system P6465 E3.9 Systems or measures for solid waste discharge reduction P4143 (S2) Responsibility to employees G3.2 Encourage subsidiaries to implement social responsibility P1112/P19 E3.10 Solid waste discharge and reduction per unit power S4.8 Corporate charitable fund or foundation Not disclosed generation (g/kWh) P4143 S2.1 Compliance with national labor laws and regulations P60 G3.3 Encouraging partners to implement social responsibility P1112/P24 S4.9 Amount of donations P4/P66 E3.11 Industrial noise control P61 S2.2 Coverage of labor contract/collective contract P60 (G4)Responsibility performance E3.12 Actively responding to climate change P3843 S2.3 Coverage of social insurance P60 S4.10 Policy and measures supporting employee volunteerism P64 G4.1 Indicator system on corporate social responsibility Not disclosed S4.11 Employee volunteerism data P64 E3.13 Policies or measures for greenhouse gas emission reduction P3843 G4.2 Performance evaluation on corporate social responsibility S2.4 Proportion of unionized employees to total manpower P61 according to indicator system Not disclosed S4.12 Overseas charitable donations Not disclosed E3.14 Greenhouse gas emission reduction P4142/P44 S2.5 No forced labor P6062 G4.3 Best CSR selection P66 S4.13 Negative information on community responsibility No such incidents E3.15 CO2 emissions from business trips Not disclosed S2.6 Protection in personal data and privacy of employees P6062 (G5) Communication on social responsibility PART V: Environmental performance (E series) E3.16 Factory premises and surrounding environment management P43 S2.7 Systems and measures supporting decent labor P6062 G5.1 Stakeholders’ expectations and the organization’s reactions P20 (E1) Environmental Management Part VI: Concluding remarks (A series) S2.8 Mechanism for social dialogue and collective bargaining P6062 G5.2 Internal social responsibility communication mechanism P1112/P20 S2.9 Protection in the rights and interests of part-time employees, E1.1 Environmental management system P3839 (A1) Outlook: Corporate social responsibility activity planning P6768 temporary workers and subcontractors P24 G5.3 Internal social responsibility communication and exchange in P60 E1.2 Emergency mechanism for environmental accidents P3839 (A2) Expert Evaluation: Evaluation of the report by CSR experts or which top management are involved S2.10 Provision of competitive pay to employees P6062 industry experts, stakeholders or professional organizations. P76 G5.4 External social responsibility communication mechanism P1112 E1.3 Environmental awareness training system P3839 S2.11 Days of per capita paid leave each year P60 (A3) Index: Reference to the indicators specified in this guide. P6975 G5.5 External social responsibility communication and exchange in which top management are involved P6265 E1.4 Performances of environmental awareness training P38 S2.12 Equal employment opportunity system P60 (A4) Reader feedback: Reader feedback questionnaire and channel P78/Back flap (G6) Research on social responsibility E1.5 Green procurement Not disclosed S2.13 Ratio between salary of male employee and of female employee P60 G6.1 Research on CSR P1112/P19 75 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 76 Indicator Index 3 : Rating the Report Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact on China Huaneng Group Sustainability Report 2012 Upon the request of China Huaneng Group, CSR Research Center of Economics Division of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences invited experts from the Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating to form China Huaneng Group Sustainability Report 2012 Rating Team. The rating team rated the China Huaneng Sustainability Report 2012 (“Report”) as follows. The United Nations Global Compact requires companies within their influence area to comply with, support and carry out a set of ten universally accepted 1. Rating Criteria principles in the aspects of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. These principles are from Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 2.0) and Rating Standards for Corporate Social Responsibility Report for Chinese Enterprises (2013) published jointly by the aforesaid Center, China Enterprise Confederation, China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Association, China Light Industry Federation, the SinoDeclaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work by International Labor Organization, and Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. German Corporate Social Responsibility Project, China WTO Tribune and China Committee of Corporate Citizenship. Huaneng, as the first Chinese power industry joined the United Naitons Global Compact in November 2007, has been actively carrying out the ten principles of the 2. Rating Results Global Compact by promoting safe, optimal, green, healthy, international and harmonious development. Completeness（★★★★☆） The Report focuses on development and discloses information on corporate responsibility practices from seven perspectives, including management, safe development, optimal development, green development, healthy development, innovative development, harmonious development, etc. With 82% of Key Performance indicators for electric power industry being disclosed, the Report has good completeness. Materiality（★★★★★） Ten Principles Location in the Report Implementation The Report covers crucial topics concerning power industry including guaranteeing power supply, safe production, developing green electricity, saving resources and energy, developing circular economy, reducing the discharge of waste gas, waste water and waste residues, etc. Providing all the material issues with sufﬁcient and detailed information, the Report has exRespect and support the protection of internationally P60-62 Abide by laws and regulations at home and abroad, support cellent materiality. proclaimed human rights international conventions on human rights approved by the Balance（★★★★☆） Human Right State, safeguard and respect human rights, and guarantee This report discloses negative information on common equipment breakout, work-related injuries and causalities, Class One accidents, unexpected suspension etc. and includes a section of Alarm Bells and Reﬂection. The company reﬂects on the cause of incidents and preventive measures. Therefore the Report bears considerable balance. Not complicit in human rights abuses P60-62 employees’ legal rights and interests. Comparability（★★★★☆） This Report discloses data on 35 key performance indicators of consecutive years. The Report discloses data in various ﬁelds for comparisons with other companies in the power industry and therefore has good comparability. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective Adhere to fair and just employment policy, strictly follow P60 Readability（★★★★★） recognition of the right to collective bargaining national laws and regulations on labor relationship This Report is clearly structured with appropriate length of content; the language is illustrates the performance using user friendly charts, tables and pictures. This Report has a clear management and labor contracts so as to strengthen the structure, concise language, content of appropriate length, user friendly charts, tables and pictures. Beautiful and simple design also provides easy indexing. Terminology is also proEliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor P60 management of employees’labor contracts. Establish workers’ vided. The abovementioned qualities make this Report very readable. Labor congress system and the system of making the company’s Creativity（★★★★★） Effective abolition of child labor P60 affairs public, so as to ensure 100% employee membership This Report, in terms of its content, puts forward enhancing management through strategies, improving management through responsibility and integrating responsibility management into the corporate management strategy. In terms of organization, each chapter begins with events of the year, reﬂecting the CSR practices of Huaneng, which is very reader friendly. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment P60 in trade unions at all levels, and strengthen democratic Therefore the Report bears excellent creativity. and occupation participation of employees. Overall rating（★★★★★） Through evaluation in the above six criteria, the rating team agreed to rate China Huaneng Sustainability Report 2012 as extraordinary by giving a ﬁve-star rating to it. 3. Suggested improvements 1. Disclose more key indicators of the industry to improve the completeness of the Report. Take a precautionary approach to environmental P37-44 Accelerate the transformation of the development mode, 4. Rating team challenges optimize the industrial structure, speed up eliminating Team leader: Zhong Hongwu, Director of CSR Research Center, Economics Division, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences backward production capacity, develop clean energy, and Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental P41-44 Team members: Wang Zhixuan, Secretary-General of China Enterprise Confederation Director of Electric Power Reliability Management Center, State Electricity Regulatory Commission vigorously develop wind energy, hydropower and nuclear Environment responsibility Chen Hongfei, Vice Principal of Lingnan College, Sun Yat-sen University power, and actively cope with global climate change. By Encourage the development and promotion of means of scientific and technological innovation, we actively P38-43/ environmental-friendly technologies develop clean power generation technology, and create P56-58 Peng Huagang Zhong Hongwu energy-saving, environmental-friendly coal-fired power Vice President of Chinese Expert Committee on Team Leader of Chinese Expert Committee on plants to reduce the impact on the environment. CSR Report Rating CSR Report Rating Vice Executive Chairman of CSR Research Director of CSR Research Center, Economics Center, Economics Division, Chinese Academy Division, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences of Social Sciences Strengthen the construction of anticorruption system, carry forward the probity culture,strictly implement the Anti-corruption Work against corruption in all its forms, including P19/P63 responsibility system of improving the Party’s work style extortion and bribery and building clean governance, thoroughly carry out special activities on combating commercial bribery, and standardization of our operations and transactions. 77 Sustainability Report 2012 Improving Management · Striving to Create the Best 78 Terminology Feedback Questionnaire Ultra Supercritical Power Generation tions (CERs), by providing financial and technical support to help developed countries fulfill their greenhouse gas emission commitments. Your Personal Information Technology Dear Readers, Ultra supercritical power generation technology improves thermal efficiency in a boiler This report is a Sustainability Report (2012) issued to the public by China Huaneng Group. We Name: and reduces electricity and coal costs by increasing boiler steam pressure (25-31 MPa) and Economic Value Added (EVA) are looking forward to your advice and suggestions so that we can improve our reporting in Organization: temperature (580℃-610℃). Currently, this is the world’s most advanced environmentallyEconomic Value Added is a comprehensive tool or index used to measure if an enterprise the future. We would be grateful if you would answer the following questions and send this friendly technology for power generation. Position: creates value or if the enterprise realizes real profit of production and management. It is questionnaire back to us in one of the following ways. train 10,000 rural workers for employment transfer and support 100,000 people to particibased on retained profits after tax by deducting the opportunity cost of equity and debt Tel: Fax: +86-10-63228866 pate in the national new rural cooperative medical service. capital from its operating profit. Mail to: No. 6, Fuxingmennei Street, Xicheng District, Beijing (100031) Fax: E-mail E-mail: High Temperature Gas-cooled Reactor Safety Evaluation (HTGR) It refers to a method to comprehensively apply safety system engineering, in which we measure and predict the safety of the system, identify the dangers and insecure elements, The High Temperature Gas-cooled Reactor is a kind of nuclear reactor that takes helium gas and make qualitative and quantitative analysis of them so as to confirm the possible causes Readers Feedback Questionnaire on this Sustainability Report as a cooling agent, with a high exit temperature. The high temperature gas-cooled reactor of danger and their severity, make correct evaluations about the safety of the system, and uses coated particle fuel and graphite as a moderator. The exit temperature of the reactor correspondingly provide concrete countermeasures to eliminate unsafe elements and danSingle Choice (Please mark your choice with “√”) center is from 850°C to 1,000°C, and even higher. The fuel is usually highly-concentrated uraYes Average No gers. Through implementing these countermeasures in a comprehensive, systematic, purnium dioxide, and sometimes is low-concentration uranium dioxide. The high temperature poseful and planned way, we may standardize and normalize safety management, improve gas-cooled reactor has such advantages as high thermal efficiency (40-41%), high burn-up 1. Do you think this report reflects Huaneng’s significant impacts on safety, environment, economy and society? the standards of safe production, and prevent the occurrence of accidents in advance. fraction (up to 20 MW day/ton uranium, and high conversion ratio (0.7-0.8). 2. Do you think this report makes an accurate and complete analysis of the relations between Huaneng and its stakeholders? Equivalent Availability Factor GreenGen Within a given period of time, equivalent availability factor is the ratio of full load hours of 3. Do you think the information disclosed in this report is clear, accurate and complete? GreenGen refers to the research, development, demonstration and promotion of a coalthe units whose output is deducted to the given time. based energy system that focuses on hydrogen production through gasification, combined cycle power generation with hydrogen turbines, and fuel cell-based power generation, 4. Do you think this report is convenient for reading with respect to contents and design? while capturing and storing CO2 , so as to raise the efficiency of coal-fired power generation “Three Synchronizations” in Environmenand achieve near-zero emissions of pollutants and CO2 . tal Protection Article 26 of the Environmental Protection Law in China stipulates that “installations for the Open Question Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle prevention and control of pollution at a construction project must be designed, built and commissioned together with the principal part of the project. No permission shall be given (IGCC) for a construction project to be commissioned or used until its installation for the preven1. In your opinion, which part of this report is most satisfactory? IGCC is the abbreviation of the Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle, which is a clean coal tion and control of pollution are examined and considered to be up to the standard by the power generation technology integrating the coal gasification and gas steam combined competent department of environmental protection administration that examined and cycle. Compared with the direct coal-fired power generation technology, IGCC has high genapproved the environment impact statement.” This stipulation is known as the “Three Syn2. What information that you need to know is not included in this report? erating efficiency, low pollutant emission and other characteristics. Also, this technology has chronizations” system in the Environmental Protection Law in China. a cost advantage for carbon dioxide capture, and it is recognized as one of the most promis3. What’s your advice on our future sustainability reports? ing clean coal power generation technology in the future. “100-1000-10000” Campaign The “100-1,000-10,000” Campaign refers to the project to construct 100 schools, build 100 The Clean Development Mechanism rural clinics, renovate 100 natural villages, and establish 100 rural culture rooms; to train 1,000 rural teachers, provide financial aid for 1,000 junior and senior high school graduates (CDM) to enter vocational technical schools, and 1,000 poverty-stricken students in middle schools Thank you for your support and cooperation. The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is one of the three flexible mechanisms under and primary schools to complete their education; to resolve the problem of drinking water the framework of the Kyoto Protocol. It allows developed countries to cooperate with develof 10,000 people, to train 10,000 rural workers for employment transfer and support 100,000 oping countries in projects that reduce emissions and generate Certified Emission Reducpeople to participate in the national new rural cooperative medical service. CHINA HUANENG GROUP
