SELF-ASSESSMENT . Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles . Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights . Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour . Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment . Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption . Includes a measurement of outcomes . Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer . Statement of the company's chief executive (CEo or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 29 'November 2013 To our stakeholders: We are pleased to confirm that MAKA Engineering Pte. Ltd. continues to support the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in respect to Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. we confirm our intent to continue such support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement to our employees, partners, clients, and to the public of this commirment. Sincerely Yours, Wong Ken General Manaser. HUMAN RIGHTS . Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance o.f human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. MAKA supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights without reservation. MAKA will at all times endeavor to respect Human Rights and prevent potential abuses through a practiced code ofconduct. All business partners and suppliers are encouraged to adhere to the Global Compact principles on Human Rights. Assessment of Human Rights related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation is rated uncertain because of insufficient data. Strife for company Human Rights regardless of color, creed, race and personal disposition. . Implementation De.scription oJ'concrete aclions to implement Human Right.s policies, address Human Rights risks antl respond to Human Rights violations. All requests for grievance redress are brought to the attention of HR Division to be presented to the Board of MAKA. . Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Human Rights Issues is a standing item on the agenda of Board meetings for review and reconcilation. LABOUR . Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labotrr rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goal,s on labour rights. MAKA policy encourages business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact Labour principles . Implementation Description of concrele aclions taken by lhe company to implemenl labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violalions. t.imited medical benefits given to all personnel of MAKA. HR Division tasked to ensure human resource policies and procedures support the Labour principle. . Measurement of outcomes Description o.f how lhe company monilors and evaluates perfbrmance. The MAKA Board of Directors deals with incidents of violations of the Global Compact Labour principles and does an annual review. ENVIRONMENT . Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protectionfor the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Conserving and preserving the environment is also a main concern at MAKA. We are committed to actively managing the environmental impact of our activities. As part of this commitment. we set clear, measurable targets to reduce our consumption of electricity, water and paper, our greenhouse gas emissions, and the amount of waste we send to landfill. . Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. We are integrating a range of environmental initiatives including more efficient lighting and controls, improved environmental performance appliances, hot water timers, increased remote metering and where needed, additional insulation. . Measurement of outcomes Descriplion of hov, the company monitors and evaluales environmental performance. At the moment we are embarking on a new phase of our efforts to develop green energy in Singapore, which when realized, will be a big step towards our goal of encouraging and developing environmentally friendly technologies (Principle 9). ANTI.CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruptionfor the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruplion. Essentially, all employees, contractors and consultants are required to act honestly and with integrity, manage all conflicts of interest, and report any suspicious activity using MAKA's escalation process, published on our intranet which is accessible by all employees. Implementation Description of concrete action.s to implemenl anti-corruplion policies, adtlres.; anli-corruption risks und respond to incidents. Actions undertaken over the past l2 months to implement and embed our anticorruption policies are described in detail in the previous section. Measu rement of outcomes Description of hov' the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption perJbrmance. Compliance with our Code of Conduct and Ethics and supporting policies such as the Global Anti-Bribery and Fraud and Corruption forms part of all employment contracts and the assessment and management of employee performance. Disciplinary action can result from an employee's failure to comply with the Code and its supporting policies.
