www.deutsche-boerse.com Corporate report 2012 Deutsche Börse Group acts as an intermediary between regulators, banks and companies. Its core competency is organising regulated ­markets.­By­developing­solutions­for­efficient­ risk and collateral management, it assumes responsibility: for its customers, owners, employees – and society in general. Deutsche Börse Group at a glance Deutsche­Börse­Group:­key­figures Change 2012 2011 in % Consolidated income statement Net revenue €m 1,932.3 2,121.4 –9 Net interest income from banking business €m 52.0 75.1 – 31 Operating costs €m – 958.6 – 962.2 1) 0 Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) €m 969.4 1,162.8 1) –17 Net income €m 645.0 855.2 1) –25 Earnings per share (basic) € 3.44 4.60 1) –25 Consolidated cash flow statement Cash­flow­from­operating­activities €m 707.7 785.6 –10 Consolidated balance sheet Non-current assets €m 5,113.9 5,020.3 1) 2 Equity €m 3,169.6 3,132.6 1) 1 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities €m 1,737.4 2) 1,458.3 19 Performance indicators Dividend per share € 2.10 3) 2.30 –9 Dividend payout ratio % 58 4)6) 52 5) 12 Employees (average annual FTEs) 3,416 3,278 4 Net revenue per employee, based on average FTEs € thous. 566 647 –13 EBIT margin, based on net revenue % 50 55 –9 Tax rate % 26.0 6) 26.0 7) 0 Gross debt / EBITDA 1.6 8) 1.1 8) 45 Interest coverage ratio % 15.2 8) 19.0 8) –20 The shares Opening price € 40.51 51.80 –22 High € 52.10 62.48 –17 Low € 36.25 35.46 2 Closing price € 46.21 40.51 14 Market indicators Xetra and Xetra Frankfurt Specialist Trading 9) Trading volume 10) € bn 1,111.3 1,459.8 –24 Eurex Number of contracts m 2,292.0 2,821.5 –19 Clearstream Value of securities deposited (annual average) € bn 11,111 11,106 0 Number of transactions m 113.9 126.3 –10 Global Securities Financing (average outstanding volume for the period) € bn 570.3 592.2 –4 Transparency and safety key figures Proportion of companies listed in the Prime Standard (for shares) as a percentage of all listed companies % 83 77 8 Number of calculated indices appr. 12,000 appr. 8,600 40 System availability of trading systems (Xetra ® /Eurex ®) % 99.999 99.975 0 Market risk cleared via Eurex Clearing (gross monthly average) € bn 7,507 9,230 –19 1)­Amount­restated­to­reflect­the­transition­of­the­accounting­policies­for­defined­benefit­obligations­to­the­revised­IAS­19­­­2)­€1,160.0­million­thereof­are­reported­ under­“Interest-bearing­liabilities”,­and­the­bonds­that­will­mature­in­financial­year­2013­in­the­amount­of­€577.4­million­are­reported­under­“Other­current­liabilities”.­­ 3) Proposal to the Annual General Meeting 2013 4) Figure based on the proposal to the Annual General Meeting 2013 5) Adjusted for the costs of mergers and acquisitions­and­of­efficiency­programmes­and­for­income­arising­from­the­remeasurement­of­the­equity­component­of­the­purchase­price­for­the­acquisition­of­the­ shares in Eurex Zürich AG held by SIX Group AG 6) Adjusted for expenses related to the revaluation of the share component of the purchase price paid for the acquisition of the shares in Eurex Zürich AG held by SIX Group AG; a one-off income from the reversal of deferred tax liabilities for STOXX Ltd. based on a decision by the Swiss Financial Supervisory Authority; a one-off income from the recognition of deferred tax assets resulting from the future possible offsetting of losses carried forward by Eurex Global Derivatives AG 7) Adjusted for the non-taxable income related to the revaluation of the share component of the purchase price paid for the­acquisition­of­the­shares­in­Eurex­Zürich­AG­held­by­SIX­Group­­­8)­Adjusted­for­the­cost­of­mergers­and­acquisitions­and­of­efficiency­programmes­­­9)­Xetra­ Frankfurt­Specialist­Trading­(prior­to­23­May­2011:­floor­trading)­­­10)­Excluding­certificates­and­warrants­­­11)­Market­capitalisation­of­companies­listed­in­the­ Prime Standard (shares) in relation to the market capitalisation of all companies listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange (FWB ®, Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse) C2 Deutsche Börse Group at a glance Our six services Listing p. 20 Trading p. 24 Clearing p. 30 Post-trade p. 34 Stock exchanges bring companies Exchange trading is as close as Clearing is used to net out claims After trading and clearing, Clearfrom the real economy together with you­can­get­to­a­“perfect­market”:­ and liabilities relating to financial stream – Deutsche Börse Group’s investors on the capital market. Deutsche Börse operates regulated instruments against each other. post-trade services provider – sup Both large, international enterprises markets for equities, derivatives and Eurex Clearing AG, Deutsche Börse ports market participants in settling and medium-sized companies raise other instruments, based on its Group’s clearing house, acts as a their delivery obligations and in equity or debt capital via Deutsche Xetra ® and Eurex ® electronic tradbuyer for every seller and a seller for holding the securities pur chased in Börse. They can choose from differing systems. every buyer. Market participants safe keeping. These securities can ent transparency segments. provide collateral to manage the risk then be used as collateral. Benefits: Prices are determined on that arises in trading. Benefits: Investors can share in the exchanges on the basis of free buy Benefits: Post-trade services engrowth of the real economy – and and sell decisions, which then Benefits: Clearing is comparable able market participants to satisfy promote it with their investments. serve as guidelines for companies’ to insurance against counterparty legislators’ regulatory requirements future prospects. default for market participants. reliably­and­efficiently. Our brands Deutsche Börse Our brands Our brand Our brands Xetra ® Xetra ® Eurex Clearing Clearstream Scoach ® Lux CSD Tradegate ® REGIS-TR Eurex ® Eurex Bonds ® Eurex Repo ® International Securities Exchange European Energy Exchange Responsibilities of Executive Board members CEO, CFO, Special Projects Xetra, Eurex Clearstream Our­four­financial­reporting­segments:­ Breakdown of net revenue 1) Xetra Eurex Clearstream 10 % 35 % 45 % Share of Deutsche Börse Group’s net revenue attributable to the segment concerned 1) The external net revenue from the Information Technology (IT) segment and the costs for corporate services are allocated to the four segments. C3 Our four aspects of sustainability IT services p. 40 Market data p. 44 Economy p. 152 Environment p. 152 Deutsche Börse Group’s core busiAs­a­financial­services­provider,­too, ness­includes­efficiently­organising,­ Deutsche Börse Group is responsible IT is the foundation for all exchange Institutional and private investors and providing stable systems for, for ensuring an intact environment. services. Deutsche Börse operates base their decisions on market data – capital markets. Standardisation, The core objective of its ecological data centres for trading and settlewhich in turn create new informamaximum transparency and a broad commitment is to measure and moniment and programs the related softtion. Deutsche Börse produces and range of risk management services tor the effects its operating activiware. It also builds and supervises distributes price data from its Eurex are the tools that it uses to reach ties have on the environment and the network linking participants. and Xetra trading systems and indithese goals. The Group also focuses to minimise negative effects. Both ces on global market trends. on making high-quality sustainabilemployees and service providers are Benefits: Reliable trading and set tle ity information available to ensure included in this. ment systems – and hence market Benefits: Thanks to their indepenthat investors can make rounded security – are the top priority for IT dence, exchanges can deliver objec investment decisions. at Deutsche Börse. tive measurements of market trends. Our brand Our brands Deutsche Börse DAX ® STOXX ® Market News International (MNI) Employees p. 50 Corporate citizenship p. 60 Need To Know News Committed, competent staff are vital As a “good corporate citizen”, to Deutsche Börse Group’s business Deutsche Börse Group becomes in success. This is why, in addition to volved in socially relevant topics. It offering attractive remuneration and is active primarily at a regional level above-average­­s ocial­benefits,­its­ and is guided by local needs at its human resources policy concentrates various corporate locations. The on measures promoting personal Group-wide sponsorship guidelines development and a better work-life focus on innovative, sustainable balance. projects in the areas of education and science, culture and social involvement. IT, Market Data & Analytics Market Data & Analytics 10 % Cover photograph: taken at the Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse (FWB ®, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange) C4 Corporate report 2012 Regulated markets guarantee fair trading. As a marketplace organiser, Deutsche Börse has a public-service mission to ensure integrity and transparency. Inhalt This year, Deutsche Börse Group is underlining its public-service mission by providing integrated reporting­that­also­reflects­the­overarching­benefits­ of­its­activities­for­the­first­time.­ ey­aspects­of­the­ corporate responsibility report, previously published separately, can now be found in this corporate­report­2012.­This­presents­a­clear­profile­ of Deutsche Börse: its business activities as well as its responsibility. How to navigate around this corporate report Corporate responsibility topics Reference to a location in the report Reference to a location outside of the report Contents C2 Important key figures 12 Strategic C3 /4 Deutsche Börse Group at a glance perspectives 4 2012 – the year that was 6 Letter from the CEO 18 The exchange Deutsche Börse Group’s tasks and economic importance at a glance 20 Listing 24 Trading About this report 30 Clearing 34 Post-trade Deutsche Börse is introducing a new reporting con­40 IT services cept for this year: In addition to the content previously 44 Market data included in the annual report, this corporate report 2012 contains topics from the corporate responsi­bil­ity (CR) report, which – until now – had been pub­lished separately. The new combined report marks 48 Responsibility the first step on our way to “integrated reporting”. It demonstrates that social responsibility and sustain­50 Group staff ability are rooted in all business areas of Deutsche 54 Stakeholder engagement Börse Group. 60 Good corporate citizenship The content of the report and indicators of the topics relating to corporate responsibility are essentially in accordance with the third generation (3.1) guidelines 64 Governance on sustainability reporting of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Their evaluation was made with 66 Members of the Executive Board regard to the interests of important stakeholders – 68 Members of the Supervisory Board and the indicators are based on the materiality 70 Report of the Supervisory Board analysis. Since not all GRI indicators are applicable 78 Corporate governance declaration 1) to the services of a stock exchange, further relevant 86 Corporate governance report key figures and information were added to these. 92 Remuneration report 1) 1) Component of the combined management report 104 Combined 318 Glossary 322 Deutsche Börse Group – management report global presence 323 Registered trademarks 106 Basic principles of the Group 323 Contact/imprint Contents 116 Report on the economy 324 GRI Application Level Check 144 Report on post-balance sheet date events 144 Deutsche Börse shares 148 Financial­and­non-financial­ C5 List of charts and tables performance indicators C6 Index 157 Risk report C7 GRI index 177 Report on opportunities C8 Financial calendar 180 Report on expected developments 190 Deutsche Börse AG (Disclosures based on the HGB) 196 C ­ onsolidated­financial­ statements 198 Consolidated income statement 199 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 200 Consolidated balance sheet 202 Consolidated­cash­flow­statement 204 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 206 Notes to the consolidated financial­statements 206 Basis of preparation 232 Consolidated income statement disclosures 241 Consolidated balance sheet disclosures 283 Other disclosures 313 Responsibility statement by the Executive Board 314 Auditor’s report 315 Summarised­annual­financial­statements­ of Deutsche Börse AG 317 Proposal on the appropriation of the unappropriated surplus 4 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 2012 – the year that was 1st quarter 2nd quarter Jan Eurex acquired in full: Deutsche Börse Group Apr Climate data for 1,800 companies online : acquires the remaining shares in Eurex The www.boerse-frankfurt.de website publishes Zürich AG from SIX Group AG, making it the emissions data for 1,800 companies around sole owner of the Eurex derivatives exchange. the world. Clearstream organises 16th GSF Summit: May Clearstream joins T2S: Clearstream becomes The conference is the largest event for the one­of­the­first­central­securities­depositories­ repo and collateral management sector. to sign the framework agreement for the European Central Bank’s TARGET2-Securities 2012 Annual Reception: Deutsche Bundes(T2S) initiative. bank President Dr Jens Weidmann is the keynote speaker at Deutsche Börse Group’s Higher dividends and special distribution: Annual Reception. He addresses some 750 Shareholders receive a dividend of €2.30 per guests at Deutsche Börse’s corporate headshare, a year-on-year increase of 10 per cent, quarters. plus a special dividend of €1.00 per share. Feb European Commission blocks business Faber takes over as Chairman of the Supercombination with NYSE Euronext: The visory Board: Following the scheduled election European Commission prohibits the planned of the entire Supervisory Board for its new term, business combination of Deutsche Börse AG four of the 18 members are women. and NYSE Euronext due to antitrust concerns. Jun Deutsche Börse holds sixth Investor Day: Mar New collateral management services partAnalysts and institutional investors learn about ners: Clearstream wins the central securities Deutsche Börse Group’s strategic focuses and depositories Strate in South Africa, CDS current developments in its business areas. Clearing and Depository Services in Canada and Iberclear in Spain as further partners for irst ualified Supervisory Board ember a global collateral management. examination: Deutsche Börse’s Capital Markets Academy supports the German Corporate Governance Code requirement that supervisory board members should undertake training and further education measures so as to ensure supervisory boards’ ongoing professionalisation. ou­will­find­more­details­on­the­year­2012­ in the online version of this corporate report corporatereport2012.deutsche-boerse.com Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 5 3rd quarter 4th quarter Jul Expansion of European network: The estabOct Continuous bond trading on Xetra ®: Xetra lishment of an additional access point in expands electronic bond trading to include over Zurich offers a further reduction in latency 2,000 international government and corporate times for Xetra and Eurex customers. bonds, plus 60 German federal government bonds. Declaration of conformity with the German Sustainability Code is published : Deutsche Over 100,000 investment funds available Börse Group actively promotes transparent via Clearstream: Clearstream now offers information on sustainability and supports the more than 100,000 investment funds from German Sustainability Code. 33 countries for cross-border distribution. Aug KOSPI 200 cooperation positive to date: Largest IPO since 2007: Telefónica DeutschEurex and KRX celebrate two years of coopeland raises approximately €1.45 billion in ration on the most heavily traded derivative equity with its initial public offering (IPO). in the world. Nov Eurex Clearing launches clearing of OTC 1,000 ETFs tradeable on Xetra: Deutsche interest rate swaps: Buy-side clients can use Börse’s ETF product offering remains the largthe clearing platform ahead of the start of the est of any European exchange. clearing­obligation­in­Europe­for­OTC­financial­ instruments. Sep First Chinese ETF on the DAX: With a DAX ® license to Hua An Asset Management, The Prague Stock Exchange uses Xetra: The Deutsche­Börse­clears­the­way­for­the­first­ Prague Stock Exchange migrates its electronic Chinese ETF which gives investors from the securities trading to the Xetra trading system. People’s Republic direct access to Germany’s leading companies. Dec Hauke Stars joins Executive Board: Hauke Stars assumes responsibility for IT and Placement of €600 million corporate bond: Market Data & Analytics, which are being With the ten-year bond, Deutsche Börse bundled into a single business segment. replaces some of its existing non-current financial­liabilities.­ Eurex introduces new trading system: The new generation of the new Eurex trading Awards for achievements in sustainability : system goes live. With the new trading system, Deutsche­Börse­is­confirmed­as­a­member­of­ participants­of­Eurex­Exchange­benefit­from­ the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. Furthersignificantly­better­performance­while­stability­ more, it has met the criteria for inclusion in and availability remain as high as usual. the FTSE4Good Index and it also maintains its position in the STOXX ® ESG Global Leaders Higher transparency requirements for Open Index and in the MSCI World ESG Index. ar et: Deutsche Börse closes the First Quotation Board and tightens the rules for the Entry Standard. 6 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Letter from the CEO Reto Francioni Chief­Executive­Officer Reto Francioni Chief­Executive­Officer Dear readers and shareholders, Deutsche Börse has worked hard and with great success not only to become the number one in Germany, but also to reach the pinnacle of its industry worldwide. Your company is now among the world’s leading exchange organisations and holds the top spot in Europe, well ahead of its formerly much stronger competition. Deutsche Börse Group’s employees and executives have achieved excellent results over the past few years. We intend to continue these successes, even though 2012 proved to be a more difficult year due to cyclical effects and the weaker sector as a whole. The priorities of our company remain investing in future growth and in a reliable,­highly­effi­cient­infrastructure­for­the­financial­markets­worldwide,­together­with­en­suring­ cost discipline and enabling shareholders to participate in our success. We will reach these challenging targets, although we are well aware that it will not be easy. Our opportunities for growth have dwindled. As a European company, we have to acknowledge that, for our sector at least, there is currently a disadvantage to being located in Europe, at least when it comes to the European Commission’s decisions. At the same time, our competitors are striking hard and regrouping, making the most of the disproportionately more supportive conditions in their own countries. We cannot rest for a minute and we do not plan to. Our focus remains on growing under our own steam by moving into new markets and leveraging new market opportunities. Economic environment in 2012 and beyond: a­difficult­framework­ for exchange organisations There­is­no­doubt­that­it­will­take­time­before­equilibrium­is­restored­to­the­financial­markets.­ 2012 was dominated by uncertainty about the development of the global and, in particular, the­European­economy,­as­well­as­the­future­of­financial­regulation.­This­hit­trading­volumes­in­ the capital markets all over the world. According to the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), the order book volume on regulated securities exchanges fell by 22 per cent worldwide and the number of derivative contracts traded on exchanges dropped 15 per cent in 2012, www.world-exchanges.org As­a­central­service­provider­to­the­financial­sector,­we,­too,­were­affected­by­this­trend­ ost-trade­ business­remained­remarkably­stable­given­the­difficult­environment,­with­our­diversified­busi­ness­ model stabilising the Group’s overall performance. In some areas, our ever more diverse business model not only provided stability, it actually generated growth. This was true, for example, in our new cash market segment for corporate bonds issued by medium-size companies, the relatively new volatility index derivatives and derivatives on government bonds outside of our traditionally successful products (the Bund Future and index derivatives), as well as our post-trade services for investment funds. However, these growth segments are not large enough in terms of their scale. Or, to be more precise: they are not large enough yet. The aims of our strategy for this and the coming years include­becoming­even­less­sensitive­to­market­fluctuations­and­developing­stable­and­growing­ sources of income outside of our traditional business. This in no way means that we intend to neglect our core competency of organising regulated markets. On the contrary: we want to build on this core competency and extend it to new services that are tailored to the current market situation,­namely­the­greater­need­for­risk­management­and­efficient­collateral­management,­as­ well as the increased reporting requirements for OTC trading. Our­strategy:­act­in­a­way­that­benefits­the­real­economy­and offer the services that make this possible all over the world It will allow us to contribute to creating a better, more responsible and more sustainable organisation­of­the­unregulated­markets,­whose­excesses­led­to­the­financial­crisis­in­2007­and­2008­ and the consequences that are still being felt today. This­was­already­one­of­our­objectives­before­the­financial­crisis,­and­we­strengthened­it­in­the­ aftermath through new offerings for market participants and the real economy. Our role is that of­a­market-centric­intermediary­between­legislators­and­regulators,­on­one­side,­and­the­finan­cial­ and real economy, on the other. For us, being market-centric means setting the same clear and enforceable rules for all parties, in the interests of all market participants, to ensure that ever yone has the same information and trading opportunities. The planned merger with US and European exchange organisation NYSE Euronext would have created­the­opportunity­for­us­to­more­firmly­implement­these­convictions­globally­and­to­reach­ currently non-transparent and uncollateralised markets. Unfortunately, as you know, the regulators in Brussels have not followed our reasoning and gave preference to, we still believe, an unjustifiedly­narrow­market­definition­that­ignores­the­realities­of­the­global­economy.­Even­without­ this­merger­we­were­and­still­are­the­world s­most­comprehensive­and­diversified­exchange­organ­i­sation see the chart on page 12 in the chapter “Strategic perspectives”. Building on this, after the merger was blocked, we immediately realigned our corporate strategy, gearing it towards the medium term and implementing it without delay in 2012, see the “Strategic perspectives” section. To improve our focus on this strategy and accelerate its imple mentation, we increased our investments in carefully selected growth and infrastructure projects in 2012. We plan to continue along this route in 2013, although this will involve investing counter-cyclically and a further increase in expenses. Fortunately, we are able to fall back on our strong­financial­position.­This­is­a­competitive­advantage­we­have­developed­over­all­other­com­parable exchange organisations worldwide thanks to our operating results, as well as our syste matic cost management, see the chart on page 16 in the chapter “Strategic perspectives”. Strict cost management will continue to play a key role in the current and future years. However, an appropriate ratio of costs to investments must be maintained. We believe that all stakeholders should participate in the company’s success. We will therefore propose a dividend of €2.10 for­financial­year­2012­to­the­Annual­General­Meeting­to­be­held­in­May­2013.­This­is­the­same­ level­as­in­2007­to­2010­and­the­dividend­is­twice­as­high­as­the­dividend­paid­in­2005. Financial­year­2012­and­share­performance:­figures­reflect­ the­difficult­environment In­financial­year­2012,­Deutsche­Börse­Group s­net­revenue­declined­9­per­cent­to­€1.9­billion.­ At­the­same­time,­adjusted­profit­before­tax­decreased­19­per­cent­to­€1.0­billion.­These­figures­ reflect­the­difficult­environment,­which,­as­mentioned­above,­was­dominated­by­uncertainty­ regarding future economic and regulatory developments. In light of these negative external effects, however, these results are satisfactory. Adjusted for non-recurring effects, such as the cost of efficiency­measures,­our­operating­costs­rose­5­per­cent­to­€922­million.­This­increase­was­ with­in­our­forecast­range­and­reflects­the­higher­investments­in­growth­and­infrastructure­pro­jects. Other key indicators of our business performance are presented starting on page 106. Deutsche Börse AG’s share price rose 14 per cent in 2012 for further details, see the “Deutsche Börse shares” section of the management report on page 144. With a market capitalisation of around­€9­billion,­Deutsche­Börse­still­ranks­among­the­top­five­players­in­the­global­exchange­ arena,­well­ahead­of­its­three­big­gest­competitors­active­in­Europe­ ­ SE­Euronext,­ asdaq­OMX­ and the London Stock Exchange. The only exchanges that are currently stronger than Deutsche Börse are those that are active in an environment where the real economy is growing rapidly (Brazil’s Bovespa and HKEx in Hong Kong), or which have manoeuvred their way into the top spot through­approved­mergers,­such­as­the­CME. The­first­integrated­report:­testament­to­our­holistic,­futureoriented­corporate­governance­ A DAX ® -listed­group­is­no­longer­merely­benchmarked­against­financial­criteria­such­as­market­ capitalisation­or­profit,­particularly­if­a­large­proportion­of­its­economic­activities­are­performed­ as­part­of­a­public-service­mission,­as­is­the­case­for­us­with­the­Frankfurt­Stock­Exchange­and­ the­Eurex­derivatives­exchange.­This­report­represents­our­first­move­towards­integrated­ reporting.­ e­are­supporting­a­large­number­of­initiatives­to­promote­sustainability.­ e­place­particularly­ high­value­on­our­membership­of­the­ nited­ ations­Global­Compact­and­the­implementation­ of­its­principles­regarding­human­rights,­labour,­the­environment­and­anti-corruption.­After­ focusing­strongly­on­our­own­sustainability­performance­and­reporting­in­the­past,­which­was­ again­rewarded­by­our­inclusion­in­key­sustainability­indices­in­2012,­we­are­now­turning­our­ attention­to­fostering­transparency­for­holistic­investment­strategies­on­the­global­capital­markets. Our­message­to­you,­our­shareholders,­is­we­have­not­only­overcome­the­challenges­of­the­past­ year,­but­used­them­to­open­up­new­opportunities­for­the­future.­ e­are­already­ahead­of­all­ other­exchange­organisations­worldwide­in­terms­of­the­diversification­of­our­business.­ e­want­ to­continue­on­this­course,­gathering­speed­from­a­walk­to­a­run:­unlike­many­others,­we­are­fit­ enough­for­a­marathon­and­have­enough­in­reserve­for­plenty­more­sprints­along­the­way. Our­employees­at­all­our­locations­around­the­world­made­this­success­possible,­which­is­why­ they­deserve­our­special­thanks­for­this­difficult­past­year.­One­thing­is­true­both­for­us­as­ employees­and­managers­of­Deutsche­Börse­and­for­you­as­shareholders:­competition­will­not­ only­continue,­it­is­going­to­get­tougher.­Fortunately,­we­are­well­prepared­and­know­exactly­ how­we­are­going­to­reach­our­targets. ours­truly, Reto Francioni Chief­Executive­Officer Deutsche Börse CME Group Intercontinental London Stock Nasdaq OMX NYSE Euronext Group Exchange (ICE) Exchange (LSE) Equities Derivatives 1) Clearing Domestic CSD International CSD Market data Index business External IT Deutsche Börse Group has the most 1) Acquisition of 60 per cent of the shares in LCH.Clearnet complete business model of all exchange has not yet been completed. organisations worldwide Strategic perspectives Deutsche Börse Group started its strategy of diver­ sification as early as the 90s: beginning with elec­ tronic derivatives trading, the management of Deutsche Börse has been gradually expanding the company’s core competences of organising regu­ lated markets to include more products as well as post-trade services. The new perspectives formu­ lated early in 2012 have adapted this strategy to the new market conditions and have focused it more sharply: firstly, on up-until-now unregulated and uncollateralised markets, secondly, on the setup of a powerful department for IT services and mar­ ket data as well as, thirdly, on the expansion into global­emerging markets, in particular in Asia. 14 Review 14 Status 17 Outlook 14 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Revie : milestones to ards a diversified global The year 2001 marked another turning point: it was exchange organisation the year Deutsche Börse AG listed on the stock exchange,­making­it­the­first­major­western­exchange­ Deutsche­Börse­Group­is­one­of­the­most­diversified­ organisation­of­international­significance­to­take­this­ exchange organisations in the world. It has achieved step – its competitors, from the London Stock this over the years by growing organically taking Exchange to the New York Stock Exchange, followed advantage of selected external growth opportunities. suit a short while later. Since then, Deutsche Börse 1990 saw the establishment of Deutsche Terminbörse Group has consistently been driving forward its (DTB, the German derivatives exchange), which merged internationalisation­and­diversification.­It­opened­ with the Swiss Soffex exchange eight years later and, representative­offices­in­Be ing,­Hong­ ong,­Tokyo­ renamed Eurex, has since then emerged as one of and later Singapore. What is more, through its the world’s leading derivatives exchanges. It was the subsidiary Clearstream, Deutsche Börse Group has first­time­futures­were­traded­and­cleared­in­Germany,­ operated in the region for three decades and has and – unlike at the established derivatives exchanges more­firmly­established­customer­relationships­than­ in London, Paris, or Chicago – this was done fully most other Western exchange organisations. electronically. Also in 1990, an Aktiengesellschaft (German stock corporation) owned primarily by the German banks took over the operation of the cash Status: guarantor or sa ety and integrity in the market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange from the securities trading Frank furt am Main Chamber of Commerce and Industry. This corporation became Deutsche Börse AG in Deutsche Börse Group, one of the world’s largest December 1992. exchange organisations, provides access to the global capital­markets­for­investors,­financial­institutions­ The acquisition of all shares in DTB and in the postand companies. Deutsche Börse’s offering covers the trading organisation Deutscher Kassenverein then laid entire­value­chain,­from­the­issuance­of­financial­ the­cornerstone­for­one­of­the­first­diversified­com­painstruments, through securities and derivatives trad nies shaping today’s global exchange arena: Deutsche ing as well as clearing and the post-trading business, Börse Group. From 1997 onwards, Deutsche Börse down to the provision of market data and the develalso drove forward the roll-out of electronic trading in opment and operation of electronic trading systems. the cash market through Xetra ®, which had already delivered success after success for the company in Safety and integrity form the basis of Deutsche Börse’s the derivatives area. business philosophy. Its strategy is built on these guiding values. In the development and implementaThe new millennium brought further key innovations: tion of this strategy, Deutsche Börse can depend on in 2000, Deutsche Börse Clearing AG, which had two special strengths, which distinguish it from other previously been formed from the securities settlement financial services providers: firstly, its neutrality, organisations, merged with the Luxembourg-based mean­ing­that­it­strictly­avoids­internal­conflicts­of­ international central securities depository Cedel Interinterest in its dealings with customers; secondly, its national to form Clearstream International. Two years public mandate to operate regulated markets govafter that, Deutsche Börse acquired all the shares in erned by safety and integrity. Both of these criteria Clearstream International. This meant that the entire are conditions for determining free prices that are not post-trading business (settlement, custody and collateral management) was now under the umbrella of Deutsche Börse Group. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 15 exposed­to­non-market­influences,­but­are­derived­ among­market­participants­that­arose­during­the­finan­exclusively from generally available information and cial crisis and still persists unabated. This applies in analyses. In this way, these prices perform an eco particular to the off-exchange sector and in the connomic function as reliable signals on which companies text of implementing the regulatory reforms intended and investors can base their investment decisions. to­respond­to­the­financial­crisis­by­increasing­the­ This economic, and ultimately also social, function transparency, security and integrity of markets and distinguishes them in particular from off-exchange tradmarket infrastructures. Other strategic directions are ing platforms, which bring together orders on behalf the creation of a powerful market data and IT unit of certain market participants in a weakly regulated as well as geographical expansion, especially into environment. the Asian markets see chart below. In all three areas,­Deutsche­Börse­Group­reaped­the­first­rewards­ in 2012, especially in the expansion of its offering: eutsche B rse Group s strategic directions irstly: In May 2012, Deutsche Börse entered into The strategic perspectives Deutsche Börse developed an agreement with the largest international trading after the European Commission blocked the planned houses for the introduction of a clearing solution merger with NYSE Euronext focus on expanding the for­OTC­interest­rate­swaps.­The­systems­for­the­first­ regulated, supervised and transparent offering to prephase were completed and the production environviously unregulated and uncollateralised markets. ment went live in November 2012, for details see Through­efficient­risk­and­liquidity­management,­it­ the chapter entitled “Clearing”. holds­answers­to­the­continuing­loss­of­confidence­ Strategic roadmap – investments in growth and infrastructure will be further increased in 2013 xtend products and services to unregulated uncollateralised mar ets Expand Eurex clearing /risk management capabilities Global roll-out of collateral and liquidity management services xpand technological leadership Gro th strategy Foster product, process and system innovation Combine market data and IT in one segment ncrease reach in ne customer groups and gro th regions Expand customer reach Partnerships as well as mergers & acquisitions ective cost management Commitment to capital management Cost discipline remains key priority Maintain­strong­credit­rating­profile Further­efficiency­gains­targeted Continue attractive capital management policy 16 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Secondly: Already in 2011, the Brazilian central secuthe collateralised money market transactions of nonrities­depository­Cetip­had­become­the­first­Global­ banks­grew­twice­as­fast­in­the­past­five­years­as­ Liquidity Hub customer that Deutsche Börse connected their uncollateralised equivalents, i.e. at 10 per cent to Clearstream. In addition to Brazil, agreements have a year compared with 5 per cent a year. been entered into for Canada, Australia, South Africa and Spain to join this initiative for the increasingly In the market data and IT area, Deutsche Börse important liquidity and collateral management activbun­dled­all­the­Group s­IT­services­together­with­the­ ities. Some of these markets will be connected to the market data business to form a new segment with Global­ iquidity­Hub­in­the­course­of­the­year­2013,­ effect­from­1­ anuary­2013,­combining­them­in­a­ for details see the chapter entitled “Post-trading”. market-driven business unit under the leadership of Hauke­Stars.­By­the­middle­of­2013,­Hauke­Stars­ Thirdly: By linking Eurex’s central counterparty to and­her­team­will­define­the­strategic­direction­for­ Clearstream’s collateral management, Deutsche Börse the new segment and identify areas for expansion to Group­is­able­to­offer­products­and­services­that­comleverage growth potential in the medium to long term. bine the strengths of both areas. One example is GC­ ool­ing ® Select, a product with which Deutsche Geographical expansion: it is clear that critical Börse­Group­extends­collateralised­money­market­ future­growth­in­Deutsche­Börse­Group s­markets­ transactions to new customer groups – especially will no longer be concentrated on Europe or North companies in the real economy as well as funds and America, but on Asia and Latin America. For this insurers. With this new market segment, Deutsche reason,­Deutsche­Börse­has­identified­promising­ Börse meets these companies’ growing demand for fresh potential in the geographical expansion of its collateralised­financing.­According­to­a­recent­study,­ business, especially in the Asian growth markets, Effective cost management Cost growth of key exchange organisations Operating costs 1), €m Compound annual growth rate 2007 – 2011 2), in % –10 % 11 1,025 Deutsche­Börse­Group 3 995 981 936 922 NYSE Euronext 1 890 Hong Kong Exchanges 7 and Clearing London Stock Exchange (LSE) 8 Singapore­Exchange­(SGX) 8 Australian Securities Exchange­(ASX) 13 BM FBovespa 13 CME­Group 16 asdaq­OMX 23 IntercontinentalExchange (ICE) 25 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1)­­A djusted­for­ISE­impairment­(2009­ ­2010),­costs­for­efficiency­ 2)­­Operating­costs­2011­vs.­2007 ­Deutsche­Börse­Group­excluding­volume­related­ measures (2007 – 2012) and merger related costs (2011 – 2012) costs ­ SE­Euronext­excluding­section­31,­liquidity­payment,­routing­and­ clearing fees; Nasdaq excluding liquidity rebates and brokerage clearance and exchange­fees ­ SE­F ­until­31­Mar­2012 ­ASX­and­SGX­F ­until­30­ une­2011 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 17 whose­financial­infrastructure­is­not­yet­keeping­up­ In addition, the success of Eurex’s off-exchange busiwith the dynamic growth of the real economy. In ness initiatives (EurexOTC Clear) depends on the those markets, Deutsche Börse is currently expandimplementation of regulatory measures. On the one ing through organic growth, supplemented occasionhand, it is critical that the systems and processes for ally­by­suitable­forms­of­cooperation.­Here­are­a­few­ clearing OTC financial instruments and for meeting examples: new reporting requirements are already available and have demonstrated their robustness in test runs. On In the derivatives market, Deutsche Börse has the other, new business initiatives can only be rolled developed a pioneering form of cooperation with out once absolutely all the implementation rules have the Korea Exchange, under which customers can been for mulated in detail and legitimised democratuse Eurex’s global network for Asian products ically. These processes – quite rightly – require a lot outside the Asian time zone – in this case they are of coordination effort, so their outcome cannot be preable to trade a derivative on one of the most widely dicted with the same accuracy as is possible when traded indices in the world, Korea’s benchmark planning­pure-play­technical­projects. KOSPI index. Following this experience, which was encouraging­for­both­parties,­the­ orean­financial­ In addition to its expansion efforts, Deutsche Börse regulator granted Eurex direct market access for is recognised in the market for its forward-looking cost further products in February 2013. management. Thanks to its measures for enhancing Also in February 2013, Eurex extended this form operating­efficiency,­Deutsche­Börse­secured­an­ of cooperation to its collaboration with the Taiwan edge over its competitors at anticipating the changes Futures Exchange, TAIFEX. The planned cooperain its market environment and the cyclical headtion, which is scheduled to start in the fourth quarwinds.­Of­the­world s­major­exchange­organisations,­ ter of 2013, covers trading and clearing of derivatives Deutsche Börse is the only one that effectively on the TAIEX index, one of Asia’s most widely reduced its operating costs in the period from 2007 traded equity indices. to 2011. Deutsche Börse will continue to pursue its In­February­2013,­Eurex­also­connected­the­first­ strict cost discipline in the future to leverage the participant from Japan directly to the global trading free dom needed for investments. For this reason, network. Deutsche Börse is planning to cut staff costs and nonpersonnel­costs­by­€70­million­a­year.­This­objective­ is to be achieved by 2016 without compulsory redunOutloo : continuation o the strategy and systematic dancies. cost management Deutsche Börse also takes its social responsibility The­projects­described­above­are­laying­the­foundavery seriously. Deutsche Börse’s corporate responsitions for Deutsche Börse Group’s future growth. bility strategy focuses on the economy, employees, How­ever,­it­is­difficult­to­predict­how­soon­they­will­ the environment and society, for details see page 48. translate­into­increased­revenue­and­profit.­The­proj­The way these focal points impact on the various ects have been planned for the medium term and exchange functions is described in the chapters star tcannot be assessed on the basis of interim reviews. ing on page 20. Moreover, they depend on the speed at which the general environment is changing. isting Market data Trading IT­services Clearing ost-trade Our six services – present for you Locations in Europe: Berlin,­Brussels,­Dublin,­ in 22 locations worldwide Eschborn,­Frankfurt Main,­ eip ig,­ ondon,­ uxembourg,­Madrid,­Moscow,­ aris,­ rague,­Zurich Whether Rhine-Main area, London’s Docklands, the­financial­districts­in­Manhattan,­Hong­ ong­or­ Locations in Asia: Dubai,­Hong­ ong,­Be ing,­ Singapore­ ­Deutsche­Börse­Group­is­present­where­ Singapore,­Tokyo its­customers­are:­in­the­whole­world.­At­least,­with one­of­its­six­services­around­securities.­The­Group­ Locations in North America: Chicago,­ ew­ ork,­ focuses­on­Europe,­its­region­of­origin,­and­is­ Ottawa,­ ashington,­D.C. deeply­rooted­with­it.­The­two­biggest­locations­are­ the­area­Frankfurt­Rhine-Main­and­ uxembourg­ ­ together­with­ aris,­they­represent­the­most­important­financial­centres­in­continental­Europe.­As­its­ customers,­however,­Deutsche­Börse­Group­focuses­ more­and­more­on­the­world s­growth­regions,­in­ particular­on­Asia. The exchange Exchanges make an important contribution to the economy by bringing companies together with investors. When a company is listed, its stock is admitted to trading on the exchange. Comprehen­ sible pricing is the result of transparent, supervised trad­ing on regulated markets. Clearing houses pro­ tect market participants against risks, post-trade services help them to use the securities held in cus­tody efficiently. IT services provide the electronic basis for this. And market data ensure the necessary transparency from an independent source. 20 Listing 24 Trading 30 Clearing 34 Post-trade 40 IT services 44 Market data 20 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Listing Listing. Stock exchanges bring companies Task seeking capital together with investors providing it. In this process, the company publicly offers investors its­own­shares­or­bonds,­which­are­first­admitted­to­ or listed on the exchange and can then be traded. Process Planning Structuring Implementation Pricing and and preparation and marketing secondary market Selection of advisors Creation of timetable Preparation of investor Pricing and Selection of and business plan relations activities allocation process consortium bank Due diligence Publication of Initial­price­fixed Preparation of EU prospectus Exchange trading EU prospectus Application for admission of securities Approach to investors ­ Stock­exchanges­provide­efficient­access­ Benefits to the capital market. Companies can raise equity or debt capital by issuing shares or bonds. This provides a basis for investments and innovation in the real economy and thus for jobs. Listing Facts and figures Listing Deutsche Börse gives companies access to the capital market. Both large and medium-sized companies can raise equity or debt capital. By issuing shares, they raise equity capital and grant investors participation rights. When raising debt capital by issuing bonds, companies undertake to pay interest and repay the invested capital. At Deutsche Börse, companies can choose from transparency standards: the Prime Standard offers maximum transparency – and therefore also draws the greatest attention from investors. The General Standard requires the level of compliance prescribed by the EU, and the Entry Standard requires the­minimum­that­is­necessary­from­the­investorsʼ point of view. This gives investors the opportunity to share in the growth of the economy. In this way, Deutsche Börse facilitates investments by companies while at the same time supporting retirement provision. 20 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Listing Listing.. Stock exchanges bring companies Task seeking capital together with investors providing it. In this process, the company publicly offers investors its­own­shares­or­bonds,­which­are­first­admitted­to­ or listed on the exchange and can then be traded. Process Planning Structuring Implementation Pricing and and preparation and marketing secondary market Selection of advisors Creation of timetable Preparation of investor Pricing and Selection of and business plan relations activities allocation process consortium bank Due diligence Publication of Initial­price­fixed Preparation of EU prospectus Exchange trading EU prospectus Application for admission of securities Approach to investors ­ Stock­exchanges­provide­efficient­ Benefits access to the capital market. Companies can raise equity or debt capital by issuing shares or bonds. This provides a basis for investments and innovation in the real economy and thus for jobs. Listing Facts and figures Renata Bandov, Head of Listing, Deutsche Börse AG: the set of laws in the red cover is the ultimate basis for deciding whether companies will be admitted to trading on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, which Deutsche Börse operates under public law. Bandov and her team are responsible for assessing whether issuers meet the formal requirements for going public. It is not until they have passed this test and until the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority has likewise given them the go-ahead that companies are permitted to enter the­exchange­world­by­floating­shares,­bonds­or­other­financial­instruments. 22 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Listing Many roads lead to the There are many arguments in favour of Our brands capital market tapping the capital market – even in economically­difficult­times.­An­exchange­listing­is­ At Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse (FWB ®, the particularly good for expanding the range of Frankfurt Stock Exchange), which is operated options available to medium-sized companies, by Deutsche Börse, companies can raise allowing­them­to­overcome­difficulties­in­ both equity and debt capital – with different acces sing capital. Securing a long-term transparency requirement levels tailored to source­of­financing­that­is­more­independent­ the needs of companies and investors see of banks is a key element in a sustainable chart below. corporate strategy. In addition, listing enhances the reputation of companies with banks as Initial public offerings at Deutsche Börse well as with customers. benefit­from­simple­admission­procedures,­ a well-balanced regulatory environment and Deutsche­Börseʼs­primary­market­offering­ low costs. The transparency requirements targets both German and international comare­tailored­to­the­company­profiles­that­apply­ panies. The main focus of its drive to win in the different segments. The Prime Standard, international companies for a listing on the for example, is geared towards large, estabFWB continues to be on Asia as well as lished companies as well as medium-sized Central and Eastern Europe. For example, companies focusing on international investors. Deutsche Börse welcomed 7 new issues The General Standard is suitable above all from China in 2012. for companies with national operations that primarily want to appeal to German investors. The lower barriers to access offered by the Corporate bonds: Entry Standard provide small, medium-sized a new growth area and young growth enterprises in particular with access to the capital market. The Entry Standard for corporate bonds is especially for growing medium-sized companies Customised transparency – for shares and bonds Overview of Deutsche Börse's transparency segments Two ways to access EU-regulated market Exchange-regulated market the capital market: (Regulated market) Regulated­unofficial­market­ (Open Market) Deutsche Börse transparency Prime Standard Entry Standard segments for shares: General Standard Deutsche Börse transparency Prime Standard for corporate bonds Entry Standard segments for corporate The participation requires the inclusion in the Entry for corporate bonds bonds: Standard or the admission to the regulated market. Strategic perspectives The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 23 Listing €2.35 billion IPO volume on the Prime Standard in 2012 a simple, quick and cost-effective option to Listed companies have an obligation of raise debt capital. The market segment’s transparency to investors. Deutsche Börse offering­is­now­also­targeting­a­significant­ supports them in meeting this obligation number­of­private­investors­for­the­first­time,­ by providing a system that transmits the inforwho can use it to subscribe for bonds directly mation required for publication: the electronvia the stock exchange. For the placement of ic Exchange Reporting System (ERS ®). The bonds, Deutsche Börse gives issuers access information transmitted is published on the to a comprehensive network of investors Internet at boerse-frankfurt.de and is therefore and traders in Germany and abroad. In 2012, available promptly to interested investors. 19 companies made use of this option to Environmental, social and governance (ESG) raise capital, borrowing €767 billion in total. scores and CO2 emission data for 1,800 global stock corporations provided as part The success among medium-sized companies of the Carbon Disclosure Project are also of the Entry Standard for corporate bonds available free of charge on the same website. also alerted larger issuers to the possibility of issuing bonds. In response, in October 2012 In addition, Deutsche Börse regularly presents Deutsche Börse created a segment for largeworkshops on sustainability issues. For volume bonds: the Prime Standard for corpoexample, an entire forum at the German Equity rate bonds. The companies listed there meet Forum­2012,­Europeʼs­biggest­capital­market­ particularly stringent transparency requirements. conference, was dedicated to sustainability. Contributions to sustainable business activities illion By­raising­capital,­companies­can­finance­ volume of the capital increases on the FWB ® investments, thereby creating jobs and conin 2012 (Prime, General and Entry Standard) tributing to economic growth and prosperity. Unlike on the OTC market for these securities, trading via the fully electronic Xetra ® trading €2.38 billion system is subject to strict supervisory rules and is continuously monitored. IPO volume in total in 2012 illion issue volume in the bond segment in 2012 (Entry and Prime Standard for corporate bonds) 24 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Trading Trading. Exchanges are marketplaces Task where buyers and sellers negotiate prices under the same conditions. Standardised products, such as equities and derivatives, are the most commonly traded products. Most trades are carried out electronically. Process Cash market Buyers Derivatives market Securities Derivatives on (equities, Equities indices and bonds) Pricing Futures Bonds Funds Options Exchange-traded funds Structured products Sellers Transparent, supervised trading creates fair Benefits and transparent pricing. In this way, prices guide investment­flows­to­where­the­best­performance­is­ expected. Trading Facts and figures Trading Exchange trading is the closest possible approximation to a “perfect” market. The goods traded there – securities, derivatives or commodities – are standardised and therefore comparable. In addition, exchange trading offers maximum transparency and guarantees the supervision of market development. Unlike the cash market, where transactions are settled immediately, transactions on derivatives markets are settled on a future date. Derivatives exchanges offer investors more opportunities to hedge. Floor trading, where market participants gather at the exchange to execute transactions, has now been replaced by electronic systems: Although trading still­takes­place­on­the­floor­of­the­main­trading­ room of the Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse (FWB ®, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange), the specialists who have­access­to­the­floor­use­Deutsche­Börse s­elec­tronic trading system, Xetra ®. Trades on Deutsche Börse’s derivatives markets are performed solely electronically. 24 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Trading Trading. Exchanges are marketplaces Task where buyers and sellers negotiate prices under the same conditions. Standardised products, such as equities and derivatives, are the most commonly traded products. Most trades are carried out electro electronically. Process Cash market Buyers Derivatives market Securities Derivatives on (equities, Equities indices and bonds) Pricing Futures Bonds Funds Options Exchange-traded funds Structured products Sellers Transparent, supervised trading creates fair Benefits and transparent pricing. In this way, prices guide investment­flows­to­where­the­best­performance­is­ expected. Trading Facts and figures eng Shang xecutive O fice urex: speaks (among others) Mandarin (her native language), German (the language of her adopted country) and English (the corporate language), masters presentation and statistics software – and knows­how­to­put­first­things­first.­Together­with­her­colleagues,­she­ensures­ that Eurex’s Executive Committee always has absolutely accurate analyses at hand for preparing its decisions advancing the electronic cash and deriva tives­markets.­Based­in­the­Eschborn­head­office,­at­times­she­also­works­at­ the airport en route to one of the cities in the region that offers best potential for future growth: East Asia. 26 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Trading (Cash market) Cash market: broad portfolio of Our brands tradeable products Xetra: presence in Europe and beyond Countries of origin of Xetra ® participants 2012 Xetra is Deutsche Börse AG’s cash market (share of total number 244) division.­Xetra­provides­efficient­access­to­the­ capital market, supports cutting-edge trading 1% Middle East models and offers an ever-growing range of tradeable securities. Over 11,000 equities from German and international issuers, more 13 % than­25,000­fixed-income­securities,­1,200­ France, Benelux exchange-traded funds (ETFs), exchange-traded commodities (ETCs) and exchange-traded 18 % notes (ETNs), as well as around 2,800 actively 49 % UK Germany managed mutual funds can be bought and sold on Xetra. This allows investors to make targeted investments in instruments that corre spond to their individual investment strategy and risk 19 % preferences. Other Europe In­addition,­more­than­950,000­certificates­ As at 31 December 2012 and warrants can be traded on the Scoach exchange, which is operated jointly with SIX Swiss Exchange. Stronger international presence Tailored market models allow a wide variety Xetra further expanded and strengthened its of investors from Europe and all over the international coverage in 2012. Its international world to realise their trading strategies. Xetra reach allows Xetra to consolidate liquidity executes orders at the best possible price and from all over Europe, improving the market offers transparent and fast trading at low costs. quality for all investors. Other European exchanges use the Xetra technology to operate Xetra is aimed at both institutional and private their cash markets. investors. Xetra Frankfurt Specialist Trading, which is carried out on the Xetra platform by The Xetra platform has been used by the Vienna intermediaries in the main trading room of the Stock Exchange since 1999, the Irish Stock FWB, is primarily geared towards private Exchange since 2000, the Bulgarian Stock Exinvestors. Deutsche Börse also has an interest change since 2008 and the Ljubljana Stock in the operator of the Tradegate Exchange in Exchange since 2010. In July 2012, the Malta Berlin, whose services and extended trading Stock Exchange also adopted the Xetra system. hours are tailored to private investors. Strategic perspectives The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 27 Trading illion trading volume on Xetra ® including Frankfurt Specialist Trading and Tradegate Diversified­trading­opportunities­ Contributions to sustainable with new products business activities In October 2012, bond trading on Xetra was Trading on Xetra is distinguished by its high expanded to include more than 2,000 internalevel of transparency, fair pricing and rigorous tional government and corporate bonds, as trading surveillance. These criteria must be well as 60 German federal government bonds. met in order for all investors to be able to Market­participants­benefit­from­a­transparent­ participate equally in market developments. and liquid bond market and gain access to a In­this­way,­Xetra­makes­a­significant­contriwide investor network of Xetra. At the same bution to the security and integrity of the time, Deutsche Börse is promoting the integrity capital markets and helps maintain trust in of the market with regard to the trade in this the markets even at times of crisis. asset class, which was previously almost exclusively traded off-exchange (“over-the-counter”, OTC), and has already met the highest transparency requirements. million transactions executed on Xetra ® Technological expansion Speed, security and resilience are essential parameters in competition between exchange organisations. In 2012, Xetra implemented furtrading institutions with more than 4,134 connected ther measures to enhance the trading system’s terminals and traders in 18 countries performance. Xetra boasts particularly high system reliability, which minimises its customers’ operational risk see also chapter “IT More than services”. The development of Xetra technology focused on standardisation in 2012 (e. g. the use of financial­instruments­tradeable­on­Xetra the public-domain FIX transfer protocol) and functional enhancements (e.g. new order types). In addition, as part of the launch of a new version of the trading system in November 2012, Xetra made it easier to record OTC transactions. 28 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Trading (Derivatives market) Derivatives market: derivatives Stronger international presence Our brands as hedging instruments In 2012, Eurex’s strategic goals again included Derivatives have become an integral part of the global expansion of the business. Eurex the­modern­world­of­finance,­as­they­make­it­ expanded­its­presence­in­the­Asiaacific­ possible to manage market and price risks. region, in particular, through its branches in Hedging with derivatives increases compaSingapore,­Be ing­and­Hong­ ong,­among­ nies’ planning certainty and thus also contriother locations. In total, 14 participants from butes to better macroeconomic performance. the region were connected to the Eurex network see chart below. Deutsche Börse’s Eurex derivatives exchange is one of the world’s largest regulated markets for futures and options trading. Eurex’s strength lies in the trading of index derivative products Eurex: a global network and interest rate derivatives with maturities of Countries of origin of Eurex participants two or more years. Futures and options on (share of total number 426) individual equities and other underlyings can 3% also be traded on Eurex. Asia 15 % 23 % Eurex is also represented on the US equity France, Benelux UK options market via its New York subsidiary, International Securities Exchange (ISE). Furthermore, Eurex Repo is another Deutsche 18 % Germany 21 % Börse Group derivatives exchange. Eurex Repo Other is a marketplace for collateralised money Europe market transactions, known as repurchase 20 % agreements (in short: repos). These are America financing­transactions­where­securities­with­ a predetermined repurchase price are exchanged for cash. As at 31 December 2012 Together with leading banks, Eurex operates the Eurex Bonds trading platform for interbank The cooperation with the Korea Exchange for trading of European government bonds, among derivatives trading on Korea’s benchmark other asset classes. Compared with OTC KOSPI index was particularly successful. The transactions,­market­participants­also­benefit­ 2012 trading volume was double that of the from greater transparency and supervised previous year. trading on this platform. With its Trader Development Program, Eurex supports new traders by allowing them to use the order routing systems of existing participants Strategic perspectives The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 29 Trading 2.3 billion transactions on Eurex ®, including ISE to trade on Eurex and therefore offers an platform, Eurex has again set the global ­alternative to direct membership. Hence, a standard as a technology leader in the field large number of new traders were again of derivatives trading, while at the same time acquired worldwide in 2012. Eurex thus also improving the management of operational risk. contributed to specialist training in derivatives trading around the world. Contributions to sustainable ­business activities Diversified trading opportunities with innovative products Exchange trading not only contributes to sustainability by improving risk management Eurex Exchange launched around 150 further and transpar­ency. It can also help to reduce equity index and commodity derivatives as well greenhouse gas emissions, as laid down in as a futures contract on French government the Kyoto Protocol, through the trade in CO 2 bonds in 2012. The European government bond certificates. As the EU auction platform, futures supplement the Bund future. The the Leipzig-based European Energy Exchange euro crisis caused government bond yield (EEX), in which Eurex holds a majority interest, curves to move in vastly different directions. is one of the leading European exchanges In view of this, the new government bond organising the trade in these certifi­c ates. EEX futures contracts represent more accurate also operates a regulated market for power, hedging instruments for market participants. natural gas and coal. At present, EEX is planning to expand trading to include green Exchange-traded dividend derivatives, a power certificates based on wind, hydroelectric relatively new asset class, were very popular and solar power. on the market. For this type of derivative contract, the focus is on the dividend distributed rather than the performance of the underlying that pays out the dividend. Volatility index 575 deriva­tives also grew sharply. These indices react to the fluctuation range of share prices participants, thereof 426 at Eurex Exchange with more of major euro zone companies. This offers a than 8,000 traders in 31 countries, and 149 participants at ISE further hedging option to market participants. New trading platform More than 3,800 Eurex launched a new generation of its trading tradeable derivatives, thereof around 1,800 futures platform in December 2012. The traded and options on Eurex Exchange and more than 2,000 options on ISE products are gradually being migrated to this new architecture. With this new trading 30 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Clearing Clearing. The participants involved in Task securities and derivatives trading enter into sale and purchase­agreements­that­have­to­be­fulfilled­at­a­ certain point in time. As a central counterparty, the clearing house guarantees delivery and settlement. Process Sellers Clearing house / Buyers central counterparty Equities Enters into purchase Equities Derivatives agreement Derivatives Repos Guarantees its Repos settlement Bonds Bonds Manages risks Manages collateral Clearing is comparable to insurance against Benefits counterparty default for market participants. Clearing therefore increases stability and integrity of the markets. Clearing Facts and figures Clearing The­traded­financial­instruments­and­financial­ claims of each participant are netted out and collateralised in clearing. Eurex Clearing AG performs this function for Deutsche Börse. As the central counterparty, the clearing house ensures that only net claims and obligations need to be offset against each other (a so-called netting) – this net amount is significantly lower than the traded positions in total. In addition, the clearing house acts as a buyer for each seller and a seller for each buyer. Depending on the risk associated with their net positions, each participant is required to deposit securities. Both onand off-exchange-traded derivatives as well as cash market products are cleared through the­clearing­house.­This­function­benefits­the­financial sector by hedging open trading positions and therefore increasing stability and integrity of Surname, Name, Field of activity: Rum eta aspit velitat, Cat hariant, eat aut veria autem. Itatas eum Dolli tenit moluptas the markets. andiscium vid maionet liscidera. Krepern balhh atemolore Psaped maximum ipitiates Demquae netur masi. Rum et aspit velitat, Cat hariant, eat aut veria autem. Itatas eum Dollitenit moluptas andiscium vid maionet liscidera. 30 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Clearing Clearing Clearing.. The participants involved in Task securities and derivatives trading enter into sale and purchase­agreements­that­have­to­be­fulfilled­at­a­ certain point in time. As a central counterparty, the clearing house guarantees delivery and settlement. Process Sellers Clearing house / Buyers central counterparty Equities Enters into purchase Equities Derivatives agreement Derivatives Repos Guarantees its settle settleRepos ment Bonds Bonds Manages risks Manages collateral Clearing is comparable to insurance against Benefits counterparty default for market participants. Clearing therefore increases stability and integrity of the markets. Clearing Facts and figures Cesar Matos, Head of Risk Operations, Eurex Clearing: together with his staff members, working in shifts, he makes sure that the buy and sell orders placed­by­clearing­participants­are­sufficiently­collateralised.­That s­why­he­ needs to rely on a team that is fully behind him and willing to discuss openly any issues that may arise. It is essential that he and his colleagues not only understand three-dimensional risk models, but also their clients’ needs, with whom they are in constant touch. After all, 9-digit sums may be at stake for them. Matos and his team practise risk management “in real time”. 32 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Clearing Secure clearing for a wide Effective risk management through Our brand product range OTC clearing As a central counterparty, Eurex Clearing AG Thus, Eurex Clearing is planning to gradually guarantees transactions involving a very wide expand its offerings for OTC-traded derivatives range of products. While transactions are products concerning interest rate and equity netted out, the clearing volume of approxiderivatives. At present, with Eurex Credit Clear, mately €7.5 trillion decreases to €39 billion. the offering presents a central counterparty This is opposed to collateral deposited of €49 for OTC-traded credit default swaps (CDSs). billion which is provided by market participants and managed by Eurex Clearing, given a buffer of about €10 million, see chart on the right. Due to the guarantee, individual Clearing reduces and hedges risks counterparty risk for market participants is Monthly average 2012 at Eurex Clearing AG in € billions omitted. Eurex Clearing is Europe’s leading central counterparty and offers clearing services for derivatives,­repos,­equities­and­fixed-income­ securities for both exchange-traded and offexchange (over-the-counter, OTC) transactions. In addition to Eurex, the European Energy Exchange, Eurex Bonds ®, Eurex Repo ®, Xetra, the Irish Stock Exchange as well as participants of OTC trading use the clearing house as a central counterparty. Clearing Netting Margining Buffer Collateral deposited The­safety­and­integrity­of­the­financial­markets­ are closely linked to effective risk manageAs at 31 December 2012 ment. Eurex Clearing sets standards in quality and effectiveness through real-time risk management. Interest rate swaps were added to the offering in November 2012. Eurex Clearing has also offered a central counterparty service for bilateral securities lending since November. These two changes were made in anticipation of central clearing becoming a legal requirement­for­many­OTC-traded­financial­instruStrategic perspectives The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 33 Clearing illion market risk cleared via Eurex Clearing (monthly average gross 2012) ments in the future when the European Collateralised money market Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) is through GC Pooling implemented. GC Pooling ® is a forward-looking offering developed within Deutsche Börse, which conProtection for customer assets tinued to grow in 2012. It allows the settlement on Eurex Repo of anonymous, collateralFurthermore, Eurex Clearing has introduced ised money market transactions, which are new functions and services for its listed and cleared via Deutsche Börse’s central counterOTC markets. The “Individual Clearing Model” party, Eurex Clearing. With GC Pooling, customoffers comprehensive protection of client ers can also re-use the securities received via collateral within the clearing house and allows Clearstream to obtain liquidity from Deutsche immediate portability of positions and assets Bundesbank, Germany’s central bank, or in case of a clearing member default. provide them as collateral to Eurex Clearing. More accurate calculation of Contributions to sustainable collateral required business activities To further enhance stability on the derivatives The­clearing­function s­most­significant­ market while allowing participants more contribution to sustainability is that it improves efficient­use­of­their­capital,­Eurex­Clearing­ the­systemic­stability­of­the­financial­markets.­ plans to introduce a new risk management This contribution is being further expanded by method. As an enhancement to the previous the ongoing projects, particularly OTC clearing practice, under the new method, risk manageand services to protect customer assets. GC ment assesses the entire portfolio of a particiPooling has also allowed Deutsche Börse to pant to calculate the collateral that have to restore the interbank market’s trust in money be deposited. Among other things, this method market transactions. makes cross-margining possible, i. e. calculating the risk and therefore the collateral required for exchange-traded and OTC derivatives. This allows a portfolio’s actual risk to illion be more accurately assessed – and at the same time, it reduces the collateral costs of transactions processed by Eurex Clearing the clearing participants. clearing members from 16 countries 34 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Post-trade Post-trade. Once securities are traded and Task cleared, post-trade services providers take care that they reach the accounts they are meant for – a process called settlement. Furthermore, they make sure that the securities are safely deposited – a practice called custody. The assets under custody then need to be managed in order to produce maximum value for their owners. Process (International) Issuers central securities depository – (I)CSD Corporations Intermediaries Governments ettlement and custody International Investors Domestic markets Banks Financial market Corporate funds intermediaries Value added services Other Collateral management Investment fund services Stock exchanges Connectivity Clearing houses Central banks Only relevant for CSDs Post-trade services are the cornerstone Benefits for capital markets’ safety – and are fundamental to­leverage­liquidity­most­efficiently. Post-trade Facts and figures Post-trade At Deutsche Börse Group, Clearstream is responsible for settlement, i.e. transferring securities from one account to another, and for depositing these assets safely on behalf of banks and their clients. Risk and liquidity management solutions and services for investment funds have gained importance. Assets under custody can be put to productive use on behalf of their owners – through Clearstream’s global liquidity management solution. Assets, for example, can be lent in order to produce value for their owners, as a “guarantee” or “collateral” for transactions. Assets are also increasingly needed to­help­fulfil­minimum­liquidity­requirements­set­ by­regulators.­In­order­to­support­financial­institutions­­in­doing­so­safely­and­efficiently,­Clearstream offers sophisticated post-trade services – worldwide. Clearstream’s post-trade services contribute to the stabi­lity­and­the­efficiency­of­capital­market­transactions. 34 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Post-trade Post-trade.. Once securities are traded and Post-trade Task cleared, post-trade services providers take care that they reach the accounts they are meant for – a process called settlement. Furthermore, they make sure that the securities are safely deposited – a practice called custody. The assets under custody then need to be managed in order to produce maximum value for their owners. Process (International) Issuers central securities depository – Corporations Intermediaries (I)CSD Governments ettlement and custody International Investoren domestic markets Banks Financial market corporate funds intermediaries Value added services other Collateral management Investment fund services Stock exchanges Connectivity Clearing houses Central banks Only relevant for CSDs Post-trade services are the cornerstone for Benefits capital markets’ safety – and are fundamental to­leverage­liquidity­most­efficiently. Post-trade Facts and figures José Manoka Mussala, Expert, Product Management Global Securities Financing (GSF), Clearstream: at 8 a.m. this morning, he was still in his uxembourg­office­negotiating­the­new­bid­for­the­Global­ iquidity­Hub­in­a­ video conference with his contacts at the Australian Securities Exchange in Sydney. By 10 a.m., he is at the GSF Summit, meeting up with other customers to­develop­ideas­for­new­products.­He­listens­carefully,­to­find­out­what­his­competitors have in the pipeline – and where his colleagues and he can further improve. 36 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Post-trade Adding value to assets Liquidity and risk management Our brands under custody focus In its comparatively recent, but fast develAccording to estimates by the Basel Commitoping role as a leading global provider of tee on Banking Supervision from April 2012, asset services, Clearstream can draw from its banks worldwide are facing an aggregate long experience in settlement and custody. shortfall of stable funding of €2.78 trillion in Domiciled in Luxembourg, Clearstream is an fulfilling­the­additional­liquidity­requirements­ international central securities depository of Basel III. In addition, new clearing obliga(ICSD), which for over 40 years has been tions, while improving systemic stability, pose operating post-trade infrastructure for internew challenges to the liquidity management national bonds and providing services for all of banks. Clearstream offers global post-trade types of securities such as, increasingly, services in order to support their customers in shares. Over the decades, Clearstream has coping with the increased administrative grown from a European provider of bond capacities­and­financial­costs­that­result­from­ services into a truly global post-trade services this structural change. By doing so, Clearstream provider, now operating from ten locations in also­provides­both­safety­and­financial­relief­ Europe, North America and Asia, with a cusfor the economy as a whole, undergoing a tomer­base­of­over­2,500­financial­institutions­ process of re-regulation in response to the in more than 110 countries worldwide. massive­loss­of­confidence­in­financial­markets­ caused­by­the­financial­crisis.­The­value­that­ In the 1990s, Clearstream became a full bank can be created by such services is immense: and began to provide global custody services as a survey conducted by Accenture and to­financial­institutions­across­the­globe,­ Clearstream in September 2011 has shown, covering not only international securities, but the­financial­sector­could­save­over­€4­billion­ also domestic securities markets. In addition, a year in opportunity costs if it eliminated Clearstream is the central securities depository inefficiencies­resulting­from­the­international­ (CSD) for German domestic securities, and for fragmentation of collateral management. Luxembourg, jointly with Banque centrale du Luxembourg, through LuxCSD. As a consequence, Clearstream has developed the Global Liquidity Hub. The hub allows banks to use the assets Clearstream holds under­custody­on­their­behalf­more­efficiently,­ and such across platforms and legal jurisdictions. This means, for instance, that they can Strategic perspectives The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 37 Post-trade trillion assets under custody (bonds, equities, funds and gold) put the assets to productive use by re-using vantage of being offered fast, easy and costthem (e.g. lend them to others), and engage efficient­access­to­a­wider­range­of­funds­ ­ in repurchasing agreements. Clearstream will more than 100,000 globally, see chart in also allocate assets at the right value accordthe left column. For fund managers, this ining to a given exposure to avoid costly “overcreases the scope to reach a larger and more collateralisation”. In addition, the hub provides diversified­customer­base ­as­a­consequence,­ an algorithm, which automatically optimises investors have a much wider choice among the security portfolio needed to safely cover funds to invest in. In close cooperation with their customers, Clearstream continuously refines­and­enlarges­these­services. Vestima®: access to more than 100,000 funds Number of available funds per year-end International partnerships funds Clearstream believes that partnerships are an 120,000 important means of enlarging both scale and scope of its business activity. As a global 100,000 provider of post-trade services, Clearstream leverages the expertise of its regional partners 80,000 in the interest of its customers. 60,000 The increased focus on capital requirements 40,000 and therefore the demand for better liquidity and collateral management is a global issue. 20,000 However, only a few providers can offer a sophisticated collateral management engine 0 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 on top of a large pool of liquidity. Clearstream year has started to offer its collateral management engine to third parties and has signed outsourcing agreements with various market the risks that need to be collateralised be it infrastructures globally. This service – known for regulatory or business reasons – on an as Liquidity Hub GO (Global Outsourcing) – international basis. is at different stages of development with Clearstream’s global partners: it is live with These are not the only value-added services Brazilian CSD Cetip since July 2011, to be Clearstream­provides­to­the­financial­commulaunched in 2013 for the Australian exchange nity. Vestima ®, another fast growing service, organisation ASX, and Iberclear, the CSD supports the investment fund industry in belonging to the Spanish exchange organisaorder routing. For investors, this has the adtion BME. Similar timelines are envisaged for 38 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Post-trade South African CSD Strate, partly owned by Joint ventures are also an important part of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, and, Clearstream’s partnership approach. The comon the basis of a letter of intent, the Canadian pany launched REGIS-TR, the European trade CSD Clearing and Depository Services. repository for OTC derivatives, together with the­Spanish­exchange­organisation­BME ­with­ But CSDs are not the only Clearstream partBanque centrale du Luxembourg, Clearstream ners that are in need of a collateral managehas created LuxCSD, a national access point ment engine – agent banks also need to offer for Luxembourg to TARGET2-Securites both such services to their underlying customer from an issuance and a custodian perspective. base.­As­the­first­customers­of­the­ iquidity­ Hub Connect service, BNP Paribas Securities Clearstream uses its proven expertise to create Services and Citibank have signed agreements business solutions within Deutsche Börse with Clearstream to leverage its collateral Group­to­bring­valuable­benefits­to­the­market.­ management expertise. The service will go For instance, together with the cash market live­in­the­first­quarter­of­2013. segment Xetra, Clearstream has launched a unique way of trading investment funds on Partnerships are part of Clearstream’s strategy exchanges. Furthermore, with Eurex, the and can be found across the company’s prodderivatives segment, Clearstream has enabled uct and service range. One of Clearstream’s its customers to optimise their liquidity core functions is to bring issuers and investmanagement through GC Pooling ®. ors together, globally, through a network of settlement links that facilitate the exchange. Clearstream continuously broadens its settleAdding value to and through T2S ment network and has recently launched a connection to the Philippines – its 53rd link. In Europe, the implementation of a standardised This settlement network is the widest among settlement infrastructure for central bank ICSDs. Clearstream ensures its presence in money has made progress, even though the all these markets by working with local project has postponed its start from 2014 to partners – agents or sub-custodians – who 2015, due to its complexity. To complement act on behalf of the company in the respecthe harmonisation objectives of the European tive markets. Commission, the European Central Bank has offered the European CSDs a single settlement infrastructure: TARGET2-Securities (T2S). Strategic perspectives The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 39 Post-trade million German domestic settlement transactions processed in 2012 This infrastructure will create a pan-European magazine’s “Agent Banks in Major Markets liquidity­pool­and­thus­significantly­intensify­ Survey”, making it once more the leading competition for post-trade services in Europe. international central securities depository. Clearstream supported the goals of the T2S initiative and has been actively involved As the focus on corporate governance intenin shaping its direction since its inception s­ ifies­globally,­investors­increasingly­need­ in­2006.­In­spring­2012,­as­one­of­the­first­ state-of-the art post-trade services to support CSDs, Clearstream has formally committed their active ownership initiatives. Clearstream itself to join T2S. therefore launched an extended proxy voting service which is designed to support domestic As the German CSD, it will provide approxiand cross-border shareholders in their govermately 40 per cent of all settlement transnance rights and to help promote active particiactions on the T2S platform. Deutsche Börse pation in line with recent market initiatives, Group­is­investing­into­financial­infrastructure­ such as the EU Shareholders Rights Directive. in order to lower the fragmentation of liquidity in the settlement and custody area and to offer superior asset services to European banks. This investment also contributes to a ore than stable­and­efficient­financial­infrastructure­in­ Europe. For Clearstream, T2S is an opportucustomers in over 110 countries nity to deploy its collateral management expertise to an even larger customer base. illion Contributions to a sustainable monthly average outstandings for Global Securities economy Financing (GSF) services Clearstream plays an important role for the economy at large because it offers a safe environment for post-trade services. This is highlighted by the fact that it has AA credit investment funds available for order routing through ratings by the major international rating Vestima ® (as at 31 Dec 2012) agencies. In 2012, Clearstream again received top grades awarded on the basis of customer ratings in the “Global Custodian” 40 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 IT services IT services. Exchanges are technology Task businesses. They develop and operate networks, high-performance computers, and the software for the trading and post-trading business all over the world. Some of them also offer IT services to external customers­in­the­finance­industry. Process Customers IT services Processes change and market Operation Securities process chain participants Network operation Market data Trading Server operation Trading Clearing house Outsourcing Clearing Central securities Settlement depository e elopment Depository Software ternal customers External processes IT-Outsourcing Trading and settlement system reliability Benefits is the main priority for exchanges. Without this, there would be no transparent pricing or safe custody. IT services Facts and figures IT services The uninterrupted operation of Deutsche Börse’s data centre systems forms the basis for the reliable execution of trading and settlement. Demands on the system are growing, particularly in terms of the increasing volume of data transfer. The expansion and monitoring of the networks makes it possible to connect customers and partners globally. The software that underpins Deutsche Börse’s services is programmed and regularly updated by IT. This guarantees a high level of performance and­flexibility.­The­trading­systems­and­software­ always represent the latest state of the art. Exchanges outside Germany also rely on Deutsche Börse’s technology. Deutsche Börse is thus making its­mark­as­an­IT­solutions­provider­for­other­financial services providers – with the aim of improving security. 40 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 IT services IT services. services. Exchanges are technology Task businesses. They develop and operate networks, high-performance computers, and the software for the trading and post-trading business all over the world. Some of them also offer IT services to external customers­in­the­finance­industry. Process Customers IT services Processes change and market Operation Securities process chain participants Network operation Market data Trading Server operation Trading Clearing house Outsourcing Clearing Central securities e elopment Settlement depository Software Depository ternal customers External processes IT-Outsourcing Trading and settlement system reliability Benefit is the main priority for exchanges. Without this, there would be no transparent pricing or safe custody. IT services Facts and figures Davaajargal Davaasambuu, IT Consulting, Deutsche Börse AG: provides translation services – not into Mongolian, her native language, but by helping to turn product developers’ requirements at Eurex Clearing into the computer languages of programmers at IT Services – before customers can use the software on Deutsche Börse’s servers. Davaasambuu holds a Master of Engineering in Computer Science, having studied, among others, at the Asian Institute of Technology in Thailand. If you wish to improve the clearing of derivatives you need to be able to move smoothly between different worlds – for which being at home in several cultures is an asset. 42 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 IT services Full-service trading and settlement was also characterised by the new shared Our brand systems provider platform for the Group’s trading systems which was also developed in 2012. Deutsche Börse is one of the world’s leading full service providers for the development and operation of trading and settlement systems. Partner for strategic projects From its locations in Frankfurt/Eschborn, Luxembourg, Prague, Chicago and New York, Deutsche Börse Group’s strategic projects Deutsche Börse’s IT division operates the are also always based on an IT infrastructure trading infrastructure for 33 trading platforms that is able to support and drive forward the and exchanges worldwide, as well as a global strategy. Deutsche Börse IT supports and network for the connection of participants accompanies the implementation of Groupand other players. wide strategic goals. The division created the capacities and programmed the functions Since exchanges play an important role in that underpin projects such as Clearstream’s the economy by continuously setting prices Liquidity Hub, OTC clearing by Eurex Clearing throughout the trading day and making it and the service offering related to securities possible­for­investors­to­buy­or­sell­financial­ lending. instruments, permanent system availability is crucial. The availability of the derivatives and cash market systems as well as of the settlement, custody and information systems Exchange trading accelerates was again more than 99.99 per cent in 2012. Evolution of response times using the example of Eurex As in previous years, the systems therefore exceeded­the­defined­requirements.­ milliseconds 160 To ensure that the speed and reliability of 140 data transfer is maintained at the same high 120 level in future, Deutsche Börse IT is expanding the capacity of its data centre together 100 with its strategic partner Equinix. This will 80 allow Deutsche Börse Group to handle the 60 rising number of co-location customers, whose systems are housed alongside Deutsche 40 Börse’s system servers, and meet their grow20 ing requirements. Furthermore, the past year 0 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 monthly average Strategic perspectives The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 43 IT services availability of the international central securities depository in 2012 Development of new systems tion. The building was awarded “HQE” (Haute ualit ­Environnementale)­certification­at­the­ The core element of the IT roadmap is start of 2012. the development of a new generation of the trading and clearing infrastructure. In addition, Deutsche Börse expanded its This initiative to modernise and improve range of IT services on the European energy the­flexibility­of­the­IT­systems­was­again­ markets in October 2012. The new ComXerv a key focus in 2012. trading service provides an algorithm for the cross-border allocation of energy capacities, The development and implementation of two optimising the use of these capacities and new systems was completed in the fourth increasing liquidity on the participating marquarter of 2012. Firstly, the new Eurex Exkets. In addition to the operation, maintechange trading architecture was launched nance and monitoring of trading and settleand,­secondly,­a­new­and­more­efficient­risk­ ment systems for energy market participants, management system, Eurex Clearing Prisma ®, the “IT for Energy” offering includes bottlewas developed. Both are setting new stanneck management and optimising capacity dards in latency and performance. This allocation. upgrade makes it possible to install software updates­more­quickly­and­simplifies­the­ operation and maintenance of the systems. million Contributions to sustainable quotes: daily maximum on Eurex ® business activities on 9 May 2012 By ensuring the uninterrupted availability of the trading and settlement systems, Deutsche million Börse Group has created the electronic basis for all other elements of the value chain. In transactions: daily maximum on Xetra ® this way, Deutsche Börse IT indirectly conon 13 January 2012 tributes­to­the­stability­of­the­financial­sector. In addition, Deutsche Börse’s IT management milliseconds demands­the­most­efficient­possible­server­ capacity­planning.­Improving­energy­efficiency­ latency of the fastest Eurex installations and the use of green power are also key (December 2012) considerations for IT. For example, the waste heat produced by the nearby data centre is redirected­to­Clearstream s­office­building­in­ Luxembourg. This reduces energy consumpavailability of the trading system Eurex in 2012 44 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Market data Market data. Market data is elementary Task information­that­parties­interested­in­the­financial­ markets need in order to make decisions – decisions about investments, securities trading, changes in risk positions and much more. Process Market data Customers portfolio Exchange price data Private investors Financial news Institutional investors Indices Asset managers Macroeconomic Securities trading indicators houses Indicators Hedge funds Reference data ETF issuers Data vendors Banks As independent information providers, Benefits exchanges thus make an important contribution to the transparency of trading and the objectivity of the benchmarks available on the market. Market data Facts and figures arket data The­international­financial­markets­are­used­by­ participants with highly diverse information needs: private investors, institutional investors, asset managers, securities trading houses, hedge funds, issuers of exchange-traded funds etc. These participants analyse and make decisions on investment strategies, risk positions, investment performance, securities emissions, securities transactions, transaction settlement etc. For this reason, all players incorporate the information supplied by Deutsche Börse into their day-to-day activities. The data is either transmitted directly by Deutsche Börse or redistributed by what are known as data vendors. Deutsche Börse’s data portfolio includes price data from the Eurex and Xetra trading systems, trading statistics, analyses, company master data, financial­news,­economic­data­and­over­12,000­ indices. This data creates market transparency. 44 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Market data Market data. data. Market data is elementary Task information­that­parties­interested­in­the­financial­ markets need in order to make decisions – decisions about investments, securities trading, changes in risk positions and much more. Process Market data portfolio Customers Exchange price data Private investors Financial news Institutional investors Indices Asset managers Macroeconomic Securities trading indicators houses Indicators Hedge funds Reference data ETF issuers Data vendors Banks As independent information providers, Benefit exchanges thus make an important contribution to the transparency of trading and the objectivity of the benchmarks available on the market. Market data Facts and figures Thomas Reckewell, Market Data & Analytics, Head of Customer Audits: keeps in touch with customers of information products and analytical tools – worldwide.­The­first­and­still­best-known­product­of­this­nature­is­Deutsche Börse’s DAX ® index, the standard metric for the German stock market. Reckewell and his team support clients to ensure the compliant usage of Deutsche Börse data. After all, the exchange invests a lot of effort in gene rating, enhancing and disseminating them. In addition, together with his team,­he­develops­new­product­offers­ ­thus­benefitting­current­and­future­ clients. 46 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Market data Information – essential for particiIndices – globalising the Our brands pating in the capital markets index universe Extensive information and analyses are Marketing the DAX ® index family and other essential for successful participation in the global indices of Deutsche Börse’s subsidiary international capital market. The heightened STOXX is another business area. Investors uncertainty surrounding general economic use the indices as a standard for comparing developments has led to increased demand its investment performance, see also chart for high-quality market information. By probelow. As underlyings, they allow banks and moting transparency that can be relied on, fund companies to issue derivatives, exDeutsche­Börse­helps­create­confidence­in­ change-traded funds and structured products. the markets. STOXX calculates, develops and distributes about 6,400 indices worldwide, in addition to the approximately 5,600 indices of Deutsche Signals – expanding the global Börse. Furthermore, STOXX acts as the exinformation offering clusive marketer of DAX indices. In the course of the year, approximately 540,000 structured The Trading and Market Signals business products worldwide were issued on the basis area provides exchange trading information, of Deutsche Börse and STOXX indices. The economic­data­and­financial­news­to­traders,­ success of the indices can be attributed fund managers, hedge funds, analysts and primarily to their strictly rule-based approach professional investors. Some of the data is and their clear focus on tradability. transmitted in real time through direct links and can be used by market participants to implement computerised trading strategies. STOXX ® – setting the standard for markets In 2012, the business area expanded its around the world product range further. At high-speed data Companies in the STOXX Global Total Market Index, divided by service AlphaFlash ® in particular, the founregion (percentages of total number of 7,372) dation was laid for future growth. In Septem4% ber 2012, for example, AlphaFlash entered Other into an exclusive agreement with Fitch Ratings to provide and disseminate rating 20 % information in machine-readable format at Europe maximum speed. AlphaFlash has also been available in Brazil since January 2012. 51 % Asia, Oceania 25 % America As at 31 December 2012 Strategic perspectives The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 47 Market data financial­instruments­worldwide­use­an­ index disseminated by Deutsche Börse Group (as at 31 December 2012) In 2012, STOXX added over 2,100 indices Contributions to sustainable to its STOXX Global Index family, with a business activities particular focus on further growth in its Asian indices. For example, the STOXX China In April 2012, Deutsche Börse Group’s cash Total Market index family represents a new market division Xetra and STOXX announced benchmark for Chinese equities. The global the introduction of an information portal for indices of STOXX and Deutsche Börse are sustainable securities as well as the launch of now used by more than 300 asset managers the STOXX ® Global ESG Leaders index. For and professional investors around the world. the­first­time,­the­companies­included­in­ In 2012, EURO STOXX 50 ® was again among these indices are selected on the basis of fully the top three most popular underlyings on transparent sustainability criteria and a purely the derivatives markets worldwide. rule-based process. Since May 2012, STOXX has been a signaReference data – tory to the United Nations Principles for expanded product range Responsible Investment, a global initiative that promotes the integration of sustainability The distribution of proprietary reference criteria into corporate decision-making. data from Deutsche Börse’s trading systems for­the­back­offices­of­financial­services­ Deutsche Börse’s Monthly Carbon Report providers is the core element of the third provides greater transparency about the actual business area, which supports banks in CO 2 emissions in Europe. Deutsche Börse meeting their regulatory reporting requirecalculates the monthly data for all 27 member ments, among other things. By providing states of the EU. reference data on securities, such as master and scheduling data, as well as valuation prices, Deutsche Börse assists banks and financial­services­providers­in­supporting­their­ out securities settlement transactions. customers in 148 countries In 2012, an expansion of the product range lifted demand for the PROPRIS product® – the provision of reference data on securities settled by the central securities depository Clearstream in Frankfurt and in Luxembourg. indices calculated, including 2,300 calculated­for­the­first­time­in­2012 million trading data items are distributed daily by the segment to the market participants (average) Stakeholder Society Economy Education and Corporate governance research Risk management Culture Compliance Social involvement Sustainable products Sustainable corporate management Environment Employees Facility management Operating­efficiency­ Consumption of ersonnel­development­ resources Work-life balance Mobility Diversity Waste management Deutsche Börse Group’s corporate responsibility strategy Deutsche­Börse­Group­interacts­with­a­large­number­ of different stakeholder groups, see the chapter on “Stakeholder engagement”. Understanding their points­of­view­on­the­company­and­responding­ appropriately to the interests and requirements re sulting from these different perspectives is part of Deutsche Börse Group’s corporate responsibility. Responsibility Deutsche Börse is not just a technology business. It is a service provider, too. It is the conscientious, responsible actions of its employees that enable Deutsche Börse to perform its duties and meet the requirements of its different stakeholders – in­clud­ing clients, owners and representatives of the public interest. This is why Deutsche Börse invests in its employees’ abilities and sees their diversity as a strength. 50 Group staff 54 Stakeholder engagement 60 Good corporate citizenship Caterina Nudo, Head of Customer Service Europe, Clearstream: leads a 100-strong team from around 15 different countries, who look after cus tomers – off-site, from Luxembourg’s Square or Eschborn’s Cube, or from Deutsche­Börse s­ ondon­and­ rague­offices.­Her­team­combines­communication­skills­with­professional­expertise­ ­and­strong­motivation.­She­works­ hard­to­achieve­this,­be­it­on­the­phone­or­in­video­conferences.­To­her,­ communicating with her team and constant training on the job or in special seminars­is­essential­for­fulfilling­her­task:­delivering­together­with­her­team­ a­perfect­service­to­customers. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 51 Group staff Group staff Deutsche Börse is a service provider that makes exacting demands on its­staff:­their­technical­skills,­their­ability­to­communicate­and­work­­ in­teams,­and­their­readiness­to­take­responsibility.­At­Deutsche­Börse,­ experts with highly specialised knowledge work hand-in-hand with generalists, who tailor the offering to the requirements of customers, owners­and­representatives­of­the­public­interest. Deutsche Börse supports on-the-job training Since 2000, there has been a “high potential circle” in the Group that aims to recruit new management Initial and advanced training, as well as continuing protalent­internally:­as­part­of­this­programme,­a­set­ fessional education measures, are a top priority at curriculum consisting of business school seminars Deutsche­Börse.­Deutsche­Börse­supports­its­staff­in­ and training events to enhance social skills, as well continuously expanding and refreshing their knowlas networking meetings, personal mentors and edge­of­the­financial­markets.­Of­equal­importance­are­ meetings with Executive Board members is used to education programmes to improve the communicaprepare younger, particularly motivated and talented tion­and­organisational­skills­of­employees.­In­accord­Group­staff­for­positions­of­responsibility. ance with market requirements, Deutsche Börse therefore offers a wide variety of internal and external training programmes, which help individual employNew mentoring programmes promote ees and their superiors master their own particular Group-wide exchange challenges.­The­offering­is­continuously­adapted­ and­expanded­according­to­requirements.­Deutsche­ In 2012, Deutsche Börse introduced custom-made Börse’s training offering for its staff also includes mentoring­programmes­for­different­target­groups: attending part-time Masters programmes following a targeted­selection­process.­To­facilitate­participation­ The­“new­hire”­mentoring­programme­helps­new­ in part-time study programmes, the company provides employees get started, and aids them in estabfinancial­support­and­offers­special­leave­to­the­stulishing contacts beyond their own department and dents.­This­allows­employees­to­improve­their­career­ in gaining a cross-departmental understanding of prospects and apply the acquired skills in the interests the­company.­Experienced­members­of­staff,­who­ of­the­company. have been holding a permanent position at Deutsche 52 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Börse Group for at least two and a half years, volIn addition to a career as a manager, staff have opporunteer to act as a mentor and offer guidance to the tunities for promotion in expert or project manager employee­during­his­or­her­first­six­to­nine­months­ career­paths.­Deutsche­Börse­also­supports­moves­to­ in­the­company. positions of the same hierarchical level in a different The­“new­role”­mentoring­programme­supports­ department­or­business­area. employees after they have taken on a new management­position.­The­mentor­acts­in­an­advisory­ capacity, passing on his or her experience to the Increase in the number of vocational trainees mentee, and aids the mentee in taking on his or her­new­role. Deutsche Börse increased its number of vocational Within the framework of a mentoring programme trainees­again­in­2012:­at­the­end­of­the­year,­the­ for women in management positions, top-level company­had­twelve­prospective­office­communicaexecutives (including members of the Executive tion­specialists.­During­their­training,­trainees­are­ Board)­assume­the­role­of­mentor. assigned to up to seven departments – including central departments as well as market areas – for, on­average,­three­months­per­assignment.­Thus,­ Special training for executives trainees gain insight into a wide range of tasks while at the same time making valuable contributions to Deutsche Börse provides management training in the the­work­of­Deutsche­Börse­Group.­Deutsche­Börse­ form of dedicated training courses, coaching and offered­permanent­positions­to­all­five­trainees­who­ cross-segment events to encourage the exchange of completed­their­traineeships­in­2012. views, such as the dialogue with top management regularly hosted by the Executive Board for holders of­key­functions.­In­accordance­with­a­voluntary­ Diversity creates new ideas and customer proximity commitment­undertaken­by­companies­in­the­DAX ®, Deutsche Börse also took further measures in 2012 Deutsche Börse Group embraces and promotes the to increase the number of women in management diversity of its staff, not least because this is in its positions, see combined management report. own­business­interest:­the­wide­range­of­products­ and services is matched by staff with different educaClear processes for succession planning ensure that, tional­profiles.­These­members­of­staff­develop­the­ when management positions become vacant, the offerings as part of a team and in close contact with most competent candidates are selected to take over customers.­The­profiles­include­study­pro­grammes­ the­management­functions­seamlessly. in mathematics, information technology, business administration, or economics as well as in law, the humanities­and­social­sciences. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 53 Group staff 71 different countries of origins for all employees Ultimately, the expertise needed to work at Deutsche Internal trainings, divided up according to topic Börse Group can only be acquired through learning (Percentages of a total number of 823) by­doing.­This­is­why­professional­success­at­Deutsche­ Börse is determined less by the knowledge gained 2% at university or in a previous job than by the ability to Introductory seminars work with a team and customer focus – in a job environment that makes high demands on the individual’s 5% Management trainings ability to understand technology and to communicate, and which, furthermore, is subject to permanent 12 % 40 % change.­Diversity­in­the­company­also­promotes­emLanguage trainings Business ployees’ readiness to be as flexible as the job trainings demands. 18 % Softskill Deutsche Börse Group is a global company – with trainings 22­locations­in­16­countries­around­the­world.­ Continuous internationalisation is one of the core 23 % elements­of­Deutsche­Börse­Group s­strategy.­The­ IT­seminars company aims not only at developing new markets but also at establishing close relationships to its As­at­31­December­2012 international­customers.­It­therefore­operates­not­ only in different markets, but also in different cultures.­The­diversity­of­customers­is­reflected­in­ One­of­the­strengths­of­Deutsche­Börse s­business­ the­cultural­diversity­of­its­staff:­Deutsche­Börse­ model is the opportunity to develop new products Group employs people from 71 countries of origin through­cross-divisional­cooperation.­To­support­this­ around­the­world.­Diversity­also­means­that,­as­a­ initiative, Deutsche Börse Group encourages its emmatter of course, Deutsche Börse also employs ployees to think outside their set areas of responsidisabled people as an integral part of its workforce bility and develop suggestions in cooperation with and creates the best possible working conditions other­business­areas.­One­instrument­for­channelling­ for­them.­ these­ideas­is­ ou ovate.­This­innovation­management programme at Deutsche Börse gives staff the The­diversity­of­its­workforce­is­one­of­Deutsche­Börse s­ opportunity to submit ideas and suggestions for strengths.­It­presents­new­challenges­for­communiimprovement.­The­ideas­may­relate­to­any­aspect­of­ cation – but is ultimately an essential condition for surthe company – new products, contributions to cost vival­in­the­face­of­global­competition. efficiency,­or­public­relations.­The­overarching­goal­ of YouNovate is to promote a culture of innovation in the­company.­In­this­way,­innovation­management­ helps the company to recognise and tap into growth opportunities­even­beyond­existing­products. Martina Gruber, Executive Board, Clearstream Banking AG: Manages customer relations in the European post-trading business – and thus makes very certain she always attends Deutsche Börse’s Annual Reception. As Managing Director of Deutsche Börse Commodities, in which major banks hold a stake and which, offers the Xetra-Gold ® bond,she is also used to dealing with customers as well as with shareholders. That said, she is well aware that customers and shareholders are not the only groups who make legitimate demands. Keeping in touch with regulators and the general public is­equally­important­ ­and,­first­of­all,­of­course,­with­her­staff­members. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 55 Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement is the term used to describe a company’s interaction with its stakeholders. As an infrastructure provider for the capital markets, Deutsche Börse Group considers the continuous dialogue with its stakeholders as an important element of its economic and social function. Dialogue – the basis for trustful working relationship between Deutsche Börse and its stakerelationships holders determine which communication platform is used. In addition, surveys and dialogue events Deutsche Börse Group interacts with a large number allow stakeholder group representatives to give of different stakeholder groups, see chart below. specific­feedback­ ­and­in­this­way­to­present­their­ Depending on their points of view, i. e. whether they views directly. consider Deutsche Börse as the capital market organiser or whether they regard it as a listed company, Open dialogue promotes trustful working relationships stakeholders and their interests can vary. and provides essential impulse for development and decision processes. A direct communication channel Deutsche Börse Group seeks to communicate with facilitates dealing with stakeholder requirements. its stakeholders mainly through personal dialogue Requests and criticisms voiced by stakeholder groups as well as through committees and working groups. are taken on board without delay and can be reThe­topics­for­discussion,­their­relevance­for­efficient­ flected­in­decisions­in­a­timely­manner.­In­addition,­ and­safe­markets­and­the­depth­of­the­specific­ Summary of key stakeholders Deutsche Börse Group as Deutsche Börse Group as a a listed company capital market organiser Deutsche Börse AG shareholders Supervisory authorities Intermediaries Employees Politics Issuers Employee representatives Media Institutional / private investors Business partners Non-governmental organisations Trading, clearing and Suppliers Society post-trading participants Service providers Financial community 56 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Deutsche Börse Group uses this exchange of views internal and external stakeholder engagement acto comment on controversial issues and provide reativities in 2012, see also the chapter on “Group staff” sons for its position. starting on page 51; Key figures on benefits at www.deutsche-boerse.com /cr Overview of internal and external stakeholder interests Areas for action at Deutsche Börse Group While shareholders, employees and business partDeutsche Börse Group prioritises its areas for action ners are primarily interested in the company, a solid with regard to the initiatives of highest strategic corporate governance and strong results of operaimportance for the operating business. In addition, tions, customers – as issuers, trading, clearing and Deutsche Börse Group regularly determines areas post-trade participants – focus on a comprehensive, for action and issues which are of key importance efficient­and­high-quality­product­and­service­offerto its various stakeholders. Through these analyses, ing. For supervisory authorities, politics and society the company establishes core areas for its future in­general,­the­most­significant­role­of­Deutsche­ engagements and addresses the needs and interests Börse Group is its contribution to the stability and of its stakeholders. The chart on the right shows the efficiency­of­the­financial­markets,­and­therefore­its­ most important initiatives in the operating business key role for a functioning national economy. as well as core issues addressed in communication with representatives of key stakeholder groups. The Against this backdrop, Deutsche Börse Group condarker an area for action appears in the chart, the tinued to concentrate in 2012 on its assessment of higher is its strategic priority, the more importance the latest regulatory initiatives and highlighted their Deutsche Börse Group attaches to it in its operating potential impact on markets and market participants, business, and the more frequently it was mentioned see www.deutsche-boerse.com > About us in discussions with various stakeholders. The stability > Public Affairs. At the same time, the company and availability of trading systems and risk manexpanded­its­range­of­efficient­risk­and­liquidity­ agement solutions for market participants, for instance, management solutions for market participants, also are key areas for action for the company and its to improve the company’s results of operations stakeholders. from a long-term perspective. Moreover, the Group contributed in many different ways to enhancing The key selection criterion used by Deutsche Börse integrity, transparency and standardisation on the Group in identifying relevant areas for action is mate global capital markets. Measures taken in the areas riality,­i.­e.­the­significance­of­an­issue.­In­addition,­ of customer satisfaction, compliance and data Deutsche Börse Group must be able in principle to insecurity as well as steps taken to increase employee fluence­the­areas­concerned.­ satisfaction rounded off Deutsche Börse Group’s Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 57 Stakeholder engagement 17 customer workshops on Deutsche Börse Group’s IT strategy Areas for action at Deutsche Börse Transparency/standardisation Staff training and Technology leadership Sustainable product portfolio on the capital markets development Shareholder satisfaction Environmental management Support for regulatory projects Emissions trading Corporate citizenship Green IT to­ensure­a­stable­financial­ Customer satisfaction Diversity and equal Greenhouse gas emissions system Risk management solutions opportunities Supplier management Integrity and compliance for market participants Value creation Human rights Cost­efficiency EBIT Job security Know-how transfer on capital Stakeholder engagement market issues Innovation potential Stability and availability of Employee satisfaction the trading systems Remuneration rofitable­growth Highest relevance Deutsche Börse Group therefore used the following Insights gained from investor conferences, roadsources to determine the relevant areas for action and shows and individual visits as well as topics raised their weighting: at the Annual General Meeting Feedback from staff meetings, employee events and Information from Deutsche Börse Group’s comregular review discussions mittees and working groups, whose members Areas­of­corporate­strategic­focus­identified­at­the­ include international capital market representameetings of the Executive and Supervisory Boards tives see www.deutsche-boerse.com/cr and of the individual Supervisory Board committees > Customer governance Focus topics from dialogue events, workshops and Analysis of customer satisfaction surveys, customer other events for representatives of various stakeholvisits and queries put to Deutsche Börse Group’s der groups customer service organisation Analysis of press clippings and enquiries Internal analyses and assessments of trends and Enquiries received by Deutsche Börse Group from developments­in­the­financial­services­sector­(e.­g.­ other external stakeholder groups changes in the regulatory framework) 58 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Continuous dialogue with stakeholders institutionalise and extend the exchange of views with representatives of various stakeholder groups. Internal and external dialogue has a high priority The chart below lists key examples of dialogues for­Deutsche­Börse­Group.­This­is­reflected­in­the­ that took place in 2012: large number of measures and formats used to Key examples of dialogues in 2012 Deutsche Börse AG Institutional investors/analysts and Intermediaries, issuers and other Employees, management and private investors market participants works council Conference calls were held to inform the Deutsche Börse Group has a global pres95.3 per cent of permanent employees capital market of the key performance ence­with­locations­in­the­major­financial­ used the annual staff dialogue in 2012 to figures­and­latest­developments­as­part­of­ centres, such as Frankfurt, Luxembourg, exchange views and information directly quarterly­financial­reporting­activities. London, New York, Tokyo, Hong Kong, with their line managers. The Annual General Meeting of Deutsche Singapore and Dubai. The­bimonthly­employee­maga ine­and­five­ Börse Aktiengesellschaft was held on Institutionalised customer meeting prolunchtime forums ensured that information 16 May 2012 and around 59 per cent of grammes tailored to the needs of Xetra, on special topics and current projects was the share capital was represented. Eurex and Clearstream ensure that views transferred throughout the company. At the sixth Investor Day on 1 June 2012, can be exchanged in person – up to and Approximately 70 executives discussed the analysts and institutional investors learnt including at Executive Board level. Group’s strategic orientation and horizontal about Deutsche Börse Group’s strategic Customer satisfaction – e. g. with new softinitiatives involving several business areas focus areas and current developments in ware releases of Deutsche Börse Group’s with the Executive Board at each of two its business areas. IT – is measured in studies and published top management dialogue events. Deutsche Börse held well over 500 oneon the Group’s websites. Following the invitation of the human on-one discussions with current/potential The German Equity Forum, held from 12 resources department, female executives investors during international roadshows, to 14 November 2012, attracted some met,­for­the­first­time,­to­network­at­six­ investor conferences and individual visits 6,000 visitors, including German and events, such as after-work get-togethers. in 2012. international entrepreneurs, investors and The works council reported on its work at analysts. quarterly works meetings and in monthly discussions with the CFO. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 59 Stakeholder engagement 59 % of the share capital attended the Annual General Meeting of Deutsche Börse AG Supervisory authorities, regulators Society, non-governmental organisations and politics and the media Deutsche Börse Group released some pubDeutsche Börse Group informed media lications­on­political­issues­such­as­the­firepresentatives about capital market/stock nancial transaction tax. exchange issues at eight press conferences. Representatives of the Group regularly took Deutsche Börse Group’s Visitors Centre part in public consultation events at interwelcomed about 50,000 interested memnational, European and national level. bers of the public for guided tours of the In addition to workshops, the Group initrading­floor,­presentations­by­specialists­ tiated expert discussions on current and the open day on 3 October 2012. regulatory issues (e. g. high frequency The investor website www.boersetrading) with key constituents of political frankfurt.de records about 2 million hits stakeholder groups. a month. Company representatives took part in pubThe Group e-mails a daily newsletter lic hearings held by central authorities and containing market information to 25,000 political bodies (e. g. ESMA, the German investors. parliament) as well as in conferences and Employees of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange expert forums on regulatory issues. hotline respond to around 1,000 telephone and written enquiries a month. Deutsche Börse Group is an active member of numerous bodies and associations www.deutsche-boerse.com/cr Michael Peters, Executive Board, Eurex: if not en route to business meetings with customers, he is busy meeting them on his home turf – for instance at one of the many events taking place here. As Global Head of Sales & Marketing, he is responsible for the customer relations of Eurex, Deutsche Börse’s derivatives subsidiary. But Peters also assumes a different kind­of­responsibility:­as­a­member­of­the­Supervisory­Board­of­non-profit­ Phineo gAG, he has committed himself to analysing and selecting social projects, such as the German “Arche” (“Ark”) foundation, which aims to combat child poverty. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 61 Good corporate citizenship Good corporate citizenship Deutsche Börse Group has been a committed and responsible “good corporate citizen” for many years. It considers this social engagement­as­a­strategic­investment­in­the­future­of­the­Groupʼs­ locations worldwide, and while planning its activities, it is guided by their needs. The Group is active in the areas of education and Therefore, Deutsche Börse is aware of its responsibilscience as well as culture and social projects; the maity to communicate information about the exchange terial objectives of all activities are to promote the and its meaning for a functioning national economy: future prospects of young people and to support be it the transfer of basic knowledge or special techinnovative, sustainable concepts. The binding framenical know-how, through play or as theory, online work, which serves as an orientation aid for all or in the classroom – Deutsche Börse invests in worldcharitable contributions, is set out in Group-wide Corwide education initiatives for different target groups porate Citizenship Guidelines, see text box in a variety of ways. The Capital Markets Academy is Deutsche Börse Key principles of the Corporate Citizenship Guidelines Group’s central training body and delivers the comConnection to the business activity and to pany’s training activities for market participants. the existing know-how Its range of offerings comprises workshops as well Active and project-related support with focus on the corporate locations as­certificate­and­study­programmes­on­the­Group s­ Mediumto long-term engagement and focus on topics of products and systems and the basics of the capital social relevance market. Regular assessment of the activities, ideally by means of external evaluation Through lecturing assignments at different universiPreferably active employee involvement in projects ties, members of Deutsche Börse Group’s middle Transfer of successful concepts to the Group’s international and upper management also share their personal, locations practice-based know-how with business and economSports, private individuals, political parties and religious ics students. institutions are not eligible for support The Group promotes the transfer of knowledge about stock exchanges at schools via teaching materials and teacher training seminars. Publications such Education and science as the stock exchange glossary, guided tours of the trading floor of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and Financial knowledge plays an important role in our various multimedia information offerings on the society – having an understanding of an exchange’s www.deutsche-boerse.com /cma_e and business and service offering is hereby essential. www.boerse-frankfurt.de websites provide an easily understandable introduction to the complex world of the capital market. 62 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Culture and projects at its locations. In doing so, the company not only makes donations, but also supports As part of its cultural sponsorship programme, employee involvement. Deutsche Börse supports a number of institutions and projects in the areas of visual arts and music. The Deutsche Börse also provides structural support to company supports selected exhibitions, and with sevthe­non-profit­sector­via­ hineo­gAG,­an­organisation­ eral projects, it promotes the development of young established together with the Bertelsmann Foundaphotographic artists at the early stages of their cation. The independent analysts and consultants reers. As the title sponsor of the Deutsche Börse examine selected social issues such as child poverty Photography Prize, it is a partner for one of the most and the integration of people with disabilities and important international awards for contemporary dementia­patients.­In­addition,­ hineo­identifies­ photography. areas in need of support. On its online platform, its so-called “social marketplace”, Phineo recommends The starting point of its cultural commitment is the particularly effective projects for sponsorship, see Art Collection Deutsche Börse, the company’s own www.phineo.org collection of photographic art, which has been growing continuously for 13 years. The collection At its Frankfurt/Eschborn location, Deutsche Börse presents contemporary photographs by over 90 takes an active stand against child poverty as part of international artists at the Group’s main locations in the “Freundeskreis der Arche” (Society of Friends Frankfurt/Eschborn, Luxembourg and Prague. The of the Frankfurt “Ark”) support group, of which it is a works of art give the buildings a unique character founding­member.­Thanks­to­the­financial­support­ and are an inspiration to employees and visitors. given by this society, two branches of this children’s project have now started their work in Frankfurt. The­collection­is­not­limited­to­specific­themes.­The­ They provide a free lunch to more than 100 children varied works on display cover everything from classics every day, help them with their homework and above of contemporary photography down to works by all give them attention. young artists, photographic art and documentary photography. Employees and members of the public with an interest in art can take guided tours of the International activities collection or attend openings and special viewings. Beyond the initiatives mentioned above, as a “good More information about the Group’s cultural sponsorcorporate citizen” Deutsche Börse Group is involved ship promotion programme can be found at in numerous projects at its location in Frankfurt/ www.deutsche-boerse.com/art Eschborn, which it supports through sponsorships, donations, corporate volunteering, scholarships, awards and events as well as by offering its premises Social projects as a venue. As far as possible and practical, connections are established between projects of different The relationship between society, politics and the CR areas, see www.deutsche-boerse.com/cr economy is in a state of transition: social commitment by companies and their contribution to solving Deutsche Börse Group’s CR activities are centrally social­problems­are­gaining­in­significance.­For­this­ coordinated and organised in Eschborn. As a globally reason, Deutsche Börse supports social institutions operating company with numerous locations worldwide, the company is also involved in CR activities at Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 63 Good corporate citizenship 45,000 visitors­on­the­floor­of­the­Frankfurt­Stock­Exchange­in­2012 five­of­its­international­locations.­In­cooperation­with­ Chicago the responsible colleagues at the location, projects In Chicago, corporate responsibility activities are foare selected which are in line with the Group’s cused on social issues: multiple projects, mainly guiding principles but which also take into account in support of low-income families, are organised in local needs and conditions. cooperation with the institution “Family Matters”. In addition, the company supports cultural projects Luxembourg as well as projects teaching high school and college At the second-largest Group location, the Group students­about­the­capital­market­not­only­financially­ company Clearstream has been committed to supbut also through the active involvement of local porting cultural events, mainly in the area of music, employees. for years. In addition, about 200 works from the Art Collection Deutsche Börse are presented at the New York company premises, “The Square”, during guided Within the context of social engagement, the employtours and the day of private art collections (Private ees at the Group company International Securities Art Kirchberg), which was initiated by Clearstream. Exchange (ISE) have teamed up with the New York Each year, the employee-founded “Clearstream “Ronald McDonald House” which organises numeCharity Committee” organises, of their own initiative, rous events for families in need. In cooperation with numerous fundraising events in support of social this institution, New York employees also organise projects. the annual Group-wide Social Day, which allows employees to get directly involved in a social project. Prague In addition, ISE is a sponsor of Baruch College, proThe 400 employees of the Clearstream and Informamoting college education in the areas of options and tion Technology areas in Prague, the Group’s thirdsecurities markets. largest location, experience corporate responsibility mainly in the form of various employee projects and Asien teambuilding events. Group projects on topics such as At Deutsche Börse Group’s locations in Asia, the health,­fitness­or­the­environment­not­only­serve­to­ company is involved in numerous training and eduincrease team spirit but also communicate the basic cational projects. Within this context, cooperations principles of corporate responsibility. and partnerships have been set up with various universities, amongst others with the Chinese London University of Hong Kong, the Shanghai Advanced At the London location, supported project areas Institute of Finance and National Taiwan University. include education and science as well as social Since September 2012, the Group has also been and cultural projects. In the context of its cultural supporting Singapore Management University, commitment, the company supports the prestigious Singapore s­first­state-financed­independent­univerDeutsche Börse Photography Prize, awarded in sity. The partnerships’ aim is to promote teaching cooperation with the local Photographers’ Gallery. about­the­financial­markets. Educational projects, such as the “Career Academies” mentoring programme, enable employees to pass on their own professional and life experience to young university students. Deutsche Börse AG Scoach Europa AG State Exchange Supervisory Authority legal­entity­under­private­law ­ legal­entity­under­private­law ­ competent supreme federal state administrative and operating body administrative and operating body authority­(section­3­BörsG) ­in­the­ of FWB ® (section 5 BörsG) of FWB (section 5 BörsG) State­of­Hesse:­Ministry­of­Economy,­ Traffic­and­State­Development Administration and operation of F B­by­provision­of­financial­and­ human­resources­as­well­as­facilities Legal supervision (section 3 BörsG) Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse (FWB ®) (the Frankfurt Stock Exchange) institution­under­public­law­with­partial­legal­capacity ­ capacity to be a party in administrative court proceedings (section 2 BörsG) Exchange bodies Exchange Council Management Board Trading Surveillance Disciplinary Committee Statutory catalogue of Management of FWB O fice Imposition of sanctions competence (section 12 (section­15­BörsG) ­admisSupervision of trading for breach of duty by BörsG) ­e.­g.­appointment­ sion of securities to trading and settlement trading participants and of board of management on the Regulated Market (section 7 BörsG) issuers (section 22 BörsG) Regulatory and supervisory bodies for exchange trading Sample­illustration­showing­the­Frankfurt­Stock­ Exchange (FWB ®, Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse). The legal requirements listed also apply to all other Deutsche Börse Group exchanges organised under public­law­in­Germany:­Eurex­Deutschland,­European Energy Exchange and Tradegate Exchange. The International Securities Exchange is subject to S­law,­while­the­Eurex­Zürich­exchange­is­run­in­ accordance­with­Swiss­law.­ Governance Deutsche Börse Group attaches great importance to the principles of responsible corporate gover­ nance. Corporate governance creates transparency on how a company is managed and supervised, and on its internal structure and organisation. Deutsche Börse has been approved by the relevant supervisory authorities and entrusted with ensuring orderly exchange trading for the cash and derivatives markets. This means that Deutsche Börse assumes a responsibility under public law. 66 Executive Board members 68 Supervisory Board members 70 Report of the Supervisory Board 78 Corporate governance declaration 1) 86 Corporate governance report 92 Remuneration report 1) 1) Component of the combined management report 66 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The Executive Board Reto Francioni, *1955 Andreas Preuss, *1956 Chief­Executive­Officer, member of the Executive Board and Deutsche Börse AG Deputy­Chief­Executive­Officer, Prof., Dr. jur. Deutsche Börse AG Frankfurt/Main responsible for the Cash & Derivatives Markets division Frank Gerstenschläger, *1960 university degree in Economics member of the Executive Board, (Dipl.-Kaufmann) Deutsche Börse AG Frankfurt/ Main responsible for Special Projects university degree in Economics, Gregor Pottmeyer, *1962 Business Administration and Engineering member of the Executive Board, (Dipl.-Wirtschaftsingenieur) Deutsche Börse AG Darmstadt Chief­Financial­Officer university degree in Economics (Dipl.-Kaufmann) Frankfurt/ Main Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 67 Members of the Executive Board Jeffrey Tessler, *1954 Former member of the Executive Board member of the Executive Board, Deutsche Börse AG Michael Kuhn, *1954 responsible for the Clearstream division member of the Executive Board, MBA Deutsche Börse AG Luxembourg Chief­Information­Officer (until 31 December 2012) Hauke Stars, *1967 responsible for the member of the Executive Board, Information Technology division Deutsche Börse AG (until 30 November 2012) (since 1 December 2012) Dr.-Ing. responsible for the Information Technology Frankfurt/ Main division and the Market Data division Master of Science in Engineering Ruedlingen, Switzerland Detailed information about the members of the Executive Board and their appointments to supervisory bodies of other companies can be found on the Internet under: www.deutsche-boerse.com/ execboard As at 1 January 2013 68 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The Supervisory Board Joachim Faber, *1950 Marion Fornoff, 1) *1961 David Krell, *1946 Erhard Schipporeit, * 1949 Chairman Staff member in the Human Chairman of the Board of Directors Independent Management Senior Advisor Resources Germany section International Securities Exchange, Consultant, Hanover Allianz SE, Munich Deutsche Börse AG, LLC, New York Nationality: German Nationality: German Frankfurt/Main Nationality: US-American Board member Board member Nationality: German Board member since 7 October 2005 since 20 May 2009 Board member since 1 January 2008 since 16 May 2012 Jutta Stuhlfauth,1) 1961 Gerhard Roggemann, *1948 Monica Mächler, *1956 Lawyer and Head of Deputy Chairman Hans-Peter Gabe,1) * 1963 awyer,­ f ffikon Unit Policies and Procedures Vice Chairman Staff member in the HR Policies & Former Vice Chair of the Board of Deutsche Börse AG, Cannacord Genuity Hawkpoint Corporate Training section Directors of the Swiss Financial Frankfurt/Main Limited, London Deutsche Börse AG, Market Supervisory Authority Nationality: German Nationality: German Frankfurt/Main (FINMA), Bern Board member Board member from 11 May 1998 Nationality: German Nationality: Swiss since 16 May 2012 to 14 May 2003 and Board member Board member since 12 July 2005 since 21 May 1997 since 16 May 2012 Martin Ulrici, 1) *1959 Staff member in the HR Policies & Richard Berliand, *1962 Richard M. Hayden, *1945 Friedrich Merz, *1955 Corporate Training section Executive Director Non-Executive Chairman Lawyer Deutsche Börse AG, Richard Berliand Limited, Haymarket Financial LLP, Partner Mayer Brown LLP, Frankfurt/Main Ashtead, Surrey London Dusseldorf Nationality: German Nationality: British Senior Advisor Nationality: German Board member Board member TowerBrook Capital Partners Board member since 16 May 2012 since 7 October 2005 L.P., London since 12 July 2005 Nationality: US-American and Johannes Witt,1) *1952 Irmtraud Busch,1) *1956 British Thomas Neisse, *1948 Staff member in the Consoli Staff member in the Settlement Board member Chief­Executive­Officer­ dation & Accounting Frankfurt Product Design (OPD) section since 12 July 2005 Deka Investment GmbH, section Clearstream Banking AG, Frankfurt/Main Deutsche Börse AG, Frankfurt/Main Craig Heimark, *1954 Nationality: German Frankfurt/Main Nationality: German Managing Partner Board member Nationality: German Board member Hawthorne Group LLC, Palo Alto since 20 May 2009 Board member since 16 May 2012 Nationality: US-American since 21 May 1997 Board member Heinz-Joachim Neubürger, *1953 Karl-Heinz Floether, *1952 since 7 October 2005 Independent Management Independent Management Consultant, London Consultant, Nationality: German Kronberg Board member Nationality: German since 16 May 2012 Board member since 16 May 2012 1) Employee representative 2)­­T he­former­membersʼ­term­of­office­expired­at­the­end­ of the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2012. As at 31 December 2012 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 69 Members of the Supervisory Board Former members of the Hermann-Josef Lamberti, *1956 Supervisory Board 2) Former Member of the Executive Board Manfred Gentz, *1942 Deutsche Bank AG, Chairman Frankfurt/Main President of the International Nationality: German Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Board member Germany, Berlin since 11 October 2005 Nationality: German Board member Roland Prantl, 1) *1963 since 14 May 2003 Staff­member­in­the­Configuration­ Management & Quality Assurance Herbert Bayer, 1) *1950 section Former Trade Union Secretary Deutsche Börse AG, ver.di, Department 1 Financial Frankfurt/Main Services, Area Frankfurt/Main Nationality: German and region, Frankfurt/Main Board member from Nationality: German 4 May 2000 to Board member 14 May 2003 and since 13 July 1994 since 24 May 2006 Birgit Bokel,1) *1952 Norfried Stumpf, 1) *1963 Former staff member in the Staff member in the Facility Management section New Issues & CSK Frankfurt Deutsche Börse AG, sec tion Frankfurt/Main Clearstream Banking AG, Nationality: German Frankfurt/Main Board member Nationality: German since 14 May 2003 Board member since 20 May 2009 Konrad Hummler, *1953 Managing Partner Wegelin & Co. Private Bankers, St. Gallen Nationality: Swiss Board member from 11 September 2007 to 12 May 2011 and since 31 May 2011 Detailed information about the members of the Supervisory Board and their additional appointments to supervisory bodies of other companies or comparable control bodies can be found on the Internet under: www.deutsche-boerse.com/supervboard 70 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Report of the Supervisory Board Joachim Faber Chairman of the Supervisory Board Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 71 Report of the Supervisory Board In the year under review, the Supervisory Board held significant­transactions,­upcoming­decisions­as­well­ in-depth discussions on the position and prospects as the long-term outlook and thoughts on potential of the company and performed its duties in accorddevelopments, and discussed these matters with him. ance with the law and the Articles of Association. With one exception, all members of the Supervisory We regularly advised the Executive Board on the manBoard attended at least half of the meetings of the agement of the company and monitored its work. We Supervisory Board held during their respective terms were involved in all key decisions. Where required of­office­in­2012.­Mr­ amberti,­whose­appointment­ by law, the Articles of Association or the bylaws, we ended at the end of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) adopted resolutions following thorough examination. on 16 May 2012, was prevented from attending over half of the meetings of the Supervisory Board held durWe held a total of eight meetings, including one exing­his­term­of­office­in­2012.­The­average­parti­cipation­ traordinary meeting and one constituent meeting. In rate in the period under review was 91.5 per cent. addition, two preparatory workshops and two strategy workshops were held. At the strategy workshops, The Executive Board submitted all measures requirwhich were held in April and November 2012, we ing Supervisory Board approval according to the law, addressed Deutsche Börse Group’s growth strategies the Articles of Association, or the bylaws to the Superin detail. The two preparatory workshops were held visory Board, and the Supervisory Board approved before­the­meeting­convened­to­adopt­the­financial­ these­measures.­The­Supervisory­Board­also­verified­ statements on 19 March and the meeting convened that the Executive Board’s actions were lawful, due to adopt the budget on 10 December 2012, and were and proper, and appropriate. used for detailed advance discussions of the agenda items for these meetings. Focus of the work of the Supervisory Board At our meetings, the Executive Board provided us with comprehensive and timely information, both verbally At the Supervisory Board meetings, we were continuand in writing, in line with the legal requirements on ally informed of current developments and initiatives the course of business, the position of the company by reports from the CEO, the CFO and the Executive and the Group (including the risk situation and risk Board members responsible for the different business management), as well as on the company’s strategy areas. Projects relevant to the company, market develand­planning.­ e­discussed­all­transactions­significant­ opments and regulatory changes were discussed. Our for the company in the plenary meetings and in the work in 2012 focused on the assessment of Deutsche Supervisory Board committees, based on the reports Börse Group’s strategic position and orientation after of the Executive Board. The high fre quency of both the planned merger with NYSE Euronext Inc. was pro plenary and committee meetings facilitated intensive hibited by the European Commission. The Supervisory dialogue between the Executive Board and the SuperBoard repeatedly addressed both the growth strategies visory Board. Individual issues were also addressed of the individual business areas and Group-wide growth between meetings, both in written reports by the Executive Board and in the form of discussions. In addition, the Chairman of the Executive Board continually informed the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of current developments in the company’s business, 72 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 strategies in detail. We also kept a close eye on reguAt our meeting on 19 March 2012, we discussed the latory developments at national and European level company s­2011­annual­financial­statements­and­the­ and discussed their potential impact on our business consolidated­financial­statements­plus­the­corresponmodel. In particular, we discussed the European ding management reports; the auditors were present Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR), the revision for­this.­The­2011­annual­financial­statements­and­ of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive consolidated­financial­statements­were­approved­in­ (MiFID II/MiFIR), the Central Securities Depositories line with the recommendation by the Audit and Finance Regulation, the Capital Requirements Directive Committee, which had previously conducted an in(CRD­I ),­as­well­as­the­financial­transaction­tax­and­ depth examination of the documents. We also approved the regulation of high-frequency trading at a national a­revised­version­of­the­budget­for­financial­year­2012­ level. and determined the structure and amount of the remuneration of the Executive Board of Deutsche Börse AG We were regularly informed about Deutsche Börse for 2012, as well as the target criteria for the 2012 AG’s share price performance, including in compacash­bonus.­In­addition,­we­approved­the­filing­of­an­ rison to its competitors. Moreover, the Executive appeal against the European Commis sion’s decision Board­reported­on­the­business­performance,­finan­prohibiting the planned merger with NYSE Euronext cial position and results of operations of Deutsche Inc. Other key topics of the meeting included the canBörse AG, its investees and Deutsche Börse Group didates to be proposed to the Annual General Meeting as a whole. for election to the Super visory Board, the proposed candidate for the position of Chairman of the SuperThe Supervisory Board meetings focused on the visory Board, the proposal to the Annual General following issues during the reporting period: Meeting to amend the Supervisory Board’s remuneration, and the adoption of the agenda for the Annual At our first regular meeting of the reporting period, General Meeting 2012. The report of the Supervisory which took place on 13 February 2012, we held Board 2011 was also resolved. in-depth discussions on the prohibition of the planned merger with NYSE Euronext Inc. by the European At our extraordinary meeting on 23 April 2012, we Commission and assessed Deutsche Börse Group’s addressed current developments relating to the panstrategic position and future orientation. In addition, European TARGET2-Securities settlement platform the Supervisory Board addressed the preliminary and its impact on business in the post-trading segresults­for­financial­year­2011­and­the­dividend­pro­ment, Clearstream. posed­by­the­Executive­Board­for­financial­year­2011.­ It also resolved the amount of the variable remuneraIn our meeting on 16 May 2012, which was held tion­of­the­Executive­Board­for­financial­year­2011­ directly before the Annual General Meeting, the following in-depth discussion. Furthermore, the SuperExecutive Board provided us with information on visory Board adopted the corporate governance declathe Annual General Meeting. The Executive Board ration in accordance with section 289a of the Handelsalso presented a status report on current developgesetzbuch (HGB, German Commercial Code) and ments. the corporate governance report including the 2011 remuneration report. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 73 Report of the Supervisory Board The constituent meeting of the newly elected SuperAktien­gesetz (AktG, German Stock Corporation Act) for visory Board was also held on 16 May 2012, imme ­the year under review; eventually, we di­scussed the diately following the Annual General Meeting. The results of the annual efficiency audit. We also adop­­­ted Supervisory Board elected Joachim Faber as Chaira new flexible age limit for Executive Board mem­bers, man of the Supervisory Board and re-elected which will take effect as soon as the existing flexible Gerhard Roggemann as Deputy Chairman. In age limit is revoked. addition, the Super­visory Board elected the members of the Super­visory Board committees and, where necessary, their chairpersons. Work of the committees In our meeting on 11 June 2012, we dealt in partic­The Supervisory Board has a total of six committees, ular with Deutsche Börse Group’s enterprise-wide which are primarily responsible for preparing the deci­growth strategies, Deutsche Börse AG’s letter of com­sions and topics to be discussed in the plenary meet­fort in favour of Eurex Clearing AG following the acqui­ings. Additionally, the Supervisory Board has dele­gated sition of all of the shares of Eurex Zürich AG from ­ individual decision-making powers to the committees, SIX Group AG and SIX Swiss Exchange AG, as well as to the extent that this is legally permissible. Each of the one-year extension of the consulting agreement the committee chairs provided detailed reports of com­between Deutsche Börse AG and Richard Berliand mittee work at the meetings of the Supervisory Board. Limited. The composition and exact working methods of the individual committees can be found in the corpo­We again discussed Deutsche Börse Group’s strategy rate governance declaration in accor­d­ance with sec­in light of regulatory developments at our ordinary tion 289a of the HGB. meeting on 18 September 2012. Other important topics included the appointment of Hauke Stars as The Chairman of the Supervisory Board chairs the Member of the Executive Board of Deutsche Börse AG Personnel Committee, the Nomination Committee and the reappointment of Reto Francioni as Chair­man and the Strategy Committee. of the Executive Board. We also approved the issue of senior bonds by Deutsche Börse AG and ad­opt­e d The Personnel Committee met five times during the a policy on consulting agreements with mem­b ers of year under review. At the beginning of 2012, it di­s­­the Supervisory Board. cussed in detail the amount of the Executive Board’s variable remuneration for 2011 as well as the struc­We also addressed Deutsche Börse’s corporate stratture and amount of the 2012 target remuneration ­egy in our meeting on 10 December 2012, in partic­and resolved a corresponding recommendation for ular the opportunities that may arise from regulatory the plenary session. In addition, the Committee dis­changes. In addition, the Supervisory Board discus­sed cussed the 2011 remuneration report. In subsequent the effectiveness of the risk management system meetings, the Personnel Committee addressed the and adopted the 2013 budget and the declaration of ­ appropriateness of the Executive Board remuneration con­formity in accordance with section 161 of the and developed a proposal for the plenary session and the Annual General Meeting to amend the Supervisory Board’s remuneration. It also issued a recommendation to the Supervisory Board on the appointment of the 74 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Executive Board member responsible for the Informaproposal to the Annual General Meeting in May 2012 tion Technology segment and the Market Data division. for the election of the auditors and agreed the audit Furthermore, the Committee adopted the Executive fee. The auditors supported the Audit and Finance Board members’ individual targets for 2013 and adCommittee in all material questions relating to accoundressed the review of Executive Board remuneration, ting and regular monitoring activities. Other important the rules specifying a flexible age limit for Executive topics included Deutsche Börse Group’s reports on Board members and succession planning for Deutsche risk management and on compliance, the reports on Börse Group’s middle and upper management. the internal control system and the internal audit report. The members of the Committee were informed The Strategy Committee met four times during the about these topics – including the methods and sysyear­under­review.­At­its­first­meeting,­the­Committee­ tems applied and their efficiency and adequacy – discussed the European Commission’s merger conthroughout the entire reporting period and discussed trol procedure in connection with the planned merger them in detail. Deutsche Börse AG’s letter of comfort with NYSE Euronext Inc. In the following meetings, in favour of Eurex Clearing AG was also discussed. In the Committee held in-depth discussions on the comaddition, the Committee addressed the issuance of pany’s business performance and potential strategic senior bonds by Deutsche Börse AG. It also established courses of action at Group level, as well as its mediumthe areas of emphasis of the audit for 2012 and disterm strategy planning in light of regulatory developcussed the declaration of conformity by the Supervisory ments. Board for 2012. At its last meeting in the reporting period, the Committee dealt with the budget for 2013, The Audit and Finance Committee held six meetings the report on the internal auditing system, the effecand one conference call in the period under review. tiveness of the risk management as well as with risk It­discussed­the­annual­and­consolidated­financial­ allocation. statements, including the corresponding management reports,­and­the­audit­report­for­financial­year­2011­ The Technology Committee met four times in the year in a meeting at the beginning of 2012; the auditors under review. It addressed the further development of were present for this. In addition, the Audit and the Xetra and Eurex trading systems, as well as the Finance Committee prepared the Supervisory Board’s Clearstream systems. The Committee also held in-depth resolution on the corporate governance report for discussions on the development of new trading sys2011, including the remuneration report and the cortems for the cash and the derivatives markets, and for porate governance declaration in accordance with clearing and settlement. In addition, it addressed cutsection 289a of the HGB, and discussed the dividend ting-edge concepts to leverage synergy effects during for­financial­year­2011.­It­also­addressed­the­interim­ software development. At the last meeting of the year reports­for­the­first­and­third­quarters­of­2012­and­ under review, the Committee discussed in detail the the­half-yearly­financial­report­for­the­first­half­of­2012.­ 2013 IT project budget for Deutsche Börse Group. It obtained the necessary statement of independence from the auditors, prepared the Supervisory Board’s Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 75 Report of the Supervisory Board The Clearing and Settlement Committee held two cor porate governance report adopted jointly by meetings in the year under review, in which it disthe Executive Board and Super visory Board and the cus sed Deutsche Börse Group’s initiatives in the area corporate governance declaration. of securities settlement. In particular, the Committee examined the Global Liquidity Hub, a platform for liquidity and risk management, TARGET2-Securities, Audit of the annual and consolidated as well as post-trade services for OTC markets. In financial statements addition, the Committee held in-depth discussions on current regulatory developments such as the KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (KPMG), European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR). domiciled­in­Berlin,­audited­the­annual­financial­state­ments of Deutsche Börse AG and the consolidated The Nomination Committee prepared the election financial­statements,­as­well­as­the­combined­manage­of shareholder representatives by the Annual General ment­report­for­the­financial­year­ended­31­DecemMeeting 2012 and drew up the corresponding prober 2012, together with the accounting system, and posed list of candidates. In addition, the Committee issued­an­unqualified­audit­opinion.­The­condensed­ addressed the recommendation of the German Corpofinancial­statements­and­interim­management­report­ rate Governance Code that the Supervisory Board’s contained­in­the­half-yearly­financial­report­for­the­first­ composition­profile­include­an­adequate­number­of­ six months of 2012 were reviewed by KPMG. The independent members and prepared a corresponding documents­relating­to­the­financial­statements­and­ recommendation to the Supervisory Board. The the reports by KPMG were submitted to the members Committee met three times in the year under review. of the Supervisory Board for examination in a timely manner. The auditor attended the relevant meetings of the Audit and Finance Committee and the plenary Corporate governance and declaration meeting of the Supervisory Board to approve the of conformity an­nual­financial­statements.­The­auditor­reported­on­ the key results of the audit, elaborated in particular The recommendations and suggestions of the German on­the­net­assets,­financial­position­and­results­of­ Corporate Governance Code and their implement ation operations of the company and Group, and was availwere discussed in the meetings of the Supervisory able to provide supplementary information. The audiBoard and the Finance and Audit Committee. The antor­also­reported­that­no­significant­weaknesses­in­the­ nual declaration of conformity in accordance with seccontrol and risk management systems had been found, tion 161 of the AktG was adopted by the Supervisory in­particular­with­respect­to­the­financial­reporting­ Board in line with the Audit and Finance Committee’s process,­nor­were­any­significant­weaknesses­relating­ recommendation. It is publicly available on the com to the recognition of sales revenue or taxes. Equally, pany’s website at www.deutsche-boerse.com / the audit of goodwill and intangible assets, the meadeclconformity. Further information on corporate govsurement of equity investments and the capitalisation ernance at Deutsche Börse Group can be found in the of internally developed software did not give rise to any objections. The same applied to the audit of com76 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 pliance with all relevant statutory provisions and Composition of the boards regulatory requirements. KPMG provided the Supervisory Board with information on other services that The following changes to the composition of the were rendered in addition to audit services. There were Supervisory Board took place in the period under no grounds for suspecting impairment of the auditor’s review: independence. The Audit and Finance Committee discussed the financial statement documents and the The Supervisory Board’s regular term of office ended reports by KPMG in detail with the auditors and at the end of the Annual General Meeting on examined them carefully itself. It is satisfied that the 16 May 2012. The shareholder representatives reports meet the statutory requirements under secManfred Gentz, Konrad Hummler and Hermanntions 317 and 321 of the HGB in particular. The Com­Josef Lamberti did not stand as candidates for mittee reported to the Supervisory Board on its exa­m­re-election, and their appointments as members i­nation and recommended that it approve the annual of the Supervisory Board therefore ended at the financial statements and consolidated financial state­end of the Annual General Meeting. The remaining ments. share­holder representatives in the Supervisory Board were re-elected for another term of office. Monica Our own examination of the annual financial state­Mächler, Karl-Heinz Floether and Heinz-Joachim ments, the consolidated financial statements and the Neubürger were elected as new members of the combined management report for 2012 did not lead Supervisory Board. to any objections and we concurred with the results The employee representatives Birgit Bokel, Herbert of the audit performed by the auditors. We approved Bayer, Roland Prantl and Norfried Stumpf left the the annual financial statements prepared by the Exec­Supervisory Board. Irmtraud Busch, Marion Fornoff, utive Board and the consolidated financial statements Jutta Stuhlfauth and Martin Ulrici were elected as at our meeting on 13 March 2013 in line with the new members of the Supervisory Board. Audit and Finance Committee’s recommendation. The At its constituent meeting on 16 May 2012, the annual financial statements of Deutsche Börse AG Super­visory Board elected Joachim Faber as Chair­are thereby adopted. The Audit and Finance Commit­man of the Supervisory Board and re-elected tee discussed the Executive Board’s proposal for the Gerhard Roggemann as Deputy Chairman. appropriation of the unappropriated surplus in detail with the Executive Board, in particular in view of the The following changes to the composition of the Exec­company’s liquidity and financial planning as well as utive Board took place and the following reappoint­taking into account shareholders’ interests. Following ments were resolved in the period under review: this discussion and its own examination, the Audit and Finance Committee approved the Exec­utive Gregor Pottmeyer was reappointed for a term of five Board’s proposal for the appropriation of the unappro­years by way of a Supervisory Board resolution priated surplus. After examining this ourselves, we also dated 13 February 2012. His term of office will end approved the Executive Board’s proposal for the appro­on 30 September 2017. priation of the unappropriated surplus in a plenary meeting of the Supervisory Board. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 77 Report of the Supervisory Board In a resolution dated 18 September 2012, we terthe provision of advisory services relating to the develminated Reto Francioni’s appointment by mutual opment of new products and services in the area of agreement with immediate effect, and reappointed derivatives trading and clearing. We approved the exhim with immediate effect for another term of oftension of this agreement with effect from 1 July fice,­which­will­end­on­31­October­2016.­ e­also­re2012. Mr Berliand was neither present when the exappointed him as Chairman of the Executive Board. tension of the consulting agreement was discussed Michael­ uhn s­term­of­office­ended­on­31­Decemby the Supervisory Board, nor did he participate in ber 2012. His appointment was not renewed by the resolution on the consulting agreement. mutual agreement. Frank­Gerstenschl ger s­term­of­office­will­expire­ The Supervisory Board resolved a policy on consulton 31 March 2013. His appointment was also ing agreements with members of the Supervisory Board not renewed by mutual agreement. in the year under review. This policy lays down the Hauke Stars was appointed as a member of the framework for entering into consulting agreements Executive Board for the first time in a resolution with Supervisory Board members. dated­18­September­2012.­Her­term­of­office­began­ on 1 December 2012 and will end on 30 NovemWe would like to thank the outgoing Supervisory Board ber 2015. members for their many years of hard work, which has­played­a­significant­role­in­Deutsche­Börse­AG s­ development and success. Our special thanks go to anagement o individual con icts o interest Michael Kuhn and Frank Gerstenschläger for their many years of valued service on Deutsche Börse AG’s During financial year 2011 and up until the end of Executive Board. We would also like to thank the the­first­quarter­of­2012,­the­international­law­firm­ remaining members of the Executive Board, as well of­Mayer­Brown­ ­advised­Deutsche­Börse­AG­on­ as all employees and the employee representatives, the planned business combination with NYSE Eurofor their dedication and achievements in relation to next. Supervisory Board member Friedrich Merz is a Deutsche Börse AG’s strategic reorientation. partner­of­Mayer­Brown­ .­Mr­Mer ­did­not­take­ part in either the discussion about the engagement Frankfurt/Main, 13 March 2013 of­Mayer­Brown­ ­or­in­the­Supervisory­Board s­ For the Supervisory Board: engagement resolution. Following the expiration of the consulting agreement dated­1­May­2011,­Richard­Berliand­ imited,­whose­ managing director Richard Berliand is a member of the Supervisory Board, signed a new consulting agreement Joachim Faber with Deutsche Börse AG effective 1 July 2012 for Chairman of the Supervisory Board 78 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Corporate governance declaration In accordance with section 289a of the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB, German Commercial Code), the corporate governance declaration is part of the combined management report. In this declaration, Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG report on the following: the declaration of conformity in accordance with section 161 of the Aktiengesetz (AktG, German Stock Corporation Act), relevant information on corporate governance practices, Executive and Supervisory Board working practices, as well as the composition and working practices of the committees of the Supervisory Board. Declaration of conformity in accordance versions of the Code: Until 14 June 2012, the declawith section 161 of the AktG ration set out below refers to the old version as of 26 May 2010. Since 15 June 2012, the declaration On 10 December 2012, the Executive Board and refers to the requirements of the Code in its current Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG issued version as of 15 May 2012, which was published in the following declaration of conformity: the Bundesanzeiger on 15 June 2012. “Declaration of Conformity – December 2012 The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG declare that the recommendaDeclaration of Conformity by the Executive Board tions of the “Government Commission German Corand Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG in porate Governance Code” have been and will be met accordance with section 161 of the German Stock with a few deviations. The following applies to the Corporation Act deviations: Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) requires the executive board and supervisory 1. Deductible in the D&O policy for the Supervisory board of a listed stock corporation to declare annuBoard (no. 3.8 (3) of the Code) ally that the recommendations of the “Government The Company has not followed the recommendation Commission German Corporate Governance Code” of agreeing a deductible in the D&O policy for the published by the Federal Ministry of Justice in the Supervisory Board pursuant to no. 3.8 (3) of the Code. official­section­of­the­Bundesan eiger­(Federal­Ga ette)­ Furthermore, the Company will not follow this recomhave been and are being met or, if not, which re cmendation for the time being. ommendations have not been or are not being applied and why not. Since agreeing a deductible is relatively unusual in other countries, there was and is some concern that agreeFor the period since the last regular declaration of ing a deductible could impact on the Company’s goal conformity dated 13 December 2011 and the intraof­staffing­its­Supervisory­Board­with­prominent­ year declaration of conformity dated 16 May 2012, members of the community abroad who have broad the declaration of conformity refers to two different business experience. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 79 Corporate governance declaration 2. Agreement of severance payment caps when of Deutsche Börse AG resolved on 16 May 2012 to concluding Executive Board contracts and of change change the remuneration system of the members of of control clauses (no. 4.2.3 (4) and (5) of the Code) the­Supervisory­Board­to­a­purely­fixed­remuneration­ without any performance-related components and to 2.1 Severance payment caps pursuant to amend the Articles of Incorporation accordingly. The no. 4.2.3 (4) of the Code Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are of All current service contracts with members of the Exthe opinion that this kind of remuneration is more apecutive Board include Code-compliant severance propriate to the controlling function of the Super visory payment caps so that in this respect, the recommenBoard, which has to be performed independently of dation pursuant to no. 4.2.3 (4) of the Code has the Company’s success. been and is being complied with. As in the past, however, the Supervisory Board still reserves the right Accordingly, the declaration of conformity had to be to deviate from the recommendation pursuant to no. amended on 16 May 2012, as the then applicable 4.2.3 (4) of the Code under certain circumstances in German Corporate Governance Code (version as of the future. The Supervisory Board is of the opinion 26 May 2010) in no. 5.4.6 (2) still recommended perthat a deviation may become necessary in extraordiformance-related compensation for members of the nary cases. Supervisory Board and the discontinuation of this recommendation resolved by the Government Commis2.2 Change of control clauses in Executive Board sion German Corporate Governance Code became contracts pursuant to no. 4.2.3 (5) of the Code applicable only after the new version of the Code had The recommendation to limit severance payments been published in the Federal Gazette on 15 June in the event of a change of control pursuant to no. 2012. 4.2.3 (5) of the Code has not been and is not complied with in full. The Supervisory Board resolved Since the current version of the German Corporate the implementation of Code-compliant severance payGovernance Code does not recommend performancements in the event of a change of control in accordrelated remuneration in no. 5.4.6 (2) any more, the ance with no. 4.2.3 (5) of the Code, in the context temporary deviation no longer exists.” of introducing a new remuneration system in 2010. These Code-compliant provisions already apply to The annual declaration of conformity in accordance all new Executive Board members appointed since with section 161 of the AktG is publicly available on September 2009 and to all Executive Board members the company’s website at www.deutsche-boerse.com/ reappointed since 1 January 2010. However, individdeclconformity. The declarations of conformity for the ual change of control clauses in all other service conprevious­five­years­can­also­be­accessed­there. tracts with Executive Board members remain unchanged until the end of the current term of service. Thus, the implementation of Code compliant change Information on corporate governance practices of control clauses has not yet been completed entirely, resulting in a deviation. Policies/Code of Conduct Deutsche Börse Group’s global orientation requires 3. Remuneration of the members of the Supervisory that binding policies and standards of behaviour are Board (no. 5.4.6 (2) of the Code) applied at each of its locations around the world. Following the proposal of the Executive Board and The principles for cooperation are aimed in particuthe Supervisory Board, the Annual General Meeting lar at ensuring responsibility, respect and mutual 80 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 esteem. They are also applied in the implementation ness partners have made voluntary commitments that of the Group’s business model. As a fully integrated correspond to or exceed Deutsche Börse Group’s exchange company, Deutsche Börse Group organises standards. Service providers and suppliers must sign financial­markets­and­provides­the­infrastructure­for­ up to the Code as a prerequisite for doing business all areas of the equities and derivatives business – with Deutsche Börse Group. from trading through settlement and, clearing, the provision of market data down to custody and secuThe standards are regularly reviewed in the light of rities management. Communication with customers, current developments and are amended as necessary. investors, employees and the public is based on timely information­and­transparency.­In­addition­to­profitThe Code of Conduct for Suppliers can be found based activity, recognised social responsibility stanon the Internet at www.deutsche-boerse.com dards form the basis for managing Deutsche Börse > Corporate responsibility > Economy > Procureas a business. ment management. Group-wide Code of Conduct Values Responsible actions and behaviour depend on valDeutsche Börse Group’s business activities are based ues that are shared by all employees throughout the on the legal frameworks and ethical standards of Group. The Code of Conduct adopted by the Executhe different countries in which it operates. The Group tive Board and applicable throughout the Group lays makes the values clear to which it attaches importhe foundation for this and sets minimum ethical and tance especially by joining initiatives and organisations legal standards. It is equally binding on members that stand for generally accepted ethical standards. of the Executive Board and on all other management The relevant memberships are as follows: levels and employees of the Group. In addition to specific­rules,­it­provides­general­guidance­as­to­how­ United Nations Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org: employees­can­contribute­to­putting­defined­corpoThe United Nations Global Compact is an international agreerate standards into practice in their daily working ment between companies and the United Nations. lives. The aim of the Code of Conduct is to set out By participating, the company agrees to meet minimum social guidance for working together in the company’s and ecological standards. Diversity Charter www.diversity-charter.com: As a signatory day-to-day activities, to contribute to solving any to the Diversity Charter, Deutsche Börse AG is committed to cases­of­conflict­and­to­help­meet­ethical­and­legal­ recognising, valuing and enhancing the diversity of its workchallenges. force, customers and business associates – irrespective of age, gender, disability, race, religion, nationality, ethnic background, sexual orientation or identity. The Code of Conduct for employees can be viewed at International Labour Organisation www.ilo.org: The UN www.deutsche-boerse.com > Corporate responagency is the international organisation responsible for drawing sibility > Employees > Code of ethics. up and overseeing international labour standards; it brings together representatives of governments, employees and employers to jointly shape policies and programmes. Supplier policy The German Sustainability Code www.nachhaltigkeitsrat.de: Deutsche Börse Group demands adherence to high The German Council for Sustainable Development adopts the standards not only from its management and its German Sustainability Code and recommends that the political employees, but also from its suppliers. The Code of and business communities use it extensively as a voluntary inConduct for Suppliers and Service Providers requires strument. The German Sustainability Code arose by virtue of an innovative process of dialogue among stakeholders. Since 2011, them to respect human rights and employee rights the company has published a declaration of conformity with the and to comply with minimum standards. Most supGerman Sustainability Code. pliers have signed up to these conditions; other busiStrategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 81 Corporate governance declaration Sector specific policies Executive and Supervisory Board working practices Deutsche­Börse­Group s­pivotal­role­in­the­financial­ sector requires that it deals with information responThe dual board principle, which assigns separate, sibly. For this reason, a number of rulebooks are in independent responsibilities to the Executive Board force in the Group to ensure that employees deal and the Supervisory Board, is a fundamental prinwith sensitive information, data and facts consciousciple of the German Stock Corporation law. The ly and responsibly. These rulebooks contain both actions of Deutsche Börse AG’s governing bodies and legal requirements and special policies applicable to committees are based on the principle of responsible the respective industry segment. corporate governance. Corporate governance aims to promote long-term value creation and to make a Whistleblowing system sustainable contribution to guaranteeing the comDeutsche Börse Group’s whistleblowing system gives pany’s long-term success through transparency and employees and external service providers an oppora values-driven approach: good corporate governance tunity to report non-compliant behaviour. Deutsche boosts­the­confidence­of­investors,­customers,­busiBörse Group has engaged Deloitte & Touche to act ness­partners,­employees­and­the­financial­markets. as an external ombudsman and to receive any information submitted by phone or e-mail. The whistleExecutive Board of Deutsche Börse AG blowers’ identity will remain anonymous at all times The Executive Board heads up Deutsche Börse AG and will not be revealed to Deutsche Börse Group. and Deutsche Börse Group. It temporarily had seven members in December of the year under review, Risk and control management policies but otherwise has six members. Its duties include deFunctioning control systems are an important part fining­the­Group s­corporate­goals­and­strategic­ of stable business processes. Deutsche Börse’s orientation, managing and monitoring the operating Group-wide control systems are embedded in an units,­and­establishing­and­monitoring­an­efficient­ overarching framework. Among other things, this risk management system. The Executive Board is takes into account legal rules, the recommendations responsible for preparing the quarterly and half-yearly of the German Corporate Governance Code, Eurofinancial­reports,­the­consolidated­financial­statepean regulations and recommendations as well as ments and the annual financial statements of further company-specific policies. The people Deutsche Börse AG. In addition, its job is to ensure responsible for the different elements of the control that­legal­requirements­and­official­regulations­are­ system are in close contact with each other and complied with. with the Executive Board and report regularly to the Supervisory Board or its committees. The Group also The members of the Executive Board are jointly rehas a Group-wide risk management system that sponsible for all aspects of management. Irrespeccovers and provides mandatory rules governing roles, tive of the collective responsibility of all members of processes and responsibilities, such as risk limit. the Executive Board, each member manages the company divisions assigned to them in the Board’s 82 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 schedule of responsibilities independently and on Close cooperation between Executive Board and their own responsibility. In addition to the business Supervisory Board areas, there are functional responsibilities; in The Executive and Supervisory Boards work closely addition­to­the­office­of­the­Chief­Executive­Officer,­ together on a basis of mutual trust. They perform these comprise Finance (including Investor Relatheir duties in the interests of the company with the tions), Risk Management, Human Resources and aim of achieving a sustainable increase in value. Compliance. The business responsibilities relate to The Executive Board provides the Supervisory Board operating business areas, such as cash market with regular, timely and comprehensive information on activities and the derivatives business, securities the course of business. In addition, the Executive settlement and custody, information technology and Board informs the Supervisory Board regularly on all the market data business. Further details of the issues concerning business planning, business deExecutive Board’s work are determined in bylaws velopment, the risk situation and risk management as that the Supervisory Board has adopted for the Exwell as the control systems in the company. The ecutive Board. These bylaws specify the responsibiliChairman of the Executive Board reports to the Superties of the Executive Board members for particular visory Board without delay, verbally or in writing, areas, matters reserved for the full Executive Board, on any matters that are of special importance to the special measures that require the approval of the company. The company’s strategic orientation is Supervisory Board and other procedural details and examined in detail and coordinated with the Superresolution procedures. visory Board and its implementation discussed at regular intervals. In particular, the Chairmen of the The Executive Board meets regularly for Executive two Boards maintain regular contact and discuss the Board meetings, which are convened by the Chief Excompany’s strategy, business performance and risk ecutive Officer, who coordinates the work of the management. Moreover, the Supervisory Board can Executive Board. Each Executive Board member can request a report from the Executive Board at any demand that a meeting be convened. In accordance time, especially on matters relating to Deutsche Börse with its bylaws, the full Executive Board normally AG and on business transactions at subsidiaries that takes decisions on the basis of resolutions passed by could­have­a­significant­impact­on­the­position­of­ a simple majority of the members voting on the resDeutsche Börse AG. olution. If an equal number of votes is cast, the Chairman’s vote is decisive. The Chairman also has a veto, Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG although he cannot enforce a resolution against a The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the majority vote. Executive Board in the management of the company. It­supports­it­in­significant­business­decisions­and­ The­Executive­Board­can­establish­fixed-term­Execuprovides assistance in matters of strategic importive Board committees and appoint advisory boards tance.­The­Supervisory­Board­has­defined­measures­ to implement audits or reviews, or prepare Executive that require the approval of the Supervisory Board Board resolutions, but did not make use of this posin the bylaws for the Executive Board. In addition, the sibility­in­financial­year­2012. Supervisory Board is responsible in particular for appointing the members of the Executive Board, for More information on the Executive Board, its comspecifying the total remuneration of each Executive position, the member’s individual appointments Board member and for examining the consolidated and their biographies can be viewed at financial statements and the annual financial statewww.deutsche-boerse.com/execboard ments of Deutsche Börse AG. The work of the Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 83 Corporate governance declaration Supervisory­Board­in­the­2012­financial­year­is­ the­company-specific­qualifications­relate­to­the­Superexplained in the report of the Supervisory Board visory Board as a whole. Moreover, the requirements on pages 70 to 77. catalogue resolved by the Supervisory Board contains specific targets for the adequate representation of Two-thirds of the Supervisory Board’s members are women­and­specifies­a­sufficient­number­of­indepenshareholder representatives and one-third are employee dent Supervisory Board members. Information on the representatives. In accordance with the Articles of composition profile can be found in the corporate Association of Deutsche Börse AG, the Supervisory governance report on pages 86 to 91. Board currently has 18 members. The Supervisory Board s­current­period­of­office­is­three­years ­the­latest­ The committees of the Supervisory Board and their period began at the Annual General Meeting in 2012, working practices whereby­the­periods­of­office­for­the­shareholder­and­ The Supervisory Board has established committees employee representatives are identical. with­the­aim­of­improving­the­efficiency­of­its­work­ by dealing with complex matters in smaller groups The Supervisory Board comes together for regular and preparing them for the Supervisory Board. They meetings in February, March, June, May, September are convened by the chairman of the committee. and December. In addition, extraordinary meetings The Supervisory Board has established six commitare held as required. The committees also hold regtees. The individual responsibilities and the rules of ular meetings. The Supervisory Board passes its procedure for adopting resolutions have been incorresolutions with a simple majority. It regularly reviews porated into the bylaws for the Supervisory Board. the­efficiency­of­its­work,­discusses­areas­for­improveThe rules of procedure correspond to those of the plement and resolves suitable measures to achieve this nary meeting of the Supervisory Board. The tasks wherever necessary. and composition of the individual committees are presented in the table below. The chairmen report to the With regard to its composition, the Supervisory Board plenary meeting about the subjects addressed in, has­resolved­a­requirements­catalogue,­which­specifies­ and resolutions of, the committee meetings. certain­targets.­It­defines­basic­qualifications,­such­ as an understanding of business issues, knowledge of Information on the activities and meetings for the the German corporate governance system, analytical reporting period can be found in the report of the and strategic abilities as well as integrity and suitSupervisory Board. ability of character for the position. In addition, company-specific­qualification­requirements­have­been­ More information on the Supervisory Board and its defined­on­the­basis­of­the­business­model,­concrete­ committees, its composition, the members’ individual objectives­and­specific­regulations­applicable­to­ appointments and their biographies can be viewed at Deutsche Börse Group. They include in particular www.deutsche-boerse.com /supervboard. Informasound knowledge about exchanges, the clearing and tion­on­the­treatment­of­potential­conflicts­of­interest­ settlement­business,­financial,­audit­and­risk­manageis given on page 77 of the report of the Superviment, compliance, accounting and auditing, informasory Board. tion technology and experience of regulatory requirements. Whereas each Supervisory Board member should ideally demonstrate the basic qualifications, 84 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The committees of the Supervisory Board Composition and responsibilities Strategy Committee Members until 16 May 2012 Members as from 16 May 2012 Composition Manfred Gentz Joachim Faber Chairman of the Supervisory Board as committee chairman (Chairman) (Chairman) At­least­five­other­members­who­are­elected­by­the­Supervisory­Board Herbert Bayer Richard Berliand Birgit Bokel Karl-Heinz Floether Responsibilities Joachim Faber Hans-Peter Gabe Advises the Executive Board on matters of strategic importance to Richard M. Hayden Heinz-Joachim Neubürger the company Friedrich Merz Gerhard Roggemann Prepares the positions to be adopted by the plenary meeting of the Supervisory Board for strategic issues Gerhard Roggemann Jutta Stuhlfauth Audit and Finance Committee Members until 16 May 2012 Members as from 16 May 2012 Composition Erhard Schipporeit Erhard Schipporeit ormally­four­members­who­are­elected­by­the­Supervisory­Board (Chairman) (Chairman) Excluded from membership: the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, former Friedrich Merz Friedrich Merz members­of­the­company s­Executive­Board­whose­appointment­ended­less­ Thomas Neiße Heinz-Joachim Neubürger than­two­years­ago Johannes Witt Johannes Witt Prerequisite for the chairman of the committee: he or she must have special knowledge­and­experience­in­the­application­of­financial­reporting­principles­ and­internal­control­methods­as­well­as­independence Responsibilities Deals­with­matters­relating­to­the­preparation­of­the­annual­budget,­risk­ management, internal auditing, control systems, accounting, reporting, compliance and other related issues Discusses­and­examines­in­detail­the­financial­statement­documents­including­ the­auditor s­report­on­the­annual­and­consolidated­financial­statements­as­ well­as­the­half-yearly­financial­report­and­the­interim­reports Reports­to­the­Supervisory­Board­on­the­examination­of­the­annual­financial­ statements­and­the­consolidated­financial­statements­and­recommends­approval Commissions­the­auditor,­fixes­the­audit­fees,­establishes­the­areas­of­emphasis of the audit, obtains the necessary statement of independence from the auditors, prepares of the Supervisory Board’s proposal to the Annual General Meeting for the election of the auditors Technology Committee Members until 16 May 2012 Members as from 16 May 2012 Composition Craig Heimark Craig Heimark ormally­four­members­who­are­elected­by­the­Supervisory­Board (Chairman) (Chairman) Richard Berliand Karl-Heinz Floether Responsibilities David Krell David Krell Advises the plenary meeting of the Supervisory Board on all issues relating to Roland Prantl Martin Ulrici IT development and the organisation of data processing at Deutsche Börse AG and­its­affiliated­companies Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 85 Corporate governance declaration Clearing and Settlement Committee Members until 16 May 2012 Members as from 16 May 2012 Composition Konrad Hummler Richard Berliand ormally­four­members­who­are­elected­by­the­Supervisory­Board (Chairman) (Chairman) Joachim Faber Irmtraud Busch Responsibilities Thomas Neiße Monica Mächler Advises the plenary meeting of the Supervisory Board on the assessment of Norfried Stumpf Thomas Neiße relevant regulatory trends at national and European level and on estimating the impacts of these trends on Deutsche Börse Group Personnel Committee Members until 16 May 2012 Members as from 16 May 2012 Composition Manfred Gentz Joachim Faber Chairman of the Supervisory Board as committee chairman (Chairman) (Chairman) At­least­three­other­members­who­are­elected­by­the­Supervisory­Board,­one­ Hans-Peter Gabe Marion Fornoff of them being an employee representative Richard M. Hayden Richard M. Hayden Gerhard Roggemann Gerhard Roggemann Responsibilities Deals­with­matters­relating­to­the­service­contracts­of­Executive­Board­members, in particular, the structure and amount of their remuneration Deals­with­personnel­development­and­succession­planning­of­the­Executive­ Board Approves appointments of Deutsche Börse AG’s Executive Board members to other executive boards, supervisory boards, advisory boards and similar boards, honorary­offices­and­secondary­activities,­as­well­as­other­related­issues Approves matters relating to the Executive Board’s agreement on employees’ retirement­benefits,­to­the­Executive­Board s­granting­of­individual-legally­ retirement­benefits­or­to­the­intention­to­reach­company­agreements­through­ the­definition­of­pension­plans Nomination Committee Members until 16 May 2012 Members as from 16 May 2012 Composition Manfred Gentz Joachim Faber ormally­three­members:­exclusively­shareholder­representatives­who­are­also­ (Chairman) (Chairman) represented on the Personnel Committee Richard M. Hayden Richard M. Hayden The Chairman of the Personnel Committee also chairs the Nomination ComGerhard Roggemann Gerhard Roggemann mittee Responsibilities Proposes to the Supervisory Board suitable candidates for election to be proposed to the Annual General Meeting 86 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Corporate governance report Corporate governance stands for responsible corporate management and­control.­Good­corporate­governance­boosts­the­confidence­of­ investors,­business­partners,­employees­and­the­financial­markets.­ It is therefore indispensable for sustaining the company’s success. Corporate governance and declaration Almost all the suggestions of the German Corporate of conformity Governance Code have been and will be complied with. To the extent that deviations exist, they relate Deutsche Börse Group attaches great importance to to the following: the principles of responsible corporate governance and control. The corporate governance report is pub Broadcast of the Annual General Meeting using lished in accordance with the requirements of the modern communication media in accordance with German Corporate Governance Code in combination no. 2.3.4 of the German Corporate Governance Code with the corporate governance declaration. Shareholders of Deutsche Börse AG were able to follow the entire 2012 Annual General Meeting of the The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of company on the Internet as provided for by the sugDeutsche Börse AG submitted their declaration gestion in no. 2.3.4 of the German Corporate Goverof conformity in accordance with section 161 of the nance Code. The opening speeches of the Supervisory Aktiengeset ­(AktG,­German­Stock­Corporation­Act)­ and Executive Boards at the 2013 Annual General on 10 December 2012. With this declaration, the Meeting will again be broadcast on the Internet. Howcompany­confirms­to­act­according­to­a­predominant­ ever,­no­decision­has­yet­been­taken­on­whether­to­ number of recommendations of the German Corpobroadcast the entire 2013 Annual General Meeting rate Governance Code. on the Internet. The annual declaration of conformity in accordance Separate preparatory meetings for shareholder and with­section­161­of­the­AktG­is­printed­in­the­ employee representatives in accordance with no. 3.6 corporate governance declaration in accordance of the German Corporate Governance Code with­section­289a­of­the­Handelsgeset buch­(HGB,­ The proposal to hold separate preparatory meetings German­Commercial­Code)­and­is­publicly­available­ for shareholder and employee representatives, which on the company’s website at www.deutsche-boerse. had been included as a suggestion in the old version com /declconformity The declarations of conformity of the Code, no longer has that status in the new verfor­the­previous­five­years­can­also­be­accessed­there. sion of the Code of 15 May 2012. It had in any case been normal practice in the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG not to hold separate preparatory meetings of shareholder and employee representatives Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 87 Corporate governance report before Supervisory Board meetings as a standard Equally,­in­future­appointments­will­run­with­a­flex­practice, but only when necessary. Since no. 3.6 of ible upper age limit up to the end of the month in the German Corporate Governance Code is no longer which the Executive Board member turns 60. From a suggestion, no deviation has existed since the the month in which the Executive Board member Code was amended. turns 60, he or she can be reappointed for a period of one year at a time. However, the last period of appointment should end at the end of the month in Corporate Governance at Deutsche Börse Group which the Executive Board member turns 65. Women in management positions The Supervisory Board appoints members to the Hauke Stars, who was appointed with effect from Executive Board with the aim of optimising the com1­December­2012,­is­the­first­woman­to­become­a­ position of this body in the interests of the company. member of the Executive Board of Deutsche Börse AG. Experience, sector know-how and personal specialist As a result, the objective of nominating a female memqualifications­play­an­important­role­in­this­regard.­ ber for the Executive Board by 2015 was already Depending on the Board post to be filled, it is not met in 2012. only­the­range­and­depth­of­specific­experience­that­ matter, but also whether this experience is up to In addition, Deutsche Börse Group aims to increase date.­The­new­flexible­upper­age­limit­is­designed­in­ the proportion of women in middle and upper manparticular to address the issue. It has been worded agement to 20 per cent by 2015. In the year under deliberately loosely to allow the Supervisory Board review, women accounted for 13 per cent of employto retain full flexibility in its appointment decisions. ees in middle and upper management positions at The new upper age limit is to come into force as soon Deutsche Börse Group. as the abolition of the statutory existing limit has become effective. Adequate representation of women continues to be taken into account in long-term succession planning. Composition of the Supervisory Board The Group has established a number of programmes The current composition of the Supervisory Board of that­are­specifically­designed­to­develop­talented­ Deutsche Börse AG is such that its members in the staff and thus also qualify women for management aggregate have the knowledge, skills and specialist positions. expertise to duly carry out their tasks and the Supervisory­Board­corresponds­to­the­specified­qualificaFlexible upper age limit for Executive Board tion­profile. members In accordance with Article 6 (3) of the Articles of Association of Deutsche Börse AG, membership of the Executive Board generally terminates when the members attain the age of 60. The Supervisory Board believes that this upper age limit is no longer in line with modern practice and intends to propose to the 2013 Annual General Meeting that the relevant provisions in the Articles of Association be abolished. 88 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 ualification profile o the Supervisory Board Whereas each Supervisory Board member should With regard to its composition, and in particular to the ideally­demonstrate­the­basic­qualifications,­the­ future nomination of Supervisory Board members, the company-specific­qualifications­relate­to­the­SuperviSupervisory Board has resolved a requirements sory Board as a whole. In addition, members should catalogue in accordance with no. 5.4.1 of the German have enough time to perform their duties. Corporate­Governance­Code.­This­catalogue­specifies­ certain targets, which are set out below. Independence of the Supervisory Board With a view to further professionalising the superviMembers of the Supervisory Board should have the sory­board­work­of­listed­German­companies,­the­ knowledge,­skills­and­specialist­expertise­necessary­ Government Commission on the German Corporate to enable them to carry out the duties of a superGovernance Code in 2012 put a special focus on visory board member in an international company. To issues relating to the independence of supervisory this­end,­the­Supervisory­Board­has­defined­general­ board members representing the shareholders. Accord(basic)­and­company-specific­qualification­requireing to the newly worded no. 5.4.2 of the German ments see text box.­The­company-specific­qualifiCorporate Governance Code, a Supervisory Board cation requirements are derived from the business member is not to be considered independent in parmodel,­concrete­objectives­and­specific­regulations­ ticular if he or she has personal or business relations applicable to Deutsche Börse Group. with the company, its executive bodies, a controlling shareholder or an enterprise associated with the latter which may cause a substantial and not merely temualification re uirements or members o the ­p orary­conflict­of­interests.­In­relation­to­the­number­ Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG Basic­qualification­requirements: of independent Supervisory Board members, the Understanding of business issues Nomination Committee recommended to the SuperBasic­knowledge­and­understanding­of­the­ visory Board on 26 November 2012 that at least half German corporate governance system of its shareholder representatives should be indepenAnalytical and strategic abilities dent­as­defined­in­no.­5.4.2­of­the­German­Corporate­ Integrity and suitability of character for the position Governance Code. The Supervisory Board followed this recommendation at its meeting on 19 February 2013. Company specific ualification re uirements Sound­knowledge­about: In its current composition, the Supervisory Board Exchange business models meets the target resolved by the Supervisory Board. The clearing and settlement business International asset management Financial,­audit­and­risk­management­as­well­as­compliance Accounting and auditing Information technology Regulatory requirements Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 89 Corporate governance report Women on the Supervisory Board Supervisory­Board­performed­its­efficiency­audit­in­ The election of Monica Mächler as a Supervisory the form of an internal survey, focusing on evaluating Board member by the Annual General Meeting on the body’s expectations and its focus in its future 16 May 2012 means that the objective of recruiting activities following the elections in 2012. The Supera female Supervisory Board member representing the visory­Board­considers­its­work­to­be­well­organised­ shareholders has been met. In addition, the Superviand emphasises the importance of time management sory Board intends to increase to at least three the and setting priorities. number of female shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board by 2015. Including the employee Flexible upper age limit for Supervisory Board representatives, the Supervisory Board currently has members four female members. Moreover, the goal is to conThe­rules­specifying­a­flexible­upper­age­limit­(gen­tinue­to­reflect­the­company s­international­profile­in­ erally­70)­set­out­by­the­Supervisory­Board­in­its­ the composition of Supervisory Board members in bylaws­are­taken­into­account­when­candidates­are­ the future. proposed to the Annual General Meeting. Education and training measures for the Supervisory Board Transparent reporting In principle, members of the Supervisory Board are responsible for ensuring their own training and To ensure maximum transparency and information further education. In addition, Deutsche Börse AG equality, corporate communication at Deutsche Börse complies­with­the­recommendation­in­no.­5.4.5­(2)­ adopts the rule that all target groups must receive all of the German Corporate Governance Code to relevant­information­at­the­same­time.­In­its­financial­ support the training and further education of Supercalendar, Deutsche Börse AG therefore informs sharevisory­Board­members.­For­example,­it­offers­specific­ holders, analysts, shareholders’ associations, the introduction seminars for new Supervisory Board media­and­the­interested­public­of­key­events­such­ members­and­presents­workshops­on­selected­ as the date of the Annual General Meeting or publistrategic issues and, if necessary, technical topics. cation­dates­for­financial­indicators.­In­addition­to­ad­ hoc disclosures, information on directors’ dealings and ficiency audit o the or o the Supervisory Board voting­rights­notifications,­the­company s­website­ Deutsche Börse AG regards regular reviews of the www.deutsche-boerse.com also provides the latest efficiency­of­Supervisory­Board­work­in­accordance­ corporate report, annual reports, interim reports, corwith no. 5.6 of the German Corporate Governance porate responsibility reports and company news items. Code­as­a­key­component­of­good­corporate­governance. These reviews put it in a position to improve processes continuously and provide fresh impetus for goal-oriented­working.­In­the­year­under­review,­the­ 90 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Deutsche Börse AG supplies information about the Accounting and auditing annual­and­consolidated­financial­statements­at­a­ financials­press­conference.­Following­the­publication­ In its corporate report, Deutsche Börse AG informs of the interim reports, it offers conference calls for shareholders and the interested public in detail of analysts and investors. In addition, it explains its Deutsche Börse Group’s business performance in the strategy and informs all interested parties in accordyear under review. The company publishes further ance with the principle of providing information simulextensive­information­with­its­half-yearly­financial­report­ taneously to all target groups worldwide. and­two­quarterly­financial­reports. In addition, Deutsche Börse submitted a declaration The­financial­statement­documents­and­the­corporate­ of conformity with the German Sustainability Code report are published within 90 days of the end of the for­the­2012­financial­year.­The­German­Sustainability­ financial­year­(31­December) ­interim­reports­(halfCode is a voluntary instrument that companies can yearly­and­quarterly­financial­reports)­are­available­ use­to­make­their­own­sustainability­performance­pub­within 45 days of the end of the quarter or six-month licly accessible and comparable. It uses 20 criteria period concerned. Following preparatory discussions and the associated performance indicators to explain by the Audit and Finance Committee, the consolidated aspects of corporate governance, ecology, and social and­the­annual­financial­statements­are­discussed­ responsibility and document them using performance and examined by the plenary meeting of the Superviindicators. The substance of the Code is based on sory Board and with the auditor before being approved. recognised principles such as: The Executive Board discusses the half-yearly report and­the­quarterly­reports­for­the­first­and­third­quar­ters with the Supervisory Board’s Audit and Finance Recognised principles on corporate governance, Committee before publication. The half-yearly report ecology and social responsibility is reviewed by the auditor. The UN Global Compact, www.unglobalcompact.org The OECD Principles of Corporate Governance, www.oecd.org Following the proposal of the Supervisory Board, the ISO 26000, www.iso.org Annual General Meeting 2012 elected KPMG AG The­Global­Reporting­Initiative­(GRI), www.globalreporting.org Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, domiciled in Berlin The­EFFAS­standards­for­European­financial­analysts www.effas.net ( MG),­to­audit­its­2012­annual­and­consolidated­ financial­statements­and­to­review­its­half-yearly­finan­cial­report­in­financial­year­2012.­The­Supervisory­ Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 91 Corporate governance report Board’s proposal was based on the recommendation Other sections with a bearing on corporate governance by the Audit and Finance Committee. Before the elecInformation relating to corporate governance is also provided in tion, the Audit and Finance Committee had obtained other sections of this corporate report: the necessary statement of independence from KPMG In his letter on pages 6 to 10­the­Chief­Executive­Officer­ according to which there were no personal, business, provides­information­about­financial­year­2012­and­the­future­ financial,­or­other­relationships­between­the­auditors,­ orientation of the company. its governing bodies and audit managers on the one The corporate governance declaration in accordance with section 289a of the HGB on pages 78 to 85 gives, among other hand, and the company and the members of its things, detailed information on the way the Executive Board Executive and Supervisory Boards on the other, that and­the­Supervisory­Board­work.­It­also­contains­the­declaracould give cause to doubt the auditors’ indepention­of­conformity­in­accordance­with­section­161­of­the­AktG. dence. The Audit and Finance Committee monitored The remuneration report discloses the individual total remuneration of the governing bodies and explains the current the continued existence of this independence during remuneration system. financial­year­2012. Deutsche Börse Group’s control systems are presented on pages 112 to 113 of the combined management report. The­Committee­also­supervised­the­financial­repor­tThe change in the number of employees in the year under review ing­process­in­financial­year­2012.­The­Supervisory­ is reported in the “Employees” section on pages 148 and 193 of the combined management report. and Executive Boards were informed promptly of its Deutsche­Börse­Group s­commitment­to­its­stakeholders­and­ work­and­findings.­There­were­no­material­findings­in­ society as a whole, as well as the activities it performs for its the­past­financial­year.­Information­on­audit­services­ employees are described in the “Responsibility” section of this and audit fees is provided in note 6 of the notes to corporate report, see pages 48 to 63. the­consolidated­financial­statements. Information on securities-based incentive programmes for senior executives and employees can be found in note 39 of­the­notes­to­the­consolidated­financial­statements. Details of recent directors’ dealings can be accessed on the company’s website at www.deutsche-boerse.com/dd. 92 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Remuneration report This remuneration report is a component of the combined management report.­The­report­reflects­the­requirements­of­the­Handelsgeset buch­ (HGB,­the­German­Commercial­Code)­and­the­International­Financial­ Reporting­Standards­(IFRSs),­respectively,­as­well­as­the­German­ Accounting­Standard­(GAS)­17­“Reporting­on­the­Remuneration­of­Members­of­Governing­Bodies”.­In­addition,­the­report­corresponds­to­the­ requirements­of­the­German­Corporate­Governance­Code­(the­Code).­ Executive Board remuneration within­the­target­definition­and­within­the­measurement­of­the­achievement­of­the­target­criteria.­ Remuneration system and targets The­Executive­Board­remuneration­is­designed­in­a­ The­remuneration­of­the­Executive­Board­is­deterway­that­rewards­sustainably­successful­and­responmined­by­the­entire­Supervisory­Board.­The­ ersonnel­ sible­corporate­governance.­The­remuneration­sysCommittee­is­responsible­for­preparing­the­Supertem­provides­incentives­based­on­multi-year­assessvisory­Board s­decision.­The­Supervisory­Board­ ment­periods­and­aims­to­prevent­unjustifiable­risks­ regularly­reviews­the­appropriateness­of­the­Execufrom­being­taken.­The­company s­economic­performtive­Board­remuneration.­The­ chart­below­outance,­stakeholder­management,­succession­planlines­the­Executive­Board­remuneration­system.­ ning­for­management­positions,­employee­satisfaction­ The­system­aims­to­compensate­the­Executive­ as­well­as­the­value­contribution­made­to­the­ Board­members­appropriately­for­their­tasks­and­ economy­and­society­over­the­medium­and­long­term,­ respon­si­bilities,­as­well­as­in­accordance­with­legal­ are­key­components­of­the­remuneration­system­ requirements. System­of­the­Executive­Board­remuneration Remuneration component Performance period Performance parameter Variable cash component et­income­Deutsche­Börse­Group­ 2010­ ­2012 Individual­targets Variable share component Comparison­of­total­shareholder­ return­Deutsche­Börse­AG­share­and­ STOXX®­Europe­600­Financials­index Fixed remuneration 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ­ ariable­cash­remuneration­(range­0­ ­200­per­cent),­pay-out­spring­2013 ­ ariable­share­remuneration­(range­0­ ­200­per­cent),­pay-out­spring­2015 ­Fixed­remuneration,­pay-out­in­twelve­equal­payments­in­2012 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 93 Remuneration report 2012­expense­for­share-based­payments­ 2012­expense­for­share-based­payments­ (2009­tranche)1) (2010,­2011­and­2012­tranches) Carrying amount Expense Carrying amount Expense as at the balance recognised as at the balance recognised sheet date (2009 tranche) sheet date (2010 – 2012 (2010 – 2012 (2009 tranche) tranches) tranches) € thousands € thousands € thousands € thousands Reto­Francioni 111.5 0 Reto­Francioni 801.7 1,416.3 Andreas­ reuss 86.1 0 Andreas­ reuss 665.1 1,174.9 Frank­Gerstenschl ger 54.3 0 Frank­Gerstenschl ger 409.9 724.2 Michael­ uhn 69.5 0 Michael­ uhn 521.7 921.6 Gregor­ ottmeyer 0 0 Gregor­ ottmeyer 443.4 783.3 Hauke­Stars 0 0 Hauke­Stars 10.8 10.8 effrey­Tessler 40.3 0 effrey­Tessler 525.5 928.5 Total 361.7 0 Total 3,378.1 5,959.6 1)­In­2009,­the­last­tranche­of­the­old­stock­bonus­plan­was­allocated. Non-performance-related remuneration components like­an­accident­insurance­and­a­D O­insurance.­ on-performance-related­remuneration­consists­of­ The­D O­insurance­policy­includes­a­deductible­of­ a­monthly­fixed­basic­remuneration­as­well­as­ancil10­per­cent­of­the­damages­arising­from­the­in­lary­contractual­benefits. sured­event,­with­the­maximum­deductible­per­year­ set­by­the­Supervisory­Board­at­1.5­times­the­ Fixed remuneration fixed­annual­remuneration­of­the­relevant­Executive­ The­members­of­the­Executive­Board­receive­a­fixed­ Board­member. basic­salary­in­twelve­monthly­instalments.­The­ basic­salary­represents­approximately­30­per­cent­ Performance-related remuneration components of­the­total­target­remuneration­for­one­year.­It­is­ The­performance-related­remuneration­represents­ reviewed­by­the­Supervisory­Board­on­a­regular­basis,­ approximately­70­per­cent­of­the­total­target­remuneat­least­every­two­years. ration­for­the­year­and­consists­of­variable­cash­and­ variable­share­components.­Starting­in­the­year­unncillary contractual benefits der­review,­the­reference­periods­for­performance­ In­addition­to­the­basic­remuneration,­the­members­ measurement­are­based­on­the­past­three­years­for­ of­the­Executive­Board­receive­certain­ancillary­ the­variable­cash­component­and­on­the­next­three­ contractual­benefits.­These­include­the­provision­ years­for­the­variable­share­component.­Consequently,­ of­an­appropriate­company­car­for­business­and­ in­the­year­under­review,­the­variable­cash­component­ personal­use.­Tax­is­payable­by­the­Executive­Board­ was­determined­based­on­performance­in­2010­to­ members­on­the­pecuniary­benefit­arising­from­pri2012­and­the­variable­share­component­was­based­ vate­use.­In­addition,­members­of­the­Executive­Board­ on­the­period­from­2012­to­2014. receive­taxable­contributions­towards­private­pen­sions.­ The­company­also­takes­out­insurances­for­them,­ 94 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 of­the­variable­cash­component­for­the­current­finan­2012­total­expense cial­year.­The­Supervisory­Board­has­to­take­into­ac­(numbers­of­the­previous­year­in­brackets) count­exceptional,­one-off­effects­when­determining­ the­level­of­target­achievement.­ Expense Carrying amount recognised as at the balance (total) sheet date (total) Achievement of individual targets: One-third­of­the­ € thousands € thousands variable­cash­component­is­deter­mined­based­on­the­ Reto­Francioni 913.2 1,416.3 degree­to­which­each­member­of­the­Executive­Board­ (469.4) (1,028.5) has­achieved­their­individual­targets.­The­individual­ Andreas­ reuss 751.2 1,174.9 targets­are­set­in­each­case­for­the­current­financial­ (384.8) (829.4) year.­Target­achievement­is­determined­after­the­year­ Frank­Gerstenschl ger 464.2 724.2 (238.1) (515.8) has­come­to­an­end.­The­target­achievement­for­the­ Michael­ uhn 591.2 921.6 variable­cash­component­can­range­from­0­per­cent­to­ (303.3) (658.0) a maximum of 200 per cent. Gregor­ ottmeyer 443.4 783.3 (215.0) (339.9) Hauke­Stars 10.8 10.8 (0) (0) Measurement­of­the­target­achievement­for­the­ effrey­Tessler 565.8 928.5 (308.1) (676.3) variable­stock­bonus­ Comparison­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG s­total­shareholder­return­with­that­ Total 3,739.8 5,959.6 of STOXX®­600­Financials­(peer­group) (1,918.7) (4,047.9) Target­achievement­( ) 1) 200 175 Variable cash component 150 The­Supervisory­Board­establishes­the­100­per­cent­ 125 target­value­of­the­variable­cash­component­in­euros­ 100 for­every­Executive­Board­member­each­year.­Two­ 75 parameters­are­used­to­measure­the­extent­to­which­ 50 targets­have­been­met: 25 Achievement of the Group’s net income target: 0 Two-thirds­of­the­variable­cash­component­is­based­ 75 50 25 0 25 50 75 100 125 on­meeting­a­specified­net­income­target­for­the­ Group,­and­hence­on­a­corresponding­return­on­equity.­ TSR outperformance compared with­peer­group­(in­ ) This­measure­takes­into­account­the­Group s­net­ income­for­the­current­financial­year­and­the­two­pre­1)­Cap­at­200­per­cent ceding­years.­The­degree­to­which­the­targets­have­ been­achieved­is­determined­for­each­of­the­three­ financial­years,­and­can­range­from­0­per­cent­to­a­ Variable share component maximum­of­200­per­cent.­The­average­level­of­tarThe­Supervisory­Board­establishes­the­100­per­cent­ get­achievement­is­then­used­to­calculate­two-thirds­ target­value­for­the­variable­share­component­for­ each­Executive­Board­member­in­euros.­Based­on­this­ Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 95 Remuneration report target value, a number of phantom Deutsche Börse shares is calculated for each member of the ExecuMeasurement of the target achievement for the tive­Board­at­the­beginning­of­the­financial­year.­This­ variable cash component is­done­by­dividing­the­euro­amount­of­the­target­ Comparison of the net income target share­component­by­the­average­share­price­(Xetra ® with the actual net income closing price) in the two calendar months before the Degree of target achievement (%) target value is determined. An entitlement to the variable­stock­bonus­only­arises­at­the­end­of­the­ 200 three-year­performance­period­(vesting­period)­and­ 175 is­settled­fully­in­cash.­The­stock­bonus­is­variable­ 150 in­two­ways:­the­first­variable­is­the­number­of­phantom Deutsche Börse shares, which depends on the 125 relative performance of Deutsche Börse’s total 100 shareholder­return­(TSR)­compared­to­the­TSR­of­ 75 the­STOXX ®­Europe­600­Financials­Index.­The­ second variable is the share price at the end of the 50 period. 25 The­number­of­shares­calculated­at­the­end­of­the­ 0 Net income target (€) vesting­period­is­multiplied­by­the­share­price­apActual net income plicable­on­that­date­(average­price Xetra­closing­ price of Deutsche Börse’s shares in the preceding two full calendar months). A modified Black-Scholes option pricing model (Merton model) was used to measure the stock opIf the average performance of Deutsche Börse AG’s tions arising from the variable share component. TSR­in­the­vesting­period­moves­parallel­to­the­ It is based on the following valuation parameters: average­TSR­of­the­benchmark­index,­the­number­of­ phantom shares remains unchanged at the end of this­period.­If­the­TSR­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG­is­50­ per­cent­or­less­than­the­index s­TSR,­the­number­ Valuation parameters of­phantom­shares­falls­to­nil.­If­the­TSR­of­Deutsche­ (2010, 2011 und 2012 tranches) Börse­AG­is­at­least­twice­the­index s­TSR,­the­ Share Share Share number of phantom shares doubles. Concerning the component component component variable share component, a double cap exists. First2012 2011 2010 ly,­the­performance­of­the­allocated­phantom­shares­ Term 3­years 2­years 1­year is restricted to a maximum of 200 per cent, at the Risk-free­interest­rate % – 0.04 – 0.04 0.02 ratio­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG s­TSR­to­the­TSR­of­the­ olatility % 31.50 27.01 8.90 peer­group.­Secondly,­the­Supervisory­Board­settled­ Deutsche Börse AG a maximum of 250 per cent of the original target share price 1) € 46.21 46.21 46.21 value­as­the­upper­limit­for­the­payment­of­the­var­Dividend­yield € 4.54 4.54 4.54 iable share component. Fair value € 42.11 44.03 46.03 Relative­total­ The­following­chart­shows­the­relationship­between­ shareholder return % – 8.16 1.20 5.68 TSR­performance­and­the­number­of­shares: 1)­Share­price­as­at­31­December­2012­(Xetra­closing­price) 96 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 umber­of­2012­phantom­shares Adjustments Number of of number of Number of phantom shares phantom shares phantom shares on the since the as at grant date 1) grant date 2) 31 Dec 2012 Reto­Francioni 2012­tranche 18,204 1,854 16,350 2011­tranche 14,866 179 15,045 2010­tranche 16,448 935 17,383 Total of 2010 to 2012 tranches 48,778 Andreas­ reuss 2012­tranche 15,101 1,538 13,563 2011­tranche 12,332 148 12,480 2010­tranche 13,645 776 14,421 Total of 2010 to 2012 tranches 40,464 Frank­Gerstenschl ger 2012­tranche 9,308 948 8,360 2011­tranche 7,601 92 7,693 2010­tranche 8,411 478 8,889 Total of 2010 to 2012 tranches 24,942 Michael­ uhn 2012­tranche 11,847 1,207 10,640 2011­tranche 9,674 117 9,791 2010­tranche 10,704 608 11,312 Total of 2010 to 2012 tranches 31,743 Gregor­ ottmeyer 2012­tranche 10,068 1,025 9,043 2011­tranche 8,222 99 8,321 2010­tranche 9,097 517 9,614 Total of 2010 to 2012 tranches 26,978 Hauke­Stars 3) 2012­tranche 935 95 840 2011­tranche 2010­tranche Total of 2010 to 2012 tranches 840 effrey­Tessler 2012­tranche 11,934 1,216 10,718 2011­tranche 9,745 117 9,862 2010­tranche 10,783 613 11,396 Total of 2010 to 2012 tranches 31,976 Total of 2010 to 2012 tranches 205,721 1)­As­from­2010,­the­variable­share­component­has­a­vesting­period­of­three­years. 2)­­T he­adjustments­to­and­number­of­phantom­shares­on­the­balance­sheet­date­are­based­on­the­result­of­the­performance­comparison­since­the­grant­date­(total­­share­holder­return­comparison­with­peer­group)­and­are­indicative­for­2012.­The­number­may­change­as­a­result­of­the­performance­comparison­based­on­the­total­ shareholder­return­in­2013­and­2014. 3)­Appointed­to­the­Executive­Board­effective­1­December­2012 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 97 Remuneration report Amount of Executive Board remuneration The­overview­below­shows­the­remuneration­awarded­to­each­Executive­Board­member­for­financial­years­ 2012­and­2011,­not­including­retirement­benefits. Total­Executive­Board­remuneration­for­2012,­without­retirement­benefits (numbers­of­the­previous­year­in­brackets) Other remuneration Non-performance from ancillary related contractual Variable cash Variable share remuneration enefits 1) payment component 2) Total Number Amount of phantom at the grant shares date 3) € thousands € thousands € thousands € thousands € thousands Reto­Francioni 1,100.0 17.0 1,445.5 18,204 839.0 3,401.5 (1,100.0) (60.1) (1,596.6) (14,866) (839.0) (3,595.7) Andreas­ reuss 4) 800.0 29.0 1,199.7 15,101 696.0 2,724.7 (800.0) (29.0) (1,325.1) (12,332) (696.0) (2,850.1) Frank­Gerstenschl ger 580.0 28.2 699.0 9,308 429.0 1,736.2 (580.0) (26.8) (776.1) (7,601) (429.0) (1,811.9) Michael­ uhn 650.0 20.1 875.8 11,847 546.0 2,091.9 (650.0) (20.1) (990.6) (9,674) (546.0) (2,206.7) Gregor­ ottmeyer 600.0 17.3 799.8 10,068 464.0 1,881.1 (600.0) (23.9) (902.0) (8,222) (464.0) (1,989.9) Hauke­Stars 5) 48.3 4.8 69.6 935 38.8 161.5 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) effrey­Tessler 6) 729.4 32.0 947.1 11,934 550.0 2,258.5 (711.7) (32.0) (1,013.1) (9,745) (550.0) (2,306.8) Total 4,507.7 148.4 6,036.5 77,397 3,562.8 14,255.4 (4,441.7) (191.9) (6,603.5) (62,440) (3,524.0) (14,761.1) 1)­­O ther­remuneration­comprises­salary­components­such­as­taxable­contributions­towards­private­pensions,­taxable­lump-sum­telephone­allowances living­expenses,­ and­company­car­arrangements. 2)­­T he­number­of­stock­options­at­the­2012­grant­date­is­calculated­by­dividing­the­target­for­the­stock­bonus­by­the­average­share­price­(Xetra­closing­price)­of­ Deutsche­Börse­shares­in­the­calendar­months­ anuary­and­February­2012­(€46.09).­The­number­of­phantom­shares­is­indicative­and­may­change­as­a­result­of­ the­performance­comparison­based­on­total­shareholder­return. 3)­­C orresponds­to­the­100­per­cent­target­value­for­the­2012­phantom­stock­bonus.­The­variable­stock­component­under­the­2012­ ­2014­performance­assessment­ will­be­paid­out­in­2015. 4)­­D eutsche­Börse­AG­contributes­€215.7­thousand­(2011:­€225.7­thousand)­to­total­remuneration­for­Andreas­ reuss.­This­amount­is­composed­as­follows:­ non-performance­related­remuneration:­€64.0­thousand­(2011:­€64.0­thousand),­other­remuneration­from­ancillary­contractual­benefits:­nil­(2011:­nil),­variable­ cash­payment:­€96.0­thousand­(2011:­€106.0­thousand),­number­of­phantom­shares:­€1,209­(2011:­987),­their­amount­at­the­grant­date:­€55.7­thousand­ (2011:­€55.7­thousand). 5)­Appointed­to­the­Executive­Board­effective­1­December­2012 6)­­D eutsche­Börse­AG­does­not­contribute­to­total­remuneration­for­ effrey­Tessler.­Clearstream­International­S.A.­pays­out­100­per­cent­of­the­remuneration. 98 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Retirement benefits efined contribution retirement benefit system Mr­Francioni,­Mr­ ottmeyer­and­Mr­Tessler­are­enFor­Executive­Board­members­to­whom­the­defined­ titled­to­pension­benefits­after­reaching­the­age­ contribution­retirement­benefit­system­applies,­the­ of­60,­Ms­Stars­after­reaching­the­age­of­62,­and­ company­makes­a­contribution­in­the­form­of­a­ Mr­Gerstenschl ger,­Mr­ uhn­and­Mr­ reuss­after­ capital­component­in­each­calendar­year­they­serve­ reaching­the­age­of­63,­provided­that­they­are­no­ on­the­Executive­Board.­This­contribution­is­deterlonger­in­the­employment­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG­in­ mined­by­applying­an­individual­replacement­rate­to­ each­case­at­that­time.­There­are­two­different­ the­pensionable­income.­As­in­the­defined­benefit­ retirement­benefit­systems­for­Deutsche­Börse­AG­ retirement­benefit­system,­the­pensionable­income­is­ Executive­Board­members:­Executive­Board­memdetermined­and­regularly­reviewed­by­the­Supervisory­ bers­who­were­appointed­for­the­first­time­before­ Board.­The­annual­capital­components­calculated­ 1­ anuary­2009­receive­a­defined­benefit­pension.­ in­this­way­bear­annual­interest­of­3­per­cent.­The­proExecutive­Board­members­who­were­appointed­for­ visions­of­the­defined­contribution­retirement­benefit­ the­first­time­after­that­date­receive­a­defined­ system­apply­to­Mr­ ottmeyer­and­Ms­Stars. contribution­pension.­The­pensionable­income­and­ the­present­value­of­the­existing­pension­commitEarly retirement pension ments­as­at­31­December­2012­are­presented­in­ Members­of­the­Executive­Board­who­have­a­defined­ the table­on­page­99. benefit­pension­are­entitled­to­an­early­retirement­ pension­if­the­company­does­not­extend­their­contract,­ efined benefit retirement benefit system unless­the­reason­for­this­is­attributable­to­the­ After­reaching­the­contractually­agreed­retirement­ Executive­Board­member­or­would­justify­termination­ age,­members­of­the­Executive­Board­to­whom­the­ without­notice­of­the­Executive­Board­member s­condefined­benefit­retirement­benefit­system­is­applictract.­The­amount­of­the­early­retirement­pension­is­ able­receive­a­specified­percentage­(replacement­rate)­ calculated­in­the­same­way­as­the­retirement­beneof­their­individual­pensionable­income­as­a­pension.­ fits­by­applying­the­relevant­replacement­rate­to­the­ This­is­subject­to­the­Executive­Board­member­in­ pensionable­income.­Again,­this­is­subject­to­the­Ex­question­having­served­on­the­Executive­Board­for­ ecutive­Board­member­having­served­on­the­Executive­ at­least­three­years­and­having­been­reappointed­ Board­for­at­least­three­years­and­having­been­re­at­least­once.­ ensionable­income­is­determined­and­ appointed­at­least­once.­Members­of­the­Executive­ regularly­reviewed­by­the­Supervisory­Board.­ hen­ Board­who­have­a­defined­contribution­pension­are­ the­term­of­office­began,­the­replacement­rate­was­ not­eligible­for­early­retirement­benefits. 30­per­cent.­It­rose­by­five­percentage­points­with­ each­reappointment,­up­to­a­maximum­of­50­per­cent.­ Death and permanent occupational The­provisions­of­the­defined­benefit­retirement­benefit­ incapacity benefits system­apply­to­Mr­Francioni,­Mr­Gerstenschl ger,­ In­the­event­of­the­permanent­occupational­incapaMr­ uhn,­Mr­ reuss­and­Mr­Tessler. city­of­a­member­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG s­Executive­ Board,­the­company­is­entitled­to­retire­the­Executive­ Board­member­in­question.­ ermanent­occupational­ incapacity­exists­if­an­Executive­Board­member­is­ Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 99 Remuneration report Retirement­benefits Pensionable Present value / income1) Replacement rate defined enefit o ligation Pension expense as at as at as at as at 2012 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 2012 2011 € thousands € thousands € thousands € thousands € thousands efined enefit system Reto­Francioni 1,000.0 40.0 35.0 10,647.8 8,170.4 0 0 Andreas­ reuss 600.0 40.0 40.0 5,796.8 4,036.6 683.7 675.2 Frank­Gerstenschl ger 500.0 40.0 40.0 4,269.5 4,717.8 56.9 0 Michael­ uhn 500.0 50.0 50.0 5,794.0 5,619.5 240.9 235.7 effrey­Tessler 2) 577.8 40.0 40.0 4,166.8 4,057.6 94.0 78.3 Total 3,177.8 30,674.9 26,601.9 1,075.5 989.2 efined contri ution system Gregor­ ottmeyer 3) 500.0 48.0 4) 48.0 4) 1,035.9 669.5 298.6 307.5 Hauke­Stars 5) 500.0 36.0 4) 22.9 Total 1,058.8 669.5 298.6 307.5 1)­­Since­2010,­pensionable­income­is­no­longer­based­on­fixed­remuneration,­but­is­reviewed­and­determined­by­the­Supervisory­Board. 2)­­D eutsche­Börse­AG­does­not­contribute­to­total­remuneration­for­ effrey­Tessler.­Clearstream­International­S.A.­pays­out­100­per­cent­of­the­remuneration. 3)­­T he­pension­agreement­with­Mr­ ottmeyer­was­entered­into­as­part­of­the­restructuring­of­the­Executive­Board­remuneration­in­2010. 4)­­A nnual­pension­contribution­on­the­basis­for­assessment­in­the­defined­contribution­system. 5)­Appointed­to­the­Executive­Board­effective­1­December­2012 unable­to­perform­his­or­her­professional­activities­ pension­contribution­that­would­have­been­due­in­ for more than six months and it is not expected that the­year­of­leaving­service­multiplied­by­the­number­ his­or­her­occupational­capacity­will­be­regained­ of­years­between­the­benefits­falling­due­and­the­Exwithin­a­further­six­months.­In­such­cases,­Executive­ ecutive­Board­member­reaching­the­age­of­59­or­62. Board­members­who­have­a­defined­benefit­pension­ plan­receive­the­amount­calculated­by­applying­the­ In­the­event­of­the­death­of­an­Executive­Board­memrelevant­replacement­rate­to­the­pensionable­income.­ ber,­his­or­her­spouse­receives­60­per­cent­of­the­ Executive­Board­members­with­a­defined­contribuabove­amount­and­each­dependent­child­receives­ tion­pension­plan­receive­the­benefit­assets­acquired­ 10­per­cent­(25­per­cent­for­full­orphans),­up­to­a­ when­the­benefits­fall­due,­plus­an­allocated­amount.­ maximum­of­100­per­cent­of­the­pension­contribution. The­allocated­amount­corresponds­to­the­full­annual­ 100 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Transitional payments as­a­member­of­the­Executive­Board­is­significantly­ In the event of permanent occupational incapacity, negatively impacted as a result of the change of control, the­agreements­under­the­defined­benefit­retirement­ the­Supervisory­Board­may­decide­at­its­discretion­ benefit­system­for­Deutsche­Börse­AG s­Executive­ whether­to­grant­a­severance­payment­of­the­aboveBoard­provide­for­a­transitional­payment­in­addition­ mentioned­amount.­This­provision­applies­to­all­new­ to­the­benefits­described­above.­The­amount­of­this­ contracts­for,­and­reappointments­of,­members­of­ payment corresponds to the amount of the target Deutsche­Börse­AG s­Executive­Board­since­1­ uly­ variable­remuneration­(cash­and­share­bonuses)­in­ 2009. the­year­in­which­the­benefits­fall­due.­It­is­paid­out­ in­two­tranches­in­the­two­subsequent­years.­In­the­ Other provisions case­of­the­death­of­an­Executive­Board­member,­ Secondary employment his or her spouse receives 60 per cent of the transiAdditional­appointments­or­sideline­activities­entered­ tional­payment.­ into­by­individual­members­of­the­Executive­Board­ require­the­approval­of­the­entire­Executive­Board­and­ Severance payments the­Chairman­of­the­Supervisory­Board­or,­in­certain­ In­the­event­of­early­termination­of­an­Executive­Board­ cases,­the­entire­Supervisory­Board,­which­has­delemember s­contract­of­service­other­than­for­good­ gated granting such approval to the Personnel Comcause,­any­payments­made­to­the­Executive­Board­ mittee.­If­a­member­of­the­Executive­Board­is­re­member­may­not­exceed­the­remuneration­for­the­ munerated for an office performed at an affiliate of residual term of the contract of service and may also Deutsche­Börse­AG,­this­is­offset­against­the­Execunot­exceed­the­value­of­two­total­annual­remunerative­Board­member s­entitlement­to­remune­ration­from­ tion­payments­(severance­payment­cap).­The­payment­ Deutsche­Börse­AG. is­calculated­based­on­the­total­remuneration­in­the­ past financial year and, where appropriate, the Loans to Executive Board members expected­total­remuneration­for­the­current­financial­ The­company­did­not­grant­any­advances­or­loans­ year.­The­Supervisory­Board­may­exceed­the­upper­ to­members­of­the­Executive­Board­in­financial­year­ limit­in­exceptional,­justified­cases. 2012, and there are no loans or advances from previous­years­to­members­of­the­Executive­Board. Change of control If­an­Executive­Board­member­is­asked­to­stand­down­ Payments to former members of the Executive within­six­months­of­a­change­of­control,­he­or­she­is­ Board entitled­to­a­severance­payment­equal­to­two­total­ Former­members­of­the­Executive­Board­or­their­surannual remuneration payments or the value of the reviving­dependents­received­payments­of­€1.6­million­ sidual term of his or her contract of service, where in­the­year­under­review­(2011:­€1.6­million).­The­ this­is­less­than­two­years.­This­entitlement­may­be­ actuarial­present­value­of­the­pension­obligations­as­ increased­to­150­per­cent­of­the­severance­payment.­ at­the­balance­sheet­date­was­€41.5­million­in­the­year­ If­an­Executive­Board­member­resigns­within­six­months­ under­review­(2011:­€33.3­million). of­the­change­of­control­because­his­or­her­position­ Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 101 Remuneration report Supervisory Board remuneration more­than­nine­to­ten­years,­as­calculated­by­Deutsche­ Bundesbank­(Germany s­central­bank).­Target­2:­ The­Annual­General­Meeting­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG­ consolidated earnings per share for the previous two on­16­May­2012­adopted­a­new­remuneration­system­ full­financial­years­had­to­exceed­consolidated­earnfor­the­Supervisory­Board­and­amended­article­13­of­ ings­per­share­for­the­previous­year­in­each­case­by­ Deutsche­Börse­AG s­Articles­of­Association­according8­per­cent­or­more.­The­members­of­the­Supervisory­ ly.­Consequently,­two­different­remuneration­sys­tems­ Board­each­received­annual­variable­remuneration­ were­applied­in­2012.­These­are­described­below. in­the­amount­of­€16­thousand­for­each­target­met.­In­ financial­year­2012,­target­1­was­met. Old remuneration system ntil­31­May­2012,­Supervisory­Board­members­reNew remuneration system ceived­rateable­fixed­remuneration,­depending­on­ Since­1­ une­2012,­members­of­the­Supervisory­ their­length­of­service­in­the­year­under­review.­The­ Board­receive­fixed­annual­remuneration­of­€70­ annual­fixed­remuneration­for­membership­was­ thousand.­The­Chairman­receives­remuneration­of­ €96 thousand for the Chairman, €72 thousand for €170­thousand­and­the­Deputy­Chairman­receives­ the­Deputy­Chairman­and­€48­thousand­for­each­ €105­thousand.­Members­of­Supervisory­Board­ other­member.­In­addition,­membership­of­the­Supercommittees­receive­additional­fixed­annual­remunevisory­Board s­committees­(Strategy,­Technology,­ ration­of­€30­thousand­for­each­committee­position­ ersonnel,­ omination,­Clearing­and­Settlement,­and­ they­hold.­This­amount­rises­to­€35­thousand­for­ Audit­and­Finance)­was­remunerated:­the­additional­ members­of­the­Audit­and­Finance­Committee.­The­ remuneration­was­unchanged­at­€30­thousand­per­ committee­chairmen s­remuneration­is­€40­thou­annum­for­the­Chairman­of­each­committee­(€40­thousand,­or­€60­thousand­for­the­Chairman­of­the­Audit­ sand­per­annum­for­the­Chairman­of­the­Audit­and­ and­Finance­Committee.­If­a­Supervisory­Board­ Finance­Committee)­and­€20­thousand­per­annum­for­ member­belongs­to­several­Supervisory­Board­comeach­other­committee­member.­ mittees,­only­the­work­in­a­maximum­of­two­committees­is­remunerated.­The­remuneration­for­the­work­ Members­of­the­Supervisory­Board­also­received­anin the two most highly remunerated committees is nual­variable­remuneration­based­on­two­different­ awarded.­Supervisory­Board­members­who­only­ targets­relating­to­the­company s­performance.­Target­ belong­to­the­Supervisory­Board­for­part­of­the­finan1:­in­the­year­in­which­the­remuneration­was­paid,­ cial­year,­receive­one-twelfth­of­the­fixed­annual­rethe­consolidated­return­on­equity­after­taxes­of­ muneration­and,­if­applicable,­of­the­remuneration­for­ Deutsche­Börse­Group­had­to­exceed­by­at­least­five­ their­committee­membership­for­each­month­or­part­ percentage points the average of the monthly average month­of­membership. current­yields­to­maturity­of­domestic­bearer­bonds­and­ public-sector­bonds­with­a­remaining­maturity­of­ 102 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Supervisory­Board­remuneration­in­2012­ under­the­two­remuneration­systems­applicable­for­the­financial­year New memberships Supervisory­Board­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG (as­from­16­May­2012) Former memberships Annual­General­Meeting­(16­May­2012) Supervisory­Board­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG (until­16­May­2012) Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun ul Aug Sep Oct ov Dec ­Former­remuneration­system­(until­31­May­2012) ­ ew­remuneration­system­(as­from­1­ une­2012) Remuneration paid to members of the Supervisory Börse­AG­entered­into­contracts­for­the­provision­of­ Board for advisory and agency services advisory­services­with­Deutsche­Bank­AG,­Frankfurt In­the­year­under­review,­€42.5­thousand­(2011:­ Main,­and­Mayer­Brown­ ,­ ashington.­In­the­ €161.4­thousand)­was­paid­to­Richard­Berliand­ period­under­review,­two­members­of­the­Supervisory­ imited­for­advisory­and­agency­services.­Richard­ Board­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG­also­held­key­manageBerliand­is­the­Managing­Director­and­general­partment­positions­in­these­companies.­In­2012,­Deutsche­ ner­of­Richard­Berliand­ imited. Börse­Group­paid­Deutsche­Bank­AG­and­Mayer­Brown­ ­a­total­of­€1,097.4­thousand­(2011:­€3,038.5­ As­part­of­the­transaction­between­Deutsche­Börse­ thousand)­for­advisory­services­in­connection­with­this­ Group­and­ SE­Euronext­that­has­since­been­ transaction. prohibited­by­the­European­Commission,­Deutsche­ Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 103 Remuneration report Supervisory­Board­remuneration 1)­2) Membership Non-performance-related Performance-related remuneration remuneration 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 € thousands € thousands € thousands € thousands oachim­Faber­ (Chairman­as­from­16­May­2012) full­year full­year 192.3 88.0 6.7 16.0 Gerhard­Roggemann­(Deputy­Chairman) full­year full­year 151.3 132.0 6.7 16.0 Herbert­Bayer 3) 1­ an­ 16­May full­year 28.3 68.0 6.7 16.0 Richard­Berliand full­year full­year 114.2 68.0 6.7 16.0 Birgit­Bokel 3) 1­ an­ 16­May full­year 28.3 68.0 6.7 16.0 Irmtraud­Busch 4) 16­May­ ­31­Dec 64.0 1.3 arl-Hein ­Floether 4) 16­May­ ­31­Dec 83.2 1.3 Marion­Fornoff 4) 16­May­ ­31­Dec 64.0 1.3 Hanseter­Gabe full­year full­year 88.3 68.0 6.7 16.0 Manfred­Gent ­(Chairman­until­16­May­2012) 3) 1­ an­ 16­May full­year 77.5 186.0 6.7 16.0 Richard­M.­Hayden full­year full­year 120.8 108.0 6.7 16.0 Craig­Heimark full­year full­year 96.7 78.0 6.7 16.0 onrad­Hummler 3) 1­ an­ 16­May full­year 32.5 78.0 6.7 16.0 David­ rell full­year full­year 86.7 68.0 6.7 16.0 Hermannosef­ amberti 3) 1­ an­ 16­May full­year 20.0 48.0 6.7 16.0 Monica­M chler 4) 16­May­ ­31­Dec 64.0 1.3 Friedrich­Mer full­year full­year 97.9 88.0 6.7 16.0 Thomas Neisse full­year full­year 95.0 88.0 6.7 16.0 Hein oachim­ eubürger 4) 16­May­ ­31­Dec 86.1 1.3 Roland­ rantl 3) 1­ an­ 16­May full­year 28.3 68.0 6.7 16.0 Erhard Schipporeit full­year full­year 112.5 88.0 6.7 16.0 utta­Stuhlfauth 4) 16­May­ ­31­Dec 64.0 1.3 Norfried Stumpf 3) 1­ an­ 16­May full­year 28.3 68.0 6.7 16.0 Martin­ lrici 4) 16­May­ ­31­Dec 64.0 1.3 ohannes­ itt full­year full­year 89.6 68.0 6.7 16.0 Total 1,977.8 1,526.0 129.7 288.0 1)­See­note­39­in­the­notes­to­the­consolidated­financial­statements­for­details­of­the­long-term­incentive­components. 2)­The­recipient­of­the­remuneration­is­determined­individually­by­the­members­of­the­Supervisory­Board.­ 3)­ eft­the­Supervisory­Board­on­16­May­2012 4)­Elected­to­the­Supervisory­Board­on­16­May­2012 This­financial­report­is­composed­of­the­combined­ management­report,­the­consolidated­financial­ statements­and­the­notes­to­the­consolidated­financial statements. In preparing its combined management­report,­Deutsche­Börse­Group­has­followed­ a recommendation of the Accounting Standards Committee of Germany and is an early adopter of German Accounting Standard (GAS) 20. In addition to the Group, the combined management ­report­covers­Deutsche­Börse­AG­with­disclosures­ based on the German Commercial Code. The remuneration report (starting on page­92) and the corporate governance declaration (starting on page 78) are also components of the combined management report. Combined management report 106 Basic principles of the Group 116 Report on the economy 144 Report on post-balance sheet date events 144 Deutsche Börse shares Finanzbericht 148­­ Financial­and­non-financial­performance­indicators 157 Risk report 177 Report on opportunities 180 Report on expected developments 190­­ Deutsche­Börse­AG­(disclosures­based­on­the­HGB) 106 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Combined management report This combined management report covers the Group Deutsche Börse Group is composed of Deutsche as well as Deutsche Börse AG: It has been prepared Börse AG and its subsidiaries, associates and joint in accordance with sections 289, 315 and 315a of ventures. the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB, German Commercial Code) and German Accounting Standard (GAS) 20. Deutsche Börse AG itself operates the cash market of The combined management report also takes into acFrankfurter Wertpapierbörse (FWB®, the Frankfurt count the requirements set out in the Practice StateStock Exchange) with its fully electronic Xetra® trading ment “Management Commentary” issued by the Inplatform. Through its equity investment in Scoach ternational Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Holding S.A., Deutsche Börse AG also offers trading in structured products (certificates and warrants). Basic principles of the Group Through Eurex Zürich AG and its subsidiaries, Deutsche Börse AG operates derivatives markets in Overview of Deutsche Börse Group Europe (Eurex) and the United States (International Securities Exchange, ISE) and offers clearing services Business operations and Group structure (Eurex Clearing AG). Deutsche Börse AG, headquartered in Frankfurt/Main, Germany, is the parent company of Deutsche Börse In addition, Deutsche Börse sells price and referGroup. As at 31 December 2012, the Group emence data as well as other information relevant for ployed 3,704 people in 22 locations in 16 countries. trading and develops indices through its subsidiary As one of the largest exchange organisations worldSTOXX Ltd. wide, Deutsche Börse Group offers its customers a broad portfolio of products and services. These cover All post-trade services are handled by Clearstream the entire process chain of securities trading – from Holding AG and its subsidiaries. These include transtrading and clearing of equities and derivatives, action settlement, administration and custody of secuthrough transaction clearing and settlement, custody rities as well as global securities financing and inof securities, services for liquidity and collateral manvestment funds services. agement, as well as the provision of market information, down to the development and operation of Deutsche Börse AG and Clearstream Services S.A. electronic systems. The Group’s process-oriented develop and operate Deutsche Börse Group’s technobusiness model enhances capital market efficiency. logical infrastructure. Issuers benefit from the low cost of capital, while investors enjoy high liquidity and low transaction costs. The chart on the next page gives an overview of At the same time, Deutsche Börse stands for integrity, Deutsche Börse Group’s principal shareholdings; its transparency and security on the capital markets, basis of consolidation is presented in full in note 2 where organised trading takes place based on a free to the consolidated financial statements. pricing process and customers manage risks under their own responsibility. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Basic principles of the Group 107 Company management governed by the Aktiengesetz (AktG, German Stock The governing bodies of Deutsche Börse AG, as a Corporation Act). The Supervisory Board appoints, German stock corporation, are the Annual General supervises and advises the Executive Board and is Meeting, the Supervisory Board and the Executive directly involved in key decisions affecting the comBoard, each of which has its own areas of responpany. Additionally, it adopts the consolidated finansibility. cial statements prepared by the Executive Board. Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed The Annual General Meeting resolves the approprifor a period of three years; however, when electing ation of the unappropriated surplus, appoints the members to the Supervisory Board, the Annual shareholder representatives in the Supervisory Board General Meeting may determine a shorter term of and determines the approval of the acts of the Execoffice. The Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG utive Board and the Supervisory Board. In addition, has 18 members: 12 shareholder representatives and it decides on corporate actions and other matters 6 employee representatives. Simplified shareholding structure of Deutsche Börse Group as at 31 December 2012 Deutsche Börse AG Scoach Holding S.A. Eurex Global Clearstream Holding AG Market News Deutsche Boerse 50% Derivatives AG 100% International Inc. Systems, Inc. 100% 100% 100% Scoach Schweiz AG Clearstream 100% Eurex Zürich AG International S.A. Need to Know Deutsche Börse 100% 3) 100% News, LLC Services s.r.o Scoach Europa AG 100% 100% 100% Eurex Frankfurt AG Clearstream 100% Banking AG Infobolsa S.A. BrainTrade Gesellschaft 100% 50% für Börsensysteme mbH Eurex Clearing AG 21% 1) 100% Link-Up Capital Markets, S.L. STOXX Ltd. Deutsche Börse Eurex Repo GmbH 23% 50% Commodities GmbH 100% 16% Clearstream Eurex Bonds GmbH Banking S.A. Tradegate 79% 100% Exchange GmbH 75% 2) U.S. Exchange Clearstream Holdings, Inc. Banking Japan, Ltd. 100% 100% International REGIS-TR S.A. Securities Exchange 50% Holdings, Inc. 100% Clearstream Services S.A. European Energy 100% Exchange AG 56% Clearstream Operations Prague s.r.o 100% LuxCSD S.A. 50% 1) Direct equity interest of Deutsche Börse AG: 14 per cent 2) Plus an equity interest of 1.23 per cent, which is held directly via Tradegate AG Wertpapierhandelsbank 3) Direct equity interest of Deutsche Börse AG: 50 per cent 108 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The Executive Board has sole responsibility for manmarket data (Derivatives & Market Data), as well as aging the company and the Chief Executive Officer securities settlement and custody (Clearstream). Each coordinates the activities of the Executive Board area is headed by a member of the Executive Board of members. Until 30 November 2012, the Executive Deutsche Börse AG. In addition, there are Group-wide Board of Deutsche Börse AG had 6 members. administrative functions in the divisions of the Chief Deutsche Börse AG’s Executive Board temporarily had Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer 7 members in December 2012 due to the appoint(CFO). Changes from financial year 2013 onwards ment of Hauke Stars effective 1 December 2012 and are described in the following paragraph and already the departure of Michael Kuhn at the end of the year. reflected in the overview of the Group’s leadership The Executive Board again had 6 members as at structure (see chart on the next page). 1 January 2013. From 1 April 2013, the Executive Board will be reduced to 5 members due to the Changes in financial year 2013 departure of Frank Gerstenschläger. The remuneraThe organisational structure and reporting segments tion system and the remuneration paid to the individwill change as follows in financial year 2013: ual members of the Executive Board of Deutsche Börse AG are presented in the remuneration report,  Andreas Preuss heads the cash market and derivawhich is part of this combined management report. tives businesses starting as of 1 January 2013; the Xetra and Eurex reporting segments will remain Reporting segments separate. Frank Gerstenschläger, the Executive Deutsche Börse Group classifies its business into four Board member responsible for the Xetra division segments: Xetra, Eurex, Clearstream and Market Data in financial year 2012, is leaving the company as & Analytics. Since financial year 2010, this structure at 31 March 2013. has served as a basis for the internal management of  As of 1 January 2013, the Information Technology the Group and for financial reporting. Changes from (IT) and Market Data & Analytics areas are comfinancial year 2013 onwards are described below. bined with selected external IT services in a separate business unit under the direction of Hauke Stars. The new segment structure clearly reflects the declared intention to expand Deutsche Börse’s Reporting segment Business areas technology leadership and expertise in the area Xetra  Cash market with the Xetra® electronic trading system, the Xetra Frankfurt Specialist Trading of market data. In the 2013 financial reports, the and Tradegate prior-year figures will be adjusted accordingly.  Central counterparty for equities  Admission of securities to listing Eurex  Electronic derivatives market trading platform Eurex® Goals and strategies  Electronic equity options trading platform ISE  Over-the-counter (OTC) trading platforms Eurex Bonds® and Eurex Repo® Goals and strategy of Deutsche Börse Group  Central counterparty for bonds, onand offIn the past years, Deutsche Börse Group has develexchange derivatives and repo transactions oped into one of the largest exchange organisations in (Eurex Clearing)  Custody and settlement services for domestic the world and increased its value considerably since Clearstream and international securities going public. Its business success is founded on the  Global securities financing services Group’s integrated business model, which aims to of Investment funds services fer its customers efficient and cost-effective services. Market Data &  Sales of price information and information Analytics distribution It is based on the following key principles:  Index development and sales  Integrating different financial market services such as trading, clearing, settlement and custody of secuOrganisational structure rities, liquidity and collateral management, as well The organisational structure of Deutsche Börse Group as index and market data services in financial year 2012 mirrored the three market  Providing these services for different asset classes areas: cash market (Xetra), derivatives market and such as equities, bonds, funds and derivatives Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Basic principles of the Group 109  Developing and operating the Group’s own electronsideration. The aim is responsible and sustainable ic systems for all processes along the securities tradgrowth that will add long-term value – for customers ing value chain and business partners, staff, shareholders as well  Acting as an impartial marketplace organiser to as the company. ensure orderly, supervised trading with fair pricing and risk management services Deutsche Börse Group channels its energies in the next years in three directions as part of its strategy: The efficiency of the business model is reflected in the fact that Deutsche Börse Group is one of the pro Forceful expansion of its product and service range viders of trading, clearing and settlement services to currently unregulated and uncollateralised marwith the most attractive prices and that the Group has kets: this move is in response to changes in cusgenerated a strong cash flow from its operating activtomer needs as well as the regulatory framework. ities for many years.  Accelerated expansion of technology leadership and expertise in the market data segment: Deutsche Deutsche Börse Group continues to pursue its strategy, Börse Group achieves this by pooling all relevant which has enabled it to achieve its leading position. company resources. To this end, the Information In doing so, it focuses primarily on organic growth by Technology (IT) and Market Data & Analytics areas introducing new products in existing and new asset as well as selected external services have been bunclasses, expanding its business to new customer dled in a separate business unit (reporting segment groups and moving into markets in new regions. If as of financial year 2013). external growth opportunities appear to be economi Tapping into new geographic growth areas, especialcally attractive, the Group also takes these into conly in Asia, and acquiring new customer groups Leadership structure of Deutsche Börse Group as at 1 January 2013 Group Executive Board Cash & Derivatives IT & Market Data & CEO CFO Markets Clearstream Analytics Special Projects R. Francioni G. Pottmeyer A. Preuss J. Tessler H. Stars F. Gerstenschläger Programs and Financial AccounExecutive Offi ce Client Relations Central IT & Advisory ting & Controlling Europe & Americas Coordination Internal Auditing Strategic Finance IT Client Relations Networks & South Asia/ Infrastructure Ops Middle East/Africa Group Strategy Investor Relations & Business VMS & Xetra / Treasury Development Client Relations Eurex Operations North Asia Corporate Group Compliance, Sales & Marketing AD Cash/ Communications Information Security Client Relations Derivatives & Risk Management GSF & Broker / Corporate Offi ce Operations Dealers Clearstream IT Human Resources Business General Counsel Clearing Management Market Data & Organization & Analytics Administration Operations Market Policy & Cash Market European Public SAP & Offi ce AutoStructure Affairs mation Investment Funds Services 110 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The organic growth targeted by Deutsche Börse Group  Corporate citizenship: Deutsche Börse Group sees is influenced by the following factors: itself as a good corporate citizen and is committed to fulfilling this role in its international locations.  The performance of the financial markets in line with general economic conditions (e.g. volatility Selected initiatives and specific measures from these in the cash market) four areas are described in the sections on “Em Regulatory requirements (e.g. EMIR, Capital ployees”, “Corporate responsibility” and “SustainabilRequirements Directives) ity”.  Structural changes in the financial markets (e.g. increasing use of derivatives by investment funds) Corporate responsibility falls under the remit of the  The Group’s ability to innovate (e.g. continuous CEO. The corporate responsibility team coordinates introduction of new products and services) the Group-wide measures and progresses the strategic development of the management approach. Regular While Deutsche Börse Group cannot affect the perreviews are held in consultation with the operating formance of the financial markets, it is able to exert departments to determine whether the areas for acan influence on other factors in part or in full, for extion and implementation measures are still relevant ample through lobbying efforts regarding the regulatoand how the objectives are being met and the targets ry framework for the financial markets or developing reached. new products and services. In this way, it can reduce its dependence on factors outside its control. Sustainability management Deutsche Börse Group feels committed to corporate Management approach for corporate responsibility governance that takes social, ethical and ecological issues aspects into account when implementing its economDeutsche Börse Group takes a holistic view of its ic objectives. The company gave strong expression to corporate responsibility. Its management approach this commitment by signing up to the United Nations focuses on four areas for action: the economy, emGlobal Compact. ployees, the environment and corporate citizenship, in order to strengthen and secure Deutsche Börse As a central organiser of the capital market it is Group’s benefits for the economy and for society for Deutsche Börse’s duty to systemically stabilise the the long term. markets it organises and to ensure that sustainability information is more transparent and more  Economy: Deutsche Börse Group aims to ensure ineasily available for market participants. As a listed tegrity, transparency and security on the capital company, it has a duty to consistently monitor and markets. It adds the most value to society in its prihone its own sustainability profile. Playing this dual mary core business. role, Deutsche Börse Group focuses its sustainability  Employees: Deutsche Börse Group pursues a remanagement on two areas for action: sponsible, sustainably focused human resources policy. It wants to win committed and competent  Fostering transparency for holistic investment employees and retain them for as long as possible. strategies  Environment: Deutsche Börse Group aims to keep  Optimising its own sustainability performance its ecological footprint to a minimum by implementing an environmentand resource-friendly business Examples of initiatives and their successful ecology. implementation can be found in the section on “Sustainability”. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Basic principles of the Group 111 Internal management control operating expenses mainly consist of the costs of developing and operating the Group’s technologiControl systems cal infrastructure, office infrastructure costs and Deutsche Börse Group’s internal management control marketing costs. system is based on operating performance indicators of the income statement (net revenue, operating costs, Around 80 per cent of Deutsche Börse Group’s total EBIT, net income for the year) as well as balance costs are fixed costs (excluding special factors). The sheet performance indicators (liquidity, equity less inGroup can therefore handle higher volumes of busitangible assets). In addition, Deutsche Börse Group ness without a significant increase in costs. Converseincludes performance indicators in its control system ly, a decline in business volumes has a direct impact that are derived from the income statement and the on the Group’s profitability. Approximately 20 per cent balance sheet (interest coverage ratio, gross debt/ of the Group’s total costs are volume-related costs. EBITDA, return on shareholders’ equity). Deutsche Börse Group manages its EBIT via net reveNet revenue is composed of sales revenue plus net innue and operating costs. At Group level, Deutsche terest income from banking business and other operBörse Group’s net income for the year also serves ating income, less volume-related costs. Sales reveas a performance indicator for internal management nue from external customers is generally dependent control. on the growth factors described above (performance of the financial markets, regulatory and structural Deutsche Börse Group’s balance sheet-based perforchanges, and the Group’s ability to innovate). Net inmance indicators include a target liquidity as well as terest income from banking business is dependent on equity less intangible assets. Liquidity planning aims the development of Clearstream’s international settleat retaining liquidity amounting to the operating costs ment business on the one hand and the development incurred in one quarter; target liquidity currently of short-term interest rates, particularly in the euro stands at €250 million. In managing its equity less zone and the USA, on the other. Other operating inintangible assets, the Group’s aim is not to reach a come results from exchange rate differences, among particular target figure but rather to achieve a positive other things. Volume-related costs comprise expenses value in general. that correlate with the level of sales revenue in certain areas of the company, such as fees and commissions The interest coverage ratio shows the ratio of EBITDA from banking business or costs for purchasing price to interest expenses from financing activities. Under information. In addition, various license fees contribits capital management programme, the Group plans ute to volume-related costs. Operating costs include to achieve an interest coverage ratio of at least 16 staff costs, depreciation, amortisation and impairment for Deutsche Börse Group. In addition, the aim is to losses, as well as other operating expenses. Staff achieve a ratio of interest-bearing gross debt to costs consist of wages and salaries as well as social EBITDA of 1.5 maximum on the Group level. The two security contributions and the cost of retirement beneperformance indicators mentioned above play a matefits. They are subject to inflation and depend partially rial role at present in protecting the Group’s current on the development of Deutsche Börse AG’s share “AA” rating. price, as they also include changes in the provisions and payments for the Stock Bonus Plan for members The Clearstream subgroup aims to maintain an interof the Executive Board and senior executives that was est coverage ratio of 25 and comply with other capital introduced in 2007. The depreciation, amortisation adequacy measures to protect its current “AA” rating. and impairment charges include depreciation and Because Clearstream had no financial liabilities from amortisation of, and impairment losses on, intangible non-banking business in the year under review, as in assets and property, plant and equipment. Other 112 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 the previous year, it was not necessary to calculate The work instructions and process descriptions are the interest coverage ratio for the subgroup. regularly reviewed to ensure that they are up-to-date. High-risk processes are subject to special control. The Further information on the Group’s financial position financial reporting manuals and account allocation is presented in the “Financial position” section of guideline are also updated on an ongoing basis. All this combined management report. employees within the department have access to the database, reporting manuals and account allocation Internal control system and risk management with guidelines and can thus obtain current information regard to the Group’s accounting practices on the regulations to be followed. The Group’s internal control system (ICS) is another control tool. Its primary purpose is to ensure that In addition, the FA&C department is responsible for Deutsche Börse Group’s accounting processes comply monitoring changes in the accounting-related framewith orderly bookkeeping and accounting practices. work, analysing their potential impact on Deutsche This guarantees that the presentation of the net assets, Börse Group and initiating appropriate measures to financial position and results of operations in the implement these changes. This includes in particular single-entity and consolidated financial statements of continuously analysing the impact of any new or reDeutsche Börse AG and its subsidiaries is correct and vised accounting standards and providing ongoing complete. support for new transactions to ensure they are adequately reflected in the accounting system. The Financial Accounting and Controlling (FA&C) department and the corresponding units in foreign Another important feature of the internal control syssubsidiaries are mainly responsible for preparing the tem within the FA&C department is the principle of accounts of Deutsche Börse AG and its consolidated functional separation: tasks and responsibilities are subsidiaries. The head of FA&C at Deutsche Börse AG clearly defined and allocated within the organisation. is responsible for the accounting processes throughIncompatible tasks, such as changing master data out Deutsche Börse Group as well as for ensuring and issuing payment instructions, are kept strictly the effectiveness of the safeguarding and control apart. This functional separation is ensured, among measures that also form part of the accounting proother things, by an independent control unit with the cess. This officer ensures that risks in the accounting authority to grant accounting system access rights to system are identified early on and that adequate safeemployees and continuously monitor them by means guarding and control measures are taken in good of an “incompatibility matrix”. Transactions are initialtime. An internal monitoring system comprising both ly recorded in the general ledger or corresponding integrated and independent controls has been implesubledgers based on the table of accounts and the mented to this end. The consistent quality of financial account allocation guideline. The preparation of the reporting is, amongst other things, supported by usclosing entries and consolidated financial statements ing the following tools: always follows the principle of dual control.  Work instructions and process descriptions for each All major subsidiaries of Deutsche Börse Group keep individual accounting process, including the prepatheir general ledgers in the same SAP system using ration of consolidated financial statements, are the SAP EC-CS consolidation software. The accounstored in a database created especially for this ting data of subsidiaries not incorporated in the purpose. Group’s SAP system is included in the consolidated  IFRS and German GAAP (HGB) accounting manuals financial statements via upload files. For the consoliand account allocation guidelines ensure a Groupdation of liabilities, expenses and income, transwide consistent financial reporting standard and process. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Basic principles of the Group 113 actions are recorded in separate accounts under the composed of 193,000,000 registered ordinary shares. name of the respective partner company. Differences There are no other classes of shares besides these arising from the consolidation of liabilities, expenses ordinary shares. and income are appraised centrally and sent on to the accounting departments of the companies for The Executive Board is only aware of limitations to clarification. voting rights that result from the Aktiengesetz (AktG, German Stock Corporation Act). These include voting Internal Auditing carries out risk-driven and processright limitations pursuant to section 136 of the AktG neutral checks to assess the effectiveness and and limitations under the AktG for treasury shares. appropriateness of the internal control system for Section 136 of the AktG stipulates that shareholders accounting. may not exercise voting rights for themselves or on behalf of another shareholder if a resolution is to be The implemented processes, systems and controls adopted formally approving their actions, releasing provide reasonable assurance that the accounting them from an obligation, or deciding whether the processes comply with the applicable financial reportcompany should assert a claim against them. The ing principles and laws. However, even an approprivoting rights of the relevant shares are thus excluded ate and functioning internal control system can only by law in cases where section 136 of the AktG offer adequate, but never total, protection against applies. Under section 71b of the AktG, Deutsche failure to achieve the goals described at the beginBörse AG is also not permitted to exercise any rights ning of this section. The Executive Board and the of treasury shares held in its portfolio. Audit and Finance Committee established by the Supervisory Board receive regular reports on the Under the Wertpapierhandelsgesetz (WpHG, German effectiveness of the internal control system for the Securities Trading Act), any investor whose shareholdfinancial reporting process. ing reaches, exceeds, or falls below specified voting right thresholds as a result of purchase, sale, or any other transaction is required to notify the company Research and development activities and the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin, German Federal Financial SupervisoAs a service provider, Deutsche Börse Group does not ry Authority). The lowest threshold for this disclosure engage in research and development activities comrequirement is 3 per cent (see note 43 to the conparable with those of manufacturing companies. This solidated financial statements for details). Deutsche section of the report has therefore been omitted. The Börse AG is not aware of any direct or indirect investGroup’s product and services development activities ments in its capital representing more than 10 per are described in more detail in the opportunities cent of the voting rights. report and in the report on expected developments. None of Deutsche Börse AG’s shareholders hold shares that confer special control rights. Takeover-related disclosures Employees holding shares in Deutsche Börse AG exercise their rights in the same way as other shareDisclosures in accordance with sections 289 (4) holders in accordance with statutory regulations and and 315 (4) HGB the Articles of Association. In accordance with sections 289 (4) and 315 (4) of the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB, German Commercial Code), Members of the Executive Board are appointed and Deutsche Börse AG makes the following disclosures as released in accordance with sections 84 and 85 of at 31 December 2012: the AktG. In accordance with Article 6 (3) of the Articles of Association of Deutsche Börse AG, membership The share capital of Deutsche Börse AG amounted of the Executive Board generally terminates when to €193.0 million on 31 December 2012 and was members reach the age of 60. Amendments to the 114 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Articles of Association of Deutsche Börse AG are Board and the management of affiliated companies. adopted by resolution of the Annual General Meeting in In addition, the Executive Board is authorised to disaccordance with section 119 (1) no. 5 of the AktG. apply pre-emptive rights if capital is increased in Under Article 12 (4) of the Articles of Association of exchange for non-cash contributions for the purpose Deutsche Börse AG, the Supervisory Board has the of acquiring companies, parts of companies, interpower to make changes to the Articles of Association ests in companies, or other assets. Finally, the Exthat relate only to the wording. In accordance with Arecutive Board is authorised to disapply fractional ticle 18 (1) of the Articles of Association of Deutsche amounts from shareholders’ pre-emptive rights. Full Börse AG, resolutions of the Annual General Meeting authorisation, particularly the conditions for disapplyare passed – unless otherwise stipulated by mandatoing shareholders’ pre-emptive rights, derives from Artiry requirements of the AktG – by a simple majority cle 4 (4) of the Articles of Association of Deutsche of the votes cast. Insofar as the AktG prescribes a maBörse AG. jority of share capital to be represented at the Annual General Meeting for resolutions, a simple majority of The Executive Board is also authorised to increase the the represented share capital is sufficient where this share capital until 26 May 2015, subject to the apis legally permissible. proval of the Supervisory Board, by issuing new nopar value registered shares in exchange for cash conSubject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, the tributions on one or more occasions by up to a total of Executive Board is authorised to increase the share €19.5 million (authorised share capital III). The capital until 11 May 2016 by issuing new no-par valshareholders must be granted pre-emptive rights, ue registered shares in exchange for cash and/or nonwhich the Executive Board can disapply only for fraccash contributions on one or more occasions by up to tional amounts with the approval of the Supervisory a total of €5.2 million (authorised share capital I). Board. The exact content of this authorisation deFull authorisation, particularly the conditions for rives from Article 4 (5) of the Articles of Association disapplying shareholders’ pre-emptive rights, derives of Deutsche Börse AG. from Article 4 (3) of the Articles of Association of Deutsche Börse AG. The Executive Board is further authorised to increase the share capital until 15 May 2017, subject to the The Executive Board is also authorised to increase approval of the Supervisory Board, by issuing new the share capital until 26 May 2015, subject to the no-par value registered shares in exchange for cash approval of the Supervisory Board, by issuing new and/or non-cash contributions on one or more occano-par value registered shares in exchange for cash sions by up to a total of €6.0 million (authorised and/or non-cash contributions on one or more occashare capital IV). Shareholders must be granted presions by up to a total of €27.8 million (authorised emptive rights unless the Executive Board makes share capital II). The shareholders must be granted use of the authorisation granted to it to disapply the pre-emptive rights, which the Executive Board can shareholders’ pre-emptive rights with the approval disapply in certain cases, subject to the approval of of the Supervisory Board. The Executive Board is the Supervisory Board in each case. The Executive authorised to disapply fractional amounts from the Board is authorised to disapply shareholders’ preshareholders’ pre-emptive rights with the approval of emptive rights for cash capital increases if the issue the Supervisory Board. The Executive Board is also price of the new shares is not significantly lower than authorised, subject to the approval of the Supervisory the stock exchange price and the total number of Board, to disapply shareholders’ pre-emptive rights in shares issued while pre-emptive rights are disapplied order to issue up to 900,000 new shares per finandoes not exceed 10 per cent of the share capital. cial year from the authorised share capital IV to memFurthermore, the Executive Board is authorised to bers of the Executive Board and employees of the comdisapply pre-emptive rights for new shares with a pany as well as to members of the executive boards or proportionate interest in the share capital totalling up management and employees of its affiliated companies to €3.0 million in order to issue these new shares to in accordance with sections 15 et seqq. of the AktG. employees of the company or of companies affiliated Full authorisation derives from Article 4 (6) of the Arwith it, excluding the members of the Executive ticles of Association of Deutsche Börse AG. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Basic principles of the Group 115 The company’s share capital has been contingently  On 25 October 2006, Deutsche Börse AG and SIX increased in accordance with Article 4 (7) of the ArtiGroup AG (formerly SWX Group) set out a cooperacles of Association of Deutsche Börse AG by up to tion agreement to combine their business operations €6.0 million by issuing up to 6,000,000 no-par value in the area of structured products in a European exregistered shares (contingent share capital I). The change organisation under a joint name and brand contingent capital increase is used exclusively to set(Scoach). This cooperation agreement was adopted tle stock options granted until 13 May 2008 as a reby SIX Swiss Exchange AG in place of SIX Group AG sult of the authorisation under item 7 of the agenda on 24 March 2009. The cooperation agreement of the Annual General Meeting of 14 May 2003. The gives either party a right of termination with a notice contingent capital increase will only be implemented period of six months to the end of the month if a insofar as the holders of issued stock options exercise change of control occurs at the other party, i.e. their pre-emptive rights and the company does not Deutsche Börse AG or SIX Swiss Exchange AG. The settle these stock options by transferring treasury right of termination expires if it is not exercised withshares or by way of a cash payment. The new shares in three months of the date of the change of control. carry dividend rights from the beginning of the finanAccording to the cooperation agreement, a change cial year in which they are issued as the result of exof control takes place if a person, corporation or ercising stock options. partnership directly or indirectly acquires control over a company, either alone or together with Group The Executive Board is authorised to acquire treasury companies or in concert with other persons or comshares amounting to up to 10 per cent of the share panies. A company has control if it directly or indicapital. However, the acquired shares, together with rectly holds more than 50 per cent of the voting any treasury shares acquired for other reasons that rights or the capital of another corporation or partare held by the company or allocated to it in accordnership, if it must fully consolidate another corporaance with sections 71a et seqq. of the AktG, may at tion or partnership under the International Financial no time exceed 10 per cent of the company’s share Reporting Standards (IFRSs), or if it is able to concapital. The authorisation to acquire treasury shares trol a company through voting trusts or by appointis valid until 11 May 2013 and may be exercised by ing members of executive bodies. the company in full or in part on one or more occa On 6 May 2008, supplemented on 9 April 2009, sions. However, it may also be exercised by depenon 30 March 2010, on 29 March 2011 and on dent companies, by companies in which Deutsche 27 February 2012, Deutsche Börse AG and its subBörse AG holds a majority interest, or by third parties sidiary Clearstream Banking S.A. concluded a mulon its or their behalf. The Executive Board may elect ticurrency revolving facility agreement with a conto acquire the shares (1) on the stock exchange, sortium of banks for a working capital credit totalling (2) via a public tender offer addressed to all shareup to €750 million. In the event of a change of conholders or via a public request for offers of sale adtrol, the lead manager of the consortium must terdressed to the company’s shareholders, (3) by issuing minate the agreement within a period of 30 days tender rights to shareholders, or (4) through the use and declare all amounts due to the lenders immediof derivatives (put or call options or a combination of ately repayable, if required to do so by a majority of both). The full and exact wording of the authorisation the consortium banks, which together provide twoto acquire treasury shares, and particularly the perthirds of the amount of the facility granted at the missible uses to which the shares may be put, can be time of the change of control. Under the terms of found in items 6 and 7 of the agenda of the Annual this agreement, a person or group of persons has General Meeting of 12 May 2011. control if they act in concert and/or if they have the opportunity to manage the business of Deutsche The following material agreements of the company are Börse AG or to determine the composition of the subject to a change of control following a takeover bid: majority of Deutsche Börse’s Executive Board. 116 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012  As part of the acquisition of ISE, it was agreed that follows: US$170.0 million due on 10 June 2015, no person or group may directly or indirectly acquire US$220.0 million due on 10 June 2018, and more than 40 per cent of the shares in ISE or acUS$70.0 million due on 10 June 2020. quire control over the voting rights attached to more  Under certain conditions, members of Deutsche than 20 per cent of the shares in ISE without the Börse AG’s Executive Board have a special right of prior approval of the US Securities and Exchange termination in the event of a change of control. AcCommission (SEC). Otherwise, as many ISE shares cording to the agreements made with all Executive will be transferred to a trust as required to comply Board members, a change of control has occurred if with the limits. (1) a shareholder or third party discloses its owner Under the terms of the 2008/2013 fixed-rate ship of more than 50 per cent of the voting rights in bonds amounting to €650.0 million issued by Deutsche Börse AG in accordance with sections 21 Deutsche Börse AG, the terms of the subordinated and 22 of the WpHG, (2) an intercompany agreefixed-rate and floating-rate bonds amounting to ment in accordance with section 291 of the AktG is €550.0 million issued by the company in 2008 and entered into with Deutsche Börse AG as a depenunder the terms of the 2012/2022 fixed-rate bonds dent company, or (3) Deutsche Börse AG is absorbamounting to €600.0 million issued by Deutsche ed in accordance with section 319 of the AktG or Börse AG, cancellation rights apply in the case of a merged in accordance with section 2 of the Umchange of control. If they are exercised, the bonds wandlungsgesetz (UmwG, German Reorganisation are repayable at par plus any accrued interest. and Transformation Act). A change of control has taken place if a person or a group of persons acting in concert, or third parIn addition to the above agreements subject to a ties acting on their behalf has or have acquired change of control in the event of a takeover offer, furmore than 50 per cent of the shares of Deutsche ther agreements apply. In the opinion of Deutsche Börse AG or the number of Deutsche Börse AG Börse AG, however, these are not material as defined shares required to exercise more than 50 per cent by section 315 (4) of the HGB. of the voting rights at Annual General Meetings of Deutsche Börse AG. In addition, the relevant loan The compensation agreements entered into with terms require that the change of control must adthe members of the Executive Board in the event versely affect the rating given to one of the preferof a takeover offer can be found in the remunerential unsecured debt instruments of Deutsche ation report. Börse AG by Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service or Standard & Poor’s. Further details can be found in the applicable loan terms. Report on the economy  A change of control also results in rights to require repayment of various bonds issued by Deutsche Macroeconomic and sector-specific conditions Börse AG in 2008 under a US private placement. The change of control must also adversely affect 2012 saw a large number of developments that the rating given to one of the preferential unsehad and continue to have a significant impact on the cured debt instruments of Deutsche Börse AG macroeconomic environment and market activity. In by Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service or particular, these included: Standard & Poor’s. The provisions contained in the applicable terms correspond to the conditions  A slow-down in the global economy, especially in specified for the 2008/2013 fixed-rate bonds. The the second half of the year. bonds issued under the private placement are as Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 117  High government debt levels in several European ing to European Commission estimates Greece, Italy countries, along with concerted countermeasures by and Spain, among other countries, were in recession. the EU and the decline of the euro against the US On 12 July 2012, the key interest rate in Europe was dollar, especially in the second and third quarters of cut by another 25 basis points to the new historically 2012. low level of 0.75 per cent.  The provision of large amounts of liquidity via the major central banks’ low interest rate policy The OECD is forecasting a real-term increase of 2.2 per cent in US economic output in 2012 as a reFollowing a 1.8 per cent increase in real GDP in the sult of continuing budget consolidation resulting from OECD countries in 2011, current estimates reveal a the US debt crisis in summer 2011. Market uncerrise of just 1.4 per cent in 2012. Estimates published tainty is continuing due to the financial policy diffiby the International Monetary Fund suggest that culties, the persistently high unemployment rate and the global economy grew by 3.2 per cent in 2012 resulting lower levels of consumer spending. The (2011: increase in real terms of 3.9 per cent). Federal Reserve kept the federal funds rate within the target range of zero to 0.25 per cent that it had set in In this macroeconomic environment, Deutsche Börse December 2008. Group’s business is mainly influenced by cyclical trends in Germany, other European countries and the United States. Development of trading activity on selected European cash markets Based on initial estimates, growth in German GDP in 2012 eased year-on-year due to slower global ecoChange 2012 nomic growth and the stagnation of world trade at 2012 vs. 2011 bn % prior-year levels. The International Monetary Fund’s London Stock Exchange1) 2) £ 1,017.9 – 15 January 2013 estimates put growth in German ecoEuronext1) 3) € 1,324.2 – 22 nomic output at 0.9 per cent in 2012 (2011: inDeutsche Börse Group – crease in real terms of 3.1 per cent). The slowdown Xetra1) € 1,069.9 – 24 in GDP growth that had already been observed in Bolsas y Mercados Españoles1) € 698.9 – 24 the second half of 2011 continued in the year under Borsa Italiana2) € 576.2 – 29 review. According to information supplied by the German Federal Statistical Office, economic growth 1) Trading volume in electronic trading (single-counted) 2) Part of London Stock Exchange Group adjusted for price, seasonal and calendar effects 3) Part of NYSE Euronext amounted to 0.6 per cent in the first half of 2012 in Source: Exchanges listed comparison to the previous half-year period, whereas economic output in the second half of the year increased only by 0.1 per cent in comparison to the The high levels of government debt in individual Eurofirst six months of the year. pean states, the decline of the euro against the US dollar and the difficult economic situation are continuAs in 2011, economic performance in the year under ing to fuel uncertainty on the financial markets. These review was mixed across Europe: development was factors led to a lower level of trading in the cash and stable in Germany, France and Austria, while accordderivatives markets in financial year 2012. 118 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 value the reliability of exchanges as trading places Development of contracts traded that guarantee security and integrity. If, however, the on selected derivatives markets uncertainty persists beyond the short term, as is Change 2012 currently the case, this has a paralysing effect on 2012 vs. 2011 the market participants. In addition, the lack of conm contracts % fidence in a permanently stable development of the CBOE Holdings 1,059.4 –8 euro zone was prompting investors to withdraw their NYSE Euronext 1,928.9 – 15 capital from Europe and either invest it back in their CME Group 2,890.0 – 15 respective home markets, for example in the USA, Deutsche Börse Group – Eurex 2,292.0 – 19 or in growth markets such as Asia or South America. Korea Exchange1) 1,835.6 – 53  A lack of clarity surrounding the legal framework for 1) As from June 2012, the Korean exchange regulator ordered an increase in the financial markets inhibits the markets more than a minimum contract size on the Korean market. strict, but ultimately reliable regulatory framework, Source: Exchanges listed which allows businesses to plan. For example, on the one hand, stricter capital requirements are leading banks and other market participants to scale According to the Bank for International Settlements back their trading activities; on the other hand, (BIS), global net issuance of international bonds rose however, this gives Deutsche Börse Group the opby 24 per cent year-on-year in the first nine months portunity to develop services that allow banks to of 2012. In line with this, their aggregate principal use their capital with maximum efficiency. amount grew by more than 5 per cent in the same  The low interest rate policy pursued by central period to €16.8 trillion (since BIS has changed the banks in response to the state of the economy led to way it collects the data, the figures given are not another reduction in net interest income from bankcomparable with those reported in previous years). ing business generated in the Clearstream segment. This development underlines the continued attractiveInterest rate derivatives traded on Eurex were also ness of the international bond markets for issuers. adversely impacted by stable low interest rates.  Other factors included the ECB’s liquidity proThe average volume of international bonds held in grammes, such as the long-term refinancing operacustody by Clearstream rose slightly year-on-year. tions initiated in December 2011 and February 2012. These operations are designed to provide long-term liquidity to the capital markets on favourBusiness development able terms. This led to a deterioration in the market environment for the liquidity management services 2012 was a difficult year for the players on the finanoffered to market participants by the Clearstream cial markets in Europe and North America, as well as segment. for the organisers of these markets – the exchanges. Even in year five of the financial crisis, the capital In this challenging market environment, the result markets failed to stabilise sufficiently to fully restore generated by Deutsche Börse Group in financial year investor confidence. 2012 was lower than in the previous year. Net revenue decreased by 9 per cent to €1,932.3 million in Several factors had a significant impact on business 2012 (2011: €2,121.4 million). When analysing this development at Deutsche Börse Group: decline, it should be also taken into account that in 2011 the market turbulence in the euro zone had  The continuing uncertainty about future global ecotriggered a significant temporary increase in demand nomic developments – especially in the euro zone, for exchange-based hedging, which in turn led to where the euro debt crisis continues to rear its head one of the best results in Deutsche Börse’s history. – put a damper on the trading activities of market By contrast, the acquisition of all of the shares of participants. In times of acute crisis, banks Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 119 Eurex Zürich AG, which has been reported in the conNet revenue by segment solidated financial statements of Deutsche Börse AG since the beginning of the year under review, had a € millions positive impact on revenue in 2012. 2,121.4 Deutsche Börse AG increased its investments in pro219.5 1,932.3 jects of strategic importance to implement the three 215.4 Market Data & Analytics strategic directions communicated in 2012 (see section on “Goals and strategies of Deutsche Börse 695.3 Group”). Therefore, in the year under review, costs for growth initiatives and infrastructure projects increased 660.9 Clearstream year-on-year by €36.7 million. The money was used in particular for projects initiated by Eurex and Clearstream to prepare the Group’s platforms for clearing over-the-counter derivatives and to develop a global 940.0 risk and collateral management system. Nevertheless, 843.0 Eurex the Group’s operating costs decreased slightly yearon-year to €958.6 million (2011: €962.2 million). 266.6 213.0 Xetra Results of operations 2011 2012 Deutsche Börse Group’s net revenue declined by 9 per cent in financial year 2012 to €1,932.3 million (2011: €2,121.4 million). Net revenue is composed the contract volumes for European futures and opof sales revenue plus net interest income from banktions were down by 19 per cent, the same rate of deing business and other operating income, less volumecline as for the US options traded on the International related costs. The decline in net revenue reflects in Securities Exchange (ISE). Lower contract volumes in particular the uncertainty about future global economthe Eurex segment resulted in a 10 per cent drop in ic developments, the situation in the euro zone and net revenue. The acquisition of the remaining shares the central banks’ persistent low interest rate in Eurex Zürich AG from SIX Group AG, which has policy. Furthermore, there is lasting uncertainty about been reflected in Deutsche Börse Group’s consolidatthe far-reaching reform projects in the financial indused financial statements since the start of 2012, had try and their impact on market participants. Together, a stabilising effect. In contrast to the trading activity these factors put a significant damper on the trading in the Xetra and Eurex segments, post-trade services activity of market participants in the year under rewere down only slightly: the Clearstream segment view, whereas the previous year had been characterwas able to partially offset the decline in settlements ised by high volatility due to the turbulence in the caused by the reduction in trading activity, in particueuro zone as well as to the credit rating downgrade lar thanks to its stable custody business and a slight for the United States. As a result, trading volumes in rise in net revenue from global securities financing. securities and derivatives and the associated postOverall, the Clearstream segment’s net revenue was trade services and a part of market data services de5 per cent down on the previous year. Net revenue in clined in 2012, in some cases sharply. the Market Data & Analytics segment was relatively stable due to the steady expansion of the product In total, the cash market trading volume on Xetra conrange, especially at the subsidiary STOXX Ltd., and to tracted by 24 per cent, while the segment’s net revstrong demand for high-quality underlyings for finanenue fell by 20 per cent. On the derivatives market, cial instruments, such as the DAX® index. As a result 120 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 of historically low key interest rates, net interest incosts increased by 5 per cent to €922.4 million come from banking business decreased by 31 per (2011: €878.7 million). The following factors were cent to €52.0 million in the year under review, in the key drivers for the year-on-year increase in costs spite of higher average customer cash deposits. The of €43.7 million: European Central Bank had cut the key interest rate by 25 basis points with effect from 14 December  As part of the Group’s growth strategy, the Executive 2011 and again from 12 July 2012, bringing it down Board resolved to increase spending on strategic to a historically low level of 75 basis points. In addiprojects in 2012. In the year under review, the costs tion, on 11 July 2012, the European Central Bank for growth initiatives and infrastructure projects were reduced the rate for the deposit facility from 0.25 to therefore €36.7 million higher than in the prior-year 0 per cent. Net interest income declined steadily in period. The amount was used in particular to fund the course of the year, from €18.5 million in the first initiatives in the Eurex and Clearstream segments, quarter of 2012 to €8.4 million in the fourth quarter for example, to prepare the clearing of OTC derivaas a result of the interest rate changes. tives transactions and in the area of collateral management in the post-trade business. Accelerated implementation allowed the efficiency  Additional costs amounting to some €9.3 million programme launched in 2010 with a total volume were incurred because the US dollar exchange rate of €150 million to be completed ahead of schedule strengthened against the euro. in the year under review. Overall, the cost-cutting  To enhance transparency, Deutsche Börse Group programme was realised significantly faster than revised its accounting policy for defined benefit oblioriginally planned. gations retroactively as from 1 January 2012 by adopting the revised the IAS 19 early; actuarial gains and losses are now recognised directly in the revaluation surplus. Additionally, Deutsche Börse Deutsche Börse Group key performance figures Group reports the net interest expenses in connection with defined benefit obligations previously 2012 2011 Change €m €m % presented in staff costs in the financial result. The Net revenue 1,932.3 2,121.4 –9 prior-year figures have been adjusted accordingly, Operating costs 958.6 962.2 0 reducing operating costs by €11.1 million and inEBIT 969.4 1,162.8 – 17 creasing financial expense by €2.5 million. Further Net income 645.0 855.2 – 25 information is provided in note 1 to the consoliEarnings per share dated financial statements. (basic) in € 3.44 4.60 – 25 Staff costs, a key factor in operating costs, rose to €414.2 million in 2012 (2011: €385.8 million). Volume-related costs rose by 13 per cent to €276.7 Adjusted for the effects of efficiency programmes million (2011: €244.0 million). The rise is mainly amounting to €14.4 million (2011: €–6.7 million), due to technical changes in the fee models in the staff costs only rose slightly by 2 per cent year-oncash and US options markets and has no impact year to €399.8 million (2011: €392.5 million). This on results. slight increase is largely due to the higher average number of people employed in the year under review The company’s operating costs were down slightly and was partially offset by a drop in variable remuyear-on-year, amounting to €958.6 million (2011: neration compared with the previous year. Further €962.2 million). They include costs for efficiency details of the share-based payment arrangements programmes of €23.1 million (2011: €1.1 million). are provided in note 39 to the consolidated finanExpenses of €13.1 million were incurred in 2012 for cial statements. the prohibited merger with NYSE Euronext (2011: €82.2 million). Adjusted for these one-off effects, Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 121 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses inEBIT by segment creased by 15 per cent to €105.0 million in the year under review (2011: €91.4 million). This was pri€ millions marily driven by a rise of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in connection with the 1,162.8 Group’s growth initiatives and infrastructure measures. 143.5 969.4 Other operating expenses, which amounted to €439.4 million in the year under review (2011: 120.7 Market Data & Analytics €485.0 million), relate primarily to the costs of devel375.1 oping and operating Deutsche Börse Group’s technological infrastructure, including, for example, costs for 316.9 Clearstream IT services providers and data processing. In addition, other operating expenses include the cost of the office infrastructure at all the Group’s locations as well as travel expenses, most of which are incurred in con518.8 440.6 Eurex nection with sales activities. Because of the Group’s business model and the fact that the company does not normally distribute its products and services to end customers, advertising and marketing costs only 125.4 91.2 Xetra account for a very small portion of the company’s 2011 2012 operating expenses. The result from Deutsche Börse Group’s equity investments amounted to €–4.3 million (2011: income Primarily because of lower net revenue, Deutsche €3.6 million). It was generated primarily by Scoach Börse Group’s earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) Holding S.A., Direct Edge Holdings, LLC and Eurodeclined by 17 per cent in the year under review to pean Energy Exchange AG. The positive contribu€969.4 million (2011: €1,162.8 million). Adjusted tions made by these companies were offset by an for the special factors mentioned above, the Group’s impairment loss of €10.8 million recognised on the EBIT amounted to €1,005.6 million, a 19 per cent Group’s interest in Quadriserv Inc., which resulted decrease compared with 2011 (€1,246.1 million). in total in a loss from equity investments. SIX Swiss Exchange AG has terminated the cooperation agreeThe Group’s financial result for financial year 2012 ment with effect from 30 June 2013. The markets was €–132.7 million (2011: €–3.8 million). The contributed to the joint venture will be transferred clear widening of this figure is primarily due to back to the respective parent companies. Deutsche Börse AG’s agreement with SIX Group AG to acquire all the shares in Eurex Zürich AG. Under the terms of the agreement, part of the purchase price was to be settled in shares. The equity component of the purchase price liability was definitively measured Overview of operating costs at fair value through profit and loss on 1 February 2012 2011 Change 2012. The rise in the share price between 31 De€m €m % cember 2011 and 1 February 2012 led to a nonStaff costs 414.2 385.8 7 cash, tax-neutral expense of €26.3 million on the Depreciation, amortisation and measurement of the equity component and an eximpairment charges 105.0 91.4 15 pense of €1.1 million on the unwinding of the disOther operating expenses 439.4 485.0 –9 counted cash component. For 2011, there had been Total 958.6 962.2 0 non-cash, tax-neutral income of €80.8 million on 122 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 the measurement of the equity component and an made to the operating costs and the financial result. expense of €3.4 million on the unwinding of the disIn addition, the Group tax rate was adjusted by noncount on the cash component. In addition, at the end recurring income from the reversal of deferred tax liaof September 2012, Deutsche Börse AG placed a bilities for STOXX Ltd. amounting to €20.7 million (of corporate bond with a maturity of 10 years and a volwhich SIX Group AG receives one half) as a result of ume of €600 million. It serves primarily to refinance a decision by the Swiss financial authorities and by part of the outstanding long-term financial liabilities, non-recurring income amounting to €37.1 million which amount to roughly €1.5 billion in total. Deutsche from the recognition of deferred tax assets due to the Börse made use of the positive market environment to ability in the future to offset loss carryforwards in obtain funds early to repay outstanding existing bonds connection with the acquisition of the shares held by maturing in 2013. In this context, Deutsche Börse AG SIX Group AG in Eurex Global Derivatives AG. made creditors of outstanding euro-denominated bonds an offer to repurchase these bonds and bought Driven by the lower EBIT, Deutsche Börse Group also fixed-income bearer bonds issued in 2008 amounting recorded a decrease in net income compared to 2011 to €72.1 million (principal amount), as well as hybrid by 25 per cent to €645.0 million (2011: €855.2 milbonds, also issued in 2008, amounting to €237.1 lion). Excluding the special factors described above, million (principal amount). By repurchasing the outconsolidated net income was down 21 per cent yearstanding bonds, it was possible to use the funds on-year to €660.9 million (2011: €839.5 million). raised through the new issue directly and thus reduce gross debt by a corresponding amount as at the end Non-controlling interests in net profit for the period of the year. The placement of the bond and the simulamounted to €24.8 million (2011: €22.6 million). taneous repurchase of some of the outstanding euroSTOXX Ltd. accounted for the largest share of this denominated bonds led to a non-recurring charge on with €24.6 million (2011: €18.5 million). the net financial result of €12.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2012. The amount includes the premium Basic earnings per share, based on the weighted avfor the repurchase of the bonds in excess of their erage of 187.4 million shares, amounted to €3.44 principal amount. Adjusted for these factors, the net (2011: €4.60 for an average of 185.8 million shares financial result in 2012 amounted to €–92.9 million outstanding). Adjusted for the non-recurring effects (2011: €–81.2 million). described above, basic earnings per share declined by 22 per cent to €3.53 (2011: €4.51). The effective Group tax rate was 26.0 per cent in 2012 (2011: 26.0 per cent). It is calculated after adjustments for the above-mentioned special factors Key figures by quarter Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m €m €m €m €m Net revenue 506.9 526.3 506.7 506.4 471.0 578.6 447.7 510.1 Operating costs 248.6 211.8 228.9 233.1 227.4 248.3 253.7 269.0 EBIT 260.0 319.1 278.8 279.0 245.4 333.8 185.2 230.9 Net income for the period 146.2 214.1 186.2 180.5 159.9 316.9 152.7 143.7 Earnings per share (basic) (€) 0.77 1.15 0.99 0.97 0.86 1.70 0.82 0.78 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 123 The shortfall in net revenue compared with the exEBIT and net profitability by segment pected forecast range in the financial year under re2012 2011 view had a negative effect on the forecast EBIT range as well as on the interest coverage ratio, which at EBIT EBIT EBIT margin1) EBIT margin1) 15.2 did not entirely reach the target of at least 16. €m % €m % Xetra 91.2 43 125.4 47 Xetra segment Eurex 440.6 52 518.8 55 The Xetra segment generates most of its net revenue Clearstream 316.9 48 375.1 54 from trading and clearing cash market securities, inMarket Data & Analytics 120.7 56 143.5 65 cluding shares and bonds from German and internaTotal 969.4 50 1,162.8 55 tional issuers, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and ex1) Based on net revenue change-traded commodities (ETCs) as well as shares in actively managed retail funds. The key players on Deutsche Börse’s platforms are institutional investors Comparison of results of operations with the and professional market participants. forecast for 2012 For 2012, Deutsche Börse Group had forecast net reThe primary sales driver, accounting for 43 per cent, venue of approximately €2,100 million to €2,350 milwas net revenue from trading, which is largely conlion, operating costs of less than €930 million and ducted on Xetra, the electronic trading platform. Xetra EBIT of approximately €1,200 million to €1,350 milFrankfurt Specialist Trading takes place in parallel, as lion. This forecast was based on assumptions such as does trading on Tradegate, which is aimed at private restored confidence among market participants in reinvestors. The central counterparty (CCP) for equities sponse to an improved situation in the European sovoperated by Eurex Clearing AG contributed 16 per ereign debt crisis, a stable interest rate environment cent to the segment’s net revenue; the net revenue of compared with 2011 and a moderate improvement the CCP is determined to a significant extent by tradin economic conditions. At the time the forecast for ing activities on Xetra. IT net revenue as well as in2012 was published, the company had announced come from cooperation agreements and listing fees that net revenue was expected to be at the lower end are grouped under “other” (together these accounted of the range if actual developments deviated from for 30 per cent of net revenue). Income from coopethe assumptions made. ration agreements mainly derives from operating the systems of the Irish Stock Exchange, the Vienna The conditions described under “Results of operaStock Exchange, the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, the tions” above deviated significantly from the assumpLjubljana Stock Exchange, the Malta Stock Exchange tions on which the forecast was based. Because of and the Prague Stock Exchange. Listing fees predomthis divergence, Deutsche Börse Group missed its inantly came from existing company listings and adnet revenue target, which it had already adjusted to missions to trading. Connectivity income accounted €1,950 million at the time the results for the third for 11 per cent of net revenue. quarter of 2012 were published in view of unsatisfactory business developments. The uncertainty surrounding future global economic development and the European debt crisis led to At €922.4 million, the Group met its target of achievgeneral risk aversion and had a negative impact on ing operating costs of less than €930 million (adjustinvestor confidence in the financial markets. As a ed for merger and acquisition costs and costs for effiresult, there was a marked decline in continuous ciency programmes amounting to around €30 million) thanks to its strict cost management. 124 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 even during times of extreme demand. Deutsche Breakdown of net revenue in the Xetra segment Börse rolled out Xetra Release 13.0 in November € millions 2012. This new version of the trading system makes new order types available to private and institutional 266.6 investors, improves existing functions and expands interfaces. 75.5 213.0 The Xetra network continued to strengthen and extend its international reach in 2012. The Prague Stock Exchange migrated its electronic securities trading to 21.6 64.8 Other 1) the Xetra trading system on 30 November 2012. The 44.4 Prague Stock exchange is linked to the Xetra network 23.2 Connectivity through the Vienna Stock Exchange, which has operated its cash market using Xetra since 1999. The 34.5 Central counterparty for equities Malta Stock Exchange has also been using the Xetra system since July 2012. In addition, the Irish Stock 125.1 Exchange has extended its Xetra agreement with 90.5 Trading 2) Deutsche Börse AG by a further four years until 31 December 2016. 2011 2012 While trading volumes declined among institutional investors, who primarily use Xetra, the situation in the 1) Including income from listing and cooperation agreements case of private investors was mixed. Private investors 2) The position Trading includes Xetra Frankfurt Specialist Trading (until 23 May 2011: fl oor trading) as well as the Xetra ® electronic are the prime target group for the Xetra Frankfurt Spetrading system. cialist Trading model, which combines the strengths of Xetra trading – extremely fast order execution, trading throughout Europe, high liquidity – with the benetrading activity on Xetra and in Xetra Frankfurt fits of floor trading, human know-how, during trading Specialist Trading. Because of the lower levels of tradhours from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. With this model, the ing activity on the markets, net revenue in the Xetra Frankfurt Stock Exchange enables its customers to segment fell by 20 per cent to €213.0 million respond quickly to international market events and (2011: €266.6 million). developments. The volume (single-counted) traded via the Specialist Trading model was €41.4 billion, The number of transactions in Xetra electronic trading down 22 per cent on the previous year (2011: (excluding Specialist Trading and Tradegate Exchange) €53.1 billion). declined by 21 per cent year-on-year to 194.7 million (2011: 247.2 million). The trading volume on Xetra The long trading hours and special order types offered (measured in terms of order book turnover, singleby the Berlin-based Tradegate Exchange is tailored counted) was down by 24 per cent in the year under to meet the needs of private investors. Tradegate Exreview to €1,069.9 billion (2011: €1,406.7 bilchange generated a trading volume of €33.9 billion, lion). The average value of a Xetra transaction was an increase of 5 per cent compared with 2011 €11.0 thousand, slightly down on the previous year (€32.3 billion). (2011: €11.4 thousand). Although operating costs in the Xetra segment were Deutsche Börse Group continued to develop its traddown by 15 per cent, the decline in net revenue ing technology in 2012. Ongoing investments in the could only be partially offset by cost management. As performance and risk management of the trading sysa result, EBIT declined by 27 per cent to €91.2 miltem ensure that trading is reliable, fair and orderly, lion (2011: €125.4 million). Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 125 the opportunity to make targeted investments in, for Cash market: trading volume (single-counted) example, the performance of government bonds issued by specific countries of the euro zone or of cor2012 2011 Change €bn €bn % porate bonds issued in specific countries in South or Xetra 1,069.9 1,406.7 – 24 South-East Asia. Xetra Frankfurt Specialist Trading1) 41.4 53.1 – 22 Deutsche Börse also expanded its range of exchangeTradegate 33.9 32.3 5 traded commodities (ETCs). ETCs reflect the perfor1) Prior to 23 May 2011: floor trading; excluding certificates and warrants mance of single commodities or commodity sectors, such as energy, agricultural commodities, or precious metals. Xetra-Gold®, a bearer bond issued by Deutsche Börse has enabled ETF trading on Xetra Deutsche Börse Commodities GmbH, is the most since 2000 through a specially created segment, successful ETC product. Since it started trading on XTF®. ETFs combine the flexibility of individual equi14 December 2007, Xetra-Gold has been the ties with the risk diversification of a fund. They repremost heavily traded ETC on Xetra. As at 31 Decemsent entire markets or sectors in a single product, are ber 2012, Deutsche Börse Group held 53.8 tonnes traded via stock exchanges as efficiently and with the of gold in custody (2011: 52.8 tonnes). Given a same liquidity as equities, and can be bought at low gold price of €40.47 per gram (closing price on transaction costs without load fees. Their number and 31 December 2012), the value of the gold was assets under management have grown steadily since equivalent to €2.2 billion, a new record (2011: being launched in Europe. As at 31 December 2012, €2.1 billion). In 2012, order book turnover for Xetra1,010 ETFs were listed on the Frankfurt Stock ExGold on the Xetra trading platform fell by 35 per cent change (2011: 899 ETFs). Assets under manageto €2.0 billion (2011: €3.1 billion); its market share ment using ETFs amounted to €205.7 billion, of order book turnover in the ETC segment was 31 per cent more than in the previous year (2011: 27 per cent. Xetra-Gold is approved for sale to the €157.4 billion). public in Germany, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Austria, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. In the listing business, Deutsche Börse AG recorded Xetra segment: key figures 89 new admissions in the year under review. 11 of 2012 2011 Change them were initial public offerings (IPOs), of which €m €m % eight were in the Prime Standard and three in the Net revenue 213.0 266.6 – 20 Entry Standard. The total placement volume in 2012 Operating costs 126.6 148.4 – 15 stood at around €2.38 billion. The year’s largest EBIT 91.2 125.4 – 27 IPO was that of Telefónica Deutschland Holding AG, which took place in October 2012 and had a volume of around €1.45 billion. Likewise, companies that In spite of the general market weakness, which were already listed made use of the option of raising caused trading turnover in the XTF segment to conaround €6.73 billion of capital through capital intract by 33 per cent to €128.5 billion (2011: creases in 2012. The option of issuing bonds in the €192.4 billion), Deutsche Börse held on to its posiEntry Standard, introduced in 2011, recorded signifition as European market leader because it has the cant successes in 2012: 19 companies used the highest number of products and high liquidity in ETF Entry Standard to raise debt capital. The issue voltrading.The most heavily traded ETFs continue to be ume as given in the prospectuses amounted to a based on the European STOXX equity indices and on total of €767 million. The issue volume of the three the DAX index. In addition, investors can benefit from companies (including one transfer) that opted for other innovative products. For the first time, they have the new Prime Standard segment for corporate bonds 126 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 launched in 2012 amounted to €925 million. The (2011: 2,043.4 million). The trading volume for US Prime Standard for corporate bonds is aimed at larger options traded on ISE contracted by 19 per cent to listed and unlisted companies. 631.8 million contracts (2011: 778.1 million). Eurex segment Net revenue of the segment decreased by 10 per cent As in the cash market, the performance of the Eurex to €843.0 million (2011: €940.0 million). The yearderivatives segment largely depends on the trading on-year decline in business activity was partially activities of institutional investors and proprietary compensated by the acquisition of 100 per cent of trading by professional market participants. The segthe shares in Eurex Zürich AG. ment’s revenue is therefore generated primarily from the combined transaction fees that Eurex charges for Given a 3 per cent drop in operating costs, Eurex gentrading and clearing derivatives contracts. As in previerated EBIT of €440.6 million (2011: €518.8 milous years, the main revenue drivers in 2012 were lion). The acquisition of all shares in Eurex Zürich AG equity index derivatives with a 47 per cent share of with effect from 1 January 2012 resulted in additiontotal net revenue. These were followed by interest rate al EBIT of €68.5 million in the year under review. derivatives (20 per cent), US options offered by the International Securities Exchange (ISE; 11 per cent) and equity derivatives (5 per cent). The “other” item Eurex segment: key figures (17 per cent of net revenue) includes connection fees, IT services and revenue from the Eurex Bonds and 2012 2011 Change Eurex Repo subsidiaries, among other things. €m €m % Net revenue 843.0 940.0 – 10 The market environment in 2012 was largely domiOperating costs 375.8 387.7 –3 nated by the European debt crisis, continuing uncerEBIT 440.6 518.8 – 15 tainty about future global economic developments and the central banks’ ongoing low interest rate policy. Additional factors include the far-reaching regulatory European equity index derivatives were again the reform projects in the financial industry, whose improduct group with the highest trading volume. The pact on market structures and business models is diftrading volume of these derivatives, however, deficult to gauge accurately at present. This economic creased by 20 per cent year-on-year to 770.4 million and regulatory framework ultimately led institutional contracts (2011: 959.8 million). Although by far customers to act with greater caution and to scale the most contracts were still traded on the EURO back their trading activities. As a result, the use of exSTOXX 50® index (315.2 million futures and change-traded and centrally cleared derivatives de280.6 million options), derivatives on European clined compared with the previous year – both on STOXX® indices were also affected by the debt crisis Deutsche Börse Group’s derivatives exchanges and on in Europe and the lack of confidence in the the derivatives exchanges of other exchange organisacommon currency. Eurex generated net revenue of tions worldwide. €398.8 million (2011: €429.6 million) on the back of trading in European equity index derivatives. In total, 2,292.0 million contracts were traded on Deutsche Börse Group’s derivatives exchanges (Eurex The volume of equity derivatives contracts (single and ISE) in 2012, a year-on-year decline of 19 per stock options and futures) dropped by 8 per cent to cent (2011: 2,821.5 million). This is equivalent 413.1 million (2011: 450.5 million). Nevertheless, to a daily average of 9.0 million contracts (2011: net revenue from equity derivatives increased to 11.1 million). Eurex generated a trading volume of €40.3 million (2011: €37.7 million), in particular 1,660.2 million contracts for European futures and due to the positive development of higher-margin options, 19 per cent down on the previous year dividend products. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 127 Breakdown of net revenue in the Eurex segment Contract volumes in the derivatives market € millions 2012 2011 Change m contracts m contracts % 940.0 Equity index derivatives1) 770.4 959.8 – 20 Equity derivatives1) 413.1 450.5 –8 165.1 843.0 Interest rate derivatives 470.4 630.4 – 25 139.0 Other Total European derivatives (Eurex)2) 1,660.2 2,043.4 – 19 115.2 94.0 US options US options (ISE) 631.8 778.1 – 19 37.7 2) Total Eurex and ISE 2,292.0 2,821.5 – 19 40.3 European equity derivatives 192.4 1) Dividend derivatives have been allocated to the equity index and equity derivatives. European interest 170.9 2) The total shown does not equal the sum of the individual figures as it includes rate derivatives other traded derivatives such as ETF, volatility, agricultural, precious metals and emission derivatives. 429.6 Besides derivatives trading, Eurex also operates 398.8 European index derivatives Eurex Clearing, Europe’s leading clearing house. In addition to its function as a central counterparty for the clearing and risk management of products of connected trading platforms such as Xetra®, Eurex®, 2011 2012 Eurex Bonds®, Eurex Repo®, the European Energy Exchange (EEX) and the Irish Stock Exchange, Eurex The volume of interest rate derivatives traded in the Clearing offers services for futures and options on year under review fell by 25 per cent to 470.4 million equities and interest rate products with contract speci(2011: €630.4 million); net revenue amounted to fications similar to Eurex contracts that are traded €170.9 million (2011: €192.4 million). As key off the order book. interest rates remained low and interest rate differentials between a number of euro zone countries and On 13 November, Eurex Clearing launched Eurex OTC Germany continued to be high, there was reduced Clear, the new clearing offering for over-the-counter demand for derivatives on German government (OTC) interest rate swaps. The new offering creates bonds to hedge positions. By contrast, Eurex recorded the conditions needed for investors to connect to its a rise in the trading volume of alternative hedging clearing platform in good time before the central instruments, such as futures on French and Italian clearing obligation for certain OTC derivatives pregovernment bonds. scribed by the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) enters into force at EU level. Many On ISE, the trading volume in US options declined well-known banks cooperated with Eurex Clearing amid a generally weak market trend as well as a and provided support during development and roll-out. highly competitive market environment: market par12 banks have already been admitted as market ticipants traded 631.8 million contracts in the year participants and have successfully settled their first under review, 19 per cent fewer than in the prior year transactions using Eurex OTC Clear for interest rate (2011: 778.1 million). ISE’s market share of US swaps. The new clearing offering for OTC derivatives equity options was 17.0 per cent in 2012 (2011: has been tailored specifically to the needs of institu18.2 per cent). ISE’s net revenue with US options tional customers, with a particular focus on security was down 18 per cent to €94.0 million (2011: and efficiency. Eurex’s OTC Clear offering is a major €115.2 million). 128 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 element in Deutsche Börse Group’s strategy, which Clearing). Eurex Repo generates revenue from the fees aims at expanding its product and service offering to charged for trading and clearing the repo transactions. unregulated and unsecured markets. GC Pooling was extended to non-financial institutions Eurex Clearing’s “Individual Clearing Model” offers full in the fourth quarter of 2012 (GC Pooling® Select). individual account maintenance (segregation) of cusSince then, banks’ corporate customers have also tomer positions and collateral. These are therefore been able to use this secured financing plus central optimally protected and immediately transferable in clearing offering to minimise the counterparty risk for the event that a clearing member defaults, so that their cash investments. customers are able to continue their trading activities without interruption. Trading volumes on Eurex Bonds, the international electronic platform for interbank bond trading, grew In addition, Eurex Clearing AG was the first by 2 per cent to €119.7 billion in 2012 (2011: European clearing house to introduce a central coun€117.2 billion, single-counted for both years). The terparty for bilateral securities lending. This service positive trend is due to increased demand for investallows customers to make more efficient use of ments in issues with top-notch ratings. capital and simplifies operations. On completion of the pilot phase, the new service is to be extended New products give market participants new impetus to European markets for loans in equities, ETFs and to develop investment, hedging and arbitrage stratefixed-income securities. gies, thus generating additional trading volumes. The products launched by Eurex in 2012 included various Eurex Repo, the marketplace for collateralised equity, equity index, interest rate, commodity and divmoney market trading in Swiss francs and euros idend derivatives. Eurex’s futures contracts on French as well as for the GC Pooling® offering, reported government bonds, for example, show that new prodaverage outstandings of €234.7 billion in 2012 ucts and asset classes not only expand the portfolio, (2011: €276.6 billion, single-counted for both but can also make a substantial value contribution. years). While the euro market grew by 19 per cent to Eurex’s trading volume in OAT futures, which were a new record high of €36.1 billion (2011: €30.3 billaunched in April 2012 and are based on notional lion, single-counted for both years), average outstandlong-term bonds issued by the French Republic ing volumes on the repo market in Swiss francs (Obligations Assimilables du Trésor – OAT), reached dropped significantly. This was mainly because of the 4.3 million contracts in the year under review. Fuinterest policy measures taken by the Swiss National tures on Italian government bonds, launched in Bank (SNB) to devalue the Swiss franc and a de2009, continued to record a similarly strong performcline in the issuance of SNB bills. ance. Other examples demonstrating the success of new products include the relatively recent dividend GC Pooling, the collateralised money market which derivatives. Trading in these derivatives contracts inEurex Repo operates jointly with Eurex Clearing and creased again in 2012, rising 15 per cent to 6.9 milClearstream, again proved to be a reliable liquidity lion (2011: 6.0 million). Trading in Eurex’s volatility pool for market participants. The average outstanding index derivatives increased even more in 2012, by volume on this market increased by 23 per cent to a around 120 per cent to 5.3 million contracts (2011: new record level of €145.4 billion in 2012 (2011: 2.4 million contracts). €118.2 billion; single-counted for both years). GC Pooling enables balance-sheet friendly and anonyWhen launching new products, Eurex not only relies mous money market trading in which standardised on in-house development, but also works with partner collateral baskets (a group of securities with similar exchanges. It cooperates particularly successfully with quality features, such as issuer credit ratings) are the Korea Exchange (KRX) on a product on Korea’s traded and cleared via a central counterparty (Eurex benchmark KOSPI index, which has been available for trading on Eurex since 30 August 2010. This Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 129 product became one of the most frequently traded Clearstream segment index option contracts on Eurex in 2012. Its volume Clearstream provides the post-trade infrastructure for almost doubled in 2012 to 32.4 million contracts bonds, equities and investment funds. In addition, (2011: 17.4 million). However, the increase in the Clearstream offers custody services for securities from minimum contract size in the home market ordered 53 markets worldwide. The key contributor to Clearby the Korean exchange regulator as from June 2012 stream’s net revenue was the custody business genhas since led to a corresponding decline in the avererating 50 per cent. Net revenue in this business age number of contracts traded each day, but has is mainly driven by the value of international and had no impact on earnings for Eurex. domestic securities deposited, which determines the deposit fees. The settlement business accounted Overall, the expansion strategy pursued by Deutsche for 15 per cent of Clearstream’s net revenue. It Börse and Eurex in Asia focuses on cooperation with depends heavily on the number of international leading local institutions. For example, Deutsche and domestic settlement transactions processed by Börse has signed memorandums of understanding Clearstream, both via stock exchanges and over-the(MoUs) with the China Financial Futures Exchange counter (OTC). The Global Securities Financing (GSF) (CFFEX) and the Taiwan-based GreTai Securities business, which includes triparty repo, GC Pooling, Market (GTSM). Eurex will cooperate with the China securities lending and a wide range of collateral manFutures Association (CFA) in the future. Under these agement services, contributed 9 per cent to the segMoUs, the respective partners aim to exchange ment’s net revenue. Clearstream also provides the extensive amounts of information with a view to post-trade infrastructure for investment funds. Net driving forward joint efforts to further develop the interest income from Clearstream’s banking busifinancial markets. ness contributed 8 per cent to Clearstream’s net revenue. Other business activities including connecIn March 2012, Eurex agreed a further cooperative tivity, reporting and external IT services accounted arrangement with Singapore Exchange (SGX), which for an 18 per cent share of total net revenue. enables participants to access more easily the two marketplaces. Due to the connection of the two In the year under review, Clearstream’s net revenue companies’ co-location data centres in Singapore fell by 5 per cent year-on-year to €660.9 million and Frankfurt/Main, market participants will have (2011: €695.3 million). It was basically stable in the easy access to the markets of the other exchange custody business, slightly down in settlement, slightly in each case. up in GSF business and significantly down in net interest income from banking business. At the beginning of December, Eurex introduced a new trading architecture and will now gradually In the custody business, the overall average equivamigrate the entire portfolio of tradeable contracts to lent value of assets under custody remained stable this architecture. The migration is expected to be comat record levels of €11.1 trillion in 2012 (2011: pleted by May 2013. As a result of the migration, €11.1 trillion). In the international custody business, market participants will benefit from considerably the average value of assets under custody is mainly improved performance and functions without losing driven by the amount of outstanding bonds and inany of the system stability and availability to which creased slightly to €6.0 trillion (2011: €5.9 trillion). they are accustomed. The new system is based on Deutsche Börse Group’s global trading infrastructure, which has already been successfully introduced at ISE. This provides greater flexibility, thus cutting the time to market for new products and functions. The powerful messaging architecture ensures shorter latency times and faster communications. 130 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 stream’s international settlement business. Stock exBreakdown of net revenue in the Clearstream change transactions, which had an 18 per cent share segment in the international settlement business decreased by € millions 17 per cent year-on-year. In the domestic German market, settlement transactions fell by 15 per cent to 695.3 74.8 million (2011: 88.4 million). Here, a majority 660.9 75.1 Net interest income of 66 per cent were stock exchange transactions and 52.0 from banking business OTC business accounted for 34 per cent of the trans123.2 actions. However, stock exchange transactions fell 118.3 Other 1) more (by 18 per cent) than OTC transactions (by 56.5 57.1 Global Securities Financing 9 per cent) in the year under review, primarily as a result of trading activity in Germany, which was sig104.3 99.0 Settlement nificantly lower than in the previous year. Net revenue in the settlement business fell by 5 per cent to €99.0 million (2011: €104.3 million). The difference between business development and the change in net revenue is due to the fact that higher-valued transac336.2 334.5 Custody tions decreased to a smaller degree than others. The investment funds services at Clearstream keep growing. In the year under review, Clearstream pro2011 2012 cessed 6.4 million transactions, 20 per cent more than in the previous year (2011: 5.3 million). More 1) Including Connectivity and Reporting than 100,000 funds from 33 jurisdictions are available for order routing through Clearstream’s Vestima platform. The average value of assets held under The average value of domestic securities deposited custody in Investment Funds Services in 2012, as decreased by a similar amount to €5.1 trillion (2011: part of the above-mentioned custody volumes, was €5.2 trillion). The domestic custody volume is mainly €229.1 billion, up 5 per cent year-on-year (2011: determined by the market value of shares, funds and €217.4 billion). structured products traded on the German cash market. In line with business development in custody, net In the Global Securities Financing (GSF) business, the revenue remained stable at €334.5 million in 2012 average outstanding volume declined to 570.3 billion (2011: €336.2 million). (2011: €592.2 billion), a decrease of 4 per cent, mainly driven by the continued supply of liquidity by The number of total settlement transactions (docentral banks while the previous year’s level had been mestic and international) processed by Clearstream positively impacted by high market uncertainty, espesaw a 10 per cent decrease in 2012 to 113.9 milcially in the third quarter. Despite this market-driven lion (2011: 126.3 million). This decline in the voldecrease in volumes, the GSF business recorded a ume of settlement transactions corresponded to the 1 per cent increase in net revenue, to €57.1 million trading activity of market participants in general, (2011: €56.5 million). This is due to a shift of which was slower than in the previous year. However, client behaviour into higher margin service segments international transactions in total grew slightly by and a continued growth in the GC Pooling service, 3 per cent to 39.0 million (2011: 37.9 million) due which recorded a daily average in outstandings of to a 9 per cent growth year-on-year in OTC transac€145.4 billion, a plus of 23 per cent year-on-year tions, which accounted for 82 per cent of Clear(2011: €118.2 billion). Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 131 Lower net revenue in the main business lines and a Clearstream segment: key indicators drop in net interest income from banking business 2012 2011 Change reduced Clearstream’s EBIT in the year under Custody €bn €bn % review by 16 per cent to €316.9 million (2011: Value of securities deposited €375.1 million). (average value during the year) 11,111 11,106 0 international 5,964 5,896 1 domestic 5,147 5,210 –1 Clearstream segment: key figures Settlement m m % Securities transactions 113.9 126.3 – 10 2012 2011 Change international – OTC 31.9 29.2 9 €m €m % international – on-exchange 7.2 8.7 – 17 Net revenue 660.9 695.3 –5 domestic – OTC 25.7 28.3 –9 Operating costs 348.1 326.0 7 domestic – on-exchange 49.1 60.1 – 18 EBIT 316.9 375.1 – 16 Global Securities Financing €bn €bn % Monthly average 570.3 592.2 –4 Clearstream’s core business is the settlement and Average daily cash balances m m % custody of international bonds. Both the trading and Total 10,248 10,8011) –5 the post-trading market environment have become euro 3,888 3,795 2 more complex in recent years, and Clearstream’s goal US dollars 4,350 4,923 – 12 continues to be to streamline the post-trade services other currencies 2,010 2,083 –4 industry in the interest of its customers. Clearstream 1) Includes some €1.6 billion currently restricted by EU and US sanctions (2011: offers global asset services in order to support cus€3.1 billion) tomers in coping with the increased capital requirements and risk and liquidity management considerations resulting from the need for systemic stability of Average customer cash deposits declined year-on-year capital markets. by 5 per cent to €10.2 billion (2011: €10.8 billion). This includes an average amount of some €1.6 billion One of the answers to these challenges is a more (2011: €3.1 billion), which was not available as a efficient management of capital and liquidity and result of the blocking of dedicated accounts in line hence of collateral. Clearstream has developed its with European and US sanction programmes. Adjustintegrated collateral management environment, the ed for these assets, customer cash deposits increased Global Liquidity Hub, which allows banks to use the to €8.6 billion in 2012 (2011: €7.7 billion). Net inassets that are available as collateral more efficiently. terest income from Clearstream’s banking business Clearstream has repeatedly been recognised as best fell by 31 per cent to €52.0 million in 2012 (2011: collateral management service provider by leading in€75.1 million). This is due to the fact that the Eurodustry publications and has, for its globally demanded pean Central Bank lowered its key interest rate by outsourcing solution, the competitive advantage to be 25 basis points to 0.75 per cent on 11 July 2012, the only collateral management services provider that reaching its lowest historical level, whereas its level can manage collateral across time zones and national had been at 1.5 per cent after 13 July 2011 and at borders while the assets stay in the respective domes1 per cent at the end of 2011. In addition, on 11 Jutic environment – as required in many legislations. ly 2012, the European Central Bank reduced the rate Consequently, the Global Liquidity Hub has won furfor the deposit facility from 0.25 to 0 per cent. ther partners among central securities depositories 132 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 worldwide. The company’s new product “Liquidity A core element of Clearstream’s business is also to Hub GO” – “GO” stands for “global outsourcing” – expand the number of linked markets and product went live with Brazilian CSD Cetip in 2011 and is at reach to enable access to domestic markets and different stages of development with Clearstream’s strengthen its market position. In the year under reglobal partners. It is planned to be launched in 2013 view, Clearstream strengthened its commitment to for CSDs in Australia (ASX), Spain (Iberclear) and Asia by introducing a settlement link to the PhilipSouth Africa (Strate). A Letter of Intent has also been pines. The ICSD also intends to open a direct account signed with Canadian CSD CDS. This paves the way at the new Russian CSD. Clearstream’s network now for a multi-time-zone collateral management insourcencompasses 53 markets around the globe: 33 in Euing service in real-time and is in line with the obrope, 6 in the Americas, 11 in the Asia-Pacific region served trend towards a global consolidation of collatand 3 in the Middle East and Africa. Clearstream’s eral management activities. In addition to the above settlement network is the largest of any international mentioned CSDs, the agent banks BNP Paribas SecuCSD and enables counterparties in local markets to rities Services and Citi have signed an agreement with settle eligible securities efficiently through ClearClearstream to leverage its collateral management exstream’s operational hubs in Eschborn, Luxembourg, cellence, thus enabling joint customers to cover their Prague and Singapore. In November 2012, Clearglobal exposures through a single optimised collateral stream also set up a new operational branch in Ireland pool. Finally, Clearstream has initiated links to trading to facilitate the processing of hedge funds that the Platforms such as 360T. The collateral management company so far did not cover. The new Dublin branch activities are evidence of the Group’s strategy to tap will allow Clearstream to service the entire range of into new geographic areas and acquire new customer funds: mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and algroups by partnering with other market players. ternative funds such as hedge funds. The settlement landscape will face a significant Market Data & Analytics segment change with the launch of TARGET2-Securities (T2S), The Market Data & Analytics segment generates, colthe standardised pan-European settlement infrastruclects, analyses and prepares capital market data, and ture that the European Central Bank intends to introdistributes it to customers in 148 countries. Capital duce in 2015. Clearstream aims to take advantage of market participants and other interested parties subthe emerging European market landscape and, having scribe to receive this information, which they then use supported the goals of the T2S initiative since its inthemselves, process or pass on. The segment generception, was one of the first central securities deposiates much of its net revenue on the basis of long-term tories to sign the T2S Framework Agreement in May arrangements with customers and is relatively inde2012. The German CSD Clearstream Banking AG will pendent of trading volumes and volatility on the capiaccount for approximately 40 per cent of the future tal markets. T2S settlement volumes in the euro area and aims at becoming the preferred entry point to T2S. By being In a difficult business environment, Market Data & the first CSD to establish the cornerstones of a pricing Analytics’ net revenue was largely stable in 2012, model, applicable as early as 1 April 2013, Clearreaching €215.4 million (2011: €219.5 million). stream intends to guide and support existing and fuThis is due to strong demand for high-quality underlyture customers in moving towards T2S. ings for financial instruments, such as the DAX index, and for reliable, uninterrupted supplies of market information of the kind provided by Deutsche Börse’s Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 133 CEF® data feed. This demand corresponds to the Issuers can use the indices to develop products for increased uncertainty about international economic any market situation and trading strategy. In addition, developments and the stability of Germany as a investors use the indices as standards for comparing business location. the performance of their investments and for measuring risk. In the index business, which is operated by Market Data & Analytics expanded its product range the segment’s subsidiary STOXX Ltd., Market Data & further in response to the challenging market enviAnalytics’ net revenue increased further in 2012. This ronment, especially in its subsidiary STOXX Ltd., growth was driven above all by DAX ETFs, which recwhich generated external net revenue of €32.2 milorded a clear increase in assets because of the relialion in 2012 (2011: €34.1 million). This also bility of the DAX index as an underlying. applied to demand for macroeconomic data, news and indicators of the kind provided by Deutsche Moreover, the range of indices was continually exBörse Group’s subsidiary, Market News Intertended in 2012, for example by adding a new counnational Inc. (MNI). try classification for emerging markets based on transparent quantitative criteria as well as the DAX ex Market Data & Analytics generated most (66 per Financials index, which tracks the share price perforcent) of its net revenue in its first business area, the mance of all companies on Germany’s blue-chip DAX distribution of licences for real-time trading and index with the exception of banks and financial sermarket signals; in 2011 this area had accounted vices companies. The area also supports Deutsche for 66 per cent as well. Its performance declined Börse Group’s internationalisation strategy: in Sepslightly because of falling employment levels in the tember, for example, Market Data & Analytics added financial sector. over 2,100 indices to the STOXX Global Index family, particularly for shares in Asia. In addition, new An important part of this offering from Market Data & benchmarks were introduced for Chinese equities in Analytics is the AlphaFlash® algorithmic news feed the form of the STOXX China Total Market indices. provided jointly with the subsidiaries MNI and Need Also in September, the DAX index was licensed to to Know News. The ultra high-speed service was deHua An Asset Management Co. Ltd., one of China’s veloped for algo traders, fund managers, hedge funds, largest fund companies. analysts and professional investors whose trading decisions factor in developments in macroeconomic In the segment’s third business area, the supply of data. Here, too, the segment expanded its range of data for the back offices of financial services providers, offerings: since May 2012, AlphaFlash® Trader has demand decreased as a result of lower trading volallowed users of trading platforms to automate order umes. This affected in particular the TRICE® service, placement depending on price-sensitive events. In with which Deutsche Börse AG helps its customers to addition, the range of proprietary indicators has been meet their obligations to report information to finanextended following MNI’s acquisition of the China cial supervisory authorities and which therefore perConsumer Sentiment Survey (CCSS) from Intage forms in line with trading. Successful marketing of Hyperlink Market Consulting (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. historical data partially compensated for the decrease. In its second business area, the Market Data & AnaOperative costs in the Market Data & Analytics seglytics segment offers indices and benchmarks used by ment increased by 8 per cent; EBIT amounted to banks and fund companies as underlyings for the fi€120.7 million (2011: €143.5 million). nancial instruments they offer on the capital market. 134 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Market Data & Analytics segment: key figures Deutsche Börse’s cost of capital 2012 2011 Change 2012 2011 €m €m % % % Net revenue 215.4 219.5 –2 Risk-free interest rate1) 1.6 2.6 Operational costs 108.1 100.1 8 Market risk premium 5.0 5.0 EBIT 120.7 143.5 – 16 Beta2) 0.7 0.9 Cost of equity3) (after tax) 5.0 7.1 4) Cost of debt (before tax) 5.2 6.0 Tax shield5) 1.4 1.6 Development of profitability Cost of debt (after tax) 3.9 4.4 Return on shareholders’ equity represents the ratio 6) Equity ratio (annual average) 51.2 54.0 of after-tax earnings to the average equity available Debt ratio7) (annual average) 48.8 46.0 to the Group in 2012. The Group’s return on shareWACC (before tax) 5.1 6.6 holders’ equity decreased to 21.6 per cent in the year WACC (after tax) 4.4 5.9 under review (2011: 29.7 per cent), primarily due to lower earnings. Adjusted for the special effects 1) Annual average return on ten-year German federal government bonds 2) Statistical measure of the sensitivity of the price of an individual share to changes described in the results of operations, the return on in the entire market. A beta of 1.0 means that the performance of the share moves strictly parallel to the reference market as a whole. A beta above 1.0 denotes shareholders’ equity amounted to 22.1 per cent greater volatility than the overall market and a beta below 1.0 less volatility. (2011: 29.2 per cent). 3) Risk-free interest rate + (market risk premium x beta) 4) Interest rate on shortand long-term corporate bonds issued by Deutsche Börse AG The weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after 5) Denotes and quantifies the reduction in tax paid that arises from the deductibility of interest payments on debt and is factored into the calculation of the cost of taxes amounted to 4.4 per cent in the year under recapital 6) 1 – debt ratio view (2011: 5.9 per cent). Deutsche Börse’s cost of 7) (Total non-current liabilities + tax provisions + other current provisions + other equity reflects the return on a risk-free alternative inbank loans and overdrafts + other current liabilities + trade payables + payables to associates + payables to other related parties) / (total assets – financial instruvestment plus a premium for general market risk, and ments of Eurex Clearing AG – liabilities from banking business – cash deposits by market participants); basis: average balance sheet items in the financial year also takes account of the specific risk of Deutsche Börse shares compared with the market as a whole, known as the beta. The cost of debt represents the terms on which Deutsche Börse AG was able to raise Deutsche Börse Group generated cash flow from opshortand long-term debt. erating activities before changes in reporting-date CCP positions of €726.2 million in financial year 2012 (2011: €700.0 million). Including the changes in the Financial position CCP positions, cash flow from operating activities was €707.7 million (2011: €785.6 million). Cash flow Cash and cash equivalents at Deutsche Börse Group Deutsche Börse Group calculates its cash flow on the comprise cash and bank balances, to the extent that basis of net income, adjusted for non-cash changes; these do not result from reinvesting current liabilities in addition, cash flows derived from changes in from cash deposits by market participants, as well as balance sheet items are taken into account. The receivables and liabilities from banking business with changes in cash flow from operating activities excludan original maturity of three months or less. Cash and ing reporting-date CCP positions were as follows: cash equivalents at the end of 2012 amounted to €544.0 million (2011: €657.2 million).  Net profit for the period declined by €208.0 million to €669.8 million. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 135  The other non-cash expenses increased by Cash outflows from financing activities amounted to €121.5 million to €50.7 million (2011: non-cash €550.6 million (2011: €505.6 million). Cash flows income of €70.8 million), especially as a result from financing activities regularly contain the effects of the remeasurement of the equity component of dividend payments and of liabilities for commercial in connection with the acquisition of additional paper that is issued or repaid as part of the compashares in Eurex Zürich AG. ny’s short-term liquidity management. The dividend  The increase in working capital employed (changes payments in May 2012 for financial year 2011 in working capital, net of non-cash items) fell by amounted to €622.9 million, including the special €135.4 million year-on-year to €–42.0 million. dividend (dividend for financial year 2010 paid in There was a significant decline in liabilities in 2011, May 2011: €390.7 million). In 2012, a corporate which was mainly attributable to tax payments and bond totalling a volume of €600.0 million was issued the reduction in current provisions in connection and outstanding euro-denominated bonds with a total with share-based payments, as well as the efficiency principal amount of €309.2 million were repurchased measures initiated in 2010; in contrast, 2012 saw (see section “Results of operations” for more inforan increase in current liabilities of €12.6 million. mation). In addition, commercial paper amounting Current receivables, on the other hand, rose by to €789.3 million was issued in 2012 (2011: nil) €43.7 million (2011: €4.2 million), driven primariand commercial paper worth €796.2 million was ly by a €75.4 million increase in tax receivables. repaid (2011: nil). Moreover, treasury shares  Deferred tax income amounted to €56.9 million, amounting to €198.2 million were acquired (2011: mainly in connection with the recognition of de€111.7 million). ferred tax assets on loss carryforwards (2011: deferred tax expense of €6.7 million). Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year under review therefore amounted to €544.0 million Cash outflows from investing activities amounted to (2011: €657.2 million). At €580.5 million, free cash €267.4 million in the year under review (2011: cash flow, i.e. cash flows from operating activities excludinflow of €823.2 million), primarily due to the paying reporting-date CCP positions less payments to ment of €295.0 million in connection with the acquiacquire intangible assets and property, plant and sition of further shares in Eurex Zürich AG and due equipment, was slightly below the prior-year level to the purchase of securities with an original term of (2011: €584.4 million). more than one year amounting to €265.4 million (2011: €345.0 million). In addition, there were cash As in previous years, the Group does not expect any inflows of €392.2 million (2011: €558.3 million) liquidity squeezes to occur in financial year 2013 due because securities with an original maturity of more to its positive cash flow from operating activities, adethan one year matured or were sold. Current receivaquate credit lines (which had not been drawn down bles and securities from banking business declined as at 31 December 2012) and flexible management by €27.4 million in financial year 2012. In financial and planning systems. year 2011, the cash inflow was due to the decrease in current receivables and securities from banking Operating leases business of €770.1 million. Deutsche Börse Group uses operating leases, primarily for the new office building in Eschborn, which the Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment Group moved into in the second half of 2010, and for and intangible assets amounted to €145.7 million the buildings used by Clearstream International S.A. (2011: €115.6 million), mostly in connection with in Luxembourg (see note 38 to the consolidated enhancements to the trading and settlement systems. financial statements for details). 136 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 well as from its credit rating, economic capital and Consolidated cash flow statement liquidity needs. To ensure the continued success of (condensed) the Clearstream segment, which is active in securities 2012 2011 custody and settlement, the company aims to retain €m €m Clearstream Banking S.A.’s strong “AA” credit rating. Cash flows from operating activities Deutsche Börse AG also needs to maintain a strong (excluding CCP positions) 726.2 700.0 credit profile for the benefit of the activities at its subCash flows from operating activities 707.7 785.6 sidiary Eurex Clearing AG. Cash flows from investing activities – 267.4 823.2 Cash flows from financing activities – 550.6 – 505.6 Customers expect their service providers to have conCash and cash equivalents as at servative interest coverage and debt/equity ratios and 31 December 544.0 657.2 thus maintain strong credit ratings. Deutsche Börse Group therefore continues to pursue its objective of achieving an interest coverage ratio (ratio of EBITDA Liquidity management to interest expenses from financing activities) of at Deutsche Börse AG meets its operating liquidity releast 16 at Group level in order to meet the current quirements primarily by means of internal financing, rating agencies’ requirements for an “AA” rating. Adi.e. by retaining generated funds. The company aims justed for merger and acquisition costs and for costs at retaining liquidity amounting to the operating costs of efficiency programmes, Deutsche Börse Group fell incurred in one quarter; target liquidity currently slightly below this target in the year under review with stands at €250 million. As far as regulatory and legal an interest coverage ratio of 15.2. This figure is based provisions allow and as far as it is economically senon a relevant interest expense of €73.1 million and an sible, its subsidiaries make their cash surplus availadjusted EBITDA of €1,108.2 million. In addition, the able to Deutsche Börse AG by means of a cash pool aim is to achieve a ratio of interest-bearing gross debt within the Group. All of the Group’s cash investments to EBITDA of maximum 1.5 on the Group level. The are short-term in order to ensure availability. Furthertwo performance indicators mentioned above play more, investments are secured through the use of liqa material role in protecting the Group’s current “AA” uid bonds by top-rate issuers. Deutsche Börse AG has rating. In the year under review the Group slightly access to external sources of financing, such as bilatexceeded the ratio with 1.6. This figure is based on eral and syndicated credit lines, and a commercial interest-bearing gross debt of €1,737.4 million and paper programme (see note 36 to the consolidated an adjusted EBITDA of €1,108.2 million. The slight financial statements for details on financial risk manexceeding is based on the higher level of debt as a agement). In the past years, Deutsche Börse AG has result of the refinancing starting in Q4/2012. After been utilising its access to the capital market in order completion of the refinancing in the financial year to meet its structural financing needs by repeatedly 2013 the level of debt is expected to decrease slightly. issuing corporate bonds. The interest coverage ratio is calculated using the Capital structure consolidated interest costs of financing of Deutsche Deutsche Börse Group’s capital management princiBörse Group, among other factors, excluding interest ples remained unchanged: in general, the Group aims costs relating to the Group’s financial institution comto distribute dividends amounting to 40 to 60 per panies. These include Clearstream Banking S.A., cent of its adjusted consolidated net income for the Clearstream Banking AG and Eurex Clearing AG. Inyear and uses share buy-backs to distribute funds not terest charges that are not related to financing are exrequired for the Group’s operating business and furcluded from the interest coverage ratio. 50 per cent ther development to its shareholders. These principles of the interest expense on the hybrid bond issued in take into account the capital requirements deriving from the Group’s legal and regulatory framework as Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 137 2008 is excluded from the interest coverage calculaClearstream subgroup, the objective is to maintain an tion, reflecting the assumed equity component of the interest coverage ratio of at least 25, insofar as the hybrid bond. financial liabilities result from non-banking business. Because of the refinancing of long-term financial liabilities started in 2012 (see section “Results of operations”), the company anticipates a significant reRelevant key performance indicators duction in the interest expense incurred to finance the 2012 2011 Group in 2013 and 2014. For this reason, the comTangible equity Clearstream Inter pany expects the interest coverage ratio to improve in national S.A. (as at balance sheet date) €m 819.21) 801.12) the medium term. Tangible equity Clearstream Banking S.A.3) (as at balance sheet date) €m 672.4 670.9 1) Net of the interim dividend of €75.0 million, which has not yet been adopted by the Annual General Meeting Interest coverage ratio of Deutsche Börse Group 2) Net of the interim dividend of €50.0 million 3) Including €150.0 million from profit participation rights issued by Clearstream Banking S.A. to Deutsche Börse AG Interest expense from Issue financing activities volume 2012 2011 €m €m Fixed-rate bearer bond €650 m1) 32.6 33.0 Dividends and share buy-backs Hybrid bond €550m2) 14.93) 17.03) Since the launch of its capital management proPrivate placement US$460 m 21.3 19.8 gramme in 2005, Deutsche Börse Group returned Fixed-rate bearer bond €600 m 3.6 – a total of around €4.2 billion to its shareholders Commercial paper €150 m – between 2005 and 2011 in the form of share buy20124) backs and dividends. In the 2012 financial year, €0 m – 2011 0.7 – it distributed a total of €822.3 million in the form Total interest expense of share buy-backs and dividends: the company (including 50% of the bought back in total around 4.8 million shares for hybrid coupon) 73.1 69.8 €199.4 million in the months of June/July, respecEBITDA (adjusted) 1,108.2 1,325.3 tively November/December and paid out a dividend Interest coverage5) 15.2 19.0 of €434.1 million as well as a special dividend of 1) A nominal amount of €72 million was repurchased as at 31 December 2012 €188.8 million for the 2011 financial year. (31 December 2011: €0 million). 2) A nominal amount of €330 million was repurchased as at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: €93 million). Of the some 46.1 million shares repurchased be3) Only 50 per cent of the interest expense on the hybrid bond is accounted for in the interest coverage calculation, reflecting the assumed equity component of the hytween 2005 and 2012, the company cancelled a brid bond. The total interest expense for the hybrid bond amounted to €29.9 miltotal of around 30.6 million shares up to 2012. Aplion in 2012 and €33.9 million in 2011. 4) Annual average proximately 5.3 million shares were issued to SIX 5) EBITDA / interest expense from financing activities (includes only 50 per cent of Group AG in order to settle 50 per cent of the purthe interest on the hybrid bond) chase price for the acquisition of the shares of Eurex Zürich AG. 1.3 million shares were acquired by employees under the terms of the Group Share Plan (see Deutsche Börse AG has also publicly declared its innote 39 to the consolidated financial statements). tention to comply with certain additional key perforAs at 31 December 2012, the remaining approximance indicators that the company believes corremately 8.9 million shares were held by the company spond to an AA rating. For example, tangible equity as treasury shares. (equity less intangible assets) should not fall below €700 million at Clearstream International S.A. and For financial year 2012, Deutsche Börse AG will pronot below €250 million at Clearstream Banking S.A. pose to the Annual General Meeting to pay a dividend An additional commitment is to maintain the profit of €2.10 per share (2011: €2.30). This dividend participation rights of €150 million issued by Clearstream Banking S.A. to Deutsche Börse AG. For the 138 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 corresponds to a distribution ratio of 58 per cent of Ratings of Deutsche Börse AG consolidated net income, adjusted for special effects described in the results of operations (2011: 52 per Long-term Short-term cent, adjusted for merger and acquisition costs, Standard & Poor’s AA A–1+ primarily associated with the prohibited merger with NYSE Euronext, and for costs of efficiency programmes and the income from the revaluation of the share component of the purchase price for the acquiRatings of Clearstream Banking S.A. sition of the shares in Eurex Zürich AG held by SIX Group AG). For 184.1 million no-par value shares Long-term Short-term bearing dividend rights, this would result in a total Fitch AA F1+ dividend of €386.5 million (2011: €434.1 million Standard & Poor’s AA A–1+ without special distribution). The aggregate number of shares bearing dividend rights results from an ordinary share capital of 193.0 million shares, less Net assets 8.9 million treasury shares. Deutsche Börse Group’s non-current assets amounted Bonds to €5,113.9 million as at 31 December 2012 In 2012, Deutsche Börse AG issued a corporate bond (2011: €5,020.3 million). Goodwill of €2,078.4 milwith a volume of €600 million. It serves primarily to lion (2011: €2,095.2 million) represented the largest refinance part of the outstanding long-term financial item. The change in non-current assets compared liabilities, which amount to roughly €1.5 billion in with 31 December 2011 is primarily due to the rise total. In this context, Deutsche Börse AG made crediin non-current receivables and securities from banktors of outstanding euro-denominated bonds an offer ing business held by Deutsche Börse Group as finanto repurchase these bonds (see section “Results of cial assets, which increased to €1,485.0 million operations” for more information). (2011: €1,404.6 million). The net value of internally developed software and of other equity investments Credit ratings increased slightly. Deutsche Börse AG regularly has its credit quality reviewed by the rating agency Standard & Poor’s, Current assets amounted to €211,414.0 million as at while Clearstream Banking S.A. is rated by Fitch and 31 December 2012 (2011: €212,982.2 million). Standard & Poor’s. Both rating agencies confirmed Changes in current assets resulted primarily from the the existing credit ratings of the Group companies in following factors: the course of the financial year. However, because of the weaker business environment, Standard & Poor’s  An increase in restricted bank balances to added a negative outlook to Deutsche Börse AG’s rat€19,450.6 million (2011: €13,861.5 million) as a ing on 20 December 2012. On 1 February 2013, result of higher cash collateral deposited by clearing Fitch Ratings added a negative outlook to Clearstream members with Eurex Clearing AG; the amount inBanking S.A.’s AA rating because of increased operacreased primarily because clearing members tional risk. preferred to provide cash rather than securities as collateral. As at 31 December 2012, Deutsche Börse AG was one of only two DAX-listed companies that had been given an AA rating by Standard & Poor’s. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 139  A decrease in the financial instruments of Eurex €298.3 million decrease in interest-bearing liabilities Clearing AG item to €178,056.5 million (2011: to €1,160.0 million (2011: €1,458.3 million). €183,618.1 million) in connection with its function In total, the decrease was mainly due to the as a central counterparty (CCP) for cash and derivareclassification of bonds maturing in financial year tives markets. This asset is matched by a liability in 2013 and amounting to €577.4 million under “other the same amount. current liabilities”. This was partially offset by the  A decrease in receivables and securities from bankcorporate bond issued in 2012 and the repurchase of ing business at Clearstream to €12,808.2 million the bonds issued in 2008 (see section “Results (2011: €14,144.1 million) of operations” for more information).  A decrease in other cash and bank balances to €641.6 million (2011: €925.2 million) Current liabilities amounted to €211,741.9 million (2011: €212,953.1 million). The main changes in Assets were financed by equity in the amount current liabilities occurred in the following items: of €3,169.6 million (2011: €3,132.6 million) and liabilities in the amount of €213,358.3 million  A decrease in the financial instruments of Eurex (2011: €214,869.9 million). Clearing AG item to €178,056.5 million (2011: €183,618.1 million) in connection with its function The following factors determined the change in equity as a central counterparty for cash and derivatives compared with 31 December 2011: markets  An increase in liabilities from cash deposits by mar A decline in the value of treasury shares to be ket participants to €19,450.6 million deducted from equity to €448.6 million (2011: (2011: €13,861.5 million) as a result of higher €691.7 million). This decrease is primarily due to cash collateral provided by the clearing members of Deutsche Börse AG’s acquisition of the remaining Eurex Clearing AG; the amount increased primarily shares in Eurex Zürich AG from SIX Group AG. In because clearing members preferred to provide cash addition to a cash component, the purchase price rather than securities as collateral. included around 5.3 million shares. Share buy A decrease in liabilities from banking business at backs of around €200 million made in the year unClearstream to €12,880.3 million (2011: der review partially compensated for this effect. €14,169.6 million)  A decrease in accumulated profit to €1,938.9 mil A decrease in liabilities to other related parties lion (2011: €2,123.0 million) to €1.6 million (2011: €528.7 million); this is due to the reduction in the liability to SIX Swiss Non-current liabilities fell to €1,616.4 million Exchange AG following payment of the purchase (2011: €1,916.8 million), primarily as a result of a price for the acquisition of the 50 per cent Debt instruments of Deutsche Börse AG Type Issue volume ISIN Term Maturity Coupon Listing p.a. Fixed-rate bearer bond €650 m XS0353963225 5 years April 2013 5.00 % Luxembourg/Frankfurt Series A bond US$170 m Private placement 7 years June 2015 5.52 % Unlisted Series B bond US$220 m Private placement 10 years June 2018 5.86 % Unlisted Series C bond US$70 m Private placement 12 years June 2020 5.96 % Unlisted Hybrid bond €550 m XS0369549570 30 years1) June 2038 7.50 %2) Luxembourg/Frankfurt Fixed-rate bearer bond €600 m DE000A1RE1W1 10 years Oct. 2022 2,375 % Luxembourg/Frankfurt 1) Early termination right after 5 respectively 10 years and in each year thereafter 2) Until June 2013: fixed-rate 7.50 per cent p.a.; from June 2013 to June 2018: fixed-rate mid swap + 285 basis points; from June 2018: variable interest rate (Euro interbank offered rate for 12-month euro deposits (EURIBOR), plus an annual margin of 3.85 per cent) 140 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 equity interest in Eurex Zürich AG amounting to The “financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG” bal€295.0 million (plus around 5.3 million shares). ance sheet item relates to the function performed by  An increase in other current liabilities to Eurex Clearing AG: since the latter acts as the central €888.4 million (2011: €322.0 million) due to the counterparty for Deutsche Börse Group’s various reclassification of bonds maturing in financial markets, its financial instruments are carried in the year 2013 which amount to €577.4 million from balance sheet at their fair value. The financial instrunon-current interest-bearing liabilities. ments of Eurex Clearing AG are described in detail in the risk report and in notes 3, 15 and 36 to the Overall, Deutsche Börse Group invested €145.7 milconsolidated financial statements. The total value of lion in intangible assets and property, plant and these financial instruments varied between €178 bilequipment (capital expenditure, CAPEX) in the year lion and €218 billion at the balance sheet dates releunder review, 26 per cent more than in the previous vant for the year under review (31 March, 30 June, year (2011: €115.6 million). The Group’s largest 30 September, 31 December) (2011: between investments in the year under review were made in €151 billion and €223 billion). the Clearstream and Eurex segments. Market participants linked to Eurex Clearing provide Working capital collateral partly in the form of cash deposits, which Working capital is current assets less current liabilities, are subject to daily adjustments. The cash deposits excluding technical closing date balance sheet items are generally invested on a secured basis overnight by and commercial paper. Current assets excluding techEurex Clearing AG and reported in the balance sheet nical closing date items amounted to €457.1 million under “restricted bank balances”. The total value of (2011: €433.3 million). As Deutsche Börse Group cash deposits at the balance sheet dates relevant for collects fees for most of its services on a monthly bathe year under review (31 March, 30 June, 30 Sepsis, the trade receivables of €211.8 million included tember, 31 December) varied between €13.4 billion in the current assets as at 31 December 2012 and €19.5 billion and was thus above the figures for (31 December 2011: €224.3 million) were relatively the previous year (2011: between €5 billion and low compared with net revenue. The current liabilities €16.5 billion). The collateral provided increased in of the Group, excluding technical closing date the course of the year, driven by high volatility. items, and the bonds maturing in 2013 amounted to €777.0 million (2011: €1,303.5 million). The Value added: breakdown of enterprise Group therefore had negative working capital of performance €–319.9 million at the end of the year (2011: Deutsche Börse Group’s commercial activity contrib€–870.2 million). This development is primarily utes to private and public income – this contribution due to the decline in liabilities to other related parties. is made transparent in the value added statement. Technical closing date balance sheet items Value added is calculated by subtracting depreciation, The “current receivables and securities from banking amortisation and impairment charges and third-party business” and “liabilities from banking business” costs from the enterprise performance. In 2012, the balance sheet items are technical closing date items value added by Deutsche Börse Group amounted to that were strongly correlated in the year under review €1,378.9 million (2011: €1,634.1 million). The and that fluctuated between approximately €11 bilbreakdown of value added shows that large portions lion and €13 billion (2011: between €8 billion and of the revenue generated flow back into the econo€15 billion). These amounts mainly represent custommy: 46 per cent (€637.5 million) benefited share er balances within Clearstream’s international settleholders in the form of dividend payments, while ment business. 30 per cent (€414.2 million) went to employees in Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 141 the form of salaries and other remuneration compoyear under review. As in the previous year, the comnents. Taxes accounted for 12 per cent (€166.9 milpany generated high operating cash flow. The decline lion), while 7 per cent (€100.6 million) was attributin EBIT meant that the interest coverage ratio fell able to lenders. The 5 per cent value added that slightly short of the target of 16 at Group level. For remained in the company (€59.7 million) is available 2013, the Executive Board expects a return to an infor investments in growth initiatives, for example (see terest coverage ratio of at least 16. This expectation is charts below). supported by the refinancing of long-term financial liabilities that began in 2012 and that will lead to a reduction in interest expenses as early as in 2013. Overall assessment of the economic situation by The full benefit of this effect will be felt in 2014. the Executive Board Rating agencies again confirmed the Group’s credit Deutsche Börse Group’s results of operations in finanquality by awarding it excellent ratings in 2012. cial year 2012 fell short of the Executive Board’s exHowever, because of the weaker business environpectations because of the difficult economic condiment, Standard & Poor’s added a negative outlook to tions and the great uncertainty in the market. In Deutsche Börse AG’s rating on 20 December 2012. addition, persistent ambiguity about financial market In addition, on 1 February 2013, Fitch Ratings added regulation and the central banks’ low interest rate a negative outlook to Clearstream Banking S.A.’s ratpolicy proved counterproductive for the Group. The ing because of increased operational risk. Group’s net revenue declined by 9 per cent in total. Business performance saw a particular decline yearDeutsche Börse AG has offered its shareholders aton-year especially in the business areas that depend tractive returns for years – and financial year 2012 is more heavily on market participants’ trading activity. no exception. With a proposed dividend of €2.10, the Despite active cost management and a decrease in distribution to shareholders is close to the previous operating costs, EBIT and net profit for the year also year’s level of €2.30 in spite of lower earnings. Comdeclined compared with the previous year. The Execupared with the previous year, the distribution ratio has tive Board had already reduced its earnings forecast increased from 52 to 58 per cent (adjusted for special in line with this in the course of the year under review. items in both cases) and is at the upper end of the Executive Board’s target range of between 40 and The Executive Board believes that Deutsche Börse 60 per cent. Group’s financial position was extremely stable in the Origination of value added Distribution of value added Company performance: €2,200.0 million Value added: €1,378.9 million 5% Retained earnings 5% Depreciation and amortisation 7% External creditors 12% Taxes 46% 33% Shareholders External costs (dividends) 63% Value added 30% Employees 142 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Deutsche Börse Group: ten-year review 2003 2004 2005 Consolidated income statement Net revenue €m n.a. 1,395.5 1,616.4 thereof net interest income from banking business €m 94.4 77.1 112.7 Operating costs €m – 969.0 – 869.9 – 910.9 Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) €m 452.6 458.7 705.0 Net income €m 246.3 266.1 427.4 Earnings per share (basic) € 1.102) 1.192) 2.002) Consolidated cash flow statement Cash flow from operating activities €m 530.6 439.6 667.7 Consolidated balance sheet Non-current assets €m 2,381.8 2,162.7 2,007.8 Equity €m 2,353.5 2,552.5 2,200.8 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities €m 503.2 502.3 501.6 Performance indicators Dividend per share € 0.282) 0.352) 1.052) Dividend payout ratio % 25 28 49 Employees (average annual FTEs) 3,049 3,080 2,979 Net revenue per employee, based on average FTEs € thous. n.a. 453 543 Personnel expense ratio (staff costs / net revenue) % n.a. 24 25 EBIT margin, based on net revenue % 32 33 44 Tax rate % 45.2 43.8 38.0 Return on shareholders’ equity (annual average)11) % 11 10 18 Gross debt / EBITDA 0.8 0.8 0.6 Interest coverage ratio % n.a. n.a. n.a. The shares Closing price of Deutsche Börse-shares € 21.682) 22.142) 43.282) Average market capitalisation €bn 4.7 4.9 7.5 Market indicators Xetra and Xetra Frankfurt Specialist Trading17) Trading volume18) €bn 964.7 1,014.3 1,125.5 Eurex Number of contracts m 1,014.9 1,065.6 1,248.7 Clearstream Value of securities deposited (annual average) €bn 7,33520) 7,59320) 8,75220) 21) 21) Number of transactions m 61.8 50.0 53.921) Global Securities Financing (average outstanding volume for the period) €bn 111.222) 136.422) 210.922) 1) Amount restated to reflect the transition of the accounting policies for defined benefit obligations to the revised IAS 19 2) Amount restated to reflect the capital increase in 2007 3) Thereof €449.8 million are reported under “Other current liabilities”. 4) €1,160.0 million thereof are reported under “Interest-bearing liabilities”, and the bonds that will mature in financial year 2013 in the amount of €577.4 million are reported under “Other current liabilities”. 5) Proposal to the Annual General Meeting 2013 6) Adjusted for the ISE impairment charge recognised in Q4/2009 7) Adjusted for the costs of efficiency programmes and for the ISE impairment charge recognised in Q4/2010 8) Adjusted for the costs of mergers and acquisitions and of efficiency programmes and for income arising from the remeasurement of the equity component of the purchase price for the acquisition of the shares in Eurex Zürich AG held by SIX Group AG 9) Figure based on the proposal to the 2013 Annual General Meeting 10) Adjusted for the costs of efficiency programmes 11) Net income / average shareholders’ equity for the financial year based on the quarter-end shareholders’ equity balances 12) Adjusted for tax relief resulting from the ISE impairment charge in 2009 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on the economy 143 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1,899.6 2,416.0 2,497.4 2,039.4 2,015.8 2,121.4 1,932.3 150.7 230.8 236.8 97.4 59.4 75.1 52.0 – 879.1 – 1,075.2 – 994.8 – 1,396.8 – 1,500.2 – 962.21) – 958.6 1,027.5 1,345.9 1,508.4 637.8 527.8 1,162.81) 969.4 1) 668.7 911.7 1,033.3 496.1 417.8 855.2 645.0 3.362) 4.70 5.42 2.67 2.25 4.601) 3.44 843.4 839.6 1,278.9 801.5 943.9 785.6 707.7 1,907.6 4,164.0 4,544.9 5,251.0 5,069.5 5,020.3 5,113.9 2,283.3 2,690.2 2,978.3 3,338.8 3,410.3 3,132.61) 3,169.6 3) 499.9 501.0 1,512.9 1,514.9 1,455.2 1,458.3 1,737.44) 1.702) 2.10 2.10 2.10 2.10 2.30 2.105) 50 51 38 566) 547) 528) 589) 15) 2,739 2,854 3,115 3,333 3,300 3,278 3,416 694 847 802 612 611 647 566 22 23 17 19 2010) 1910) 2110) 54 56 60 31 26 55 50 12) 13) 14) 36.0 36.0 28.5 26.9 26.9 26.0 26.015) 30 39 41 18 14 30 22 0.4 0 1.0 1.36) 1.27) 1.116) 1.616) 58.5 64.4 18.9 15.8 16.812) 19.013) 15.2 69.712) 135.75 50.80 58.00 51.80 40.51 46.21 11.7 18.4 16.0 10.2 10.1 9.6 8.5 1,695.3 2,552.5 2,229.1 1,120.6 1,298.3 1,459.8 1,111.3 1,526.8 2,704.319) 3,172.7 2,647.4 2,642.1 2,821.5 2,292.0 9,20320) 10,504 10,637 10,346 10,897 11,106 11,111 104.7 123.1 114.3 102.0 116.4 126.3 113.9 301.222) 332.7 398.8 483.6 521.6 592.2 570.3 13) Adjusted for tax relief resulting from the ISE impairment charge in 2010 14) Adjusted for the non-taxable income related to the revaluation of the share component of the purchase price paid for the acquisition of the shares in Eurex Zürich AG held by SIX Group 15) Adjusted for expenses related to the revaluation of the share component of the purchase price paid for the acquisition of the shares in Eurex Zürich AG held by SIX Group, a one-off income from the reversal of deferred tax liabilities for STOXX Ltd. based on a decision by the Swiss Financial Supervisory Authority and a one-off income from the recognition of deferred tax assets resulting from the future possible offsetting of losses carried forward by Eurex Global Derivatives AG 16) Adjusted for the cost of mergers and acquisitions and of efficiency programmes 17) Xetra Frankfurt Specialist Trading, prior to 23 May 2011: floor trading 18) Excluding certificates and warrants 19) Pro forma figure including US options of ISE 20) Value of assets under custody on 31 December 21) Due to a change in the statistical reporting procedure in 2007, the figures are only comparable to a limited extent with those from 2006 onwards. 22) Average outstanding volume in December of the year 144 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Report on post-balance sheet date events the previous year. The largely contradicting trends in the economy and the stock markets are mainly atOn 5 February 2013 Deutsche Börse AG announced tributable to historically low interest rates as well as that the Executive Board of the company is planning fears of inflation, which have made it more attractive to accelerate the measures to increase the operating to invest in shares than other types of investment. efficiency. In its meeting on 19 February 2013, the However, the positive equity market trends only afSupervisory Board approved the measure. For that fected the Group’s business activity to a limited extent purpose the company will identify and implement adbecause the market environment overall continued ditional personnel and non-personnel cost savings of to be dominated by marked restraint in participants’ €70 million per annum. This will allow the company capital market activities. Deutsche Börse AG’s share to compensate the expected inflationary cost increase price nonetheless performed well in 2012, ending the ahead of time. Furthermore, this ensures the necesyear with a 14 per cent increase. This also approxisary flexibility to continue the growth and infrastrucmately corresponds to the share price performance ture investments, which will allow the company to of other exchange organisations, based on the Dow seize opportunities relating to structural and regulatoJones Global Exchanges Index, which rose by 13 per ry changes in financial markets and potential in marcent in 2012. The STOXX® Europe 600 Financials kets like Asia. At the same time the company continIndex, which serves as the benchmark index for the ues to adapt to evolving customer needs. All efficiency Executive Board’s share-based remuneration and remeasures shall be fully realised by 2016. To achieve flects the performance of European financial stocks, the efficiency improvements, the company is expectgrew by 26 per cent in 2012. Deutsche Börse AG ing implementation costs in a magnitude of €90 to shares recorded a twelve-month intraday high of €120 million. The majority of this amount is expected €52.10 on 21 February 2012 and a twelve-month to be recognized in the income statement in the form intraday low of €36.25 on 5 June 2012. They closed of provisions already in 2013. the last trading day of the year under review at €46.21 (2011: €40.51). The performance of the share price in the course of the year was affected on Deutsche Börse shares the one hand by the prohibited merger with NYSE Euronext, after which the shares reached their year Stock market performance high. On the other hand, the fact that business activity during the year was weaker than expected and varGlobal economic growth continued to slow year-onious plans for regulatory reform, which were peryear in the course of 2012, and economic output ceived as risks for the Group, also played a role and even declined in the euro zone. This trend is due, contributed to the low in June 2012. among other factors, to restrictive fiscal policies, primarily in the USA, where taxes increased and government spending was reduced, and to the ongoing tense financial situation in the euro zone. Despite the Exchange data of Deutsche Börse AG shares fact that the overall economic conditions deteriorated Stock exchange year-on-year, DAX®, Germany’s blue-chip index, Germany Frankfurt (Prime Standard) performed very well during the course of the year, Securities identification numbers ending at 7,612 points, 29 per cent higher than in ISIN DE0005810055 WKN 581005 Symbol Frankfurt Stock Exchange DB1 Reuters – Xetra® trading DB1Gn.DE Bloomberg DB1:GY Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Deutsche Börse shares 145 An attractive long-term investment Deutsche Börse AG share: key figures Deutsche Börse shares continue to offer investors ex2012 2011 cellent opportunities to participate in the long-term Earnings per share (basic, adjusted) 1) € 3.44 4.60 growth potential of the international capital markets. Dividend per share € 2.102) 2.30 This is based on the Group’s integrated business Dividend yield3) % 4.8 4.6 model, its strict Group-wide risk management policy Opening price (as at 1 Jan.)4) € 40.51 51.80 and its strong focus on operating efficiency. Since High5) € 52.10 62.48 Deutsche Börse AG went public in 2001, shareholdLow 5) € 36.25 35.46 ers have benefited from an average annual return of Closing price (as at 31 Dec.) € 46.21 40.51 around 11 per cent to the end of 2012, significantly Average daily trading volume on Xetra® m higher than the performance of DAX; in the same peshares 1.0 1.4 riod, a direct investment in DAX would have yielded Number of shares (as at 31 Dec.) m 193.0 6) 195.0 an annual return of around 1 per cent. This means thereof outstanding (as at 31 Dec.) m 184.1 183.4 that investors who purchased €10,000 worth of Free float (as at 31 Dec.) % 100 100 shares at the time of Deutsche Börse AG’s IPO and Price-earnings ratio3) 12.4 11.0 reinvested the dividends, held shares worth €34,334 Market capitalisation (as at 31 Dec.) €bn 8.9 7.9 at the end of 2012. Had they invested in the DAX 1) Adjusted for costs of efficiency programmes and merger and acquisition costs index during the same period, their holdings would 2) For financial year 2012, proposal to the Annual General Meeting 2013 3) Based on the volume-weighted average of the daily closing prices have been worth just €11,467. 4) Closing price on preceding trading day 5) Intraday price 6) Deutsche Börse AG reduced its ordinary share capital to €193.0 million or 193.0 million shares on 17 February 2012 by redeeming 2.0 million treasury shares. Share price development of Deutsche Börse AG and benchmark indices in 2012 Indexed to 30 December 2011 = 100 130 120 110 100 90 80 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Daily closing price of Deutsche Börse AG shares 1) DAX ® STOXX ® Europe 600 Financials Dow Jones Global Exchanges 1) Between 1 January and 7 February 2012 the data shown refer to tendered shares (ISIN DE000A1KRND6). 146 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Index membership 10 per cent of companies in each sector in line with the “best in class” principle. The company is also repDeutsche Börse AG shares are represented in a series resented in other sustainability indices: since 2003 in of European and global equity indices, among others the Advanced Sustainability Performance Index (ASPI), in the German blue-chip index DAX, the Dow Jones since 2008 in the ECPI Ethical Index Euro, as well as Global Exchanges Index, the STOXX Europe 600 Fiin the MSCI World ESG Index and the STOXX® Global nancials and the German dividend index DivDAX®. ESG Leaders Index since these two indices were However, Deutsche Börse AG Group’s shares were launched in 2010, resp. 2011. removed from the EURO STOXX 50, the panEuropean blue-chip index, effective 18 June 2012, because their market capitalisation was too low on Investor relations activities the cut-off date for calculating the index composition. On numerous occasions during the reporting period, Thanks to Deutsche Börse Group’s transparent reportthe company informed existing and potential investors ing on its corporate responsibility activities, the comas well as other capital market participants about its pany was also represented in key sustainability indilong-term strategy as well as the cyclical factors and ces in 2012, such as the FTSE4Good Index Series structural growth drivers of its business. At the begin(FTSE4Good Global Index and FTSE4Good Europe ning of the past financial year, communication with Index) and the two Dow Jones Sustainability Indices the company’s shareholders centred on issues in (DJSI World and DJSI Europe), which include the top connection with the planned merger with NYSE EuroShare price development of Deutsche Börse AG and benchmark indices since listing Indexed to 5 February 2011 = 100 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Daily closing price of Deutsche Börse AG shares 1) DAX ® STOXX ® Europe 600 Financials 1) Between 20 July 2011 and 7 February 2012 the data shown refer to tendered shares (ISIN DE000A1KRND6). Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Deutsche Börse shares 147 next, which was prohibited in February 2012, and to other countries from the USA. This trend is largely the strategic directions adopted by the company folassociated with significant caution on the part of US lowing this initiative. As the year progressed, quesinvestors, who reduced their positions in European tions relating to opportunities and risks arising from shares in general due to the uncertainties in the euro changes to the regulatory framework dominated the zone. Deutsche Börse AG had approximately 70,000 company’s investor relations work. shareholders at the end of the reporting period based on the share register and analyses of shareholdings. Deutsche Börse Aktiengesellschaft held its Annual The proportion of institutional investors based on the General Meeting at the Jahrhunderthalle in Franknumber of shares was around 93 per cent in 2012, furt/Main on 16 May 2012. Around 59.5 per cent of compared with around 95 per cent in the previous the share capital was represented (2011: 42.9 per year. The slight decline reflects the higher number of cent). The company held its sixth investor day in private investors, which rose year-on-year primarily Eschborn in June 2012. At this event, domestic and because of the attractive dividend distribution. international analysts and institutional investors were informed about the Group’s strategic priorities and current developments in the individual business areas. Attractive dividend In addition, Deutsche Börse held well over 500 oneon-one discussions with current and potential invesIn the past year, Deutsche Börse AG ensured that its tors at international roadshows, investor conferences shareholders were able to participate in its very good and individual meetings. The quality of the Group’s 2011 business performance and increased the reguinvestor relations activities was confirmed, for examlar dividend by 10 per cent to €2.30. This resulted in ple in a survey of institutional investors and financial a distribution ratio of 52 per cent of consolidated net analysts conducted by Institutional Investor magaincome (adjusted for costs for mergers and acquisizine: Deutsche Börse AG came first in the “Best tions, as well as for efficiency programmes). In adInvestor Relations” category in the “Specialty & Other dition to the dividend, the company paid out a Finance” sector. special distribution of €1.00 per share. For financial year 2012, Deutsche Börse AG’s Executive Board and Supervisory Board will propose a dividend of International investor base €2.10 per share to the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2013. This corresponds to the dividend per The proportion of non-German shareholders share which was paid from 2008 to 2011. remained stable year-on-year at around 81 per cent Adjusted for costs of mergers and acquisitions as (2011: 81 per cent), although there was a clear shift well as for efficiency programmes), the distribution Share of international shareholders Deutsche Börse AG: analysts predominantly issue on a high level in 2012 buy recommendations 19% 7% Germany Sell 33% Other countries 32% Hold 19% UK 61% Buy 29% USA As at 31 December 2012 As at 31 December 2012 148 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 ratio related to the consolidated net income amounts had resolved in 2010. Under this programme, operato around 58 per cent and is at the upper level of tions were relocated from Frankfurt and Luxembourg the Group’s defined 40 to 60 per cent range; this to Prague and Singapore. The workforce in Luxemvalue is in line with the Group’s dividend policy. bourg was –15 employees and in Frankfurt +50 employees. Two mutually offsetting effects were at work here: on the one hand, the number of employees Analysts decreased as a result of measures under the “Excellence” programme, while on the other, jobs were creAround 30 analysts from banks and securities trading ated for strategically important projects, such as the firms published regular earnings forecasts for and Eurex Clearing AG initiatives. At the US subsidiary Instudies on Deutsche Börse AG in the reporting period. ternational Securities Exchange (ISE), the number of As at 31 December 2012, 61 per cent of analysts employees at the New York location declined by 19, recommended buying Deutsche Börse AG shares. while the size of the workforce at the other locations This compares with 32 per cent who issued hold and grew by 26 employees. 7 per cent who issued sell recommendations. The average target price set by analysts was €48 at the end of 2012. Employees by segment Financial and non-financial performance 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 indicators Xetra 436 448 Eurex 1,034 999 Clearstream 1,816 1,749 Employees Market Data & Analytics 418 392 Total Deutsche Börse Group 3,704 3,588 Committed, highly skilled employees are the cornerstone of Deutsche Börse Group’s business success. They master challenging tasks and shape the corporate culture with their sense of responsibility, their Deutsche Börse Group is an international team: as at dedication and flexibility as well as their will to deliver 31 December 2012, it employed people at 22 locaoutstanding performance. Deutsche Börse Group aims tions worldwide. The following table breaks this figure to make sure that staff with these qualities continue down into countries and regions: to join the company in the future and, ideally, that they stay for the long term. This is the basis for its long-term human resources policy. Employees per countries/regions As at 31 December 2012, Deutsche Börse Group had 31 Dec 2012 % 3,704 employees (31 December 2011: 3,588); the Germany 1,598 43.1 average number of employees in the year under reLuxembourg 973 26.2 view was 3,654 (2011: 3,522). The year-on-year inCzech Republic 462 12.5 crease is mainly due to the expansion of its locations United Kingdom 101 2.7 in Prague (+58 employees) and Singapore (+16 Rest of Europe 147 4.0 employees) as part of the operating efficiency proNorth America 308 8.4 gramme (“Excellence”), which the Executive Board Asia 107 2.9 Middle East 8 0.2 Total Deutsche Börse Group 3,704 100 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Performance indicators 149 To recruit and retain the best talent in the long term,  Option to telework from home Deutsche Börse Group offers flexible working hours:  Emergency childcare service, which was used in taking into account part-time employees, there was an Germany on a total of 166 days in 2012 average of 3,416 full-time equivalents (FTE) during  A holiday club for schoolchildren the year (2011: 3,278). As at 31 December 2012,  An emergency parent-child office at the Eschborn the proportion of part-time employees was higher in and Luxembourg locations the general workforce than in management, and it  Reservation of places for employees’ children aged was higher among women than among men. between six months and three years at a daycare centre for children in Eschborn; the number of dediUnder the joint declaration signed by all DAX compacated places depends on demand in the company nies, the company aims to fill 20 per cent of upper  An “Elder and Family Care” programme to facilitate and middle management positions and 30 per cent of care for needy family members lower management positions with women by 2015.  The ability to take sabbaticals – this option was As at 31 December 2012, the proportion of such used by five employees in Germany and Luxempositions filled by women stood at 13 per cent for bourg in 2012. all of Deutsche Börse Group (Germany: 12 per cent) for upper and middle management positions, and at A total of 28 male and 37 female employees took 23 per cent (Germany: 20 per cent) for lower manparental leave in financial year 2012. This figure inagement positions. In order to increase the proportion cluded three male employees in management posiof women in management positions, Deutsche Börse tions. In 2012, 24 male and 43 female employees has adapted its talent management programmes and returned to the company from parental leave. Out of recruitment and promotion processes. Employee qualthese totals, one male and three female employees ifications are always the decisive criteria for filling a left the company after their parental leave. position, with equal consideration being given to both men and women, irrespective of age. In addition, In the year under review, Deutsche Börse Group supwomen are explicitly taken into account when apported its employees by subsidising childcare in the pointing replacements for top management positions. amount of €692 thousand (2011: €576 thousand). Deutsche Börse Group also offers a variety of other Financial subsidies for childcare have gone up as instruments to develop female employees: targeted 2012 marks the first year that employees in managesuccession planning, an external and internal mentorment positions also received subsidies. Employees in ing programme, a women’s network as well as coachmanagement and non-management positions receive ing and training specifically for women. Eight of the a monthly net sum of up to €255.65 per child up current 21 members of the “high potential circle”, until the child is six years old or until it starts school. Deutsche Börse Group’s programme for growing potential management talent, are female (38 per cent). Moreover, presentations by specialists, workshops In addition, remuneration differences between women and coaching give employees information on a variety and men are analysed on a regular basis. The analyof issues relating to the topic of work-life balance as sis has not identified any systematic disadvantages for well as advice (e.g. on stress management, nutrition, women. Rather, differences in remuneration are due or care for the sick and elderly). One of the aims of to qualifications, years of service and function. these measures is to maintain the health of employees in spite of high workloads and to keep the sickThe company provides a number of options designed ness rate in the company to a minimum. Deutsche to achieve a good work-life balance as part of its Job, Börse Group’s sickness rate averaged 2.8 days per Life & Family initiative: employee in the year under review (2011: 2.8 days). 150 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 As at 31 December 2012, 62.5 per cent of Deutsche Börse Group employees were graduates (2011: Deutsche Börse Group employees’ age structure 62.1 per cent). This figure is calculated on the basis by gender of the number of employees holding a degree from a 2,334 university, university of applied sciences, or professional academy; it also takes into account employees 421 who have completed comparable studies abroad. Deutsche Börse Group offers its staff a broad portfolio of professional development opportunities in the form of internal and external training events. In total, the 931 1,370 Group invested an average of 2.1 days per employee 164 over 50 years in staff training. 468 40–49 years Measured in terms of the average number of full-time equivalent employees in the year under review, net revenue per employee declined by 13 per cent to 749 506 30–39 years €566 thousand (2011: €647 thousand). Staff costs per employee, adjusted for efficiency programme costs, went down by 2 per cent to €117 thousand 233 232 under 30 years (2011: €120 thousand). The remuneration paid unmale female der the company collective labour agreement in Germany increased by 3.0 per cent in financial year 2012. Salaries were also adjusted at the Group’s other locations. Deutsche Börse Group employees’ age structure by location The average age of Deutsche Börse Group’s employees at the end of the year under review was 40.4 3,704 1,598 years. The charts on the right show the employee age structure as at 31 December 2012. 363 585 207 employees left Deutsche Börse Group and 309 joined the Group in the course of the year. The staff turnover rate was 5.7 per cent and therefore lower 1,399 973 than in the previous year (2011: 8.9 per cent). The 125 over 50 years 733 average length of service at the end of the year under review was 10.6 years. 1,255 436 40–49 years 391 465 359 30–39 years 111 53 under 30 years Global thereof in thereof in Germany Luxembourg Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Performance indicators 151 Code of conduct Enterprises and the standards issued by the InternaImportant basic principles and values forming part tional Labour Organisation. In addition, it has underof the Group’s corporate culture are set out in a code taken to implement the ten principles of the UN of conduct at Deutsche Börse Group, which serves Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour as a guideline for all employees at every level of the standards, the environment and anti-corruption Group. This includes, as a matter of course, respect throughout the Group. The employees receive mandafor human and labour rights. For example, Deutsche tory introductory training in this area. In 2012, 8 Börse Group complies with international agreements training days of 8 hours took place and were attended such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of by a total of 92 employees. Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Key figures on Deutsche Börse Group’s workforce as at 31 December 2012 Global thereof in Germany thereof in Luxembourg Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Employees 2,334 1,370 3,704 1,011 587 1,598 605 368 973 Upper and middle management 152 23 175 88 12 100 43 9 52 Lower management 168 50 218 81 20 101 44 17 61 Staff 2,014 1,297 3,311 842 555 1,397 518 342 860 Part-time employees 59 343 402 29 185 214 26 130 156 Upper and middle management 1 4 5 0 2 2 1 2 3 Lower management 2 6 8 1 3 4 1 3 4 Staff 56 333 389 28 180 208 24 125 149 Disabled employees 31 18 49 28 18 46 3 – 3 Proportion of graduates (%) 66 57 63 66 51 61 55 48 52 Apprentices 3 9 12 3 9 12 – – – Interns and students1) 123 108 231 112 104 216 11 2 13 Length of service Under 5 years (%) 31 36 33 20 24 22 14 18 15 5–15 years (%) 47 43 46 54 50 52 65 58 63 Over 15 years (%) 22 21 21 26 26 26 21 24 22 Staff turnover Joiners 196 113 309 53 33 86 15 19 34 Leavers 137 70 207 30 17 47 25 15 40 Training days per staff member 2.1 2.3 2.1 2.1 2.6 2.3 2.3 2.4 2.3 Promotions 94 63 157 47 20 67 32 19 51 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements1) 1,151 819 1,970 859 561 1,420 292 258 550 1) The global figures reported here refer solely to the locations in Germany, Luxembourg and the Czech Republic; this corresponds to 82 per cent of Group staff. 152 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Corporate responsibility In addition, Deutsche Börse Group campaigns for greater transparency of sustainability information on In its corporate responsibility (CR) strategy “Growing the global capital markets – with measures ranging responsibly”, Deutsche Börse defines what it means from introducing its own transparency initiatives to by corporate responsibility and lays down the scope of supporting the campaigns of other players in this area activity for the entire Group. Deutsche Börse focuses or promoting best practice in the market. Against this its corporate responsibility activities on four areas: the background, Deutsche Börse Group supports the economy, employees, the environment and corporate German Sustainability Code and has published an citizenship. This allows it to take due account of soannual declaration of compliance to this code, for cial, ethical and ecological aspects when implementthe first time in 2011 and annually since then. ing its economic objectives. Employees Economy Deutsche Börse Group takes its responsibility as an As a capital market organiser, Deutsche Börse Group employer seriously, because its business success is provides fair market access as well as liquid and founded on the commitment and performance of its transparent trading for investors. It reduces inforstaff. To ensure that Deutsche Börse Group continues mation asymmetries and uses highly effective instruto attract responsible and motivated people in the fuments to manage its customers’ risks. In doing so, the ture and, ideally, retain them in the long term, it purGroup makes its greatest value contribution to society sues a responsible, sustainable human resources polin its primary core business of organising sound, icy. The objectives include improving its employees’ transparent and secure capital markets worldwide. work-life balance – a comprehensive “Job, Life & Family” programme has been developed for this A key element of this is operating and developing its purpose – and specifically promoting diversity (see integrated business model. In accordance with this, section on “Employees” for details). top strategic priority is given to investments in the availability and reliability of trading systems, in serEnvironment vices and technologies to manage the risk and liquidiAlthough Deutsche Börse Group is not a manufacturty of market participants, and in initiatives aimed at ing company and can therefore exert only little influapplying the high standards of the regulated market to ence on climate change, it is aware of the significance the largely unregulated off-exchange segment of the of this issue: reductions in greenhouse gas emissions capital markets. and the careful handling of resources are an important part of its commitment to greater sustainability. Because Deutsche Börse Group sets standards in the The focus is on continuously improving the Group’s market, effective corporate governance structures, business ecology through environment-friendly IT sound business practice and compliance with all the management as well as on reducing its energy delaws, requirements and regulations in the operating mand, water and paper consumption, and waste (see business play a key role. For example, as a member the following section on “Sustainability”). of the UN Global Compact, Deutsche Börse Group is committed to implementing the ten principles of the Corporate citizenship UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, Deutsche Börse Group sees itself as a corporate citilabour, environmental protection and anti-corruption zen and is committed to fulfilling this role, especially throughout the Group when designing its business at its locations. Its activities in this area focus on eduprocesses. cation and science, culture and social involvement. When selecting projects, it gives priority in particular to innovative ideas and concepts that also allow its staff to get involved. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Performance indicators 153 All charitable contributions are subject to Group-wide sistent and transparent score for the ESG criteria. corporate citizenship guidelines adopted by the ExecThe underlying catalogue of criteria can be accessed utive Board. They provide a binding framework that on the www.stoxx.com website. Moreover, to endetermines the nature and proper handling of contrisure that the model is maintained and reviewed on an butions. Sports, private individuals, religious instituongoing basis, the STOXX ESG Advisory Board has tions or political parties are not eligible for support been set up, an international body of experts from (exception: the Political Action Committee of the subresearch/science and business. This board includes sidiary ISE). one representative each from Deutsche Börse AG and Eurex. Sustainability In addition to the STOXX ESG Leaders Indices, STOXX calculates and markets other indices that track susDeutsche Börse Group also feels committed to sustainable investments: an alliance with Sarasin, a tainable business activities in particular. Examples Swiss private bank known in particular for its sustaininclude initiatives to promote the transparency of ability research, has resulted in the DAXglobal® Saraholistic investment strategies on the one hand and sin Sustainability Indices for Germany and Switzermeasures to optimise its own sustainability perforland, as well as the STOXX Europe Sustainability mance on the other. Index family – a series of pan-European sustainability indices. Initiatives to foster transparency in holistic investment strategies Emissions trading In cooperation with the European Energy Exchange Sustainable index products (EEX) in Leipzig, Eurex operates a regulated, transparDeutsche Börse Group develops index products that ent marketplace for trading greenhouse gas (CO2) are used by investors as a basis for sustainable inemissions, which helps companies to meet the clivestments. The aim is to promote the transparency of mate change targets under the Kyoto Protocol. Market holistic investment decisions by improving the availparticipants of both exchanges can trade on a comable information and to demonstrate best practice mon platform and hedge against the risks arising from across a diverse index portfolio. The indices focus the their activities on the emissions market. In addition to attention of capital market participants on the compaemission rights, power, gas and coal derivatives are nies engaging in sustainable business practices. traded on the EEX. In 2012, STOXX Ltd., a subsidiary of Deutsche In addition, Deutsche Börse Group has published a Börse AG, again expanded its range of sustainability Monthly Carbon Report since October 2010. This fills indices to a total of 19 indices. The STOXX ESG an information gap on the CO2 market and makes the Leaders Index family (ESG stands for “Environment, actual extent of CO2 emissions in the energy sector Social, Governance”) gives Deutsche Börse Group a and industry more transparent for analysts and traders. range of sustainability indices; their selection model is based entirely on transparent criteria. On the basis of Information portal for sustainable securities the “KPIs for ESG 3.0” standard published by the SoDeutsche Börse’s information portal for sustainable ciety of Investment Professionals in Germany (DVFA) securities supports both private and institutional inand data released by Sustainalytics, the leading provestors in accounting for sustainability criteria in their vider of sustainability data, a uniform model has been investment decisions. This free service is part of developed under which all companies in the global www.boerse-frankfurt.de. It pools information on all STOXX® Global 1800 equity index are given a con154 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 sustainable products tradeable at Deutsche Börse (i.e. aisle containment, and thus prevents cold and warm equities, indices, investment funds and certificates) air from mixing. In addition, the use of fibre-optic raon a single platform. In addition to company-specific ther than copper cables and direct cooling lead to a master data and key financial indicators of 1,800 sustained reduction in power consumption. In 2012, global companies in the STOXX universe, the master all servers at the data centre were supplied with 100 data sheets on the information portal contain suppleper cent environmentally friendly hydroelectric power. mentary ESG indicators as well as data points from At the Luxembourg location, Clearstream’s data centre the Carbon Disclosure Project. The ESG data, which is situated underneath the office building. This allows is provided by Sustainalytics, one of the world’s leadan especially efficient use of energy, as the office ing research providers, corresponds to the corporate premises are heated with hot exhaust air from the ratings for the STOXX Global ESG Leaders index family. servers. Further energy savings are achieved by coolIn addition, Deutsche Börse Group publishes a transing the server rooms directly with fresh outdoor air. parency and a performance indicator reflecting each company’s contribution to climate protection. This Outside the data centres, too, the focus is on sustainindicator is determined by the Carbon Disclosure able, energy-efficient IT solutions. For example, thin Project, a non-profit organisation which maintains clients (network computers without hard drives) are the world’s largest database of company-relevant used throughout the Group and the hardware (awardclimate information. ed the “Energy Star” label) is selected specifically for its long lifespan and ecological certification. Initiatives to optimise Deutsche Börse’s own sustainability performance Resource-efficient business ecology For Deutsche Börse Group, environmental protection Energy-efficient IT management is an unconditional commitment to preserving the Deutsche Börse Group fulfills its role as marketplace natural environment and resources. The Group thereorganiser primarily by developing and operating ITfore aims to record its own ecological footprint as acbased solutions. Therefore, energy-efficient IT mancurately as possible and to steadily reduce it. agement offers the Group considerable scope for improving its sustainability performance. Facility management is highly relevant in this regard. As early as the planning stage for the Group’s headThe guiding principle of sustainable IT management quarters in Frankfurt/Eschborn, attention was paid to at Deutsche Börse Group is to achieve the highest the use of energy-efficient and environmentallypossible operating efficiency, i.e. optimised server and friendly systems. The power generated by the compastorage system utilisation and a reduction in back-up ny’s own combined heat and power plant covers up to systems, as far as market requirements concerning 60 per cent of its energy requirements. With its ecosystem security and speed allow. Another objective is logically innovative design, the building was the first to ensure that the servers currently being deployed are German office building to be awarded the LEED used continuously if possible by actively distributing (“Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design”) the load. platinum standard, a US sustainability certificate, in 2010. Clearstream’s building complex “The Square” A new flexible profile system has been selected for was the first established property in Luxembourg to Deutsche Börse Group’s server rooms in Frankreceive the “NF Bâtiments Tertiaires – Démarche HQE” furt/Main. This system enables the strict separation of sustainability certificate. cold supply air and hot exhaust air, known as cold Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Performance indicators 155 Other initiatives to improve the Group’s business ecoloffice consumables, as well as small appliances that ogy focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, wahave been awarded “Blue Angel” or “Energy Star” enter and paper consumption and waste. They include: vironmental certification.  Using shuttle buses between the Eschborn and LuxSustainability ratings embourg sites to cut down on individual trips Sustainability ratings assess companies’ sustainability  Offering job tickets for local public transport to staff reporting and performance. They measure ecological, in Eschborn social and corporate governance performance and rate  Using videoconferencing instead of business travel companies’ holistic management of opportunities and  Automatically presetting printers for double-sided risks. For investors with a focus on sustainability, the printing results of these ratings increasingly play a role in their  Reducing the number of printed publications assessment of companies on the capital markets.  Sending letters and parcels at the Frankfurt site and parcels at the Luxembourg site via the Deutsche Post Deutsche Börse Group is also regularly analysed by and DHL “Go Green” initiative various service providers, such as Robeco SAM, Sus Organising Group-wide “Green Days” to raise tainalytics, EIRIS, oekom, Vigeo and Sarasin. The awareness of environmental issues among staff Group’s positive performance in various sustainability ratings and rankings has repeatedly led to Deutsche Code of conduct for suppliers Börse shares being included in the following sustainA sustainability agreement between Corporate Purability indices: chasing and Deutsche Börse Group’s suppliers and service providers has been in place since the end of  Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI): in DJSI 2009 and requires mandatory compliance with basic World and DJSI Europe since 2005; result of legal principles and rules of conduct, such as respect Robeco SAM rating: company score 57; average for human and employee rights. The agreement also score of sector 39 imposes ecological and social requirements on the  FTSE4Good Index: in the Global Index and the Group’s service providers. Suppliers accounting for Europe Index since 2009; result of EIRIS/IMUG around 94 per cent of the Group’s global purchasing rating: absolute score 4 out of 5, supersector relative volume had signed this code of conduct by the end of 95 out of 100 points 2012, or submitted voluntary obligations that cover  Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI): since or even exceed the issues listed. The suppliers are 2009; score: 89 out of 100 assessed at regular intervals as part of the business  STOXX ESG Leaders Index: since 2011 (launch relationship. The evaluation criteria include aspects year). The entirely rule-based and transparent relating to economic, ecological and ethical sustainSTOXX rating model means that there is no conflict ability. of interests; result of sustainalytics rating: total score of 72 (E: 70, S: 66, G: 83), ranking: 4 out of 139 Responsible procurement companies As early as the materials procurement stage, Deutsche  ECPI Ethical Index Euro: since 2008 Börse Group makes sure it buys exclusively environ MSCI World ESG Index: since 2010 (launch year) mentally compatible products wherever possible. The Advanced Sustainability Performance Index (ASPI): se include FSC paper, recycled toners and other since 2003 156 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Corporate Responsibility: key figures of Deutsche Börse Group 2012 2011 Transparency Proportion of companies listed in the Prime Standard (for shares) as a percentage of all listed companies (by market capitalisation)1) % 83 77 Number of calculated indices appr. 12,000 appr. 8,600 thereof sustainability indices 19 15 Safety System availability of trading systems (Xetra®/Eurex®) % 99,999 99,975 Market risk cleared via Eurex Clearing (gross monthly average) €bn 7,507 9,230 Supplier management Share of sales revenue generated with suppliers/service providers that have signed the Code of Conduct or have made voluntary commitments over and above those required under the Code % 94.3 91.1 Compliance Punished cases of corruption 0 0 Proportion of business units reviewed for corruption risk % 100 100 Number of employees trained in anti-corruption measures2) 1,133 248 Number of justified customer complaints relating to data protection 0 1 Environment Energy consumption3) MWh 69,120 68,073 Greenhouse gas emissions t 29,452 29,799 thereof travel-based greenhouse gas emissions t 6,304 7,315 Water consumption4) m³ 63,757 63,144 Paper consumption5) t 113 122 Cash value of material administrative fines and total number of non-monetary penalties due to non-compliance with legal requirements in the environmental area € 0 0 Good Corporate Citizenship Corporate responsibility project expenses per employee6) € 850 900 Corporate volunteering days per employee days 2 2 1) Market capitalisation of companies listed in the Prime Standard (shares) in relation to the market capitalisation of all companies listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange (FWB®, Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse) 2) In addition to initial training for new recruits, compliance training is performed at two-year intervals. As a result, the number of employees may differ significantly in a direct year-on-year comparison. 3) The energy consumption reported comprises direct and indirect energy consumption. 4) The water consumption reported comprises only the volume of water sourced from municipal utilities. 5) The paper consumption reported only relates to office requirements. 6) For memberships, donations, sponsoring and communication; does not include social benefits or special leave expenses for corporate volunteering. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Risk report 157 Risk report structure, defined responsibilities, viable processes and continuous knowledge transfer to employees.  The responsible management levels must always Risk management is an integral component of management and control within Deutsche Börse Group. be informed about the relevant risks and the risk Effective and efficient risk management safeguards profile of the Group in an open, timely and comthe Group’s continued existence and enables it to plete manner.  Effective and efficient risk management supports achieve its corporate goals in the long term. To this end, the Group has established a Group-wide risk Deutsche Börse Group in achieving its corporate strategy and a Group-wide risk management system goals and safeguards the company’s continued exwhich defines roles, processes and responsibilities istence. The risk management system is designed to and is binding for all staff and organisational entities provide complete, timely and consistent risk-related within Deutsche Börse Group. information in order to ensure the identification, assessment and monitoring and reporting of risks. Risk strategy Risk management system Deutsche Börse Group’s risk strategy is based on its business strategy and sets limits specifying the maxiThe Group’s risk management system ensures that mum risk permitted for the Group’s operational, fiall management committees within Deutsche Börse nancial, and business risks as well as its overall risk. Group are able to control the risk profile of the entire This is done by laying down corresponding requireGroup or of a single legal entity, as well as specific ments for the management, control and limitation of material risks, in a timely manner. The aim is to idenrisk. The Group ensures that appropriate measures tify developments that could threaten the Group and are taken to avoid, reduce and transfer, or intentionalto take appropriate countermeasures promptly. ly accept risk. The principles of this strategy apply to all business segments within the Group. Governance Through the governance structure of its risk manageThe risk strategy enables risks to be controlled in a ment system, Deutsche Börse Group ensures a strong timely and adequate manner. Information needed for awareness of risk throughout the entire Group and the risk management is captured and assessed on the effectiveness and efficiency of the risk management basis of structured, consistent procedures. The results system. of the assessment are collated in a reporting system, which is used to systematically analyse and control The Executive Board of Deutsche Börse AG is responthe risks. Relevant reports are prepared on both a sible for Group-wide risk management. The Superregular and an ad-hoc basis, and cover existing as visory Board monitors the effectiveness of the risk well as potential risks. management system. In addition, the Finance and Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board monitors Deutsche Börse Group’s risk management is based on the Group’s risk strategy and the effectiveness of the the following principles: risk management system, and also examines the quarterly reports from Group Risk Management  Each Group Executive Board bears the ultimate re(GRM). These reports contain assessments of existing sponsibility for the risk management of Deutsche and new risks. The full Supervisory Board is informed Börse Group and its companies. in writing of the content of these reports.  An awareness of risk and the associated risk culture are ensured by means of a clear organisational 158 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The Chief Financial Officer and business areas are ance with regulatory guidelines. It is also responsible jointly responsible for risk management at the segfor the entire Group’s budget controlling. Independent ment level. The Group-wide Risk Committee of audits by the Internal Auditing function ensure that Deutsche Börse Group acts as the steering committee, the risk control and risk management functions are chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer. The cenadequately organised and that they perform their dutral task of the Risk Committee is to support the Exties. Deutsche Börse AG’s early risk warning system is ecutive Board in monitoring Deutsche Börse Group’s controlled by the external auditor in accordance with risk profile. The Committee is made up of the leaderlegal requirements. ship of the relevant business areas as well as representatives of the Chief Financial Officer, such as Risk management process Group Risk Management, a central function which Deutsche Börse Group’s risk management system is coordinates the work carried out by the Committee. used to implement the risk strategy for which the ExThe Risk Committee monitors the validity and reliabilecutive Board is responsible. To this end, all potential ity of the risk strategy, the risk management system losses must be identified in good time, captured cenincluding the various methods used, and the risk trally, assessed (i. e. quantified in financial terms management process. It also promotes Group-wide as far as possible), reported to the Executive Board awareness of risk and examines current risk assesstogether with recommendations, and controlled. ments. The Risk Committee proposes actions where Deutsche Börse Group’s risk management process it is required to reduce or avoid risks. therefore comprises five stages (see chart on the next page). The business areas identify risks and report these promptly to GRM. The business areas also perform Step 1: Risk identification risk control, inform their respective management In this initial step, threats and causes of losses or about developments in risk indicators and continumalfunctions are identified. Risks can arise as a reously improve the quality of the risk management sult of internal activities or because of external facprocesses. tors. All matters that could have a material impact on Deutsche Börse Group’s business or that might GRM ensures that the comprehensive risk managechange the risk profile must be recognised as early as ment system is applied and that it complies with the possible. It is the responsibility of all business areas same minimum standards in all companies belonging and their employees to identify these potential risks. to Deutsche Börse Group. Step 2: Risk notification In addition to the Finance and Audit Committee, GRM All business areas must inform GRM regularly and, also reports to Deutsche Börse AG’s Executive Board in urgent cases, on an ad hoc basis of the risks they on a quarterly and ad-hoc basis where required. GRM have identified and quantified. This procedure guarproposes the risk strategy and its formation in the antees that all potential risks and threats are captured form of guidelines for risk management to the Risk centrally. Committee and Deutsche Börse Group’s Executive Board. Step 3: Risk assessment GRM assesses the risk potential in a quantitative and In addition, other areas within Deutsche Börse Group qualitative manner based on the information available. assume relevant risk management functions. For exThe VaR method is used for the quantitative assessample, representatives of the Chief Financial Officer ment of a potential risk (see section on “Risk manare responsible for central credit and treasury matters. agement methods” of this consolidated management Furthermore, Financial Accounting & Controlling isreport). Deutsche Börse Group uses a risk matrix for sues reports to the supervisory authorities in compliStrategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Risk report 159 Board has set up for Deutsche Börse Group (for deGovernance structure of risk management tails see section on “Goals and strategies” of this consolidated management report) is used to help preSupervisory Board Monitoring of risk management system effi ciency vent risks. Along with other measures, the ICS is deAudit and Finance Committee signed to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of Assessment of risk strategy and risk management system the Group’s business operations, avert or uncover fiExecutive Board nancial losses and thus protect all Deutsche Börse’s Responsible for the Group-wide risk management business assets. It comprises both integrated and independent control and safety measures. The ICS is Group-wide Risk Committee 1) Monitoring of Deutsche Börse Group’s risk profile an integral part of the risk management system and is continuously being enhanced and adjusted to reflect Group Risk Management changing conditions. Risk assessment and reporting to Executive Board and Supervisory Board Step 5: Risk reporting Risk management functions 2) Risk identifi cation, risk surveillance as well as risk reporting The responsible Executive Board members and committees are informed of any material risks, their as1) Representatives from relevant CFO areas, relevant business areas sessment and possible immediate countermeasures; as well as Group Risk Management if appropriate, they receive further recommendations 2) Among them Credit, Treasury and Financial Accounting & Controlling so that they can set suitable steps in motion. In addition, GRM sends an “Internal Capital Adequacy the qualitative assessment of specific risks, in particuAssessment Process” (ICAAP) report to the Executive lar regulatory requirements. This matrix allows risks to Boards of the Clearstream Holding group and Eurex be observed over a period exceeding the usual obserClearing AG once a year, thus fulfilling the provisions vation period of twelve months. This helps to ensure of the second pillar of the Basel II regulatory framethat the risk situation of the entire Group is observed work. In this report, GRM reports on the current risk in a comprehensive manner over several years. situation and assesses the capital resources of the Clearstream Holding group and Eurex Clearing AG. In Step 4: Risk control accordance with the third pillar of Basel II, the ClearAll business areas and their employees are responsistream Holding group and Eurex Clearing AG also ble for risk control and for taking measures to limit meet a broad obligation to report their business activiloss. The possible responses are risk mitigation, deties in their capacity as financial institutions. In parliberate risk acceptance, external risk transfer, or risk ticular, the companies regularly report to the superviavoidance. The business areas decide on and implesory authorities on the methods of their risk management the most appropriate alternative in each case. ment and the assessment of capital resources. The internal control system (ICS) that the Executive Five-stage risk management system with central and decentral responsibility Responsibiliy of Executive Board Risk management strategy Responsibility of Group Risk Management Risk management process 3. Assessment 5. Reporting Responsibility of business areas 1. Identifi cation 2. Notifi cation 4. Control 160 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 An example for the course of the risk management face if certain loss events materialised over a specific process period. Likewise potential concentration risks can also A subsidiary of Deutsche Börse Group receives a cusbe identified by way of VaR analyses. tomer claim for compensation for a loss. The department concerned first identifies the reason for this The Group determines the VaR in three stages: claim for compensation and the person responsible for operational risk at this department (operational  Stage 1: Determining the loss distribution for each risk representative) evaluates the potential impact of individual risk. This is performed for each individual the event (1). If the amount of the claim for compenrisk on the basis of historical data (such as market sation exceeds a certain threshold, the operational data, default, claim, or outage history) or risk scerisk representative records the event and its impact narios. This loss distribution may be, for example, a in the operational risk event database, as well as the lognormal distribution (often used for risks arising compensation for the loss if the claim for compensafrom service deficiencies) or a Bernoulli distribution tion is justified. In this way, GRM receives notification (used, for example, to simulate counterparty default of the event (2). GRM analyses the available inforin credit risk). mation, assesses the case and, if appropriate, pro Stage 2: Simulating losses using the Monte Carlo poses measures (3). If necessary, line management method. A Monte Carlo simulation is used to then makes improvements and takes the appropriate achieve a stable VaR calculation by simulating as measures (4). GRM informs the Executive Board of many loss events as possible in line with the distrithe event, its details and analysis, as well as any bution assumptions made. This produces a spread measures already planned, in the report for the folof possible total losses. lowing quarter or, if necessary, ad hoc (5).  Stage 3: Calculating VaR on the basis of the Monte Carlo simulation. To do this, the losses calculated by Risk management methods the Monte Carlo simulation are arranged by size in Deutsche Börse Group uses various quantitative and descending order, and the corresponding losses are qualitative risk management methods to monitor and determined for the specified confidence levels. control the risk profile. The combination of different methods is intended to provide as complete a picture Economic capital of the current risk situation as possible. This allows The Group’s economic capital (EC) can be determined Deutsche Börse Group to take appropriate measures using the VaR. EC measures the amount of capital to safeguard the Group’s continued existence. The folthat is required in order to be able to cover extreme lowing section illustrates the central risk management events as well over a period of twelve months. Ecoinstruments used by Deutsche Börse Group. nomic capital is calculated at a confidence level of 99.98 per cent. This means that losses within the Value at risk next twelve months will not exceed the calculated EC Deutsche Börse Group uses a standardised approach with a probability of 99.98 per cent. Deutsche Börse – value at risk (VaR) – for measuring and reporting all Group uses two different EC concepts for this. These risks across the Group, including entities that are not differ with respect to the assumed diversification besubject to regulation by supervisory authorities. VaR is tween individual risks and between segments. a comprehensive way of presenting and controlling the general risk profile. It quantifies risks and lays  Required economic capital: The required economic down, for the specified confidence level, the maxicapital does not take into account any diversification mum cumulative loss Deutsche Börse Group could effects, i.e. a correlation of 1 is assumed between Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Risk report 161 the individual risks as well as for the inter-company verordnung (SolvV, German Solvency Regulation) correlation. Deutsche Börse Group uses the most based on the Basel II regulatory framework, while conservative approach for this purpose. Clearstream Holding AG has used this approach at  Diversified required economic capital: Diversification Group level since receiving the approval of the Gereffects between the individual risks are included man Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin, when calculating the diversified required economic Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht) on capital. 7 October 2010. Eurex Clearing AG uses the Basic Indicator Approach to calculate its capital requireExpected shortfall ments in relation to operational risk. For credit and Deutsche Börse Group uses the expected shortfall market price risks, the standardised approach is used concept as a complementary method to EC. The exthroughout the Group. pected shortfall is defined as the average of losses exceeding EC. The objective of this concept is to supRisk-bearing concepts plement the focus on EC by obtaining information The Group uses two risk-bearing concepts. Riskregarding potential losses exceeding EC. bearing capacity assumes the liquidation of the Group (gone concern), whereas risk appetite assumes the Stress tests continuation of the Group (going concern). Deutsche Börse Group also carries out stress test calculations for operational as well as financial risks for GRM reports to the Risk Committee, Executive Board the Clearstream and Eurex segments, along with their as well as the Finance and Audit Committee on a respective legal entities. These stress tests simulate quarterly basis regarding the results of the risk appethe occurrence of extreme losses or an accumulation tite and risk-bearing capacity concepts. This proceof major losses in one year. Since the Group has not dure guarantees that the risk limits laid down by the incurred any major losses to date, potential risk sceExecutive Board in its risk strategy are monitored and narios are defined for this purpose. These risk scenarcomplied with on a sustainable basis. ios describe possible loss events and their probability as well as the potential amount of loss, which is esRisk-bearing capacity timated. The values determined in the stress tests are Deutsche Börse Group calculates the required ecocompared with the limits defined as part of the risknomic capital in order to determine the risk-bearing bearing capacities. Both historical as well as hypocapacity. The most conservative approach is pursued thetical scenarios are calculated. for the required economic capital in order to show the dependencies. A value of 1 is assumed for both the Reverse stress tests correlation of inter-risk diversification effects as well Reverse stress tests have also been performed since as for the inter-company correlation, that is these po2011. This instrument is used to determine loss scetential risks occur at the same time and are therefore narios that would have to occur in order to exceed accumulated. Deutsche Börse Group uses the sharerisk-bearing capacities. holders’ equity recognised under IFRS as the riskbearing capacity for its economic capital, adjusted, Regulatory requirements among others, by an amount to reflect the risk of not Having received regulatory approval from the Luxembeing able to liquidate intangible assets at their carrybourg supervisory authority CSSF (Commission de ing amounts in a stress situation. The Clearstream Surveillance du Secteur Financier), Clearstream BankHolding group uses its regulatory capital as the risking S.A. and Clearstream Banking AG have applied bearing capacity for its economic capital (for details the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) since see note 20 to the consolidated financial state1 January 2008 to calculate their capital requirements). ments for operational risk under the Solvabilitäts162 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Required eco-economic capital is compared with the  Via its Clearstream subgroup, Deutsche Börse manavailable risk-bearing capacity. Deutsche Börse Group ages and holds securities in custody on behalf of its also calculates required economic capital at the level customers in the most secure form possible, usually of individual risks and business segments. These are electronically. The Global Liquidity Hub guarantees compared against limits representing a percentage of that the securities deposited are used efficiently. the available risk-bearing capacity defined for each Deutsche Börse Group also enables the settlement individual risk. of anonymous, collateralised money market transactions through GC Pooling. Risk appetite The risk appetite concept is used in order to ensure Deutsche Börse Group’s internal risk management the Group’s continued existence. Diversified required guarantees that it can offer these services without ineconomic capital is determined initially for this purterruption (for details see section on “Business conpose. It is calculated in the same way as required tinuity management”). economic capital. However, diversification effects between individual risks and between business segments are taken into account for this purpose. These Risk description and assessment arise because losses do not occur for all individual risks at the same time, so that the VaR is lower for Risk structure the overall risk than for the total of VaR values of the Deutsche Börse Group distinguishes between operaindividual risks. The projected EBIT for the following tional, financial, business and project risk. These inyear is defined as risk appetite. This represents the dividual risks constitute substantial risks for the Group. risk limit for the Group in order to achieve its corpoThey are described in this risk report both generally rate goals. Compliance with the limit is reviewed both as well as at Deutsche Börse Group segment level. at Group level as well as segment level. Operational risks Risk management as a contribution to In the operational risk category, a distinction is made sustainability between availability risk, service deficiencies, damDeutsche Börse Group aims to make a sustainable age to physical assets, legal offences and business contribution to society with its range of risk managepractices. ment services. In its role as a capital market organiser, Deutsche Börse primarily does this by ensuring the  Availability risk results from the possible failure security and integrity of the markets and by increasing of operating resources essential to the services the allocation efficiency of the markets through its Deutsche Börse Group offers, making it impossible pricing function. Deutsche Börse Group also assumes to deliver services on time or at all. This risk constiimportant risk management functions for its customtutes the greatest operational risk for Deutsche ers and, in doing so, contributes to the efficiency and Börse Group. systemic stability of the capital markets.  The category of service deficiencies includes risks that could materialise if a service for customers of  Since 2011, for example, the Client Asset Protection Deutsche Börse Group is performed inadequately, solution has allowed client assets within the clearing for example due to product and process defects, house to be clearly assigned to the participant conprocesses being performed incorrectly, or errors cerned if a trading partner defaults. in manual processing. Manual work continues to  The systematic expansion of the central counterbe necessary, despite the many automated systems party service will enable Deutsche Börse Group to and efforts aimed at delivering straight-through better hedge against risks in OTC derivatives trading processing. in future. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Risk report 163  Damage to physical assets is included under risks this, Deutsche Börse Group has defined a large numdue to accidents and natural disasters, as well as ber of business continuity measures to be taken when terrorism and sabotage. or after an emergency occurs. Furthermore, Deutsche  Risk associated with legal offences includes losses Börse Group has entered into insurance contracts to that could arise as a result of nonor inappropriate reduce the financial consequences of loss events. compliance with new or existing laws, losses from insufficient contract terms or from court decisions Against the background of the human resources risks not adequately taken into account during normal described above, Deutsche Börse Group aspires to be business operations, as well as losses from fraud. perceived as an attractive employer by implementing  Business practice risk includes losses resulting from a range of human resources policy measures (for deinadequate control measures to prevent money tails see section on “Employees”). laundering, violations of competition regulations, or breaches of banking secrecy. Business practice risk Moreover, the Group complies with international qualalso includes human resources risk. Deutsche Börse ity standards (such as certification according to ISO Group’s success is founded on the commitment and 9001/TickIT and ISO/IEC 20000) to reduce operaperformance of its employees. The Group is theretional risk – in particular the Group’s availability risk. fore exposed to the risk of important employees in key positions leaving the company, or of positions Business continuity management: Deutsche Börse not being filled adequately. Group endeavours to deliver its products and services as reliably as possible. For this reason, it attaches the Deutsche Börse Group devotes considerable attention greatest importance to maintaining its business opto mitigating the different types of operational risk erations and protecting them against emergencies and mentioned above with the aim of reducing the fredisasters. Since the non-availability of its core proquency and amount of potential financial losses ariscesses and resources poses a substantial risk to ing from corresponding risk events. To this end, variDeutsche Börse Group and is a potential systemic risk ous quality and control measures are taken to protect for the financial markets in general, Deutsche Börse the Group’s business from all kinds of fraud and opGroup has established a Group-wide business contierational business losses. In addition to compliance nuity management (BCM) system. The BCM system with international quality standards, these measures encompasses all the precautionary processes to eninclude a careful analysis of operational risk events sure that business continues as normal if a crisis octhat have occurred so that steps can be defined to recurs, thus substantially reducing availability risk. It duce the probability of their recurrence. Apart from covers arrangements for all key resources (systems, Risk structure of Deutsche Börse Group Risk positions of the Group Operational risks Financial risks Business risks Availability risk Credit risk Service defi ciencies Market price risk Damage to physical assets Liquidity risk Legal offences and business practices Risk associated with regulatory parameters Project risks 164 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 rooms, staff, suppliers/service providers), including  Functional effectiveness – the measures must work the redundant design of all critical IT systems and the from a technical point of view. technical infrastructure, as well as backup workspac Executability – employees must be familiar with the es in each of the main operational centres for ememergency procedures and be able to execute them. ployees in critical functions. Examples of these provi Recovery time – the emergency measures must ensions can be found in the “Business continuity sure that operations are restored within the schedmeasures” diagram. uled time. An emergency and crisis management process has Compliance function: Moreover, the Group Complibeen implemented within the Group to ensure a ance function and the business segments have the prompt response and a coordinated approach to any task to protect the Group against possible loss or emergencies. The process is designed to minimise damage resulting from failure to comply with applicatheir impact on business processes and the market ble laws, regulations and good corporate governance and to facilitate a swift return to business as usual. standards, with a particular focus on the following Emergency managers have been appointed as central topics: points of contact in all business areas to assume responsibility in cases of emergency or crisis. The  prevention of money laundering and terrorist emergency managers inform and/or alert the Execufinancing tive Board (depending on the severity of the incident).  compliance with professional and banking secrecy In cases of crisis, the Executive Board member re prevention of insider dealing sponsible for the area concerned acts as the crisis  prevention of market manipulation manager.  prevention of fraud  prevention of conflicts of interest and corruption The business continuity measures are tested regularly  data protection by simulating emergency situations realistically. These tests are normally carried out unannounced. GRM reInsurance policies: Any residual operational risk that ports all problems encountered as well as its test reDeutsche Börse Group does not wish to retain and sults and recommendations to the Executive Board. that can be insured at a reasonable price is transThe test results are assessed according to the followferred by taking out insurance policies. All insurance ing criteria: Business continuity measures Incident and crisis management process Systems Workspace Staff Suppliers All trading, clearing and Backup workplaces are In case of signifi cant staff Service level agreements settlement systems as well as configured for mission critical unavailability in a specifi c describe contingency procerelated networks are designed functions. location, critical operations dures with critical suppliers. for continuous high-availability The backup locations are fully can be shifted to other Contingency procedures operations without loss of equipped and always ready locations. of suppliers are regularly electronic data. for immediate use. Additional pandemic mitigareviewed through a due Tha data centres are dupliRemote access facilities to tion measures are in case of diligence process. cated locally to protect against the Group’s systems enable a pandemic outbreak. If the suppliers cannot meet a failure of an entire location. teleworking. the requirements, alternative suppliers are used where possible. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Risk report 165 policies are coordinated centrally, thereby ensuring the competitive environment. In addition, it includes that uniform insurance cover is available at all times the Group’s strategic risk, which relates to the impact for the entire Group at an attractive cost-benefit ratio. of risk on the business strategy and any resulting adInsurance policies are individually reviewed and apjustment to the strategy. This risk is expressed in relaproved by the Chief Financial Officer of Deutsche tion to EBIT. Business risk can impact sales revenue Börse AG. and/or cost trends, for example causing a decline in actual sales revenue compared to target figures, Financial risk and/or a rise in costs. This could lead to intangible Deutsche Börse Group breaks down financial risk into assets being partially or fully written down following credit, market price and liquidity risk as well as the an impairment test. In addition, external factors such risk of not meeting regulatory parameters. as the performance and volatility of the capital markets or a lack of investor confidence in the financial  Credit risk describes the risk of a counterparty demarkets may impact financial performance. Business faulting and not being able to meet its liabilities torisk is not broken down further. wards Deutsche Börse Group in full or at all. Credit risk at Deutsche Börse Group mainly relates to the Detailed information on the relevant regulatory initiacompanies in the Clearstream Holding group and to tives and their potential impact on the Group or the Eurex Clearing AG. In addition, Deutsche Börse companies of the business segments, as far as can be Group’s cash investments and receivables are subestimated from today’s perspective, is provided in the ject to credit risk. “Regulatory environment” section of this consoli Market price risk can arise in the form of interest dated management report. rate or currency risk in business operations as a result of collecting net revenues denominated in forProject risks eign currency and in connection with cash investProject risk can arise as a result of implementing proments or borrowing as a result of fluctuations in jects (launching new products, processes or systems), interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The Group which may have a significant impact on one of the avoids outstanding currency positions wherever posthree other risk categories (operational, financial and sible. Further market price risks may arise in conbusiness risk). Project risk is assessed by Group Risk nection with contractual trust arrangements (insolManagement and addressed in the early stages of vency-proof fund assets related to Deutsche Börse major projects. Project risk is not, however, broken Group’s existing pension plans). down further.  Liquidity risk arises if there is insufficient liquidity to meet daily payment obligations or when increased Clearstream segment refinancing costs are incurred in the event of liquidiOperational, financial, business and project risk are ty bottlenecks. described and assessed at the Clearstream segment  Risk associated with regulatory parameters comprislevel in the following. es losses that could arise if specified ratios are not met. Details on the regulatory parameters for each Operational risks company are given in note 20 to the consolidated Service deficiencies, availability risk and legal risks financial statements. constitute substantial operational risks for the Clearstream segment. Business risks Business risk reflects the sensitivity of the Group to Service deficiencies: Service deficiencies constitute macroeconomic developments and its vulnerability to the greatest operational risk for the Clearstream segevent risk, such as regulatory initiatives or changes in ment. The greatest danger is that human errors may 166 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 lead to service deficiencies and thus loss for ClearIn September 2007, the plaintiffs in a civil action obstream. The risk is that client instructions are not protained a default judgement against Iran in US courts. cessed correctly, are processed too late or are not proIn June 2008, the plaintiffs commenced enforcement cessed at all. Customers who are affected by such an proceedings in the United States District Court for the error would have to be compensated for any associatSouthern District of New York to satisfy this judgment ed losses. In order to avoid this risk, Clearstream is by restraining certain client positions held in Clearcontinuously improving its systems and procedures to stream Banking S.A.’s securities omnibus account process customer instructions. In addition, all incomwith its US depository bank, Citibank NA. The replete instructions and conflicting instructions are restrained positions are allegedly owned by an Iranian jected. The various companies of the Clearstream government entity. Consistent with its custodial obliHolding group also work together with their customers gations, Clearstream Banking S.A. defended itself on standardising the procedure for handling customer against the restraints and filed a motion to vacate the instructions. There is also the risk that information restraints on various grounds. In October 2010, the is not transmitted or only transmitted incorrectly to plaintiffs commenced a lawsuit which seeks to have clients. This may result from technical faults as well the restrained positions of approximately US$2 billion as human error. If customers suffer a loss, then this turned over to the plaintiffs. An amended complaint would need to be reimbursed by Clearstream. A numwas received by Clearstream Banking S.A. in Luxember of different technical solutions have been implebourg on 7 January 2011. This includes a cause mented to mitigate this risk. In addition, all processes of action directly against Clearstream Banking S.A. that potentially generate new information about speamounting to damages of US$250 million in conneccific events that is of relevance for clients must be tion with purportedly fraudulent conveyances related reviewed by a second person (four-eyes principle). to the restrained positions. In summer 2011, Citibank In the reporting year there were no material losses. NA included other potential judgment creditors of Iran in the litigation. At the direction of the court, ClearAvailability risks: The risk that the services and stream Banking S.A. renewed its motion to vacate the products offered by the companies of the Clearstream restraints. This renewed motion remains pending beHolding group may not be available constitutes a subfore the court. On 7 December 2011, the plaintiffs stantial risk for Clearstream. This includes the risk filed a second amended complaint, adding claims that critical IT systems of the international central sefor damages against Clearstream Banking S.A. and curities depository fail. This could mean that basic others of US$2 billion, plus punitive damages to be business activities of companies of the Clearstream determined at trial and attorney’s fees. Clearstream Holding group cannot be conducted for a specific peBanking S.A. considers the plaintiffs’ claims against riod of time. This risk is mitigated by extensive BCM it to be legally and factually without merit, as Clearmeasures, including a redundant hardware and netstream Banking S.A. will establish in the course of litwork infrastructure. In order to ensure the effectiveigation. Should the case proceed, Clearstream Bankness of these measures, business continuity measures ing S.A. intends to defend itself vigorously to the are also tested regularly. No material losses due to fullest extent, in line with its custodial obligations. availability risk were determined in the reporting year. Clearstream Banking S.A. is cooperating with the US Legal risks: Clearstream is also exposed to legal export control authority, the Office of Foreign Assets risks that manifest themselves in particular in legal Control (OFAC), on its ongoing investigation of “Iranidisputes that are ongoing at present. an Transaction Regulations” in connection with the Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Risk report 167 transfer of assets via Clearstream’s processing system. basis of these risk scenarios and compared with the On 9 January 2013, Deutsche Börse AG reported in available risk-bearing capacity for operational risk: an ad-hoc announcement that the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) had contacted Clearstream  the risk scenario with the largest estimated maxiBanking S.A. with regard to certain securities transmum loss, irrespective of its expected probability fers associated with the closure of accounts main the combination of the two largest maximum losses, tained by Iranian customers. OFAC’s preliminary each with a probability estimated at one or more views are that (1) apparent violations of US sanctions events per 100 years may have occurred in 2008 in connection with the  the combination of the three largest maximum lossaforementioned securities transfers, and (2) if OFAC es, each with a probability estimated at more than were to issue a civil pre-penalty notice, the penalty one event per 100 years specified would be in amount of approximately US$340 million. These estimates were shared with The stress tests for operational risk conducted in the Clearstream for discussion purposes only and are subfinancial year did not identify any need to increase ject to potential significant change in favour of Clearthe available risk-bearing capacity for the Clearstream stream, depending on the outcome of discussions segment. with OFAC. Clearstream continues to believe that its actions were in compliance with any applicable US Financial risks sanctions and regulations and considers OFAC’s preSubstantial financial risks for the Clearstream segliminary figure to be unwarranted and excessive. ment are detailed below. Clearstream will take the opportunity during the substantive discussions to explain why a penalty should Credit risks: Credit risk is the material financial risk not be imposed or, if a settlement payment is agreed for Clearstream. upon, why it should be in a far lesser amount. To increase the efficiency of securities transaction setOther risks: There are also risks arising from the loss tlement, Clearstream Banking S.A. and Clearstream of employees in key positions as well as through Banking AG extend credit to their customers. This damage to physical assets. No material losses were type of credit business is, however, fundamentally determined in 2012 for these risks either. different from the classic credit business. Firstly, credit is extended solely on a very short-term basis, norStress test: Stress test calculations are performed mally intraday. Secondly, it is largely collateralised within the Clearstream segment for operational risk. and granted to customers with good credit ratings. These stress tests simulate the occurrence of extreme Furthermore, credit lines granted can be revoked at operational losses or an accumulation of major operaany time. tional losses in one year. Since Clearstream has not incurred any major losses to date, potential risk sceClearstream Banking S.A. is also exposed to credit narios are defined for this purpose. These risk scerisk arising from its strategic securities lending transnarios describe possible operational loss events and actions (ASLplus). Only selected banks operate as their probability as well as the potential amount of borrowers. All lending transactions are fully collatloss, which is estimated by internal experts from the eralised and only selected bonds are permitted as respective business areas. The following extreme loss collateral. The minimum rating for these issues is an situations are simulated for the stress test on the A from Standard & Poor’s or a comparable rating from other agencies. A minimum rating of A–1 applies for issuers of short-term bonds without an issue rating. 168 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The creditworthiness of potential customers is assettlement process. In addition to classic stress tests, sessed before entering into a business relationship which analyse the impact of predefined stress scenarwith them. Clearstream Banking S.A. and Clearstream ios on the available risk-bearing capacity, the entities Banking AG establish customer-specific credit lines on mentioned above have performed so-called reverse the basis of both regular reviews of the customer’s stress tests since 2011. This instrument is used to credit and ad-hoc analyses. Clearstream Banking S.A. determine how many clients would have to default for and Clearstream Banking AG define safety margins for the losses to exceed the risk-bearing capacities. securities provided as collateral to ensure that this is sufficient to cover risk exposure and test their adeThe results of the stress tests and reverse stress tests quacy on an ongoing basis. To determine the safety can entail further analyses and the implementation of margin, Clearstream takes all relevant risk factors into risk mitigation actions. The stress test calculations did account. A specific margin is allocated to each indinot identify any material credit risks in the financial vidual factor. The aggregate safety margin is calculatyear 2012. ed by adding together the individual margins of the relevant risk factors. Liquidity risk: Treasury guarantees the liquidity of the companies in the Clearstream Holding group. Its inIn addition, Clearstream calculates credit risk concenvestment strategy is designed to ensure that customer trations by performing VaR analyses for the Cleardeposits can be repaid at any time. The limits used to stream Holding group to detect any risk clusters relatmanage liquidity are therefore conservative. Extensive ing to individual counterparties. To this end, credit further sources of liquidity are available to provide risk VaRs are calculated for individual counterparadditional security. The Clearstream Holding group ties and compared with the overall credit risk VaRs. had sufficient liquidity throughout 2012. Because of the group’s business model, the companies in the group are almost exclusively focused on Stress test calculations are performed on liquidity risk financial sector customers. However, no material in the Clearstream Holding group. To this end, the credit risk concentrations were found for individual Clearstream Holding group implemented scenarios counterparties. that are calculated quarterly. In these scenarios, both the sources and the uses of liquidity are subjected to Further credit risks can arise in relation to cash ina stress test using historical as well as hypothetical vestments made by companies belonging to the scenarios. In addition, the Clearstream Holding group Clearstream Holding group. This risk is reduced for implemented so-called reverse stress tests on liquidity the companies by spreading investments across a risk. The reverse stress tests analyse which scenarios number of counterparties with exclusively good credit would additionally have to occur to bring about a sitratings, defining investment limits for each counteruation of insufficient liquidity. Based on the stress party, and making mostly short-term investments tests, the Clearstream segment had sufficient liquidity which are collateralised if possible. Maximum investin 2012. ment limits are established on the basis of regular assessments of creditworthiness and, if necessary, Other risks: Clearstream is also exposed to market ad-hoc analyses. price risk and risk arising from regulatory parameters. The Clearstream Holding group is exposed to interest Credit risk stress tests are calculated for the Clearrate risk in connection with cash investments. These stream Holding group, Clearstream Banking S.A. and risks are mitigated by means of a limit system that Clearstream Banking AG to analyse the impact of furonly permits maturity transformation to a limited ther extreme scenarios, e. g. a default of the largest extent. Market price risk is immaterial to the Clearcustomer. A special stress test examines Clearstream stream segment companies. Banking S.A.’s credit risk exposure from the Euroclear Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Risk report 169 Business risks Scenarios are established and quantitatively assessed Business risks constitute a potential risk for the Clearfor the Clearstream companies based on the most stream segment companies. In particular, a possible significant risk events. In addition, stress scenarios escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis into are defined to analyse the impact on EBIT of further an economic crisis in the euro zone represents a risk extreme scenarios. Reverse stress tests are performed to the Clearstream segment. In light of the ongoing for the Clearstream Holding group, Clearstream Banksovereign debt crisis and the deterioration in the ecoing S.A. and Clearstream Banking AG, and their imnomic environment this might entail, there is the pospact on the available risk-bearing capacity is analysed. sibility that the segment’s financial performance could Results of the stress tests indicate that potential lossdevelop negatively. The companies analysed the poes arising from business risk are matched by adetential impact of different scenarios right up to a colquate risk-bearing capacity. lapse of the euro zone in order to be prepared for different developments. The various scenarios affect the Project risks segment in different ways. A collapse of the euro zone The Clearstream segment is currently in the process would have the greatest consequences. Its effects on of implementing the uniform European securities setboth the financial markets and the European banking tlement engine, TARGET2-Securities. This process is sector would lead to significant upheaval. The foreconstantly monitored in order to detect potential risk seeable deterioration in the financial markets and the at an early stage and enable appropriate measures. expected bank defaults would negatively impact the segment. The segment companies are aware of these Eurex segment risks and arrangements have been made to counter Like the Clearstream segment, the Eurex segment is the possible effects. Another material business risk exposed to operational, financial, business and profor the Clearstream segment is a general interest rate ject risk. These are described and assessed as follows. level that remains low. There is also the risk that the authorities and institutions of the European Union are Operational risks unable to reassure the markets and restore confidence Availability risk, service deficiencies and legal risks in market participants. If international financial marconstitute material operational risks for the Eurex kets were to deteriorate significantly, there would be segment companies. a negative impact on the business activities of the Clearstream segment companies. Availability risk: Availability risk results from the possible failure of operating resources, such as systems, In addition, regulatory initiatives could exacerbate the rooms, employees and/or suppliers/service providers, Clearstream segment companies’ competitive enviwhich are essential to the services Eurex offers, makronment, thus negatively influencing their earnings. ing it impossible to deliver services on time or at all. This includes in particular the planned regulation of For example, defects in the CCP system could lead CSDs (central securities depositories), the various reto processing delays at Eurex Clearing AG. Problems organisation and winding-up provisions, as well as with the risk engine could lead to the incorrect calling another revision of the Capital Requirements Directive of collateral to be assigned by the clearing participant. (CRD IV). There is also the risk that the Eurex Frankfurt AG trading system is unavailable for a specific period of time. 170 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Triggers could include hardware or software failure, was thereby effecting collateral payments (intraday operator or security errors, or physical damage to the margin payments) of Lehman Brothers International data centres. In order to combat availability risk, the (Europe) (LBIE) from the underlying clearing relationEurex segment companies use comprehensive BCM ship to Eurex Clearing AG by acting as corresponmeasures that are formalised within the framework of dence bank for the former clearing member LBIE. the business continuity plan. The effectiveness of the On the same day, administration proceedings were various measures is monitored by regularly reviewing opened in the United Kingdom with respect to LBIE, or testing these plans. No losses were incurred in and Bundesagentur für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht 2012 as a result of the failure of operating resources, (BaFin, German Federal Financial Supervisory Authornor was there any recognisable severe risk either. ity) issued a moratorium with regard to LBB AG. On 13 November 2008, insolvency proceedings were Service deficiency risk: This category includes risks opened with regards to LBB AG. that could materialise if a service for clients of companies from the Eurex segment is performed inadeIn addition, on 12 November 2012, the Chicago quately, for example due to product and process deBoard Options Exchange (CBOE) brought an action fects, processes being performed incorrectly, or errors against the International Securities Exchange (ISE) for in manual processing. Manual work continues to be patent infringements. CBOE is claiming damages of necessary, despite the many automated systems and US$525 million for an alleged infringement of three efforts aimed at delivering straight-through processing patents on procedures to limit market maker-specific (STP). In addition, manual intervention in market and risks. ISE believes that the claim for damages made system management is necessary in special cases. In by CBOE is unfounded, as it has no factual or legal order to prevent service deficiencies, all such work basis. ISE intends to defend itself in these court proprocesses are reviewed by at least two people, helpceedings by all available means. ISE itself brought an ing to minimise the incidence of human error by emaction against the CBOE for patent infringements in ployees. In addition, the technical systems are being November 2006. In this legal dispute which is still continuously improved to preclude hardware and ongoing, and for which the main hearing is due to software failures. No material losses were incurred commence on 11 March 2013, ISE is claiming damin 2012 as a result of service deficiencies. ages of US$475 million due to an infringement of an ISE patent on a procedure for the operation of Legal offences: Eurex segment companies are exan automated trading system. posed to legal risks. Other risks: Furthermore, the Eurex segment compaOn 26 November 2012, the insolvency administrator nies are exposed to human resources risks and the of Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG (LBB AG) brought risk of material damage. However no material losses an action against Eurex Clearing AG. On the basis of were determined in the year under review. German insolvency law, the insolvency administrator is demanding from Eurex Clearing AG the repayment Stress tests: In the course of their scenario validation, of €113.5 million and payment of another amount the Eurex segment entities perform stress tests. These of around €1.0 million plus interest of 5 percentage stress tests simulate the occurrence of extreme operapoints above the base rate accrued on the total tional losses or an accumulation of major operational amount since 13 November 2008. Eurex Clearing AG losses in one year. Since no major losses have been considers the claim unfounded and is defending itself incurred to date, potential risk scenarios are defined against the insolvency administrator’s action. The acfor this purpose. These risk scenarios describe possition is against the background of payments in the ble operational loss events and their probability as amount of €113.5 million that LBB AG had made to well as the potential amount of loss, which is estiEurex Clearing AG on 15 September 2008. LBB AG mated by internal experts from the respective busiStrategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Risk report 171 ness areas. The following extreme loss situations house (link clearing house) and on the basis of a are simulated for the stress test on the basis of these special agreement (clearing link agreement). risk scenarios and compared with the available riskbearing capacity for operational risk: Each clearing member must prove that it has liable capital equal to at least the amount stipulated by Eu the risk scenario with the largest estimated maxirex Clearing AG for its clearing activities in the various mum loss, irrespective of its expected probability markets. The amount of the proven capital depends  the combination of the two largest maximum losses, on the risk involved. each with a probability estimated at one or more events per 100 years In order to protect Eurex Clearing AG against the risk  the combination of the three largest maximum lossof default by a clearing member before it has settled es, each with a probability estimated at more than its outstanding transactions, clearing members are one event per 100 years required, under the terms of the applicable version of the clearing conditions, to provide daily collateral In addition to these stress tests, which analyse the in the form of cash or securities (margins) – plus impact of predefined stress scenarios on available additional intraday security margins if required – in risk-bearing capacities, the Eurex segment companies an amount stipulated by Eurex Clearing AG. Margin have been performing so-called reverse stress tests calculations are performed separately for clearing since 2011. members’ own accounts and the accounts of their clients. Financial risks Credit risk and liquidity risk constitute material finanThe intraday profit or loss arising from the price cial risk for the Eurex segment companies. movement of the financial instruments is either settled between the counterparties in cash (variation Credit Risks: In accordance with its clearing condimargin) or deposited by the seller with Eurex Clearing tions, Eurex Clearing AG conducts transactions with AG as collateral due to the change in value of the poits clearing members only. Clearing relates to securisition (premium margin). In the case of bonds, repo, ties, pre-emptive rights, derivatives and emission aland equities transactions, the margin is collected lowances that are traded on Eurex Deutschland and either at the buyer or the seller (current liquidating Eurex Zürich (“Eurex exchanges”), Eurex Bonds, margin), depending on the relationship between the Eurex Repo, Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse (FWB, the purchase price and the current value of the financial Frankfurt Stock Exchange), the Irish Stock Exchange instruments. In addition to offsetting profits and losses, as well as the European Energy Exchange and for these measures are intended to protect against the which Eurex Clearing AG as a central counterparty risk of the cost of closing out an account over the exenters into initiated or executed transactions. In addipected liquidation period, assuming the most unfation, Eurex Clearing AG may act as the central counvourable price movement possible for the positions terparty for OTC derivatives transactions if these held in the account (additional margin). The method transactions correspond in substance to the derivaof calculating the additional margin is known as risktives transactions in the aforementioned markets and based margining and is essentially a VaR approach. if the clearing members decide to use the clearing First of all, the maximum cost of closure is calculated system for their OTC transactions. In this context, Eufor each product individually. Opposite positions with rex Clearing AG also provides clearing services for its the same risk profile are then offset against each othclearing members for transactions executed on the iner provided that they have been highly correlated over dividual markets or OTC transactions. In some cases, a significant period of time. The target confidence levthis is done in cooperation with another clearing el for the additional margin is at least 99.0 per cent. Regular checks ensure that the margins correspond to the required confidence level. 172 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Since 13 November 2012, Eurex Clearing AG has alIn addition to providing margins for current transacso been offering clearing services for OTC interest rate tions, each clearing member must contribute to a swaps and forward rate agreements. As part of these clearing fund depending on its individual risk. The services, bilateral transactions are settled via Eurex fund provides collective protection against the finanClearing AG, the central counterparty, which acts as cial consequences of any default of a clearing meman intermediary between the transactions. Participaber not covered by the individual margins of the cleartion requires members to have their own clearing liing members concerned, their contributions to the cense. Eurex Clearing AG uses the new Prisma (portclearing fund as well as the revenue reserves of Eurex folio-based risk management) method to calculate Clearing AG. Eurex Clearing AG has established a margins. This method is based on the clearing memseparate clearing fund for the clearing of credit default ber’s entire portfolio and calculates the margin reswaps. Eurex Clearing AG performs stress tests to esquirement taking historical and stress scenarios into tablish whether its clearing funds are sufficient to account. It takes correlation breaks into account and cover the risk exposure. This involves subjecting all imposes margin premiums on concentrated or illiquid current transactions by clearing members and their portfolios. The margin is basically calculated in such collateral to market price fluctuations at a confidence a way that market fluctuations are covered over the level of at least 99.9 per cent. To facilitate the calcuentire liquidation period. At the same time, Eurex lation of potential losses that exceed the individual Clearing AG expanded its default management promargins of a clearing member, the impact of a potencess to include the Prisma method. tial default on the clearing fund is simulated. If the limits defined by Eurex Clearing AG are exceeded, it Eurex Clearing AG is planning to offer its clearing can take immediate action to adjust the volume of members Prisma as an alternative to risk-based the clearing fund. margining for on-exchange products as well – for a limited period until it is replaced altogether. As soon If a clearing member does not meet its obligations to as risk-based margining has been replaced entirely by Eurex Clearing AG, the latter has the following lines portfolio-based risk management, on-exchange and of defence: off-exchange transactions can be netted out against each other in full. 1. First, the outstanding positions and transactions of the clearing member concerned can be netted Eurex Clearing AG only admits selected collateral with and/or closed from a risk perspective by entering a high credit rating to cover margin requirements. into appropriate back-to-back transactions, or they Eurex Clearing AG continually monitors the permitted can be settled in cash. collateral and sets safety margins to cover the market 2. Any potential shortfall that might be incurred in risks of the collateral at a confidence level of at least connection with such a closing or cash settlement, 99.9 per cent. Eurex Clearing AG applies an additionas well as associated costs, would be covered in al haircut to issuers from countries that have been the first instance by the collateral provided by the classified as too risky; alternatively, they are excluded clearing member concerned. As at 31 Decemfrom the permissible collateral. The risk parameters ber 2012, collateral amounting to €45,159.2 milused to set the safety margins are regularly reviewed lion had been provided for the benefit of Eurex and the safety margins recalculated on a daily basis Clearing AG. This collateral was offset by credit for each security. All risk factors are taken into conrisk amounting to €34,864.7 million. sideration during this process. The safety margin cal3. Subsequently, the relevant clearing member’s culated in this way is then compared with a minimum contribution to the clearing fund would be used safety margin. The higher of the two values is used as to cover the shortfall. the safety margin. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Risk report 173 4. Any remaining shortfall would initially be covered of risk mitigation actions. The credit risk stress test by the retained earnings of Eurex Clearing AG. calculations did not identify any material risks in the These amounted to €7.0 million as at 31 Decemfinancial year. ber 2012. As at 4 January 2013, Eurex Clearing AG increased its contribution to the clearing funds In addition credit risks can arise in relation to cash into €50.0 million in total. vestments. The function is performed by the central 5. After this, a proportionate claim would be made Treasury-function, which has Group-wide responsion the contributions paid into the clearing funds bilities. Treasury reduces this risk for Eurex segment by all other clearing members. As at 31 Decemcompanies by spreading such investments across a ber 2012, the volume of Eurex Clearing AG’s number of counterparties with exclusively good credit clearing fund stood at €1,011 million. The separatings, defining investment limits for each counterrate clearing fund established for the clearing of party and making mostly short-term investments credit default swaps amounted to €2.0 million. which are collateralised if possible. Maximum investOnce this has been used up, Eurex Clearing AG ment limits are established on the basis of regular may call in additional collateral from the clearing assessments of creditworthiness and, if necessary, participants, up to twice the amount of the clearad hoc analyses. ing fund contribution originally requested. 6. Ultimately, remaining shortfalls would be covered The Eurex segment companies perform regulatory by a letter of comfort issued by Deutsche Börse stress tests on the market price risk. Market price AG. In this letter of comfort, Deutsche Börse AG risks, however, are not material for the segment and has issued a guarantee (“Patronatserklärung”) to its subsidiaries. Therefore, apart from the regulatory Eurex Clearing AG to provide Eurex Clearing AG stress tests, no further stress tests of the market price with the funds needed to cover the shortfall resultrisk are performed. Therefore, apart from the regulaing from a default of or failure to pay a clearing tory stress tests, no further stress tests of the market member in excess of the above lines of defence. price risk are performed. The undertaking has a cap of €700 million. Liquidity risks: Treasury monitors the daily and intraCredit risk stress tests are calculated for Eurex Clearday liquidity of the companies and manages it with ing AG to analyse the impact of extreme scenarios, the help of a limit system. The Eurex segment come.g. a default of the largest counterparty. The values panies also perform operational and strategic liquidity determined in the stress tests are compared with the management. Operational liquidity management enlimits defined as part of the available risk-bearing casures that payments to be made in the subsequent pacities. In addition, credit risk stress tests are conthree months are covered while strategic liquidity ducted for Eurex Clearing AG to analyse the simultamanagement is geared towards longer-term planning neous default of several counterparties. In addition to and securing of liquidity as well as the financing of classic stress tests, which analyse the impact of preprojects and investments. defined stress scenarios on the available risk-bearing capacity, Eurex Clearing AG has performed so-called Strict internal liquidity requirements apply to Eurex reverse stress tests since 2011. This instrument is Clearing AG due to its role as central counterparty. Its used to determine how many counterparties would investment policy is therefore conservative. Regular have to default for the lines of defence to be no longer analyses ensure the appropriateness of these liquidity sufficient to absorb the losses. requirements. Eurex Clearing AG is currently striving to extend its licence as a credit institution under the The results of the stress tests and reverse stress tests German Banking Act. As a result, Eurex Clearing AG can entail further analyses and the implementation will be able to enter into credit and deposit operations 174 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 with restrictions. Furthermore, the extension of Eurex making its contribution, as earmarked by the superviClearing AG’s licence will allow it to make use of the sory authorities, to achieve the various G20 objectives. German Bundesbank’s permanent facilities. This will allow the segment to control its internal liquidity even Scenarios are established and quantitatively assessed better. It is hoped that the licence will be received in for the Eurex segment companies based on the most April 2013. significant risk events. In addition, stress scenarios are defined to analyse the impact on EBIT of further Risk arising from regulatory parameters: The failure extreme scenarios. Potential losses from the occurto meet regulatory parameters only constitutes an rence of improbable and large-loss scenarios associimmaterial risk for Eurex segment companies. ated with business risk are matched by adequate risk-bearing capacity. Business risks The Eurex segment companies are also affected by Project risks business risks. Material risks include a sharp decline Eurex Clearing AG is due to implement the Prisma in trading activity as a result of caution shown by method in 2013. The implementation will be contincustomers and a possible escalation of the European uously monitored in order to ensure that any potential sovereign debt crisis. There is also the risk of inrisks which may arise as a result of this process can creased competition between established derivatives be identified at an early stage. exchanges or the entry of new competitors, which could potentially lead to the Eurex segment compaXetra segment nies losing market share. Operational, business and project risks constitute material risks in the Xetra segment. Contrary to the Likewise there is the risk of a negative impact as a Clearstream and Eurex segments, financial risks are result of various regulatory initiatives such as the not substantial for Xetra segment companies. The German act to regulate high-frequency trading. individual risks with respect to the Xetra business segment are described and assessed in the followIn addition, other regulatory initiatives could affect the ing sections. Eurex segment and negatively influence the financial position. These initiatives include in particular a fiOperational risks nancial transactions tax in eleven EU Member States, In the same way as the Eurex segment, service defiwhich would cause the migration of trading volumes ciencies and availability risks constitute material opto markets that are less regulated and less transparent, erational risks for the Xetra segment companies. as well as the revision of the EU’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) and the Markets in Service deficiency risks: Individual employee errors Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR). which may, for example, lead to errors with respect to the continuity of operations constitute a material The European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) risk within the framework of this risk class. This risk increases the requirements for central counterparties. should be mitigated by way of measures such as the Eurex Clearing AG is committed to dealing with the principle of four-eyes principle. future requirements arising from EMIR. As a result, the required adjustments to the new provisions are Availability risks: There is the risk in the Xetra segbeing prepared for business operations in order to enment that trading or settlement systems are unavailsure prompt authorisation as a central counterparty able for a specific period of time due to technical under the new regulatory framework. This means faults or human error. The Xetra segment is aware of therefore that Eurex Clearing AG is pro-actively this risk and has implemented comprehensive BCM measures in order to mitigate this risk, including the Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Risk report 175 redundant design of all critical IT systems and the troduced, Xetra segment customers would shift part of technical infrastructure, as well as the setup of backtheir trading activities to markets that are less regulatup workspaces in each of the main operational traded and less transparent in order to avoid paying tax. ing centres for employees in critical functions. The efficiency and effectiveness of these measures is reguFurther regulatory projects that could impact the earnlarly reviewed and safeguarded. ings position or the competitive environment, respectively, include in particular the revision of the EU’s Other risks: There are also legal risks for the Xetra Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID), segment along with the risk of damage to physical the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation assets. However, these risks are immaterial to the (MiFIR), as well as European Market Infrastructure segment. There are also human resources risks for Regulation, EMIR. the Xetra segment. The analysis of potential loss scenarios for 2012 No material losses from operational risks were inshowed that potential losses are matched at any time curred in the year under review. by an adequate risk-bearing capacity. Financial risks Project risks Due to its economic orientation, financial risks for the The Xetra segment is currently pursuing a project to Xetra segment are not substantial. develop a direct connection between the marketplace and customer groups, such as investment companies Business risk or pension funds. The objective is to facilitate better In addition, external factors such as the performance access to the trading system. This project is regularly and volatility of the stock markets or a lack of investor monitored by Group Risk Management in order to confidence in the financial markets may negatively be able to detect risks at an early stage and initiate impact financial performance. In particular, the posappropriate measures. sible escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis into an economic crisis in the euro zone represents a Market Data & Analytics segment risk to the Xetra segment. Just like the Xetra segment, the risk profile of the Market Data & Analytics (MD&A) business segment is There are also risks arising from regulatory initiatives. essentially characterised by operational, business and There is the risk in particular that the proposed Fedproject risks. However, financial risks are not substaneral Act for the Prevention of Risks and the Abuse of tial for the business segment. The individual risks of High Frequency Trading (Gesetz der Bundesregierung MD&A are illustrated and assessed in the following zur Vermeidung von Gefahren und Missbrauch im part. Overall the MD&A segment is characterised by Hochfrequenzhandel) has a deteriorating effect on a low risk profile. business within the Xetra segment. The requirements of the act may mean that the trading activity of the Operational risks majority of customers is reduced, thus leading to a Business practice risks and availability risks constitute deterioration in the financial position. The Xetra segthe material operational risks for the MD&A segment. ment companies are aware of these risks and have taken appropriate measures to counter the possible Business practice risks: There is the risk that the consequences. In addition, the introduction of a fibusiness segment incurs losses resulting from failure nancial transactions tax in eleven EU Member States to comply with statutory provisions or the use of unliwould presumably lead to a decline in trading volcensed products. This risk is mitigated by introducing umes. In the event a financial transactions tax is in176 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 and constantly developing various control measures. losses. This scenario analysis showed that potenThe central Group Compliance function should in partial losses are matched by adequate available riskticular ensure compliance with the various statutory bearing capacity. provisions. Project risks Availability risks: The risk that the services offered The MD&A segment is currently reorganising strucare not available constitutes a material risk for the tures within the business segment. This means that MD&A segment. It is possible that specific data or dathe departments should be more closely intercomta packages, such as information regarding index levnected with IT. The objective is to further expand the els, cannot be transmitted to customers as a result of technological leadership of Deutsche Börse Group. technical faults or manual errors. The risk therefore This project is regularly monitored. As a result, all is that customers may submit compensation claims to project-related risks should be identified at an early a segment company. stage in order to be able to initiate appropriate measures. Other risks: Damage to physical assets, human resources risks and service deficiencies constitute other risks for the segment. Overall assessment by the Executive Board No material losses from operational risks were inIn its function as responsible body, the Executive curred in the financial year 2012. Board of Deutsche Börse AG reviews the Group-wide risk management. The resulting conclusion of the Financial risks Executive Board and the outlook for the coming finanFinancial risks are not substantial for the MD&A busicial year is illustrated in the following part. ness segment. Summary Business risks In the past financial year, further external risk factors A sustained or increased consolidation process within for Deutsche Börse Group’s business emerged. Howthe banking sector constitutes a material business risk ever, the Group identified new risks at an early stage for the MD&A segment. This could have a negative and took appropriate measures to encounter them. impact on customer demand for products or services As a result of these measures, the risk profile of within this segment, thus leading to a reduction in Deutsche Börse Group did not change significantly. revenue. In the same way as other segments, there In the year under review, the risks to which Deutsche is also the risk of a possible escalation of the EuroBörse Group was exposed were matched at all times pean sovereign debt crisis which would also have by adequate risk-bearing capacities. As at 31 Decemnegative consequences for the financial position of ber 2012, Deutsche Börse Group’s required economic the MD&A segment. capital amounted to €1,451 million and was opposed by an available risk-bearing capacity amounting to In addition, the Markets in Financial Instruments €2,407 million. The Executive Board of Deutsche Regulation (MiFIR) could negatively impact the MD&A Börse AG firmly believes in the effectiveness of its risk segment. Potential new and/or more stringent requiremanagement system. To further boost the managements for publishing market data could constitute a ment of operational risk, comprehensive risk manrisk for the MD&A segment. Furthermore, the introagement software was introduced at the Clearstream duction of a financial transaction tax in eleven EuroHolding group in the past year. pean countries would also have negative implications for the segment. Outlook The Group evaluates its risk situation on an ongoing A number of different scenarios were taken into acbasis. Taking into account the stress test calculations count for the segment in order to analyse potential performed, the resulting economic capital, and the Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on opportunities 177 risk management system, which it considers to be efThe process begins with a careful analysis of the fective, the Executive Board of Deutsche Börse AG market environment, taking into account not only cusconcludes that the available risk-bearing capacity is tomer wishes, but also factors such as market develsufficient. Moreover, it cannot identify any risk that opments, competitors and regulatory changes. This could jeopardise the Group’s viability as a going condraws on a range of opportunity development tools cern. such as a strengths and weaknesses analysis or inside-out and outside-in approaches. Further developments in the area of risk management are scheduled for 2013. Moreover, 2013 will see an The ideas for growth initiatives are fleshed out using increased number of assessments of business and in uniform, Group-wide templates and subjected to a particular regulatory risks that could impact Deutsche profitability analysis. Qualitative aspects are docuBörse Group beyond the one-year period used to calmented in the form of a business plan, and expenses culate economic capital. In addition, the Group is and revenues are projected in detail for several years. planning to extend its Group-wide credit risk consolidation systems. In the coming year, Eurex Clearing AG The business plan includes, for example, information und the Clearstream Holding group will also impleabout the product or service that is to be offered, as ment the new requirements under the revised Miniwell as about target customers and competitors, marmum Requirements for Risk Management (MaRisk) ket size, barriers to market entry and the positioning published on 14 December 2012. It is possible that of the product or service on the market. It also outEurex Clearing AG and the Clearstream Holding group lines the resources required, the implementation apwill fall under the legislation on protection against proach including the marketing/sales strategy, and risks and on planning the reorganisation and winding highlights potential risks. up of banks and financial groups which is currently planned. In this case, Eurex Clearing AG and ClearThe profitability analysis is based on absorption coststream Holding group will develop a recovery plan for ing. A distinction is made between expenseand extheir institutions. penditure-related variables, allowing the effect on both the Group’s income statement and its cash flow statement to be modelled. Report on opportunities Investment appraisal tools are used to assess whether Management of opportunities the proposed growth initiative is of economic benefit to the Group. Deutsche Börse Group uses the disDeutsche Börse Group’s management of opportunities counted cash flow method to do this. Alongside the aims to identify and assess opportunities as early as net present value, the appraisal also uses the internal possible and to initiate appropriate measures in order rate of return and the payback period. The discount to take advantage of opportunities and transform rate, which is essential for calculating the net present them into business success. value, is calculated on the basis of Deutsche Börse Group’s cost of equity and aggregates project-specific Deutsche Börse Group evaluates organic growth oprisk premiums that are determined using a standportunities specifically as part of its annual budget ardised process. For example, premiums must be planning process and on an ongoing basis in the charged if a growth initiative expands into new geocourse of the year, as required. These evaluations are graphic regions or involves the development of combased on the proposals for new products, services, or pletely new products and services that Deutsche technologies developed in the Group’s business areas. Börse Group does not have any prior experience with. 178 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Once the business plan and profitability analysis have Börse Group’s Executive Board receives a monthly rebeen prepared for the individual growth initiatives, port on the status and progress of initiatives currently a decision is made as to their implementation. This being implemented. The report is coordinated by cenis made by the Executive Board of Deutsche Börse tral functions in cooperation with the individual proGroup as part of the annual budget planning process. jects from the business areas and compares planned The Executive Board starts by setting the budget for costs and revenues with actual budget usage and growth initiatives; this depends on general business the revenues actually generated. In addition, finanperformance. This budget is then allocated to the incial planning is adjusted, forecasts are updated and dividual business areas on the basis of various factors changes to the scope of the project are made trans(such as a business area’s contribution to the Group’s parent. Milestones are also tracked and projectEBIT). The relevant growth initiatives are then priorispecific risks and the countermeasures taken are tised within the business areas. Prioritisation is based described. Project management and the supporting on the profitability analysis. It also takes risks into central functions report to the Executive Board on account and assesses the contribution of individual the status of the project. growth initiatives to business area and Group strategies. Economies of scope (where a growth initiative offers benefits for several business areas) also play a Organic growth opportunities role in the prioritisation of growth initiatives. The initiatives that make the highest value contribution and Specifically, Deutsche Börse Group is currently focusthat can be financed within the scope of the budget ing on growth initiatives in relation to OTC derivatives allocated to the business area are selected by the clearing and liquidity management. Executive Board and incorporated into the budget. Clearing of OTC-traded derivatives (Eurex) Budgeting for growth initiatives involves reserving a In the light of experience gained during the 2008 full-year budget in the form of cash outflows and exfinancial crisis, which was triggered by the nonpenditures for each selected growth initiative included settlement of highly risky, bilateral over-the-counter in the investment portfolio. The budget is approved by (OTC) transactions entered into on an unsecured bathe Executive Board of Deutsche Börse Group in the sis, the leading industrialised nations (G20) agreed course of the year and is classified by project phases. to create an effective regulatory environment to make This ensures that funding approval is linked to project off-exchange derivatives transactions more transparprogress and that projects are reviewed regularly. It ent and secure. In response, the European Union has also gives the Executive Board the opportunity to addeveloped the European Market Infrastructure Regulajust the deployment of the funds reserved for the year tion (EMIR), which is aimed at regulating OTC trading as a whole and to react to general business perforwith derivatives. EMIR stands for: mance – if required, for example, new growth initiatives can be approved and budgeted in the course of  An obligation to clear standardised OTC derivatives the year. transactions using a central counterparty  Special risk management requirements for transMonitoring of growth initiatives within the scope of actions in non-standardised derivatives the intraperiod budget approval process is comple An obligation to report the transactions to a trade mented by regular reporting. As a rule, Deutsche repository Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on opportunities 179 EMIR entered into force on 16 August 2012 and is Examples of external growth in the past few years incurrently being implemented. To help market particiclude the acquisition of all the shares in Eurex from pants meet the requirements of EMIR, Eurex Clearing SIX Group AG, of a majority interest in the European has developed a central counterparty for clearing OTC Energy Exchange and of additional shares in the index derivatives transactions; it is known as “EurexOTC provider STOXX Ltd. Deutsche Börse Group is also Clear” and has been available to the market since open to cooperations in Asia – examples can be found 13 November 2012. This offering, which may later in the section “Eurex segment”. In general, howbe extended to other asset classes, is aimed primarily ever, given that the company already offers a very at institutional customers and their interest rate derivcomprehensive range of products and services along atives transactions (interest rate swaps). It focuses in the entire value chain, the focus is squarely on orparticular on security and efficiency, allowing customganic growth. ers to profit from the full benefit of Eurex Clearing’s risk and collateral management services for their OTC transactions as well. Cyclical and structural opportunities Collateral and liquidity management Alongside organic and external growth opportunities, (Clearstream) the company has identified a number of possible cyThe liquidity management offering developed as part clical developments that could have a positive impact of the Global Liquidity Hub growth initiative enables on Deutsche Börse Group: Clearstream to help its customers cope with structural changes, such as those resulting from the additional  In the cash and derivatives market segments (Xetra liquidity requirements under Basel III and the new and Eurex), sustained positive economic developclearing obligations under EMIR. The Global Liquidity ment, an improvement in the situation of the southHub allows banks to use the assets that Clearstream ern EU member states, a lasting rise in investor conholds in custody on their behalf more efficiently fidence in the capital markets and, as a result, a across different platforms and countries. Since this is renewed rise in risk appetite among market particia key issue worldwide, Clearstream has started to pants as well as greater stock market volatility could market its collateral management system to third parstimulate trading activity by market participants and ties and has entered into outsourcing agreements with boost trading volumes. various market infrastructure operators around the  The volumes of interest rate derivatives traded on world. This service – the Liquidity Hub GO (Global the Group’s derivatives markets could pick up furOutsourcing) – is at different stages of development ther as a result of increasing speculation about the with Clearstream’s international partners. In addition trend in long-term interest rates on German and to central securities depositories, Clearstream has also other European government bonds, if key interest signed agreements with agent banks to leverage their rates actually rose and if the spread between the collateral management expertise. various European government bonds narrowed.  In the post-trading segment, Clearstream, a reduction in the liquidity supplied by the central banks External growth opportunities could encourage bond issuance and thus cause custody volumes to rise. Moreover, this could increase In addition to organic growth, the company regularly demand for Clearstream’s range of collateral and liqpursues external growth opportunities, which are subuidity management services. Net interest income jected to the same kind of stringent analysis as the from banking would benefit from a rise in short-term organic growth initiatives. For this reason, only few of interest rates in the euro zone and the USA. the opportunities analysed are ultimately realised. 180 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012  In the market data business, an increase in the regulatory requirements and the persistent loss of number of employees at companies active on the confidence among market participants the Group financial markets could lead to growing demand anticipates a structural increase in demand for colfor data packages. lateral and liquidity management services. However, Deutsche Börse Group is convinced that structural rather than cyclical factors will dominate in Report on expected developments the long term and impact business success. The report on expected developments describes  For the Eurex derivatives segment, the company has how Deutsche Börse Group is expected to perform in identified opportunities arising from growing definancial year 2013. It contains statements and inmand for European derivatives among investors and formation on events in the future. These forwardtrading houses based outside Europe, for example in looking statements and information are based on the Asia. This is primarily related to growing investment company’s expectations and assumptions at the time volumes and increasing portfolio diversification in of publication of this report. In turn, these are subject those regions. to known and unknown opportunities, risks and un As a result of the European legal and administrative certainties. Numerous factors influence the Group’s framework relating to certain undertakings for colsuccess, its business strategy and financial results. lective investment in transferable securities (UCITS Many of these factors are outside the company’s conIII), the company also expects that traditional introl. Should opportunities, risks, or uncertainties mavestment funds will increasingly include derivatives terialise or one of the assumptions made turn out to in their portfolio strategies. be incorrect, the actual development of the Group  Since the importance of risk management has been could deviate either positively or negatively from the rising as a consequence of the financial crisis, the expectations and assumptions contained in the forcompany expects market participants to make greatward-looking statements and information contained in er use of the Group’s clearing services to settle this report on expected developments. transactions in different asset classes, such as OTCtraded derivatives, and in this way to eliminate counterparty risk. Development of the operating environment  For Clearstream’s post-trading activities, the company anticipates that in the long term companies will Deutsche Börse Group anticipates that the business increasingly raise capital through equity and debt fienvironment will continue to be difficult worldwide nancing on the capital markets. This is related to during the forecast period. The company also expects the higher capital and liquidity requirements for that the uncertainty surrounding the creditworthiness banks and the resulting negative impact on the total and liquidity of certain euro zone countries will convolume of available credit. For Clearstream, this tinue to influence the capital markets. On this basis, could have a positive effect on custody volumes, esthe company does not believe that the confidence of pecially in the international bond segment. In addicapital market participants will improve significantly tion, given the growing internationalisation of the in the short term. With regard to interest rate develcapital markets, the company continues to predict a opments, the company does not expect the central sharper rise in the volume of bonds issued internabanks in Europe and the USA to fundamentally abantionally compared with fixed-income securities isdon the prevailing low interest rate policy. sued domestically. Moreover, because of changed Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on expected developments 181 In its forecast of economic development for 2013 will continue to pursue during the period under republished in January 2013, the International Moneview in the context of its integrated business model, tary Fund (IMF) predicts a decline of around 0.2 per which focuses on trading, clearing, settlement and cent in the euro zone and growth of around 0.6 per custody of securities and derivatives. Based on this cent in Germany. The difference between the euro successful business model, which covers the entire zone and Germany is a result of the renewed contracprocess chain for financial market transactions and tion anticipated in countries such as Italy and Spain. the key asset classes, Deutsche Börse will continue to Expectations for the United Kingdom and the United observe the trends on the financial markets worldwide States are higher than for the euro zone. In 2013, the and to leverage them to enhance its products and economy is forecast to grow by around 1.0 per cent services. The Group’s key strategic goal is to provide in the UK and by around 2.0 per cent in the USA. all customers with outstanding services. With its scalThe highest growth by far in 2013 – approximately able electronic platforms, Deutsche Börse believes it 7 to 8 per cent – is again expected in Asian countries remains in an excellent position to compete with other (and especially China) in anticipation of high domesproviders of trading and settlement services. tic demand. Given the extremely varied estimates for the different economic regions, global economic growth is projected to be around 3.5 per cent in 2013. Regulatory environment Governments and central banks are currently working One consequence of the global financial market crisis on strengthening regulation of the financial markets to is that work is now underway at an international level further stabilise the financial sector and prevent future on regulatory initiatives in a wide variety of areas, crises of this degree of severity. The measures enviwith the aim of creating a more transparent and more sioned, and in some cases already initiated, range stable financial system. The main focus is on new from revising the legal framework for banking busiregulations for banks, although the financial market ness and capital requirements to improving financial infrastructure and the settlement of securities, derivamarket supervision (for more information, please see tives and other financial instruments are also affected the “Regulatory environment” section of this report in some instances. The supervisory structures have on expected developments). For Deutsche Börse also changed as a result of these regulations: the Group’s customers, the impact of these far-reaching European supervisory authorities created on 1 Januregulatory reform projects on market structures and ary 2011 and the European Systemic Risk Board now business models is difficult to gauge accurately at play a much more significant role, while the scope present. Deutsche Börse anticipates that this uncerfor decisions at national level has declined. The introtainty will continue to weigh on the business activities duction of a financial transaction tax is also being of market participants during the forecast period. For discussed within the European Union. To this end, the Group itself, the different regulatory projects will several EU member states have agreed “increased have both positive and negative consequences. Overcooperation” aimed at introducing uniform taxation of all, however, the company sees the changing regulafinancial transactions. The introduction of such a tax tory environment as an opportunity to expand its would negatively impact Deutsche Börse’s business business further. performance. The extent to which this tax would impact on business performance depends on which In 2012, Deutsche Börse Group announced that it asset classes would be included, how it would be would channel its energies in three directions as part applied and what the tax rates would be. It is not of its growth strategy (see the “Strategy” section of possible to predict the concrete impact on the Group this combined management report) that the Group from the current status of the discussions. 182 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Market infrastructure regulation Group to extend its clearing offering to OTC derivaWith respect to the changes to the regulatory frametives. In addition, it introduces a reporting requirework, three EU legislative packages are of central relment for OTC derivatives using trade repositories. The evance to the Group, in addition to a large number of supervision of these trade repositories by the Eurosmaller initiatives: the current revision of the Markets pean Securities Markets Authority (ESMA) is also a in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID), the regucomponent of the planned regulation. However, the lation by the European Parliament and the European additional importance to be placed on central counCouncil on OTC derivatives, central counterparties terparties in Europe will also entail increased capital and trade repositories (European Market Infrastructure requirements. In the case of the operator of Deutsche Regulation, EMIR) and the regulation on central secuBörse Group’s central counterparty, Eurex Clearing AG, rities depositories (CSD Regulation). the company expects an additional capital requirement of up to €150 million. An amount of €110 milMiFID lion was already injected in January 2013. The appliThe European Commission published a draft revision cation in practice of EMIR is only expected for 2014. of MiFID at the end of 2011. The aim is to increase the transparency and integrity of the markets and to CSD regulation further strengthen investor protection, among other With the CSD regulation, the European Commission things in the light of the financial market crisis. In aims to reform the European securities settlement and addition, the European Commission is planning to custody environment and, by doing so, to create a apply the measures regulating high frequency trading uniform European regulatory framework for central and to tighten competition, particularly in the area of securities depositories for the first time. The European derivatives trading and clearing. For Deutsche Börse Commission submitted a proposal for this in March Group, the regulations originally proposed by the Eu2012. The measures are expected to be passed in the ropean Commission regarding access to different links second half of 2013. Depending on the outcome of in the value chain could potentially intensify the comthe organisational regulations currently under discuspetition. Moreover, depending on the version ultimatesion in this context, these measures could have an ly adopted, the measures regulating high frequency impact on Clearstream’s business activities. trading could dampen trading activity by the Group’s customers. The regulation is expected to be impleThe above-mentioned regulatory initiatives are supmented in 2015. Some of the rules will take the form plemented by the revision of the Capital Requirements of a regulation (MiFIR) that is directly applicable Directive (CRD IV) and the regulatory project on the throughout the EU. recovery and resolution of financial institutions (see the following section entitled “Banking regulations”). EMIR A revision of European Securities Law Legislation The regulation by the European Parliament and the (SLL) is also expected for 2013. European Council on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories aims to achieve a coFurther regulatory changes designed to ensure finanordinated set of rules for the operation and supervicial market stability are being examined at national sion of central counterparties (CCPs). The draft was and international levels by the Basel Committee on presented by the European Commission in September Banking Supervision, the European Commission, the 2010 and the final version published at the end of European Central Bank and the new European superJuly 2012. Among other things, the regulation aims visory authorities (ESMA, EBA and the European Systo mandate the use of central counterparties for settemic Risk Board), among others. At a national level, tling a greater number of derivatives transactions – a the Hochfrequenzhandelsgesetz (German High Freproposal that offers an opportunity for Deutsche Börse quency Trading Act) in particular will have some implications for Deutsche Börse Group. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on expected developments 183 Banking regulations Taking into account various interim rules, the Basel III With respect to banking regulation, which affects the regulations have, in principle, been in force internaGroup both directly and indirectly, significant change tionally since 1 January 2013. However, to enter into projects are in the final phase of development or have force in the EU, they must be implemented in EU and, already reached the implementation stage, with furif applicable, national law. ther changes already on the horizon. This applies both to the international regulatory framework (the In addition, the BCBS is currently discussing further rules issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Sufine-tuning or fundamental revisions of individual aspervision) and to the European regulations (Capital pects of the Basel regulatory framework, including Requirements Directive, CRD) and national regularules on allocating items to the trading or banking tions that build on these. In addition, there are supbook, rules on organising the internal audit function plementary initiatives at all three of the above levels in banks and adjustment modifications to the rethat deal with issues such as corporate governance quirements for the liquidity coverage ratio. Since or recovery and resolution planning for (systemically 2011, the BCBS has also been holding detailed disimportant) institutions. cussions on additional capital requirements over and above the Basel III regulations for global and domesBack in December 2010, the Basel Committee on tic systemically important banks (G-SIBs/D-SIBs). Banking Supervision (BCBS) published details of the The BCBS already issued guidelines on this on revised version of the collection of rules now known 19 July 2011 and on 29 June 2012. Some of these as Basel III. The BCBS issued an initial revision of the additional rules are collectively known colloquially as Basel III framework on 1 June 2011, which expand“Basel III.5”. On the basis of purely qualitative indied on individual aspects. On 25 July 2012, revised cators, the supervisory authority responsible assigns rules for the capitalisation of exposures to central the banks in its area of supervision to one of the two counterparties were published. Finally, on 6 Janucategories or to both. ary 2013, the BCBS endorsed further adjustments to the liquidity requirements, which were published on In the EU, the Basel III regulations, together with oth7 January 2013. er aspects such as corporate governance issues and the implementation to a large extent of a single rule In particular, Basel III includes a revised definition of book, are to be incorporated in a revised regulatory capital, additional risk buffers for expected losses, the framework for banks and securities service providers. introduction of anticyclical capital buffers, the introTo this end, the EU Directives 2006/48/EC (Banking duction of a leverage ratio (put simply, a minimum Directive) and 2006/49/EC (Capital Adequacy Diratio of capital to unweighted total assets plus offrective), which up to now have been collectively rebalance sheet risk positions), stricter liquidity manferred to as the Capital Requirements Directives, are agement requirements and closer monitoring of liqbeing completely revised and restructured to produce uidity positions by supervisory authorities (in partian integrated legislative package (commonly referred cular the introduction of two quantitative minimum to as CRD IV) consisting of a directive (which will ratios for short-term and medium-term liquidity). subsequently have to be implemented in national law) Phased introduction in the period up to 2019 is and a regulation (which will enter into force directly). planned; certain subareas will be reviewed and, if necessary, modified during the transition process. The European Commission submitted a proposal on The Basel III package also comprises a general revithis on 20 July 2011. In May 2012, the European sion of the capitalisation requirements for exposures Council and the European Parliament set out their poto central counterparties. sition on the European Commission’s proposal; since 184 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 then, the proceedings have since been in the trialogue the Group will continue to analyse the capital rephase. As the negotiations were not completed in sources of the regulated entities – including the inter 2012, the regulations did not enter into force on the actions with the requirements for the Group’s central planned date, 1 January 2013. While the negotiacounterparties under EMIR – and will adjust them if tions are being finalised, current regulatory initiatives, necessary to strengthen risk coverage. Depending on such as the revised Basel rules on the counterparty business performance, the possible designation of weight for exposures to central counterparties, the Group companies as systemically important instituextended capital requirements (Basel III.5), the rules tions, the size of the relevant buffers and the setting for systemically important institutions (including the of a leverage ratio (which may have a limiting effect increased capital requirements for such institutions), in the future), it is, however, expected that the capital capital buffers for systemic risk, the option to introbase will have to be gradually strengthened in the duce national rules setting stricter capital requirelong term. On the basis of its internal analyses and ments and the revised Basel liquidity requirements forward-looking planning, the Group will take the of January 2013 are also being discussed and are necessary measures in good time. Since specific isexpected to be incorporated into the final text of the sues – including the concrete application of the rules regulations. The regulations are now not anticipated concerning the leverage ratio and liquidity ratios – to enter into force before the later part of 2013 at the have not yet been resolved and it is also unclear how earliest, or even in 2014. the various regulations will interact in future, the ultimate impact on the Group’s business activities canWhereas the Basel III rules only apply directly to not be assessed or predicted at the present time. global commercial banks with an international remit, the EU rules apply to all banks that operate in the EU. The financial crisis triggered extensive discussions at CRD IV therefore partly addresses both regional and the international and European level about the need size-related issues, and provides specific or modified to prepare recovery and resolution plans for financial regulations for certain types of business. Based on the sector institutions. As a result, in October 2011, the current status of the discussions, the future interacFinancial Stability Board (FSB) adopted the Key Attion between EMIR, the CSD regulation, MiFID and tributes of Effective Resolution Regimes for Financial the CRD is particularly relevant from Deutsche Börse Institutions (Key Attributes), which are aimed at reGroup’s point of view. solving systemically important institutions without loss to the public purse, thus avoiding the “too big to Independently of the ongoing negotiations at EU level, fail” dilemma. The Key Attributes specify that resoluthe Federal Government started in spring to impletion and recovery plans must be prepared at least for ment the provisions of CRD IV in German law. Followglobal systemically important financial institutions. ing consultation on the drafts, the Federal GovernThe heads of state and government of the G20 counment introduced a draft bill implementing CRD IV into tries have undertaken to implement the Key Attributes. the parliamentary process on 15 October 2012. The bill has since been supplemented by consultations on At a European level, the European Commission pubsubsequent regulations. The completion of the legislished a proposal on 6 June 2012 for a directive of lative process is, however, dependent on the CRD IV the European Parliament and the European Council package being finalised at a European level. which defines a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and securities firms (ReGiven the current status of the discussions on the covery and Resolution Directive). The Recovery and provisions of CRD IV, the company does not expect Resolution Directive will establish European law and any material effect on the equity base of its regulated incorporate material components of the Key Attributes. companies in the short to medium term. Nevertheless, Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on expected developments 185 On 2 November 2012, the Bundesanstalt für FinanzAs part of its budget planning process, the company dienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin, German Federal Finanhas therefore developed different possible scenarios cial Supervisory Authority) published a consultation for its results of operations in 2013. If the capital draft entitled “Mindestanforderungen an die Ausgemarket environment and investor confidence fail to staltung von Sanierungsplänen” (Minimum Requireimprove and the markets continue to be impacted by ments for the Design of Recovery Plans, MaSan). On uncertainty regarding global economic performance 20 December 2012, the Federal Ministry of Finance and the future situation in the euro zone, business acpublished a draft bill for the recovery and resolution tivity would be on a level comparable to the second planning of credit institutions and financial groups. half of 2012. For full-year 2013, this would mean net revenue of around €1.8 billion, a potential decline Deutsche Börse Group’s involvement in regulatory of around 7 per cent compared with 2012. Should initiatives the capital market environment, investor confidence Deutsche Börse Group has been, and will continue and the position of the southern EU member states to be, deeply involved in the above-mentioned poliimprove significantly in 2013, the company would tical and regulatory initiatives right from the start. expect net revenue to increase moderately year-onThe Group participates actively in the consultations, year to more than €2.0 billion. The scenario used to making sure that political decision-makers are aware forecast net revenue is to a significant extent deterof potential negative consequences for the market mined by cyclical factors, which prevail in the short to as a whole and the company affected in particular. medium-term and whose impact on business activity Deutsche Börse Group also takes an appropriate the company is unable to control. stand regarding the above-mentioned political initiatives. In this way, it counteracts excessive effects With regard to net interest income from banking busifor the Group or any of its subsidiaries and works to ness, the company does not anticipate any fundaensure that any affected business units are included mental change in interest rate policies in Europe and appropriately. the USA. Since the market interest rates relevant to the Group declined in the course of 2012, the company expects net interest income to decrease in 2013. Development of results of operations If, contrary to expectations, general conditions beDeutsche Börse Group continues to consider itself come even worse than described above, or impact the very well positioned and expects to see a positive company’s customers to an even greater extent, the trend in its results of operations in the long term. For company believes it is in a good position to continue the forecast period, however, the uncertainty about to do business profitably due to its integrated busithe future behaviour of capital market participants ness model, the cost management that has already makes specific forecasts of the results of operations been implemented and measures planned, which are difficult. A recurrence of the disconnect observed in described in the following section. financial year 2012 between the performance of the stock markets and the real economy and trading on In the forecast period, the company aims to systethe Group’s cash and derivatives markets, which is matically continue its successful operating cost manlinked to a loss of confidence among investors and agement of the past few years. In February 2013, market participants, cannot be ruled out for the forethe Group announced that it will increase operating cast period either. The company also expects continuefficiency further by cutting staff costs and non-pering uncertainty among market participants about the sonnel costs by €70 million a year. The full effect of future form of the regulatory projects. As a result, the the efficiency improvements is expected to be felt dampening effect on the business activities of the from 2016 onwards. The company expects impleGroup’s customers could persist in the forecast period. mentation costs associated with the measures to be 186 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 in a range of between €90 million and €120 million, Additional costs might also be incurred due to the of which probably most will be reflected in earnings current OFAC investigation (see risk report for in 2013 in the form of provisions. The additional details) and potential consolidation effects. savings are intended to offset at an early stage the inflation-linked cost increases expected in the forecast The parent company Deutsche Börse AG has also period and beyond. At the same time, they provide considered the scenarios described above in its planthe Group with the freedom needed to continue its ning. For 2013, the company expects net revenue begrowth and infrastructure initiatives, which it intends tween €1.1 and €1.2 million and net profit of €0.5 to use to take advantage of opportunities presented million, adjusted for special effects, in both scenarios. by the structural and regulatory changes on the financial markets and to harness the potential offered by Xetra segment growth markets such as Asia. By doing this, the comNet revenue in the Xetra cash market segment will pany is also adapting to changing customer requirecontinue to depend on equity market trends, equity ments. Primarily as a result of increased investments, market volatility and structural and cyclical changes the company expects operating costs (adjusted for in trading activity. The year 2012 saw a significant special effects such as efficiency programmes) to inlevel of caution on the part of market participants becrease moderately overall in the forecast period and cause of the macroeconomic environment. Sustainabeyond, starting in 2013. ble growth would require a significant improvement in investor confidence. However, there were only tentaIn terms of operating profit, the declining net revenue tive signs of this at the time this management report scenario would generate EBIT of around €0.8 billion, was prepared. adjusted for special effects. In the scenario with a moderate rise in net revenue, adjusted EBIT would In addition to developing its own cash market, the be approximately €1.0 billion (and hence similar to company will continue to maintain a close watch on 2012) because of the slight rise in operating costs. changes in the competitive environment for the European cash markets. As in the past, it considers itself The Group anticipates an unchanged tax rate of apwell positioned to retain its status as the market leadproximately 26 per cent, adjusted for special effects, er for trading German blue chips and to offer its cusfor the forecast period. tomers across the globe an attractive range of products and services for cash trading in German and Net income would amount to around €0.5 billion in European equities, as well as equities clearing. Howthe declining net revenue scenario and to around ever, due to the stronger competition in the cash mar€0.7 billion in the scenario with moderately rising net ket, further shifts in the market shares of all competirevenue, adjusted for special effects in both cases. tors cannot be ruled out. The refinancing of long-term financial liabilities which began in 2012 will positively impact net income beEurex segment cause it will lead to a reduction of interest expenses In the past year, the described cyclical factors led to as a result of lower interest rate levels. a significant decrease in trading volumes. However, Deutsche Börse Group still believes that structural At the publication date of this combined managegrowth factors will remain dominant over the long ment report the company is expecting special effects term, and that they will positively influence trading of some €90 million, mainly relating to costs for volumes in all product segments. These structural efficiency measures, to contribute to operating costs. growth drivers are as follows: Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on expected developments 187  Traditional investment funds are increasingly includsuccessfully placed on the market such as GC Pooling ing derivatives in their portfolio strategies as a re– the collateralised money market jointly operated by sult of the European legal and administrative frameClearstream, Eurex Clearing and Eurex Repo – Clearwork relating to certain undertakings for collective stream is expanding its international Global Liquidity investment in transferable securities (UCITS III). Hub offering: after connecting Brazil’s central securi Due to the importance of risk management, more ties depository Cetip in 2011, plans are in place to and more OTC transactions are shifting to Eurex connect other providers, such as those in Australia Clearing for settlement so that counterparty risk can and South Africa, in the forecast period. In the medibe eliminated through centralised clearing. um to long term, the company expects this initiative  Demand for Eurex products from investors and to deliver significant additional net revenue. However, trading houses from non-European areas such as since the different providers can only be connected Asia is growing. consecutively, only a small additional contribution to net revenue is anticipated for 2013. Eurex will continue to step up investments to enhance its technology and its product offering in the forecast With regard to its customer structure, the company period. The investment focus is on expanding risk continues to expect that consolidation in the financial management. For example, the Eurex segment is sector will persist and that customers in Clearstream’s planning to expand its portfolio-based risk managedomestic and international business will merge. These ment, which will offer customers the ability to net out larger customers would benefit from greater discounts, on-exchange and off-exchange (OTC) transactions which would lead to a decline in average fees. Alagainst each other. Among other things, this new feathough Deutsche Börse faces especially intense comture is part of the functional preparations being made petition in the areas of the settlement and custody of to enable Eurex to offer an expanded range of clearing international bonds, the company does not expect this services for OTC derivatives trading in future. In the to have a major impact on its net revenue or to result medium to long term, the company expects this initiain a loss of market share during the forecast period. tive to deliver significant additional net revenue. Since the regulatory requirements to settle OTC derivatives Information Technology and Market Data & transactions via a central counterparty will probably Analytics segment not finally enter into force until 2014, only a small Since 1 January 2013, the Information Technology additional contribution to net revenue is anticipated (IT) and Market Data & Analytics areas have been for 2013. combined in a separate reporting segment together with selected external IT services. The aim of the new Clearstream segment segment is to accelerate the expansion of Deutsche The Clearstream segment generates its net revenue Börse’s technology leadership and expertise in the primarily with the settlement and custody of internaarea of market data by pooling all the company’s reletional bonds – a business that is much more stable vant resources in a dedicated market-driven business and less subject to fluctuations on the capital markets unit. The goal is to open up untapped growth opporthan the trading business. Deutsche Börse continues tunities in the medium to long term under uniform to predict a sharper rise in the volume of bonds ismanagement and with separate profit and loss resued internationally compared with fixed-income sesponsibility. curities issued domestically. In addition, in view of the regulatory requirements and the loss of confidence For the forecast period, the company expects the new among market participants, the Group anticipates an segment’s combined external IT net revenue to be increase in demand for collateral and liquidity manstable. Net revenue in the Market Data & Analytics agement services. Alongside the products already 188 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 area is largely dependent on demand for market data Responsible management with a focus on long-term in the financial sector. The company anticipates that value creation has a high priority for Deutsche Börse the environment in this business area will remain Group as a service company. In particular in view of difficult during the forecast period. However, the segdemographic change and the resulting shortage of ment intends to steadily expand its product range specialist staff, the company aims to continue to posiin all areas with new data services to offset these tion itself adequately and therefore intends to increase cyclical factors. the number of women in management positions. By 2015, the proportion of women in middle and upper Development of pricing models management is to be increased to 20 per cent, while Deutsche Börse anticipates sustained price pressure the figure in junior management should be 30 per in some of its business areas during the forecast pericent. The appointment of Hauke Stars means that the od. The company’s objective is to mitigate this price goal of having at least one female Executive Board pressure by continually improving its products and member by 2015 was already met in 2012. services and offering selective incentives for priceelastic business. Development of the Group’s financial position Over the long term, the average net revenue per unit concerned is expected to decline in all areas of the The company expects operating cash flow, which is Group. This is a result of the laddered pricing models Deutsche Börse Group’s primary funding instrument, that lead to a decline in income per unit as customers’ to remain positive in the forecast period. With regard business activities increase. to liquidity, the Group expects two significant factors to influence its development. Firstly, with respect to its cash flow from investing activities, the company Non-financial performance indicators plans to invest in a magnitude of €150 million per year in intangible assets and property, plant and Initiatives to promote the transparency and security of equipment during the forecast period on a consolidatthe markets will be a focus during the forecast period, ed basis. These investments will serve primarily to ensuring Deutsche Börse Group’s value contribution develop new products and services in the Eurex and to society. To live up to this goal, Deutsche Börse will Clearstream segments and enhance existing ones. continue to expand its Group-wide product and serThe total mainly comprises investments in the trading vice offering in the area of market transparency, for infrastructure and risk management functionalities. example by adding indices developed and calculated Secondly, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board by the Group. Moreover, the investments in the tradof Deutsche Börse AG will propose to the Annual ing and clearing infrastructure already made in 2012 General Meeting to be held in May 2013 that a divias well as those planned for the forecast period will dend of €2.10 per share should be paid. This would ensure that the systems meet customer and market correspond to a liquidity outflow of €386.5 million. requirements. Against this background, the company Apart from the above, no further material factors were anticipates that the availability of the different sysexpected to impact on the Group’s liquidity at the tems will be maintained at the very high level of pretime the management report was prepared. As in previous years throughout the forecast period. vious years, the Group does not expect any liquidity Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Report on expected developments 189 squeezes due to its positive cash flow, adequate credit Overall assessment by the Executive Board lines (see note 36 to the consolidated financial statements for details) and flexible management and The Executive Board of Deutsche Börse AG believes planning systems. that, thanks to its comprehensive offering along the securities trading value chain and its innovative power, Under its capital management programme, Deutsche the company remains in an extremely good position Börse will react flexibly to a changing market environcompared with the international competition and exment in the forecast period. Both the general target pects to see a positive trend in its results of operadividend distribution ratio of 40 to 60 per cent of tions in the long term. For the forecast period, howevconsolidated net income for the year and any share er, the uncertainty about the future behaviour of buybacks are subject to capital requirements, investcapital market participants in relation to economic ment needs and general liquidity considerations. and regulatory conditions makes it difficult for the Executive Board to make a specific forecast. By taking For 2013, the company expects to reach an interest the additional efficiency measures resolved in 2013, coverage ratio of at least 16, the target at Group level. the Executive Board has prepared the company at an This would be possible even if net revenue were to early stage for the changing market and will be able decline, because the Group’s interest expense can alto compensate for the expected inflation-linked cost ready be reduced in 2013 as a result of the refinancincreases after the forecast period. At the same time, ing of its long-term financial liabilities, which began this means the Executive Board has provided the in 2012. The full benefit of this effect will be felt freedom needed to continue the Group’s growth and in 2014, so that the Group anticipates an interest infrastructure initiatives, which it intends to use to coverage ratio clearly above 16. take advantage of opportunities presented by the structural and regulatory changes on the financial In addition, the aim is to achieve a ratio of interestmarkets and to harness the potential offered by bearing gross debt to EBITDA of 1.5 maximum on growth markets such as Asia. Primarily as a result of Group level. For 2013, the Group expects to slightly the increased level of investments, the Executive exceed the ratio of 1.5 depending on the potential Board expects operating costs (after adjustments) to development of net revenue. increase moderately in the forecast period and beyond. Overall, the Executive Board anticipates on this basis The parent company, Deutsche Börse AG, plans to inthat cash flow from operating activities will remain vest some €50 million in intangible assets and propclearly positive and, as in previous years, there will erty, plant and equipment during the forecast period. be no liquidity squeezes. 190 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Deutsche Börse AG Sales revenue fell by 13 per cent to €1,110.3 million (Disclosures based on the HGB) (2011: €1,280.7 million). The largest contribution to sales was provided by the Eurex segment, in which In contrast to the consolidated financial statements, sales revenue amounted to €660.2 million (2011: the single-entity financial statements of Deutsche €765.6 million). Börse AG are not prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) but in At €692.6 million, the company’s total costs (staff accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) costs, impairment losses relating to intangible assets and the supplementary provisions of the German and property, plant and equipment, and other operatStock Corporation Act (AktG). ing expenses) were 7 per cent lower than in the previous year (2011: €741.2 million). Business and operating environment In 2012, the result from investments of Deutsche Börse AG was €307.6 million (2011: €207.0 milGeneral situation of the company lion). Income from the transfer of profit amounting to Deutsche Börse AG is the parent company of €215.4 million (2011: €173.4 million) and income Deutsche Börse Group. Its business activities comfrom profit participation rights amounting to €15.0 prise above all the cash and derivative markets as million (2011: €15.0 million) contributed to this rewell as IT and Market Data & Analytics. The perforsult. There was also a partial reversal of the impairmance of the Clearstream segment is reflected in the ment of the profit participation rights of Deutsche business performance of Deutsche Börse AG mainly Börse AG in Eurex Frankfurt AG amounting to €56.7 because of the profit transfer agreement with Clearmillion (2011: €29.3 million). This reversal is a restream Holding AG. In view of this, the business and sult of the profit generated by Eurex Frankfurt AG in operating environment of Deutsche Börse AG is esfinancial year 2012. Income from investments also sentially the same as that of Deutsche Börse Group. included dividends amounting to €23.1 million These are described in detail in the section “Mac(2011: €10.2 million). roeconomic and overall industry-specific conditions”. Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) fell by 2 per Overview of Deutsche Börse AG’s business cent to €844.6 million (2011 adjusted: €864.4 mildevelopment in the year under review lion). Net income amounted to €605.7 million, falling Deutsche Börse AG’s profit in 2012 was lower than in by 11 per cent (2011: €679.7 million) in particular financial year 2011 primarily because of the worsenbecause of merger-related special effects in 2011 ing market conditions. amounting to €60.1 million. Results of operations of Deutsche Börse AG Performance figures of Deutsche Börse AG Deutsche Börse AG's revenue fell in 2012 by 13 per 2012 2011 Change €m €m % cent to €1,110.3 million (2011: €1,280.7 million). Sales revenue 1,110.3 1,280.7 – 13 The table on the next page shows how this revenue Total costs 692.6 741.2 –7 breaks down among the company’s segments. Result from investments 307.6 207.0 49 EBIT 844.6 864.4 –2 Information on the business development in the Result from ordinary Xetra segment can mainly be found in the section business activity (EBT) 726.3 760.1 –4 “Xetra segment”. Net income 605.7 679.7 –1 Earnings per share (€) 3.231) 3.661) – 12 1) Calculation based on weighted average of shares outstanding. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Deutsche Börse AG 191 Sales revenue by segment Overview of total costs 2012 2011 Change 2012 2011 Change €m €m % €m €m % Xetra 232.4 306.9 – 24 Staff costs 138.0 146.5 –6 Eurex 660.2 765.6 – 14 Depreciation/amortisation 32.5 28.4 14 Market Data & Analytics 196.6 196.9 0 Other operating expenses 522.1 566.3 –8 Clearstream1) 21.1 11.3 88 Total 692.6 741.2 –7 Total 1,110.3 1,280.7 – 13 1) The sales revenue attributable to the Clearstream segment results from IT services provided by Deutsche Börse AG for companies within the Clearstream Holding AG subgroup. Please refer to the section “Eurex segment” for deStaff costs fell year-on-year by 6 per cent to tails of the performance of the Eurex derivatives seg€138.0 million in the year under review, mainly due ment. The reasons for any deviations from the inforto lower costs for pensions and early retirement. mation in the above-mentioned section lie in the fact that developments in the US derivatives market opeIn the year under review, amortisation and depreciarated by the International Securities Exchange (ISE) tion relating to intangible assets and property, plant do not directly affect Deutsche Börse AG’s business. and equipment increased by 14 per cent to €32.5 milFurthermore, the increase in the revenues and costs lion (2011: €28.4 million). This increase is essentialgenerated as a result of the acquisition of the remainly due to higher depreciation on IT hardware amounting shares in Eurex Zürich AG in the year under reing to €22.0 million (2011: €18.3 million). view do not have a direct impact on the annual financial statements of Deutsche Börse AG because the net Other operating expenses were reduced year-on-year revenues are passed on to the subsidiary Eurex Global by 8 per cent mainly due to lower advisory fees Derivatives AG. Accordingly, Deutsche Börse AG conamounting to €101.5 million (2011: €146.9 million). tinues to participate directly in 85 per cent of the The higher advisory fees in 2011 arose in particular economic result of Eurex Zürich AG. due to the planned merger with NYSE Euronext. The results of operations in the Market Data & AnalytThe result from ordinary business activity fell by 4 per ics segment are essentially explained in the section cent to €726.3 million (2011: €760.1 million) com“Market Data & Analytics segment”. Please note pared to the previous year. that business developments at the subsidiary STOXX Ltd. have no direct impact on Deutsche Börse AG’s Development of profitability business performance. Deutsche Börse AG’s return on equity represents the ratio of the result after tax to the average equity that Other operating income decreased slightly in the year was at the disposal of the company in 2012. It fell under review to €109.2 million (2011: €118.8 milcompared to 2011, mainly because of the poorer lion). This is above all due to the lower out-of-period result, from 31.5 per cent to 27.4 per cent. income arising from the reversal of provisions, which have dropped to €6.9 million (2011: €19.5 million). In the year under review, total costs fell by 7 per cent compared to 2011 to €692.6 million (2011: €741.2 million) and are composed as follows: 192 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Financial position of Deutsche Börse AG Cash flow statement (condensed) As at the reporting date on 31 December 2012, 2012 2011 €m €m cash funds amounted to €281.1 million (2011: Cash flows from operating €596.0 million) including cash, current account activities 456.6 615.4 balances at banks and fixed deposits. Cash flows from investing activities – 371.0 – 133.5 The company received dividends of €23.1 million Cash flows from financing activities – 526.1 – 496.8 (2011: €10.2 million). The rise is due above all Cash and cash equivalents as at to the higher dividend of €15.0 million (2011: 31 December – 241.7 198.8 €7.8 million) paid by STOXX Ltd. Deutsche Börse AG can draw on external credit lines amounting to €605.0 million (2011: €605.0 million), The cash flow from investing activities came to which had not been used as at 31 December 2012. €–371.0 million (2011: €–133.5 million). The rise In addition, the company has an opportunity for flexiwas mainly due to the higher investments in financial ble, short-term financing provided by a commercial assets compared to the previous year. paper programme involving a total facility of €2.5 billion in various currencies. As in the previous year, no Cash flow from financing activities in the year under commercial paper was in circulation at the end of review was €–526.1 million (2011: €–496.8 million). the year. The increase is predominantly due to the higher dividend. The dividend rose from €2.10 to €2.30 per Deutsche Börse AG uses a Group-wide cash pooling share; in addition, shareholders received a special process to guarantee an optimal allocation of liquidity distribution of €1.00 per share. This resulted for fiwithin Deutsche Börse Group, thus ensuring that all nancial year 2012 in a cash outflow of €622.9 milsubsidiaries are able to meet their payment obligalion (2011: €390.7 million). tions at all times. As at the reporting date, 31 December 2012, cash In the past financial year, Deutsche Börse AG issued and cash equivalents amounted to €–241.7 million a corporate bond with a face value of €600 million. (2011: €198.8 million). They include liquid funds There are also other euro-denominated bonds amounting to €281.1 million (2011: €596.0 million) with a face value totalling €797.8 million and US minus liabilities from cash pooling amounting to dollar bonds with a face value in the amount of €522.7 million (2011: €397.2 million) and liabilUS$460 million. ities to banks in the amount of €0.1 million (2011: €0.0 million). Please see section “Financial position” for more information on these bonds. Net assets of Deutsche Börse AG In 2012, Deutsche Börse AG generated cash flow from operating activities amounting to €456.6 million As at 31 December 2012, the non-current assets of (2011: €615.4 million). The decrease in operating Deutsche Börse AG amounted to €4,221.7 million cash flow was mainly due to higher cash outflows in (2011: €3,572.4 million). The largest part was acconnection with amounts owed to affiliated compacounted for by shares in affiliated companies amountnies and trade payables. ing to €3,086.3 million (2011: €2,496.2 million), primarily from the investment in Clearstream Holding AG and from loans to affiliated companies of €996.9 million (2011: €942.8 million). Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Deutsche Börse AG 193 In the year under review, net working capital came Non-current assets (condensed) to €–438.1 million (2011: €–350.4 million). The 2012 2011 change is primarily attributable to an increase in lia€m €m bilities towards affiliated companies arising from cash Intangible assets 13.5 9.6 pooling by Deutsche Börse Group. Tangible assets 77.8 78.0 Financial assets 4,130.4 3,484.8 Non-current assets as at 31 December 4,221.7 3,572.4 Employees of Deutsche Börse AG In the year under review, the number of employees at Deutsche Börse AG increased by 16 to 1,012 as Shares in affiliated companies rose by €590.2 million, at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: 996). mainly as a result of the acquisition of Eurex Global On average, 1,001 employees worked for Deutsche Derivatives AG for the amount of €552.9 million. Börse AG during financial year 2012. €295.0 million of the purchase price was paid in cash and €255.9 million by delivery of shares in In the course of financial year 2012, 38 employees Deutsche Börse AG to SIX Group AG. Furthermore, left Deutsche Börse AG, resulting in a fluctuation rate ancillary acquisition costs of €2.0 million were capiof 3.8 per cent. talised. As at 31 December 2012, Deutsche Börse AG emLoans to affiliated companies in the year under review ployed personnel at eight locations throughout the were up by €54.1 million, above all due to the reverworld. The following table shows a breakdown by sal of the write-down on the profit participation rights countries and regions: of Eurex Frankfurt AG in the amount of €56.7 million. In the year under review, investments by Deutsche Börse AG in intangible assets and property, plant Employees per country/region and equipment amounting to €36.4 million (2011: 31 Dec 2012 % €34.1 million) exceeded write-downs; these came to Germany 956 94.5 €32.5 million (2011: €28.4 million). United Kingdom 42 4.1 Rest of Europe 13 1.3 Receivables from and liabilities towards affiliated Asia 1 0.1 companies include charges for Group-internal services Total Deutsche Börse AG 1,012 100 and the amounts invested by Deutsche Börse AG within the scope of cash pooling arrangements. Receivables from affiliated companies are mainly due as a result of the existing profit transfer agreement with The employee age structure at Deutsche Börse AG as Clearstream Holding AG; they amount to €215.4 milat 31 December 2012 was as follows: lion. Liabilities towards affiliated companies mainly arise from cash pooling in the amount of €509.5 million (2011: €384.7 million). Age structure of employees Deutsche Börse AG receives fees for most of its ser31 Dec 2012 % vices shortly after the end of each month. Accordingly, Under 30 years 54 5 trade receivables as at the end of the year amounted 30 to 39 years 242 24 to €118.8 million (2011: €119.9 million). 40 to 49 years 463 46 Over 50 years 253 25 Total Deutsche Börse AG 1,012 100 194 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The following table illustrates the length of service of mation. Deutsche Börse AG’s share of the opportunithe company’s employees as at 31 December 2012: ties and risks of its equity investments and subsidiaries is fundamentally proportionate to the size of its shareholding. Risks that threaten the existence of the Eurex Clearing AG subsidiary have a direct impact on Employees length of service Deutsche Börse AG as it has issued a guarantee ( Patronatserklärung ). Further information on the 31 Dec 2012 % guarantee issued to Eurex Clearing AG is available Less than 5 years 214 21 in the section “Other obligations and transactions 5 to 15 years 506 50 not included in the balance sheet” contained in the Over 15 years 292 29 notes to the annual financial statements of Deutsche Total Deutsche Börse AG 1,012 100 Börse AG. The description of the internal control system (ICS) As at 31 December 2012, 67 per cent of Deutsche stipulated in section 289 (5) HGB is given in the Börse AG’s employees were graduates. This figure is “Internal management control” section. calculated on the basis of the number of employees holding a degree from a university, university of applied sciences, or professional academy, and employReport on events after the balance sheet date at ees who have completed studies abroad. Deutsche Börse AG In total, the company invested an average of 2.8 days The key events that have occurred after the balance per employee in staff training. sheet date correspond to the events described in the “Report on post-balance sheet date events” section. Remuneration report of Deutsche Börse AG As the structure and design principles of the remuReport on expected developments at Deutsche neration system correspond to those of Deutsche Börse AG Börse Group, please refer to the Remuneration Report in this Corporate Report. This report describes the expected development of Deutsche Börse AG in financial year 2013. It contains statements and information on events in the future. Corporate governance declaration in accordance These forward-looking statements and information are with section 289a HGB based on the company’s expectations and assumptions at the time of publication of this report on exThe corporate governance declaration in accordance pected developments. In turn, these are subject to with section 289a HGB applies to Deutsche Börse known and unknown opportunities, risks and uncerGroup and Deutsche Börse AG, please refer to the tainties. Numerous factors influence the company’s corporate governance declaration made on behalf of success, business strategy and financial results. Many the Group. of these factors are outside the company’s control. Should one of the opportunities, risks or uncertainties materialise or one of the assumptions made turn out Opportunities and risks facing Deutsche Börse AG to be incorrect, the actual development of the company could deviate either positively or negatively from As the opportunities and risks facing Deutsche the expectations and assumptions detailed in the forBörse AG and the measures and processes for dealing ward-looking statements and the information given in with them are essentially the same as for Deutsche this report. Börse Group, please refer to the sections “Risk report” and “Opportunities report” for more inforStrategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes Deutsche Börse AG 195 Development of the operating and regulatory environment As Deutsche Börse AG’s business, operating and regulatory environment is essentially the same as that of Deutsche Börse Group, please refer to the relevant parts in the “Report on expected developments” for an assessment of future developments. Development of Deutsche Börse AG’s results of operations In its expected business development Deutsche Börse AG is generally impacted by the same factors as Deutsche Börse Group. They are described in the „Report on expected developments“ which also includes quantitative statements on Deutsche Börse AG. Deutsche Börse AG has prepared its consolidated financial statements and the notes to the consoli­ dated financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and the related interpretations issued by the Inter­ national Accounting Standards Board (IASB). All sections of the financial report were audited by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft and gran­ted an unqualified audit opinion. Consolidated financial statements/notes 198 Consolidated income statement 199 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 200 Consolidated balance sheet 202 Consolidated cash flow statement 204 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 206 Basis of preparation 232 Consolidated income statement disclosures 241 Consolidated balance sheet disclosures 283 Other disclosures 313 Responsibility statement by the Executive Board 314 Auditor’s report 315 Summarised annual financial statements of Deutsche Börse AG 317 Proposal on the appropriation of the unappropriated surplus 198 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Consolidated income statement for the period 1 January to 31 December 2012 Note 2012 2011 €m €m Sales revenue 4 2,145.3 2,233.3 Net interest income from banking business 4 52.0 75.1 Other operating income 4 11.7 57.0 Total revenue 2,209.0 2,365.4 Volume-related costs 4 – 276.7 – 244.0 Net revenue (total revenue less volume-related costs) 4 1,932.3 2,121.4 Staff costs 5 – 414.2 – 385.8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 11, 12 – 105.0 – 91.4 Other operating expenses 6 – 439.4 – 485.0 Operating costs – 958.6 – 962.2 Result from equity investments 8 – 4.3 3.6 Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) 969.4 1,162.8 Financial income 9 12.3 135.1 Financial expense 9 – 145.0 – 138.9 Earnings before tax (EBT) 836.7 1,159.0 Income tax expense 10 – 166.9 – 281.2 Net profit for the year 669.8 877.8 thereof shareholders of parent company (net income) 645.0 855.2 thereof non-controlling interests 24.8 22.6 Earnings per share (basic) (€) 34 3.44 4.60 Earnings per share (diluted) (€) 34 3.43 4.59 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 199 Comprehensive income Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period 1 January to 31 December 2012 Note 2012 2011 €m €m Net profit for the year reported in consolidated income statement 669.8 877.8 Exchange rate differences1) 20 – 23.2 31.2 Remeasurement of cash flow hedges – 10.4 – 13.7 Remeasurement of other financial instruments 23.3 – 32.2 Changes from defined benefit obligations – 53.7 – 9.0 Deferred taxes 10, 20 22.9 – 8.7 Other comprehensive expense – 41.1 – 32.4 Total comprehensive income 628.7 845.4 thereof shareholders of parent company 603.9 839.5 thereof non-controlling interests 24.8 5.9 1) Exchange rate differences include €–0.3 million (2011: €1.9 million) taken directly to accumulated profit as part of the result from equity investments. 200 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2012 Assets Note 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 1 Jan 2011 €m €m €m NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets 11 Software 132.7 101.2 50.2 Goodwill 2,078.4 2,095.2 2,059.6 Payments on account and construction in progress 85.4 56.3 65.2 Other intangible assets 882.3 911.1 914.9 3,178.8 3,163.8 3,089.9 Property, plant and equipment 12 Fixtures and fittings 43.6 46.0 39.0 Computer hardware, operating and office equipment 82.9 85.0 70.2 Payments on account and construction in progress 1.7 0.1 29.0 128.2 131.1 138.2 Financial assets 13 Investments in associates 204.8 158.1 172.6 Other equity investments 26.7 111.7 64.7 Receivables and securities from banking business 1,485.0 1,404.6 1,555.6 Other financial instruments 21.5 16.6 12.1 Other loans1) 0.1 0.6 1.0 1,738.1 1,691.6 1,806.0 Other non-current assets 9.0 9.6 17.5 Deferred tax assets 10 59.8 24.2 19.2 Total non-current assets 5,113.9 5,020.3 5,070.8 CURRENT ASSETS Receivables and other current assets Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG 15 178,056.5 183,618.1 128,823.7 Receivables and securities from banking business 16 12,808.2 14,144.1 7,706.9 Trade receivables 17 211.8 224.3 212.1 Associate receivables 2.1 2.7 5.6 Receivables from other related parties 0.9 5.1 4.4 Income tax receivables2) 102.7 27.3 25.6 Other current assets 18 138.6 173.9 141.4 Assets held for sale 1.0 0 0 191,321.8 198,195.5 136,919.7 Restricted bank balances 19 19,450.6 13,861.5 6,064.2 Other cash and bank balances 641.6 925.2 797.1 Total current assets 211,414.0 212,982.2 143,781.0 Total assets 216,527.9 218,002.5 148,851.8 1) Thereof €0.1 million (31 December 2011: €0.6 million) in associate receivables 2) Thereof €10.6 million (31 December 2011: €12.4 million) with a remaining maturity of more than one year from corporation tax credits in accordance with section 37 (5) of the Körperschaftsteuergesetz (KStG, the German Corporation Tax Act) Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 201 Consolidated balance sheet Equity and liabilities Note 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 1 Jan 2011 €m €m €m EQUITY 20 Subscribed capital 193.0 195.0 195.0 Share premium 1,249.0 1,247.0 1,247.0 Treasury shares – 448.6 – 691.7 – 586.5 Revaluation surplus 14.3 46.7 91.3 Accumulated profit 1,938.9 2,123.0 1,972.1 Shareholders’ equity 2,946.6 2,920.0 2,918.9 Non-controlling interests 223.0 212.6 458.9 Total equity 3,169.6 3,132.6 3,377.8 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Provisions for pensions and other employee benefits 22 95.4 47.2 55.1 Other non-current provisions 23, 24 80.3 77.4 86.6 Deferred tax liabilities 10 274.7 323.0 297.7 Interest-bearing liabilities 25 1,160.0 1,458.3 1,455.2 Other non-current liabilities 6.0 10.9 9.6 Total non-current liabilities 1,616.4 1,916.8 1,904.2 CURRENT LIABILITIES Tax provisions (thereof income tax due: €202.3 million; 2011: €162.6 million) 23, 26 252.2 219.6 345.0 Other current provisions 23, 27 88.9 105.4 134.8 Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG 15 178,056.5 183,618.1 128,823.7 Liabilities from banking business1) 28 12,880.3 14,169.6 7,822.0 Other bank loans and overdrafts 0.1 0.4 20.1 Trade payables 108.2 114.6 96.5 Payables to associates 15.1 13.2 4.0 Liabilities to other related parties 1.6 528.7 13.6 Cash deposits by market participants 29 19,450.6 13,861.5 6,064.2 Other current liabilities 30 888.4 322.0 245.9 Total current liabilities 211,741.9 212,953.1 143,569.8 Total liabilities 213,358.3 214,869.9 145,474.0 Total equity and liabilities 216,527.9 218,002.5 148,851.8 1) Thereof €0.1 million (31 December 2011: €0.1 million) liabilities to associates 202 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Consolidated cash flow statement for the period 1 January to 31 December 2012 Note 2012 2011 €m €m Net profit for the year 669.8 877.8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 11, 12 105.0 91.4 Decrease in non-current provisions – 2.3 – 27.5 Deferred tax (income)/expense 10 – 56.9 6.7 Other non-cash expense/(income) 50.7 – 70.8 Changes in working capital, net of non-cash items: – 42.0 – 177.4 Increase in receivables and other assets – 43.7 – 4.2 Increase/(decrease) in current liabilities 12.6 – 170.2 Decrease in non-current liabilities – 10.9 – 3.0 Net loss/(net gain) on disposal of non-current assets 1.9 – 0.2 Cash flows from operating activities excluding CCP positions 726.2 700.0 Changes in liabilities from CCP positions – 39.1 – 36.2 Changes in receivables from CCP positions 20.6 121.8 Cash flows from operating activities 33 707.7 785.6 Payments to acquire intangible assets and property, plant and equipment – 145.7 – 115.6 Payments to acquire intangible assets – 101.2 – 74.0 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment – 44.5 – 41.6 Payments to acquire non-current financial instruments – 265.4 – 345.0 Payments to acquire investments in associates – 1.9 – 66.2 Payments to acquire subsidiaries, net of cash acquired – 295.5 – 2.8 Proceeds from the disposal of shares in associates 21.51) 23.71) Net decrease in current receivables and securities from banking business with an original term greater than three months 27.4 770.1 Proceeds from disposals of available-for-sale non-current financial instruments 392.2 558.3 Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment 0 0.7 Cash flows from investing activities 33 – 267.4 823.2 Purchase of treasury shares – 198.2 – 111.7 Proceeds from sale of treasury shares 1.2 0 Payments to non-controlling interests – 14.6 – 7.9 Net cash received from non-controlling interests 0 9.7 Repayment of long-term financing – 309.2 – 5.0 Proceeds from long-term financing 600.0 0 Repayment of short-term financing – 796.2 0 Proceeds from short-term financing 789.3 0 Dividends paid – 622.9 – 390.7 Cash flows from financing activities – 550.6 – 505.6 Net change in cash and cash equivalents – 110.3 1,103.2 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 203 Consolidated cash fl ow statement Note 2012 2011 €m €m Net change in cash and cash equivalents (brought forward) – 110.3 1,103.2 Effect of exchange rate differences2) – 2.9 – 0.5 3) Cash and cash equivalents as at beginning of period 657.2 – 445.5 Cash and cash equivalents as at end of period3) 33 544.0 657.2 Interest income and other similar income4) 12.7 53.9 Dividends received4) 12.9 7.9 Interest paid4) – 118.2 – 120.4 Income tax paid – 258.4 – 401.1 1) Return of capital of Direct Edge Holdings, LLC 2) Primarily includes the exchange rate differences arising on translation of the ISE subgroup 3) Excluding cash deposits by market participants 4) Interest and dividend payments are allocated to cash flows from operating activities. 204 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period 1 January to 31 December 2012 thereof included in total comprehensive income Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m Subscribed capital Balance as at 1 January 195.0 195.0 Retirement of treasury shares – 2.0 0 Balance as at 31 December 193.0 195.0 Share premium Balance as at 1 January 1,247.0 1,247.0 Retirement of treasury shares 2.0 0 Balance as at 31 December 1,249.0 1,247.0 Treasury shares Balance as at 1 January – 691.7 – 586.5 Purchase of treasury shares – 198.2 – 111.7 Retirement of treasury shares 119.3 0 Sales within the Group Share Plan 6.8 6.5 Acquisition of the interest of non-controlling shareholders in Eurex Zürich AG 315.2 0 Balance as at 31 December – 448.6 – 691.7 Revaluation surplus 20 Balance as at 1 January 46.7 91.3 Changes from defined benefit obligations – 53.7 – 9.0 – 53.7 – 9.0 Remeasurement of cash flow hedges – 10.4 – 13.7 – 10.4 – 13.7 Remeasurement of other financial instruments 23.3 – 32.2 23.3 – 32.2 Increase in share-based payments – 2.4 – 2.2 0 0 Deferred taxes 10 10.8 12.5 10.8 12.5 Balance as at 31 December 14.3 46.7 Accumulated profit 20 Balance as at 1 January 2,123.0 1,972.1 Dividends paid 21 – 622.9 – 390.7 0 0 Retirement of treasury shares – 119.3 0 0 0 Acquisition of the interest of non-controlling shareholders in Eurex Zürich AG – 72.1 – 332.9 0 0 Net income 645.0 855.2 645.0 855.2 Exchange rate differences and other adjustments – 26.9 40.5 – 23.2 47.9 Deferred taxes 10 12.1 – 21.2 12.1 – 21.2 Balance as at 31 December 1,938.9 2,123.0 Shareholders’ equity as at 31 December 2,946.6 2,920.0 603.9 839.5 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 205 Consolidated statement of changes in equity thereof included in total comprehensive income Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m Shareholders’ equity (brought forward) 2,946.6 2,920.0 603.9 839.5 Non-controlling interests Balance as at 1 January 212.6 458.9 Acquisition of the interest of non-controlling shareholders in Eurex Zürich AG 0 – 252.5 0 0 Changes due to capital increases/(decreases) – 14.6 1.3 0 0 Changes due to share in net income of subsidiaries for the period 24.8 22.6 24.8 22.6 Exchange rate differences and other adjustments 0.2 – 17.7 0 – 16.7 Balance as at 31 December 223.0 212.6 24.8 5.9 Total equity as at 31 December 3,169.6 3,132.6 628.7 845.4 206 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Basis of preparation 1. General principles Deutsche Börse AG (“the company”) is incorporated as a German public limited company (“Aktiengesellschaft”) and is domiciled in Germany. The company’s registered office is in Frankfurt / Main. The 2012 consolidated financial statements have been prepared in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and the related interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as adopted by the European Union in accordance with Regulation No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of International Accounting Standards. As at 31 December 2012, there were no effective standards or interpretations not yet adopted by the European Union affecting the consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements also comply with IFRSs issued by the IASB. The disclosures required in accordance with Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB, German Commercial Code) section 315a (1) have been presented in the notes to the consolidated financial statements and the remuneration report, which forms part of the combined management report. The consolidated financial statements are also based on the interpretations issued by the Rechnungslegungs Interpretations Committee (Accounting Interpretations Committee) of the Deutsches Rechnungslegungs Standards Committee e.V. (Accounting Standards Committee of Germany), to the extent that these do not contradict the standards and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) or the IASB. New accounting standards – implemented in the year under review The following standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and adopted by the European Commission became effective for Deutsche Börse AG as at 1 January 2012 and were applied for the first time in the 2012 reporting period: Amendment to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” (June 2011) Deutsche Börse Group is applying IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”, which was issued by the IASB on 16 June 2011 and adopted by the EU on 5 June 2012, ahead of schedule in financial year 2012 in order Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 207 Basis of preparation to improve transparency with respect to its defined benefit obligations. The accounting policies for employee benefits have been adapted in line with this as follows: the return on plan assets is assumed to be the discount rate used to measure the pension obligation. Actuarial gains and losses are now recognised directly in the revaluation surplus; the corridor method is no longer used. Past service cost resulting from retrospective plan amendments is expensed immediately and in full. Additionally, as from 1 January 2012, Deutsche Börse Group reports the net interest cost previously presented in staff costs in the financial result. Prior-year figures have been adjusted accordingly. Gains and losses resulting from the adjustment of the prior-year figures and the expense recognised for the defined benefit obligations are presented in note 22. The change, and in particular the discontinuation of the corridor method, leads firstly to increased equity volatility and secondly to the recognition of the entire pension obligations less the fair value of the plan assets. Amendments to IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets” (October 2010) The amendments require enhanced disclosures on transactions that lead to the transfer of financial assets. They aim to create greater transparency with regard to risks that are retained by the transferor. The amendments are effective for financial years, which began on or after 1 July 2011. Amendments to IAS 12 “Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets” (December 2010) In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes on assets measured using the fair value model of IAS 40 should take into account the varying tax consequences that follow from the different ways of recovering the carrying amount of the asset through sale or through use. The amendments to the standard presume that the carrying amount will normally be recovered by selling the asset. The amendments must be applied for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013. New accounting standards – not yet implemented The following standards and interpretations, which are relevant to Deutsche Börse Group and which Deutsche Börse Group did not adopt in 2012 prior to the effective date, have been published by the IASB prior to the publication of this annual report and partially adopted by the European Commission. IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” (November 2009) IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets. These stipulate that all financial assets that have to date fallen within the scope of IAS 39 are either recognised at amortised cost or at fair value. The standard is, taking account of the changes made in 2011, effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015; earlier application is permitted. The standard has not been adopted by the EU yet. 208 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Amendments to IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” (October 2010) The amendments extend IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” to include rules on accounting for financial liabilities. If the fair value option is applied to financial liabilities, revisions to the recognition of changes in an entity’s own credit risk must be taken into account: a change in credit risk must now be recognised in other comprehensive income rather than in profit or loss. The amendments are effective, taking into account the changes made in December 2011, for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015. Earlier application is permitted if the rules on accounting for financial assets are also applied. The standard has not been adopted by the EU yet. Amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 – “Mandatory Effective Date and Transition Disclosures in the Notes” (December 2011) In addition to the amendments to IFRS 9 listed above, the IASB has issued further amendments to IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” and IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”. This also had the effect of postponing the requirement to apply the amended IFRS 9 for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015. In addition, IFRS 9 (rev. 2011) includes exceptions that allow an entity to make additional disclosures in the notes on transition to IFRS 9 instead of adjusting prior-period financial statements. Depending on the adoption date, the following arrangements apply: entities adopting IFRS 9 for the first time for reporting periods  which began before 1 January 2012 are not required to adjust prior periods or provide additional transition disclosures in the notes.  which began between 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012 must adjust prior periods, unless they provide the additional transition disclosures in the notes.  beginning on or after 1 January 2013 are not required to adjust prior periods, but are in all cases required to provide the additional transition disclosures in the notes. The additional disclosures in the notes required in IFRS 9 have been added as an amendment to IFRS 7: the disclosures required include in particular recognition and measurement for the first reporting period in which IFRS 9 is adopted, the changes in carrying amounts resulting from the transition to IFRS 9, unless they relate to measurement effects at the time of transition, as well as the changes in carrying amounts attributable to such effects. In addition, it must be possible, on the basis of the information disclosed, to reconcile the measurement categories according to IAS 39 and IFRS 9 to individual line items in the financial statements or classes of financial instruments. The amendments to the two standards have not yet been adopted by the EU. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 209 Basis of preparation IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” and IAS 27 (2011) “Separate Financial Statements” (May 2011) IFRS 10 replaces the guidance on control and consolidation contained in IAS 27 (2009) “Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements” and SIC-12 “Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities” by uniform principles and accounting requirements that are applied to all companies to determine control. In future, IAS 27 will only contain requirements governing separate financial statements. The standards have been adopted by the EU on 11 December 2012 and are effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If IFRS 10 is adopted early, the standards IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 and the amendments to IAS 27 and IAS 28 as well as the interpretation SIC-12 must be applied collectively. IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements” (May 2011) The standard introduces two types of joint arrangement: “joint operations” and “joint ventures”. It supersedes IAS 31 “Interests in Joint Ventures” and SIC-13 “Jointly Controlled Entities – Non-Monetary Contributions by Venturers”. The previous option to use proportionate consolidation for jointly controlled entities has been abolished. Venturers in a joint venture must use the equity method of accounting. IFRS 11 has been adopted by the EU on 11 December 2012. This standard must be applied for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014. IFRS 12 “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities” (May 2011) IFRS 12 defines the required disclosures for entities that apply IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” and IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements”: these entities must disclose information that enables users of their financial statements to evaluate the nature of, and the risks associated with, their interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on their financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The standard has been adopted by the EU on 11 December 2012 and is effective for financial years beginning on or ofter 1 January 2014. IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement” (May 2011) This standard describes how to determine fair value and extends the related disclosures. Fair value is defined in IFRS 13 as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. This standard must be applied for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013. IFRS 13 has been adopted by the EU on 11 December 2012. 210 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Amendments to IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” (May 2011) As part of the amendments to IAS 28, accounting disclosures for joint ventures were included in the standard; the basic approach for assessing the existence of significant influence and rules for applying the equity method have been retained. The amendments to the standard were adopted by the EU on 11 December 2012 and must be applied together with IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12 and IAS 27. The standard is effective for financial years beginning on or after January 2014. Amendments to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” (June 2011) The amendments to IAS 1 henceforth require entities to classify expenses and income recognised in other comprehensive income into two categories. The classification will depend on whether or not the item is reclassified (recycled) to profit or loss in the future. Items that are not recycled to the income statement must be presented separately from items that are recognised in profit or loss in the future. The amendments to the standard have been adopted by the EU on 5 June 2012 and are effective for financial years, which began on or after 1 July 2012. In accordance with IAS 8 “Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors”, the amendments must be applied retrospectively. Amendments to IAS 32 and IFRS 7 – “Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (December 2011) The IASB has revised the guidance for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities and published the results in the form of amendments to IAS 32 “Financial Instruments: Presentation” and to IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”. The offsetting requirements laid down in IAS 32 have been retained in principle, and additional guidance has been provided for clarification. In this guidance, the IASB emphasises firstly that an unconditional, legally enforceable right of offsetting must exist, even if one of the parties involved is insolvent. Secondly, it lists illustrative criteria under which gross settlement of a financial asset and a financial liability nevertheless leads to offsetting. The additional guidance is effective retrospectively for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014. The amendments have been adopted by the EU on 13 December 2012. Amendments to IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” (December 2011) The amendments introduce new disclosure requirements for certain offsetting arrangements: the disclosure requirement applies regardless of whether the offsetting arrangement has in fact led to the financial assets and financial liabilities being offset. In addition to a qualitative description of the rights of set-off, Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 211 Basis of preparation the guidance specifically also requires quantitative disclosures. The amendments to IFRS 7 are effective retrospectively for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The amendments have been adopted by the EU on 13 December 2012. Changes resulting from the “Annual Improvements Project” (May 2012) Six amendments affecting five standards are planned. The amendments must be applied for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013. Changes in the transition guidance for IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”, IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements” and IFRS 12 “Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities” (June 2012) The IASB has published a clarification to the transition guidance for IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”, which specifies that 1 January 2013 is the date of first-time adoption for entities whose financial year is the calendar year. No retrospective adjustments need to be made for subsidiaries sold in the prior-year period. The amendments to the three standards require that, on initial application, the comparative information and the disclosures in respect of the individual financial statement line items affected set out in IAS 8.28 (f) be restated for the immediately preceding comparative period only. The amendments are effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The amendments have not yet been adopted by the EU. Changes in the transition guidance for IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”, IFRS 12 “Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities” and IAS 27 “Separate Financial Statements” (2011) (October 2012) The amendments relate to the consolidation requirements for certain subsidiaries of investment entities. IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” defines an investment entity and sets out the exception to consolidating particular subsidiaries of an investment entity. IFRS 10 supersedes SIC-12 “Consolidation – Special-purpose Entities”. In future, qualifying investment entities will not consolidate subsidiaries but will recognise them at their fair value. The amendments are effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014. The amendments have not yet been adopted by the EU. Deutsche Börse Group cannot assess conclusively what the impact of the application of the new and amended standards will be at this stage. In addition to extended disclosure requirements, a material effect on the consolidated financial statements is expected especially from the initial application of IFRS 9, IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS 27 and IAS 28. 212 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 2. Basis of consolidation Deutsche Börse AG’s equity interests in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as at 31 December 2012 included in the consolidated financial statements are presented in the following tables. Unless otherwise stated, the financial information in these tables is presented in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles in the companies’ countries of domicile. Fully consolidated subsidiaries Equity interest as at 31 Dec 2012 Company Domicile direct (indirect) % Clearstream Holding AG Germany 100.00 Clearstream International S.A. Luxembourg (100.00) Clearstream Banking S.A. Luxembourg (100.00) Clearstream Banking Japan, Ltd. Japan (100.00) REGIS-TR S.A. Luxembourg (50.00) Clearstream Banking AG Germany (100.00) Clearstream Services S.A. Luxembourg (100.00) Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Ltd. Ireland (100.00) Clearstream Operations Prague s.r.o Czech Republic (100.00) LuxCSD S.A. Luxembourg (50.00) Deutsche Börse Services s.r.o Czech Republic 100.00 Deutsche Boerse Systems, Inc. USA 100.00 Eurex Global Derivatives AG Switzerland 100.00 Eurex Zürich AG Switzerland (100.00)3 Eurex Frankfurt AG Germany (100.00) Eurex Bonds GmbH Germany (79.44) Eurex Clearing AG Germany (100.00) Eurex Repo GmbH Germany (100.00) Eurex Services GmbH Germany (100.00) U.S. Exchange Holdings, Inc. USA (100.00) International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. USA (100.00) ETC Acquisition Corp. USA (100.00) International Securities Exchange, LLC USA (100.00) Longitude LLC USA (100.00) Longitude S.A. Luxembourg (100.00) Finnovation S.A. Luxembourg 100.00 Infobolsa S.A. Spain 50.00 Difubolsa, Serviços de Difusão e Informaçao de Bolsa, S.A. Portugal (50.00) Infobolsa Deutschland GmbH Germany (50.00) Open Finance, S.L. Spain (31.00) Market News International Inc. USA 100.00 MNI Financial and Economic Information (Beijing) Co. Ltd. China (100.00) Need to Know News, LLC USA (100.00) Risk Transfer Re S.A. Luxembourg 100.00 STOXX Ltd. Switzerland 50.10 Tradegate Exchange GmbH Germany 76.235) 1) Includes capital reserves and retained earnings, accumulated gains or losses and net profit or loss for the year and, if necessary, further components according to the respective local GAAP 2) Before profit transfer or loss absorption Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 213 Basis of preparation Ordinary share Sales revenue Net profit/loss Initially Currency capital Equity1) Total assets 2012 2012 consolidated thousands thousands thousands thousands thousands € 101,000 2,115,314 2,332,780 0 215,4212) 2007 € 25,000 819,349 845,188 76,097 235,619 2002 € 57,808 533,929 14,279,897 501,942 125,044 2002 JPY 6,500 35,252 53,899 68,928 5,564 2009 € 3,600 2,163 3,548 2 – 635 2010 € 25,000 276,259 1,384,882 335,086 87,318 2002 € 30,000 62,377 119,056 194,093 9,351 2002 € 500 586 2,666 1,209 86 10 Oct 2012 CZK 160,200 182,961 222,461 297,900 – 10,303 2008 € 6,000 5,335 5,465 33 – 365 2010 CZK 200 84,372 163,946 484,479 28,760 2006 US$ 400 4,091 5,248 9,072 602 2000 CHF 100 282,455 283,006 130,259 – 208,399 1 Jan 2012 CHF 10,000 305,016 326,890 41,400 4,565 1998 € 6,000 984,318 1,719,010 0 86,8514) 1998 € 3,600 7,515 8,641 4,505 1,429 2001 2) € 25,000 139,416 19,828,221 0 1,186 1998 € 100 550 12,709 13,449 11,0982) 2001 € 25 1,182,469 1,269,236 0 86,7542) 2007 US$ 1,000 0 1,055,243 0 – 1,722 2003 US$ 0 1,721,482 2,265,931 0 13,091 2007 US$ 0 3,639 3,639 125 125 2007 US$ 0 61,261 148,891 262,228 44,011 2007 US$ 0 3,945 5,910 5,720 3,923 2007 € 1,100 454 1,033 0 – 646 28 Jun 2012 € 141,400 121,183 145,480 10,714 – 1,785 2008 € 331 11,867 13,558 8,226 581 2002 € 50 155 192 160 18 2002 € 100 1,296 1,309 102 70 2003 € 4 1,040 1,604 2,671 396 31 Jan 2011 US$ 9,911 20,600 21,039 18,103 816 2009 US$ 0 237 543 1,111 94 3 Mar 2011 US$ 4,193 5,425 8,463 7,355 – 261 2009 € 1,225 1,225 11,621 1,585 0 2004 CHF 1,000 88,044 103,215 83,863 19,255 2009 € 500 913 1,135 1,426 230 2010 3) Thereof, 50 per cent are directly held and 50 per cent are indirectly held via Eurex Global Derivatives AG. 4) Including income from profit pooling agreements with its subsidiaries amounting to €98,246 thousand 5) Thereof, 1.23 per cent are indirectly held via Tradegate AG Wertpapierhandelsbank. 214 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 As at 31 December 2012, Deutsche Börse AG held 50 per cent of the voting rights of Infobolsa S.A. The key decision-making body of Infobolsa S.A. is the Board of Directors, where the Chairman’s casting vote gives Deutsche Börse AG the majority of the votes. Deutsche Börse AG indirectly holds 50 per cent of the voting rights in LuxCSD S.A. Since Deutsche Börse’s subsidiary Clearstream International S.A., which holds 50 per cent of the voting rights, has the right to appoint the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, who also has a casting vote, there is a presumption of control. Moreover, Deutsche Börse AG indirectly holds 50 per cent of the voting rights in REGIS-TR S.A. Since Deutsche Börse’s subsidiary Clearstream Banking S.A., which holds 50 per cent of the voting rights, has the right to appoint the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, who in turn has a casting vote, there is a presumption of control. Changes to consolidated subsidiaries Germany Foreign Total As at 1 January 2012 9 24 33 Additions 0 3 3 Disposals 0 0 0 As at 31 December 2012 9 27 36 On 7 June 2011, Deutsche Börse AG, SIX Group AG and SIX Swiss Exchange AG had entered into a share purchase agreement under which SIX Swiss Exchange AG contributed the Swiss derivatives business relating to Eurex Zürich AG to Eurex Global Derivatives AG, a newly formed subsidiary , and distributed 100 per cent of the shares of this subsidiary as a non-cash dividend to SIX Group AG. SIX Group AG sold these shares to Deutsche Börse AG on 30 April 2012. The purchase price was settled in cash in the amount of €295.0 million as well as by delivery of 5,286,738 shares of Deutsche Börse AG; on delivery, the shares had a market value of €255.9 million. In accordance with the share purchase agreement, the shares were sold with economic effect as at 1 January 2012. Since the material conditions for closing the transaction were met in the first quarter of 2012, sales revenue has accrued to Deutsche Börse Group since that quarter. On 28 June 2012, International Securities Exchange Holdings, LLC, New York, USA, formed Longitude S.A., which is domiciled in Luxembourg, Luxembourg. As a wholly-owned subsidiary, Longitude S.A. has been included in full in the consolidated financial statements since the second quarter. Effective 10 October 2012, Clearstream International S.A., Luxembourg, Luxembourg, acquired the class A shares of Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Ltd., Dublin, Ireland, bearing 100 per cent of the voting rights. The purchase price for these class A shares was €0.5 million. Subsequent to the acquisition, Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Ltd. issued additional class A shares amounting to €0.5 million which were also purchased by Clearstream International S.A. Furthermore, Clearstream International S.A. entered into three put options which will be settled by delivery of class B, C and D shares of Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Ltd. The first option will be exercisable in 2013, the second by the end of 2014/beginning of 2015 and the third option by the end of 2017/beginning of 2018. Whereas the exercise price of the current option is not variable but subject to the achievement of certain conditions, the exercise prices of the two non-current options are variable and depend on the expected performance of Clearstream Fund Services Ireland, Ltd. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 215 Basis of preparation The total fair value of the three options amounted to €3.4 million. Goodwill amounting to €4.0 million resulted from these transactions. The subsidiary has been fully consolidated since the fourth quarter of 2012. No significant amount of non-controlling interest existed at the acquisition date and no significant profit or loss of Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Ltd. has been included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the reporting period. The company aims to expand Clearstream’s existing services for hedge funds. The goodwill recognised primarily reflects revenue synergies with existing business and the gain of knowledge in the area of third-party order-routing and -processing of shares in hedge funds. Associates and joint ventures Equity interest as at 31 Dec 2012 Ordinary Sales Net Company, direct share revenue profit/loss Associate domicile Segment (indirect) Currency capital Assets Liabilities 2012 2012 since % thousands thousands thousands thousands thousands Deutsche Börse Commodities GmbH, Germany Xetra 16.20 € 1,000 2,180,2441) 2,177,0891) 5,3541) 1,5031) 2007 European Energy Exchange AG, Germany2) 3) Eurex (56.14) € 40,050 808,7931) 695,0971) 47,9211) 11,8131) 1999 ID’s SAS, France Eurex 25.01 € 10 2,8671) 7591) 2,2221) 7611) 2010 Digital Vega FX Ltd., United Market Data Kingdom & Analytics 13.02 GBP 0 8954) 2194) 284) – 8754) 24 Jun 2011 Scoach Holding S.A., Luxembourg2) 3) Xetra 50.01 € 100 32,0791) 5,2631) 46,0971) 6,5671) 2009 Indexium AG, Market Data Switzerland & Analytics 49.90 CHF 100 12,648 18,162 6,927 – 844 2009 Phineo gAG, Germany Xetra 12.005) € 50 1,3321) 1091) 1561) – 1981) 2010 Direct Edge Holdings, LLC, USA Eurex (31.54) US$ 126,2906) 211,073 84,783 474,220 17,135 9 Feb 2012 The Options Clearing Corporation, USA Eurex (20.00) US$ 6007) 3,151,8247) 3,139,3927) 150,2997) 1,8297) 2007 Hanweck Associates, LLC, USA Eurex (26.44) US$ 1266) 9121) 6391) 2,6691) – 9511) 2010 Tradegate AG Wertpapierhandelsbank, Germany8) Xetra 4.93 € 24,525 37,9281) 10,8191) 18,8341) – 2,7081) 2010 1) Preliminary figures 2) Subgroup figures 3) There is no control. 4) Shortened financial year; period ended 30 November 2012 5) In addition, Deutsche Börse AG holds an interest in Phineo Pool GbR, Berlin, Germany, which holds a 48 per cent stake in Phineo gAG. This interest is jointly managed. 6) Value of equity 7) Figures as at 31 December 2011 8) As at the balance sheet date the fair value of the stake in the listed company amounted to €5.7 million. 216 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 On 22 December 2011, the US Department of Justice approved, subject to conditions, the transaction planned at the time between Deutsche Börse Group and NYSE Euronext. Deutsche Börse AG and NYSE Euronext agreed to these conditions on the same date. These included in particular the requirement to dispose of the interest in Direct Edge Holdings, LLC. With effect from the announcement, the significant influence over Direct Edge was no longer allowed to be exercised; in particular, the members of the management and supervisory bodies of Direct Edge appointed by Deutsche Börse Group were no longer allowed to participate in decisions or receive non-public information from Direct Edge. As a result of this relinquishment of significant influence, the company was no longer classified as an associate as at 31 December 2011. Following the European Commission’s prohibition of the transaction, the US Department of Justice, invalidated its judgement with all conditions included therein on 9 February 2012. Since therefore Deutsche Börse Group attained power to excercise significant influence on Direct Edge Holdings, LLC again, the company has been again classified as an associate and accounted for using the equity method. With publication of the 2011 annual financial statements of ID’s SAS, Paris, France, on 21 March 2012, it was officially announced that the EBIT target in accordance with the agreement on preemptive rights between ID’s SAS and Deutsche Börse AG had not been achieved. This gave Deutsche Börse AG the right to exercise the options for the 2011 tranche. Consequently, Deutsche Börse AG purchased an additional 10.52 per cent of ID’s SAS on 19 April 2012 for a purchase price of €1,235.00, increasing its total interest to 25.01 per cent. As Deutsche Börse AG had already exercised significant influence within the meaning of IAS 28.7 (a) by virtue of its membership of the board of directors, the company continues to be classified as an associate and is accounted for using the equity method. Effective 29 March 2012, International Securities Exchange Holdings, LLC, New York, USA, acquired an additional 6.54 per cent stake in Hanweck Associates, LLC, New York, USA, for a purchase price of US$ 1.0 million, bringing its total interest to 26.44 per cent. Since International Securities Exchange Holdings, LLC exercises significant influence within the meaning of IAS 28, Hanweck Associates, LLC has been classified since then as an associate and is accounted for using the equity method. Within the framework of a plan disclosed on 24 October 2012 concerning a cooperation between LinkUp Capital Markets, S.L., Madrid, Spain and S.W.I.F.T. SCRL, La Hulpe, Belgium, SWIFT has entered into contract negotiations with Clearstream Banking AG, Frankfurt, Germany, to purchase shares in LinkUp Capital Markets, S.L. In the course of the preparations for the transaction, SWIFT has estimated the Link-Up Capital Markets, S.L. at a market value of €4.6 million for 100 per cent. Since all criteria mentioned in IFRS 5 were fulfilled in Q4/2012, Link-Up Capital Markets, S.L. was classified as a noncurrent asset held for sale. Where Deutsche Börse Group’s share of the voting rights in a company amounts to less than 20 per cent, Deutsche Börse Group’s significant influence is exercised in accordance with IAS 28.7 (a) at least through the Group’s representation on the Supervisory Board or the board of directors of the following companies as well as through corresponding monitoring systems:  Deutsche Börse Commodities GmbH, Frankfurt/Main, Germany  Digital Vega FX Ltd., London, United Kingdom  Phineo gAG, Berlin, Germany  Tradegate AG Wertpapierhandelsbank, Berlin, Germany Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 217 Basis of preparation 3. Accounting policies Deutsche Börse AG’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros, the functional currency of Deutsche Börse AG. Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are shown in millions of euros (€m). The annual financial statements of subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the Group-wide accounting principles based on IFRSs that are described in the following. Adjustments to accounting policies Since 1 January 2012, credit balances at central banks that are subject to minimum reserve requirements are no longer reported as restricted but as receivables and securities from banking business; prioryear amounts have been adjusted accordingly. Recognition of revenue and expenses Trading, clearing and settlement fees are recognised on the trade day and billed on a monthly basis. Custody revenue and revenue for systems development and systems operation are generally recognised ratably and billed on a monthly basis. Sales of price information are billed on a monthly basis. Fees charged to trading participants in connection with International Securities Exchange, LLC’s expenses for supervision by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are recognised at the settlement date. International Securities Exchange, LLC earns market data revenue from the sale of trade and quote information on options through the Options Price Reporting Authority, LLC (OPRA, the regulatory authority responsible for distributing market data revenues among the US options exchanges). Pursuant to SEC regulations, US exchanges are required to report trade and quote information to OPRA. International Securities Exchange, LLC earns a portion of the income of the US option exchange association based on its share of eligible trades for option securities. Revenue is recorded as transactions occur on a trade date basis and is collected quarterly. As a rule, rebates are deducted from sales revenue. They are recognised as an expense under volumerelated costs to the extent that they exceed the associated sales revenue. This item also comprises expenses that depend on the number of certain trade or settlement transactions, the custody volume, or the Global Securities Financing volume, or that result from revenue sharing agreements or maker-taker pricing models. Volume-related costs no longer occur if the corresponding revenue is no longer generated. Interest income and expenses are recognised using the effective interest method over the respective financial instrument’s term to maturity. Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity and the income can be measured reliably. Interest expenses are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. Interest income and expenses from banking business are netted in the consolidated income statement and disclosed separately in note 4. Dividends are recognised in the result from equity investments if the right to receive payment is based on legally assertable claims. The consolidated income statement is structured using the nature-of-expense method. 218 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Research and development costs Research costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Development costs are capitalised, provided that they satisfy the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38. These development costs include direct labour costs, costs of purchased services and workplace costs, including proportionate overheads that can be directly attributed to the preparation of the respective asset for use, such as costs for the software development environment. Development costs that do not meet the requirements for capitalisation in accordance with IAS 38 are recognised in the consolidated income statement. Interest expense that cannot be allocated directly to one of the developments is recognised in profit or loss in the year under review and not included in capitalised development cost. If research and development costs cannot be separated, the expenditures are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. All development costs (both primary costs and costs incurred subsequently) are allocated to projects. The projects are broken down into the following phases in order to decide which cost components need capitalising and which do not: Non-capitalised phases 1. Design:  Definition of product design  Specification of the expected economic benefit  Initial cost and revenue forecast Capitalised phases 2. Detailed specifications:  Compilation and review of precise specifications  Troubleshooting process 3. Building and testing:  Software programming  Product testing Non-capitalised phases 4. Acceptance:  Planning and implementation of acceptance tests 5. Simulation:  Preparation and implementation of simulation  Compilation and testing of simulation software packages  Compilation and review of documents 6. Roll-out:  Planning of product launch  Compilation and dispatch of production systems  Compilation and review of documents In accordance with IAS 38, only tasks belonging to the “detailed specifications” and “building and testing” phases are capitalised. All other earlier or later phases of software development projects are expensed. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 219 Basis of preparation Intangible assets Capitalised development costs are amortised from the date of first use of a software using the straightline method over its expected useful life. The useful life of internally developed software is generally assumed to be five years; a useful life of seven years is used as the basis in the case of newly developed trading platforms. Purchased software is carried at cost and reduced by systematic amortisation and, where necessary, impairment losses. Amortisation is charged using the straight-line method over the expected useful life or at most until the right of use has expired. Useful life of software Asset Amortisation period Standard software 3 to 10 years Purchased custom software 3 to 6 years Internally developed custom software 3 to 7 years Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal or when no further economic benefits are expected to flow from them. The amortisation period for intangible assets with finite useful lives is reviewed at least at the end of each financial year. If the expected useful life of an asset differs from previous estimates, the amortisation period is adjusted accordingly. Goodwill is recognised at cost and tested at least once a year for impairment. The cost of the other intangible assets acquired in the course of business combinations corresponds to the fair value as at the acquisition date. Assets with a finite useful life are amortised using the straightline method over the expected useful life. Assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at least once a year. Useful life of other intangible assets arising out of business combinations Asset Amortisation period ISE's exchange licence indefinite Member relationships 30 years Customer relationships 12, 30 years ISE trade name 10 years STOXX trade name indefinite Historical data 5 years Restrictions on competition 1 to 3 years 220 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 As ISE’s exchange licence has an indefinite term and ISE expects to retain the licence as part of its overall business strategy, the useful life of this asset is classified as indefinite. The STOXX trade name includes the trade name itself, the index methodologies and the Internet domains because these can generally not be transferred separately. There are no indications that time limitations exist with regard to the useful life of the STOXX trade name. A review is performed each reporting period to determine whether the events and circumstances still justify classifying as indefinite the useful lives of ISE’s exchange licence and the STOXX trade name. Property, plant and equipment Depreciable property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less cumulative depreciation. The straightline depreciation method is used. Costs of an item of property, plant and equipment comprise all costs directly attributable to the production process, as well as an appropriate proportion of production overheads. Financing costs were not recognised in the year under review, as they could not be directly allocated to any particular development. Useful life of property, plant and equipment Asset Depreciation period Computer hardware 3 to 5 years Office equipment 5 to 25 years Leasehold improvements based on lease term Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. If it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with an item of property, plant and equipment will flow to the Group and the cost of the respective asset can be reliably determined, expenditure subsequent to acquisition is added to the carrying amount of the asset as incurred. The carrying amounts of the parts of the asset that have been replaced are derecognised. Financial assets Financial assets comprise investments in associates and financial assets as described in the “Financial instruments” section. Investments in associates consist of investments in joint ventures and other associates. They are measured at cost on initial recognition and accounted for using the equity method upon subsequent measurement. Impairment testing In accordance with IAS 36, specific non-current non-financial assets are tested for impairment. At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. In this case, the carrying amount is compared with the recoverable amount (the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell) to determine the amount of any potential impairment. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 221 Basis of preparation The value in use is estimated on the basis of the discounted estimated future cash flows from continuing use of the asset and from its ultimate disposal, before taxes. For this purpose, discount rates are estimated based on the prevailing pre-tax weighted average cost of capital. If no recoverable amount can be determined for an asset, it is allocated to a cash-generating unit, for which the recoverable amount is calculated. Irrespective of any indications of impairment, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use must be tested for impairment annually at least. Impairment tests are performed where there are indications of impairment. If the estimated recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised, and the net book value of the asset is reduced to its estimated recoverable amount. Goodwill is allocated to identifiable groups of assets (cash-generating units) or groups of cash-generating units that create synergies from the respective acquisition. This corresponds to the lowest level at which Deutsche Börse Group monitors goodwill. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated (including the carrying amount of this goodwill) is higher than the recoverable amount of this group of assets. The impairment loss is first allocated to the goodwill, then to the other assets in proportion to their carrying amounts. A review is conducted at every balance sheet date to see whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised on non-current assets (excluding goodwill) in the previous years no longer applies. If this is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased and the difference is recognised in profit or loss.The maximum amount of this reversal is limited to the carrying amount that would have resulted if no impairment loss had been recognised in previous periods. In accordance with IAS 36, impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Financial instruments Financial instruments comprise financial assets and liabilities. For Deutsche Börse Group, financial assets are, in particular, other equity investments, receivables and securities from banking business, other financial instruments and other loans, receivables and other assets as well as bank balances. Financial liabilities relate primarily to interest-bearing liabilities, other non-current liabilities, liabilities from banking business, financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG, cash deposits by market participants as well as trade payables. Recognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when a Group company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities are generally recognised at the trade date. Loans and receivables from banking business, available-for-sale financial assets from banking business as well as purchases and sales of equities via the central counterparty (i.e. Eurex Clearing AG) are recognised at the settlement date. Financial assets are initially measured at fair value; in the case of a financial asset that is not measured at fair value through profit or loss in subsequent periods, this includes transaction costs. 222 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Subsequent measurement of financial assets and liabilities Subsequent measurement of financial instruments follows the categories to which they are allocated in accordance with IAS 39 and which are described below. As in previous years, Deutsche Börse Group did not take advantage of the option to allocate financial assets to the “held-to-maturity investments” category in the year under review. In addition, the Group waived the possibility to designate financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit and loss (fair value option). Assets held for trading Derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments as well as financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG (see details below) are measured at fair value through profit or loss. Apart from financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG this category includes in particular interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward foreign exchange transactions. Fair value of these derivatives is calculated based on observable current market rates. If resulting from banking business, realised and unrealised gains and losses are immediately recognised in the consolidated income statement as “other operating income” and “other operating expenses” or, if incurred outside the banking business, as “financial income” and “financial expenses”. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables comprise in particular current and non-current receivables from banking business, trade receivables as well as other current receivables. They are recognised at amortised cost, taking into account any potential impairment losses, if applicable. Premiums and discounts are included in the amortised cost of the instrument concerned and are amortised using the effective interest method; they are contained in “net interest income from banking business” if they relate to banking business, or in “financial income” and “financial expense”. Available-for-sale financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are classified as “available-for-sale financial assets”, if they cannot be allocated to the “loans and receivables” and “assets held for trading” categories. These assets comprise debt and equity investments recognised in the “other equity investments” and “other financial instruments” items as well as debt instruments recognised in the current and non-current receivables and securities from banking business items. Available-for-sale financial assets are generally measured at the fair value observable in an active market. Unrealised gains and losses are recognised directly in equity in the revaluation surplus. Impairment and effects of exchange rates on monetary items are excluded from this general rule; they are recognised in profit or loss. Equity instruments for which no active market exists are measured on the basis of current comparable market transactions, if these are available. If an equity instrument is not traded in an active market and alternative valuation methods cannot be applied to that equity instrument, it is measured at cost, subject to an impairment test. Realised gains and losses are generally recognised under financial income or financial expense. Interest income is recognised in the consolidated income statement in net interest income from banking business Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 223 Basis of preparation based on the effective interest rate method. Other realised gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement in “other operating income” and “other operating expenses”. If debt instruments of banking business are hedged instruments under fair value hedges, hedge accounting is applied for fair value adjustments corresponding to the hedged item (see “Fair value hedges” below). Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows expire or when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial assets are transferred. Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligations specified in the contracts are discharged or cancelled. Clearstream Banking S.A. acts as principal in securities borrowing and lending transactions in the context of the ASLplus securities lending system. Legally, it operates between the lender and the borrower without being an economic contracting partner (transitory items). In these transactions, the securities borrowed and lent match each other. Consequently, these transactions are not recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. Netting of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and only the net amount is presented in the consolidated balance sheet when a Group company currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Impairment of financial assets Financial assets that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss are reviewed at each balance sheet date to establish whether there is any indication of impairment. Deutsche Börse Group has laid down criteria for assessing whether there is evidence of impairment. These criteria primarily include significant financial difficulties on the part of the debtor and breaches of contract. The amount of an impairment loss for a financial asset measured at amortised cost is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. A subsequent reversal is recognised at a maximum at the carrying amount that would have resulted if no impairment loss had been recognised. The amount of an impairment loss for a financial asset measured at cost (equity instruments that are non-listed) is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at a current market interest rate. Subsequent reversal is not permitted. In the case of available-for-sale financial assets, the impairment loss is calculated as the difference between cost and fair value. Any reduction in fair value already recognised in equity is reclassified to profit or loss upon determination of the impairment loss. A subsequent reversal may only be recognised for debt instruments if the reason for the original impairment loss no longer applies. 224 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value through profit and loss Financial liabilities not held for trading are carried at amortised cost. These liabilities comprise issued bonds and private placements. The borrowing costs associated with the placement of financial liabilities are included in the carrying amount, within the framework of the effective interest method, if they are directly attributable. Discounts reduce the carrying amount of liabilities and are amortised over the term of the liabilities. Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss A forward transaction with a non-controlling shareholder for the acquisition of non-controlling interests that is settled in cash or by delivering other financial assets is a financial liability recognised at fair value. It is subsequently measured at fair value through profit and loss. The equity interest attributable to a non-controlling shareholder underlying the transaction is accounted for as if it had already been acquired at the time of the transaction. Derivatives and hedges Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk or foreign exchange risk. All derivatives are carried at their fair values. The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined on the basis of current observable market interest rates. The fair value of forward foreign exchange transactions is determined on the basis of forward foreign exchange rates at the balance sheet date for the remaining period to maturity. Hedge accounting is applied for derivatives that are part of a hedging relationship determined to be highly effective under IAS 39 and for which the conditions of IAS 39.88 are met, as follows. Cash flow hedges The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument determined to be highly effective is recognised directly in equity. This gain or loss ultimately adjusts the value of the hedged cash flow, i.e. the gain or loss from the hedging instrument is recognised in profit or loss when the hedged item is recognised in the balance sheet or in profit or loss. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. Fair value hedges The gain or loss on the hedging instrument, together with the gain or loss on the hedged item (underlying) attributable to the hedged risk, is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. Any gain or loss on the hedged item adjusts its carrying amount. Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation The effective portion of the gain or loss from a hedging transaction that is designated as a highly effective hedge is recognised directly in equity. It is recognised in profit or loss when the foreign operation is sold. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 225 Basis of preparation Derivatives that are not part of a hedging relationship Gains or losses on derivative instruments that are not part of a highly effective hedging relationship are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG (central counterparty) Eurex Clearing AG acts as the central counterparty and guarantees the settlement of all transactions involving futures and options on the Eurex exchanges (Eurex Deutschland and Eurex Zürich AG). As the central counterparty, it also guarantees the settlement of all transactions for Eurex Bonds (bond trading platform) and Eurex Repo (repo trading platform), certain exchange transactions in equities on Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse (FWB, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange) and certain cash market transactions on the Irish Stock Exchange. In addition, Eurex Clearing AG guarantees the settlement of all OTC (over-the-counter, i.e. off-exchange) transactions entered in the trading system of the Eurex exchanges, Eurex Bonds, Eurex Repo, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and the Irish Stock Exchange. These transactions are only executed between Eurex Clearing AG and a clearing member. In accordance with IAS 39.38, purchases and sales of equities via the central counterparty are recognised and simultaneously derecognised at the settlement date. For products that are marked to market (futures and options on futures), Eurex Clearing AG recognises gains and losses on open positions of clearing members on each exchange day. By means of the variation margin, profits and losses on open futures positions resulting from market price fluctuations are settled on a daily basis. The difference between this and other margin types is that the variation margin does not comprise collateral, but is a daily offsetting of profits and losses in cash. In accordance with IAS 39.17 (a) and IAS 39.39, futures are therefore not reported in the consolidated balance sheet. For future-style options, the option premium is not required to be paid in full until the end of the term or upon exercise. Option premiums are carried in the consolidated balance sheet as receivables and liabilities at their fair value on the trade date. “Traditional” options, for which the buyer must pay the option premium in full upon purchase, are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value. Correspondingly, credit default swaps are also carried at fair value. Fixed-income bond forwards are recognised as derivatives and carried at fair value until the settlement date. Receivables and liabilities from repo transactions are classified as held for trading and carried at fair value. Receivables and liabilities from variation margins and cash collateral that is determined on the reporting date and only paid on the following day are carried at their nominal amount. The fair values recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are based on daily settlement prices. These are calculated and published by Eurex Clearing AG in accordance with the rules set out in the contract specifications (see also the Clearing conditions of Eurex Clearing AG). Cash or securities collateral of Eurex Clearing AG As Eurex Clearing AG guarantees the settlement of all traded contracts, it has established a multi-level collateral system. The central pillar of the collateral system is the determination of the overall risk per clearing member (margin) to be covered by cash or securities collateral. Losses calculated on the basis of current prices and potential future price risks are covered up to the date of the next collateral payment. 226 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 In addition to these daily collateral payments, each clearing member must make contributions to the clearing fund (for further details, see the risk report in the combined managment report). Cash collateral is reported in the consolidated balance sheet under “cash deposits by market participants” and the corresponding amounts under “restricted bank balances”. In accordance with IAS 39.20 (b) in conjunction with IAS 39.37, securities collateral is not derecognised by the clearing member providing the collateral, as the transfer of securities does not meet the conditions for derecognition. Treasury shares The treasury shares held by Deutsche Börse AG at the reporting date are deducted directly from shareholders’ equity. In accordance with IAS 32.33, gains or losses on treasury shares are taken directly to equity. The transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of treasury shares are accounted for as a deduction from shareholders’ equity (net of any related income tax benefit). Other current assets Receivables, other assets, and cash and cash equivalents are carried at their nominal amount. Adequate valuation allowances take account of identifiable risks. Restricted bank balances include cash deposits by market participants which are invested largely overnight, mainly in the form of reverse repurchase agreements with banks. Non-current assets held-for-sale Non-current assets that are available for immediate sale in their present condition and whose sale is highly probable within a reasonable period of time are classified as “non-current assets held for sale”. A transaction is highly probable if measures for the sale have already been initiated and the relevant bodies have adopted the corresponding resolutions. Pensions and other employee benefits Pensions and other employee benefits relate to defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. Defined contribution pension plans There are defined contribution plans as part of the occupational pension system via pension funds and similar pension institutions, as well as on the basis of the 401(k) plan. In addition, contributions are paid to the statutory pension insurance scheme. The level of contributions is normally determined in relation to income. No provisions are recognised for defined contribution plans. The contributions paid are reported as pension expenses in the year of payment. There are defined contribution pension plans for employees working in Germany, Luxembourg, the Czech Republic, the UK and the USA. In addition, the employer pays contributions to employees’ private pension funds. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 227 Basis of preparation Defined benefit plans Provisions for pension obligations are measured, separately for each pension plan, using the projected unit credit method on the basis of actuarial reports. The fair value of plan assets, taking into account the asset ceiling rules if there are any surplus plan assets, is deducted from the present value of pension obligations. This results in the net defined benefit liability or asset. Net interest for the financial year is calculated by applying the discount rate determined at the beginning of the financial year to the net defined benefit liability determined as at that date. The relevant discount rate is determined by reference to the return on long-term corporate bonds with a rating of at least AA (Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service) on the basis of the information provided by Bloomberg, and a maturity that corresponds approximately to the maturity of the pension obligations. Moreover, the bonds must be denominated in the same currency as the underlying pension obligation. Measurement of the pension obligations in euros is based on a discount rate of 3.5 per cent, which is determined according to the Towers Watson Global RATE:Link methodology (updated in line with the current market trend). If the pension obligations had been measured at the reporting date using a discount rate of 3.0 per cent as determined according to the method used in the previous year, the pension obligations would have been around €28 million higher. Actuarial gains or losses resulting from changes in expectations with regard to life expectancy, pension trends, salary trends, or the discount rate as compared with the estimate at the beginning of the period or compared with the actual development during the period are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. Actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income may not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods. Similarly, differences between the (interest) income on plan assets determined at the beginning of the period and the return on plan assets actually recorded at the end of the period are also recognised directly in other comprehensive income. The actuarial gains or losses and the difference between the expected and the actual return or loss on plan assets are recognised as revaluation surplus. Other long-term benefits for employees and members of executive boards (total disability pension, transitional payments and surviving dependents’ pensions) are also measured using the projected unit credit method. In accordance with IAS 19.127, actuarial gains and losses and past service cost are recognised immediately and in full through profit or loss. Other provisions Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present obligation from an event in the past, an outflow of resources with economic benefit to settle the obligation is probable and it is possible to reliably estimate the amount of this obligation. The amount of the provision corresponds to the best possible estimate of the expense which is necessary to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. A provision for restructuring is only recognised when an entity has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that the restructuring measures will be implemented, for example by starting to implement that plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it. Contingent liabilities are not recognised, but disclosed unless the possibility of an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is remote. 228 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Group Share Plan (GSP) and Stock Bonus Plan (SBP) Accounting for the Group Share Plan and the Stock Bonus Plan follows IFRS 2 “Share-based payment”. Group Share Plan Under the Group Share Plan, shares are granted at a discount to the market price. The expense of this discount is recognised in the income statement at the grant date. Options granted follow the accounting principles for share-based payments for which Deutsche Börse AG has a choice of settlement in cash and equity instruments. In 2010, the company resolved the cash settlement of all GSP tranches in existence at that time. The options in the 2006 GSP tranche expired on 30 June 2012, when the plan ended. The cost of the GSP shares offered to the employees of the US subsidiary International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. at a discount is recognised in the income statement at the grant date. GSP share grants are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments. The GSP shares are measured at their fair value at the grant date and recognised in the income statement over a three-year vesting period, with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity. The remaining options in the 2009 GSP tranche were exercised in financial year 2012 following expiration of the vesting period. Stock Bonus Plan (SBP) The SBP shares are generally accounted for as share-based payments for which Deutsche Börse AG has a choice of settlement in cash and equity instruments. In financial year 2012, and as in the previous years, the company resolved to settle the tranches due in each following year in cash. Under these circumstances, there is at present a presumption in accordance with IFRS 2 that all SBP shares will be settled in cash. Accordingly, Deutsche Börse Group has measured the SBP shares as cash-settled sharebased payment transactions.The cost of the options is estimated using an option pricing model (fair value measurement) and recognised in staff costs in the income statement. Any right to payment of a stock bonus only vests after the expiration of the three-year performance period on which the Plan is based. A separate variable share-based payment has been agreed for Deutsche Börse AG’s Executive Board since financial year 2010. The number of virtual shares for each Executive Board member is calculated on the basis of Deutsche Börse AG’s average share price in the two months preceding the point in time at which the Supervisory Board establishes the 100 per cent target value for the variable share component. The calculation of the subsequent payout amount of the stock bonus depends on the change in relative shareholder return and Deutsche Börse AG’s share price performance. Claims under this stock bonus programme are settled in cash after the expiration of the three-year performance period. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 229 Basis of preparation Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are computed using the balance sheet approach in accordance with IAS 12. The deferred tax calculation is based on temporary differences between the carrying amounts in the tax accounts and the carrying amounts in the IFRS financial statements that lead to a future tax liability or benefit when assets are used or sold or liabilities are settled. The deferred tax assets or liabilities are measured using the tax rates that are currently expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Deferred tax assets are recognised for the carryforward of unused tax losses only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset where a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities exists and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. Leases Leases are classified as operating leases or finance leases. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the asset from the lessor to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Leased assets and the associated liabilities are recognised at the lower of fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments if the criteria for classification as a finance lease are met. The leased asset is depreciated or amortised using the straight-line method over its useful life or the lease term, if shorter. In subsequent periods, the liability is measured using the effective interest method. Expenses incurred in connection with operating leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Consolidation All subsidiaries directly or indirectly controlled by Deutsche Börse AG are included in Deutsche Börse AG’s consolidated financial statements. This condition is generally met if Deutsche Börse AG directly or indirectly holds more than half of the voting rights or is otherwise able to govern the financial and operating policies of the other entity. Initial consolidation of subsidiaries in the course of business combinations uses the purchase method. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. Any excess of cost over the acquirer’s interest in the fair value of the subsidiary’s net identifiable assets is recognised as goodwill. Goodwill is reported in subsequent periods at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 230 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Intragroup assets and liabilities are eliminated. Income arising from intragroup transactions is eliminated against the corresponding expenses. Profits or losses arising from deliveries of intragroup goods and services, as well as dividends distributed within the Group, are eliminated. Deferred taxes are recognised for consolidation adjustments where these are expected to reverse in subsequent years. Interests in equity attributable to non-controlling interest shareholders are carried under “non-controlling interests” within equity. Where these are classified as “puttable instruments”, they are reported under “liabilities”. Currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the transaction date. At the balance sheet date, monetary balance sheet items in foreign currency are measured at the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, while non-monetary balance sheet items recognised at historical cost are measured at the exchange rate on the transaction day. Non-monetary balance sheet items measured at fair value are translated at the closing rate on the valuation date. Exchange rate differences are recorded as other operating income or expense in the period in which they arise unless the underlying transactions are hedged. Gains and losses from a monetary item that forms part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised directly in “accumulated profit”. The annual financial statements of companies whose functional currency is not the euro are translated into the reporting currency as follows: assets and liabilities are translated into euros at the closing rate. The items in the consolidated income statement are translated at the average exchange rates for the period under review. Resulting exchange differences are recognised directly in accumulated profit. When the relevant subsidiary is sold, these exchange differences are recognised in consolidated profit for the period in which the deconsolidation gain or loss is realised. The following euro exchange rates of consequence to Deutsche Börse Group were applied: Exchange rates Average rate Average rate Closing price as Closing price as 2012 2011 at 31 Dec 2012 at 31 Dec 2011 Swiss francs CHF 1.2043 1.2270 1.2073 1.2165 US dollars USD (US$) 1.2929 1.4038 1.3196 1.2918 Czech koruna CZK 25.1182 24.6412 25.0960 25.8195 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 231 Basis of preparation Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising from initial consolidation are reported in the functional currency of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. Key sources of estimation uncertainty and management judgements The application of accounting policies, presentation of assets and liabilities and recognition of income and expenses requires the Executive Board to make certain judgements and estimates. Adjustments in this context are taken into account in the period the change was made as well as in subsequent periods, where necessary. Note 11 contains information on the assumptions applied in performing annual impairment tests on goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life. In each case, the respective business plans serve as the basis for determining any impairment. These plans contain projections of the future financial performance of the cash-generating units. If their actual financial performance fails to meet these expectations, corresponding adjustments may be necessary. For further information on the impact incurred due to changes in the discount rate and further assumptions, please see note 11. Accounting for provisions for pensions and similar obligations requires the application of certain actuarial assumptions (e. g. discount rate, staff turnover rate) so as to estimate their carrying amounts (see above). Note 22 shows the present value of the obligations at each balance sheet date. These assumptions may fluctuate considerably, for example because of changes in the macroeconomic environment, and may thus materially affect provisions already recognised. A sensitivity analysis of the key factors is presented in note 22. Deutsche Börse AG or its group companies are subject to litigation. Such litigation may lead to orders to pay against the entities of the group. If it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will occur, a provision will be recognised based on an estimate of the most probable amount necessary to settle the obligation if such amount is reasonably estimable. Management judgement includes the determination whether there is a possible obligation from past events, the evaluation of the probability that an outflow will occur and the estimation of the potential amount. As the outcome of litigation is usually uncertain, the judgement is reviewed continuously. For further information on other risks please see note 37. Note 39 contains disclosures on the valuation model used for the stock options. Where the estimates of the valuation parameters originally applied differ from the actual values available when the options are exercised, adjustments are necessary; such adjustments are recognised in the consolidated income statement for the period if they relate to cash-settled share-based payment transactions. In addition, the probable utilisation applied when establishing provisions for expected losses from rental agreements is estimated (see note 24). In the creation of personnel-related restructuring provisions, certain assumptions were made with regard to, for example, fluctuation rate, discount rate and salary trends. Should the actual values deviate from these assumptions, adjustments may be necessary. 232 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Consolidated income statement disclosures 4. Net revenue Composition of net revenue Net interest income from banking Sales revenue business 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m Xetra Trading1) 108.9 140.9 0 0 Clearing and settlement fees 34.5 44.4 0 0 Connectivity 23.2 21.6 0 0 2) Other 63.5 68.2 0 0 230.1 275.1 0 0 Eurex Equity index derivatives 402.5 430.4 0 0 Interest rate derivatives 170.9 192.4 0 0 US options (ISE) 157.7 145.2 0 0 Equity derivatives 41.9 39.8 0 0 2) Other 139.4 138.1 0 0 912.4 945.9 0 0 Clearstream Custody fees 438.2 441.7 0 0 Transaction fees 111.1 117.6 0 0 Global Securities Financing 89.4 83.9 0 0 Net interest income 0 0 52.0 75.1 Other assets 135.2 139.3 0 0 773.9 782.5 52.0 75.1 Market Data & Analytics Sales of price information3) 153.8 159.6 0 0 Indices 83.6 85.8 0 0 Other assets 26.5 26.5 0 0 263.9 271.9 0 0 Total of all segments 2,180.3 2,275.4 52.0 75.1 Consolidation of internal revenue – 35.0 – 42.1 Group 2,145.3 2,233.3 52.0 75.1 1) The „Trading“ item includes Xetra Frankfurt Specialist Trading (before 23 May 2011: floor trading) and the electronic Xetra trading system. 2) The „Other“ item also includes the allocated IT revenue. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 233 Consolidated income statement Consolidation of Other operating income Volume-related costs Net revenue internal net revenue External net revenue 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m €m €m €m €m €m €m 0 0 – 18.4 – 15.8 90.5 125.1 0 0 90.5 125.1 0 0 – 5.1 – 6.2 29.4 38.2 5.1 6.2 34.5 44.4 0 0 0 0 23.2 21.6 0 0 23.2 21.6 7.3 13.0 – 1.0 – 0.9 69.8 80.3 – 5.0 – 4.8 64.8 75.5 7.3 13.0 – 24.5 – 22.9 212.9 265.2 0.1 1.4 213.0 266.6 0 0 – 27.9 – 30.9 374.6 399.5 24.2 30.1 398.8 429.6 0 0 0 0 170.9 192.4 0 0 170.9 192.4 0 0 – 63.7 – 30.0 94.0 115.2 0 0 94.0 115.2 0 0 – 1.6 – 2.1 40.3 37.7 0 0 40.3 37.7 10.2 40.1 – 8.3 – 15.1 141.3 163.1 – 2.3 2.0 139.0 165.1 10.2 40.1 – 101.5 – 78.1 821.1 907.9 21.9 32.1 843.0 940.0 0 0 – 103.7 – 105.5 334.5 336.2 0 0 334.5 336.2 0 0 – 12.1 – 13.3 99.0 104.3 0 0 99.0 104.3 0 0 – 32.3 – 27.4 57.1 56.5 0 0 57.1 56.5 0 0 0 0 52.0 75.1 0 0 52.0 75.1 3.1 8.4 – 15.4 – 18.4 122.9 129.3 – 4.6 – 6.1 118.3 123.2 3.1 8.4 – 163.5 – 164.6 665.5 701.4 – 4.6 – 6.1 660.9 695.3 0 0 – 20.8 – 20.4 133.0 139.2 9.1 5.2 142.1 144.4 2.6 0 – 9.1 – 4.8 77.1 81.0 – 23.9 – 29.8 53.2 51.2 0.5 3.9 – 4.3 – 3.7 22.7 26.7 – 2.6 – 2.8 20.1 23.9 3.1 3.9 – 34.2 – 28.9 232.8 246.9 – 17.4 – 27.4 215.4 219.5 23.7 65.4 – 323.7 – 294.5 1,932.3 2,121.4 0 0 1,932.3 2,121.4 – 12.0 – 8.4 47.0 50.5 0 0 0 0 11.7 57.0 – 276.7 -244.0 1,932.3 2,121.4 0 0 1,932.3 2,121.4 3) As the products of Market News International Inc. and Need To Know News, LLC have been fully integrated, the sales revenue of these two companies is reported under the sales of price information for the Market Data & Analytics segment. Prior-year figures have been adjusted accordingly. 234 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Since the first quarter of 2012, Deutsche Börse Group has been using net revenue as primary key performance indicator for income. This consists of sales revenue plus external net interest income from banking business and other operating income deducing volume-related costs. On the one hand, the change was made in connection with actual and expected changes in fee models increasing sales revenue and volume related costs without having an impact on earnings. On the other hand, other operating income significantly decreased due to the complete purchase of shares in Eurex Zürich AG from SIX Group AG. Composition of net interest income from banking business 2012 2011 €m €m Loans and receivables 84.2 134.8 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost – 58.0 – 68.5 Available-for-sale financial assets 15.1 23.6 Financial assets or liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss: Interest income 14.5 5.5 Interest expense – 2.2 – 18.0 Interest income – interest rate swaps – fair value hedges 0.5 1.1 Interest expense – interest rate swaps – fair value hedges – 2.1 – 3.4 Total 52.0 75.1 Composition of other operating income 2012 2011 €m €m Income from agency agreements 0.9 29.1 Income from exchange rate differences 1.4 7.5 Gains on the disposal of equity investments and subsidiaries 0 4.7 Rental income from sublease contracts 1.3 2.6 Miscellaneous 8.1 13.1 Total 11.7 57.0 Income from agency agreements results largely from the operational management of the Eurex Zürich derivatives market for SIX Swiss Exchange AG. The reason for the decrease in 2012 is the absence of the reimbursement of expenses of SIX Group for the operation of Eurex by Deutsche Börse Group due to the complete purchase of shares in Eurex Zürich AG by Deutsche Börse AG. Gains on the disposal of equity investments and subsidiaries amounting to €4.7 million in 2011 result from the complete disposal of the interest in Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, S.A. de C.V. amounting to 1 per cent. For details of rental income from sublease contracts see note 38. Miscellaneous other operating income includes income from cooperation agreements and from training and valuation adjustments. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 235 Consolidated income statement Volume-related costs comprise partial or advance concessions which Deutsche Börse Group obtains from third parties, which it markets as part of its own value chain, and which indirectly depend on the development of volume trends and sales revenue. 5. Staff costs Composition of staff costs 2012 2011 €m €m Wages and salaries 345.7 310.1 Social security contributions, retirement and other benefits 68.5 75.7 Total 414.2 385.8 Staff costs include costs of €14.4 million (2011: €–6.7 million) recognised in connection with efficiency programmes. 6. Other operating expenses Composition of other operating expenses 2012 2011 €m €m Costs for IT services providers and other consulting services 156.1 192.5 IT costs 81.4 75.8 Premises expenses 78.5 71.2 Non-recoverable input tax 34.5 39.9 Advertising and marketing costs 23.1 21.3 Travel, entertainment and corporate hospitality expenses 19.5 19.4 Insurance premiums, contributions and fees 12.2 12.3 Cost of agency agreements 11.7 15.5 Non-wage labour costs and voluntary social benefits 11.7 11.6 Supervisory Board remuneration 4.4 4.6 Cost of exchange rate differences 2.5 2.1 Miscellaneous 3.8 18.8 Total 439.4 485.0 Costs for IT services providers and other consulting services relate mainly to expenses in conjunction with software development. An analysis of development costs is presented in note 7. These costs also contain costs of strategic and legal consulting services as well as of audit activities. The unusually high level in 2011 is primarily due to the cost of the planned combination of Deutsche Börse Group and NYSE Euronext, which was prohibited on 1 February 2012. 236 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Composition of fees for the auditor1) 2012 2011 €m €m Statutory audit 1.5 2.2 Other assurance or valuation services 0.7 0.7 Tax advisory services 0.5 0.7 Other services 0.9 1.0 Total 3.6 4.6 1) With companies of KPMG Europe LLP Group. There are further assignments with other companies of KPMG, in particular in Singapore, the Czech Republic and the USA. 7. Research and development costs Own expenses capitalised relate solely to development costs of internally developed software, involving the following systems and projects in the individual segments: Research and development costs Total expense for software development of which capitalised 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m Xetra Xetra software 5.1 6.9 0.3 3.7 New trading platform Xetra/Eurex 0 1.6 0 0.4 CCP releases 3.4 2.1 0.6 0 8.5 10.6 0.9 4.1 Eurex Eurex software 12.8 17.3 4.2 5.9 New trading platform Xetra/Eurex 27.5 14.7 14.7 11.8 Eurex Clearing Prisma 18.8 8.8 12.6 5.2 New trading platform ISE 5.2 10.9 4.1 7.5 EurexOTC Clear 28.8 4.6 11.8 1.1 93.1 56.3 47.4 31.5 Clearstream Collateral Management and Settlement 41.0 21.8 20.9 14.6 Custody 12.2 12.9 7.7 7.9 Connectivity 4.4 1.9 3.1 1.3 Investment funds 4.3 4.2 2.7 1.3 61.9 40.8 34.4 25.1 Market Data & Analytics 4.1 2.5 0.5 0.7 Research expense 1.0 1.4 0 0 Total 168.6 111.6 83.2 61.4 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 237 Consolidated income statement 8. Result from equity investments Composition of result from equity investments 2012 2011 €m €m Equity method-accounted result of associates Scoach Holding S.A. 4.5 7.7 1) Direct Edge Holdings, LLC 1.9 1.5 European Energy Exchange AG 0.5 6.8 Deutsche Börse Commodities GmbH 0.3 0.2 ID’s SAS 0.1 0.1 Tradegate AG Wertpapierhandelsbank 0 0.2 Total income from equity method measurement 7.3 16.5 Indexium AG – 4.0 – 3.4 Link-Up Capital Markets, S.L. – 0.5 – 0.3 Digital Vega FX Ltd. – 0.1 – 0.2 Hanweck Associates, LLC – 0.1 0 2) Total expenses from equity method measurement from associates – 4.7 – 3.9 Result from associates 2.6 12.6 Result from other equity investments – 6.9 – 9.0 Result from equity investments – 4.3 3.6 1) Direct Edge Holdings, LLC has been classified again as an associate since the restoration of significant influence on 9 February 2012. 2) Including impairments The result from associates in financial year 2012 contains impairment losses of €2.5 million (2011: €3.0 million). These relate to the loan granted to Indexium AG by Deutsche Börse AG, whose recoverability was partially eroded due to the continuing loss situation and the losses in excess of the carrying amount of the investment in Indexium AG. The result from other equity investments includes impairment losses of €10.8 million (2011: €17.2 million) relating to the investment in Quadriserv Inc. The negative performance is attributable to the continuing difficult capital market environment and the company’s declining market share during financial year 2012. Dividends of €10.1 million (2011: €5.8 million) were received from interests in associates and €2.8 million (2011: €2.2 million) from interests in other equity investments in the year under review. 238 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 9. Financial result Composition of financial income 2012 2011 €m €m Interest on reverse repurchase agreements categorised as “loans and receivables” 10.4 51.2 Income from available-for-sale securities 0.7 0.5 Interest on bank balances categorised as “loans and receivables” 0.7 1.5 Other interest and similar income 0.2 0.6 Interest income from associate receivables categorised as “loans and receivables” 0.2 0.1 Interest-like income from revaluation of derivatives held for trading 0.1 0.4 Interest-like income for subsequent measurement of the liability to SIX Group AG 0 80.8 Total 12.3 135.1 Composition of financial expense 2012 2011 €m €m Interest on non-current loans1) 99.7 86.3 Expenses from the unwinding of the discount on and the subsequent measurement of the liability to SIX Group AG 27.4 3.4 Interest on taxes 6.1 9.5 Expenses from the unwinding of the discount on the pension provisions 4.3 2.5 Interest-like expenses for exchange rate differences on liabilities1) 1.8 0.5 Transaction costs of non-current liabilities1) 1.7 1.4 Interest-like expenses for derivatives held as hedging instruments 0.9 1.0 1) Interest on current liabilities 0.9 0.5 Interest paid on Eurex participants’ cash deposits 0 30.6 Other costs 2.2 3.2 Total 145.0 138.9 1) Measured at amortised cost 10. Income tax expense Composition of income tax expense (main components) 2012 2011 €m €m Current income taxes: of the year under review 224.1 278.0 from previous years – 0.3 – 3.5 Deferred tax (income)/expense on temporary differences – 56.9 6.7 Total 166.9 281.2 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 239 Consolidated income statement The total current tax expenses in the amount of €223.8 million include domestic tax expenses of €156.2 million and foreign tax expenses of €67.6 million (2011: domestic tax expenses €201.8 million, foreign tax expenses €72.7 million). The total deferred tax income in the amount of €56.9 million include domestic tax expenses of €6.3 million and foreign tax income of €63.2 million (2011: domestic tax expenses €10.7 million, foreign tax income €4.0 million). As in the previous year, a tax rate of 26 to 28 per cent was used in the reporting period to calculate deferred taxes for the German companies. This reflects trade income tax at multipliers of 280 to 460 per cent (2011: 280 to 460 per cent) on the tax base value of 3.5 per cent (2011: 3.5 per cent), corporation tax of 15 per cent (2011: 15 per cent) and the 5.5 per cent solidarity surcharge (2011: 5.5 per cent) on the corporation tax. A tax rate of 28.80 per cent (2011: 28.80 per cent) was used for the Luxembourgian companies, reflecting trade income tax at a rate of 6.75 per cent (2011: 6.75 per cent) and corporation tax at 22.05 per cent (2011: 22.05 per cent). Tax rates of 17 to 45 per cent were applied to the companies in the UK, Portugal, Singapore, Switzerland, Spain, the Czech Republic and the USA (2011: 17 to 45 per cent). The following table shows the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities as well as the related tax expenses recognised in income or directly in equity. Composition of deferred taxes Exchange Tax expense/(income) rate Deferred recognised directly in Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities differences tax expense/(income) equity 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m €m €m €m €m €m Pension provisions and other employee benefits 43.4 28.5 0 0 – 1.4 1.3 0.9 – 14.81) – 2.51) Other provisions 5.4 7.3 0 0 1.3 0.6 8.2 0 0 Interest-bearing liabilities 0 0 – 0.9 – 0.7 0 0.2 – 0.4 0 0 Intangible assets 0 0 – 13.9 – 10.0 0 3.9 3.0 0 0 Intangible assets from purchase price allocation 0 0 – 248.1 – 274.1 – 3.9 – 22.1 – 7.0 0 0 Non-current assets 0.3 0 0 – 3.6 0 – 3.9 1.2 0 0 Investment securities 0 2.7 – 3.6 0 – 0.1 – 0.4 1.7 6.81) – 6.81) Other non-current assets 4.4 1.5 0 0 0 – 0.1 – 0.9 – 2.81) – 3.21) Losses carried forward 36.4 0 0 0 0 – 36.4 0 0 0 Exchange rate differences 0 0 – 38.3 – 50.4 0 0 0 – 12.12) 21.22) Gross amounts 89.9 40.0 – 304.8 – 338.8 – 4.1 – 56.9 6.7 – 22.9 8.7 Netting of deferred taxes – 30.1 – 15.8 30.1 15.8 – – – Total 59.8 24.2 – 274.7 – 323.0 – 4.1 – 56.9 6.7 – 22.9 8.7 1) Separate disclosure in the consolidated statement of changes in equity under “revaluation surplus” 2) Separate disclosure in the consolidated statement of changes in equity under “accumulated profit” 240 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Changes taken directly to equity relate to deferred taxes on changes in the measurement of securities carried at fair value (see also note 20) and changes in the measurement of pension provisions. €67.4 million (2011: €28.5 million) of deferred tax assets and €242.7 million (2011: €268.5 million) of deferred tax liabilities have an expected remaining maturity of more than one year. Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the tax on future dividends that may be paid from retained earnings by subsidiaries and associated companies. In accordance with section 8b (5) of the Körperschaftsteuergesetz (KStG, the German Corporation Tax Act), 5 per cent of dividends and similar income received by German companies is treated as non-deductible expenses for tax purposes. Reconciliation between the expected and the reported tax expense 2012 2011 €m €m Expected income taxes derived from earnings before tax 217.5 301.3 Tax losses utilised and tax ineffective losses carried forward 22.4 11.5 Recognition of deferred taxes on losses carried forward – 36.4 0 Tax increases due to other non-tax-deductible expenses 7.8 4.6 Effects resulting from different tax rates – 21.7 7.1 Tax decreases due to dividends and income from the disposal of equity investments – 21.5 – 24.7 Exchange rate differences – 0.6 – 14.7 Other – 0.3 – 0.4 Income tax expense arising from current year 167.2 284.7 Prior-period income taxes – 0.3 – 3.5 Income tax expense 166.9 281.2 To determine the expected tax expense, earnings before tax have been multiplied by the composite tax rate of 26 per cent assumed for 2012 (2011: 26 per cent). At the end of the financial year, accumulated unused tax losses amounted to €176.3 million (2011: €97.6 million), for which no deferred tax assets were recognised. The unused tax losses amounting to €176.3 million are attributable to domestic losses totalling €7.2 million and to foreign tax losses totalling €169.1 million (2011: domestic tax losses €5.9 million, foreign tax losses €91.7 million). Tax losses of €1.4 million were utilised in 2012 (2011: €1.3 million). The losses can be carried forward in Germany subject to the minimum taxation rules, and in Luxembourg indefinitely as the law now stands. Losses in other countries can be carried forward for periods of up to 20 years. Tax decreases due to dividends and the disposal of equity investments for 2012 which include a one-off increase of €7.1 million resulting from the remeasurement of the purchase price liability to be settled in shares for the acquisition of the Swiss derivatives business (2011: one-off decrease of €20.1 million resulting from the remeasurement of the purchase price liability to be settled in shares for the acquisition of the Swiss derivatives business). Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 241 Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated balance sheet disclosures 11. Intangible assets Intangible assets Payments on Internally account and Other Purchased developed construction intangible software software Goodwill in progress1) assets Total €m €m €m €m €m €m Historical cost as at 1 Jan 2011 306.2 762.5 2,070.3 65.2 1,931.5 5,135.7 Changes in the basis of consolidation2) 0 0 3.1 0 0 3.1 Additions 10.3 4.4 1.6 57.0 0.7 74.0 Disposals – 15.3 – 83.1 – 0.7 0 – 0.9 – 100.0 Reclassifications 2.7 66.3 0 – 65.7 0 3.3 Exchange rate differences 0.3 1.4 31.6 – 0.2 49.0 82.1 Historical cost as at 31 Dec 2011 304.2 751.5 2,105.9 56.3 1,980.3 5,198.2 Changes in the basis of consolidation3) 0 0 4.0 0 0 4.0 Additions 17.9 8.7 0.1 74.5 0 101.2 Disposals – 36.3 – 38.4 0 0 – 3.1 – 77.8 Reclassifications 0 45.4 0 – 45.4 0 0 Exchange rate differences – 0.2 – 0.6 – 20.9 0 – 31.8 – 53.5 Historical cost as at 31 Dec 2012 285.6 766.6 2,089.1 85.4 1,945.4 5,172.1 Amortisation and impairment losses as at 1 Jan 2011 289.4 729.1 10.7 0 1,016.6 2,045.8 Amortisation 10.9 22.7 0 0 18.4 52.0 Disposals – 15.3 – 83.1 0 0 – 0.8 – 99.2 Reclassifications – 0.5 0.5 0 0 0 0 Exchange rate differences 0 0.8 0 0 35.0 35.8 Amortisation and impairment losses as at 31 Dec 2011 284.5 670.0 10.7 0 1,069.2 2,034.4 Amortisation 10.1 29.9 0 0 19.5 59.5 Disposals – 36.2 – 38.3 0 0 – 3.1 – 77.6 Exchange rate differences – 0.1 – 0.4 0 0 – 22.5 – 23.0 Amortisation and impairment losses as at 31 Dec 2012 258.3 661.2 10.7 0 1,063.1 1,993.3 Carrying amount as at 1 Jan 2011 16.8 33.4 2,059.6 65.2 914.9 3,089.9 Carrying amount as at 31 Dec 2011 19.7 81.5 2,095.2 56.3 911.1 3,163.8 Carrying amount as at 31 Dec 2012 27.3 105.4 2,078.4 85.4 882.3 3,178.8 1) Additions in payments on account and construction in progress in the year under review relate exclusively to internally developed software. 2) This relates exclusively to additions as part of the acquisition of Open Finance, S.L. 3) This relates exclusively to additions as part of the acquisition of Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Ltd. 242 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Software, payments on account and construction in progress Additions to and reclassifications of software relate primarily to the development of software products for the Clearstream segment and to the development of the new derivatives platform and risk margining and clearing systems of the Eurex segment. Carrying amounts of software and construction in progress as well as remaining amortisation periods of software Carrying amount Remaining amortisation period as at as at 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m years years Xetra (software applications) Xetra Release 12.0 2.7 3.4 3.9 4.9 Xetra Release 10.0 1.0 1.7 1.5 2.5 3.7 5.1 Eurex (software applications) ISE trading platform including applications 36.6 41.6 4.3 5.3 CCP 7.0 Securities Lending 5.9 1.8 4.9 n.a. EurexOTC Clear 4.9 1.1 4.9 n.a. Eurex 14.0 – Rappidd 1.9 1.7 4.9 n.a. 49.3 46.2 Eurex (construction in progress) Derivatives trading platform 27.9 13.2 n.a. n.a. Eurex Clearing Prisma 17.8 5.2 n.a. n.a. Eurex Release 14.0 Clearing 10.0 2.1 n.a. n.a. 55.7 20.5 Clearstream (software applications) Custody 18.2 11.4 4.7 n.a. Settlement 15.7 21.2 2.7– 3.7 3.7– 4.7 Global Securities Financing (GSF) 7.0 9.1 2.2– 4.2 1.5– 4.5 Investment funds 1.2 1.5 3.2 1.5– 4.2 42.1 43.2 Clearstream (construction in progress) Settlement 12.9 1.3 n.a. n.a. Custody 6.5 n.a. n.a. n.a. Investment funds 3.7 0.9 n.a. n.a. Global Securities Financing (GSF) 2.3 n.a. n.a. n.a. 25.4 2.2 Other software assets and construction in progress1) 14.6 20.6 Total 190.8 137.8 1) Each with a carrying amount of less than €1.0 million as at 31 December 2012 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 243 Consolidated balance sheet Goodwill Changes in goodwill Clearstream ISE STOXX Other Total goodwill €m €m €m €m €m Balance as at 1 Jan 2012 1,063.8 982.0 32.6 16.8 2,095.2 Changes in the basis of consolidation 0 0 0 4.0 4.0 Exchange rate differences 0 – 20.7 0 – 0.2 – 20.9 Additions 0 0 0 0.1 0.1 Balance as at 31 Dec 2012 1,063.8 961.3 32.6 20.7 2,078.4 The impairment test was performed by allocating the goodwill to the following groups of cash-generating units (CGUs): Goodwill allocation to the groups of cash-generating units (CGUs) CGU Market CGU Data & CGU Clearstream CGU Eurex Analytics Clearstream segment segment segment Ireland CGU Infobolsa Total goodwill €m €m €m €m €m €m Balance as at 31 Dec 2012 1,063.8 961.3 43.3 4.0 6.0 2,078.4 Goodwill, the stock exchange licence acquired as part of the acquisition of ISE as well as the acquired trade name of STOXX Ltd. are intangible assets with an indefinite useful life. The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units with allocated goodwill were based either on their values in use (CGU Clearstream segment and CGU Eurex segment) or on their fair value less costs to sell (CGU Market Data & Analytics segment, CGU Infobolsa and CGU Clearstream Ireland). Only in cases in which one of these values (value in use or fair value less costs to sell) does not exceed the carrying amount, the respective other value is calculated. Since there is no active market for the cash-generating units, a discounted cash flow method was used to calculate both value in use and fair value less costs to sell. The key assumptions made to determine the recoverable amounts vary depending on the cashgenerating unit concerned. Pricing or market share assumptions are based on past experience or market research. Other key assumptions are mainly based on external factors. Significant macroeconomic indicators include, for instance, equity index levels, volatility of equity indices, as well as interest rates, exchange rates, GDP growth, unemployment levels and government debt. The discount rate is based on a risk-free interest rate between 2.0 and 2.1 per cent and a market risk premium of 6.5 per cent. It is used to calculate individual discount rates for each cash-generating unit that reflect the beta factors, the cost of debt and capital structure of the peer groups concerned. 244 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Each calculation of the sensitivities stated below was based on the adaption of a parameter (discount rate, sales revenue and growth rate of a perpetual annuity), by assuming that all other parameters in the evaluation model remain unchanged. Possible correlations between the parameters were not considered. Eurex The goodwill resulting from the acquisition of ISE is allocated to a group of cash-generating units in the Eurex segment. Since the ISE goodwill had been calculated in US dollars, an exchange rate difference of €–20.7 million occurred in 2012 (2011: €31.2 million). Assumptions on volumes of index and interest rate derivatives and volumes in the US equity options market, which were derived from external sources, were the key criteria applied to determine the value in use with the discounted cash flow method. Cash flows were projected over a five-year period (2013 to 2017) for European as well as US activities. Cash flow projections beyond this period were, as in the previous year, extrapolated assuming a 1.0 per cent growth rate. The pre-tax discount rate used was 13.0 per cent (2011: 12.4 per cent). Neither an increase in the discount rate by 1.0 per cent nor a reduction in the planned sales revenue by 5.0 per cent per year nor a decrease in the growth rate of the perpetual annuity to 0 per cent would lead to a goodwill impairment in the cash-generating unit Eurex. Clearstream The “Clearstream” goodwill is allocated to the Clearstream cash-generating unit. The recoverable amount is determined on the basis of the value in use applying the discounted cash flow method. Assumptions on assets held in custody, transaction volumes and market interest rates were the key criteria used to determine value in use. Cash flows were projected over a three-year period (2013 to 2015). Cash flow projections beyond 2015 were extrapolated assuming a perpetual annuity with a growth rate of 2.5 per cent (2011: 2.5 per cent). The pre-tax discount rate used was calculated on the basis of the cost of equity and amounted to 13.1 per cent (2011: 11.8 per cent). Neither an increase in the discount rate by 1.0 per cent nor a reduction in the planned sales revenue by 5.0 per cent per year nor a decrease in the growth rate to 0 per cent would lead to a goodwill impairment in the cash-generating unit Clearstream. Clearstream Ireland The goodwill from the acquisition of Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Ltd. is allocated to the separate cash-generating unit, “Clearstream Ireland”. The recoverable amount is determined on the basis of fair value less costs to sell, applying the discounted cash flow method. Cash flows were projected over a Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 245 Consolidated balance sheet five-year period (2013 to 2017). To reach a steady state, the detailed planning period was extrapolated to 2020 and no further growth was assumed for the perpetual annuity thereafter. The after-tax discount rate used was calculated on the basis of the cost of equity and amounted to 14.5 per cent. Neither an increase in the discount rate by 1.0 per cent nor a reduction in the planned sales revenue by 5.0 per cent per year nor a decrease in the growth rate of the perpetual annuity to 0 per cent would lead to a goodwill impairment in the cash-generating unit Clearstream Ireland. Market Data & Analytics The goodwill arising from the acquisition of STOXX Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland, in 2009 was allocated to a group of cash-generating units in the Market Data & Analytics segment. It results primarily from the strong position of STOXX Ltd. in European indices as well as from growth prospects in the production and sale of tick data for indices, the development, maintenance and enhancements of index formulas and from the customising of indices. The goodwill of US$7.9 million that arose in the course of the acquisition of Market News International Inc. (MNI), New York, USA, by Deutsche Börse AG in 2009 was allocated to the Market Data & Analytics segment and relates to access to global, trade-related information such as news from public authorities and supranational organisations. The goodwill of US$3.0 million that arose in the course of the acquisition by MNI of 100 per cent of the shares in Need to Know News, LLC, Chicago, USA, was also allocated to the Market Data & Analytics segment. The recoverable amount of the Market Data & Analytics segment is determined on the basis of the fair value less costs to sell. The key assumptions made related to the expected development of future data and licence income as well as of the customer base; these are based both on external sources of information and on internal expectations that correspond to the budget values for financial year 2013. Cash flows were planned over a five-year period, with projections for periods beyond this assuming a perpetual annuity with a growth rate of 2.0 per cent (2011: 2.5 per cent). The after-tax discount rate used was 9.2 per cent (2011: 8.4 per cent). Neither an increase in the discount rate by 1.0 per cent nor a reduction in the planned sales revenue by 5.0 per cent per year nor a decrease in the growth rate of the perpetual annuity to 0 per cent would lead to a goodwill impairment in the cash-generating unit Market Data & Analytics. Infobolsa The goodwill from the acquisition of the Infobolsa subgroup (including the goodwill from the acquisition of the shares in Open Finance S.L.) was allocated to the Infobolsa cash-generating unit. The recoverable amount was determined on the basis of fair value less costs to sell, applying the discounted cash flow method. The assumptions on which the calculation is based are derived from external sources of information and internal management expectations. Cash flows were planned over a five-year period, with projections for periods beyond this assuming a perpetual annuity with a growth rate of 2.0 per cent (2011: 2.5 per cent). The after-tax discount rate used was 9.2 per cent (2011: 8.4 per cent). 246 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Neither an increase in the discount rate by 1.0 per cent nor a decrease in the growth rate of the perpetual annuity to 0 per cent would lead to a goodwill impairment in the cash-generating unit Infobolsa. A reduction in the planned sales revenue by 5.0 per cent per year would lead to a goodwill impairment in the cash-generating unit Infobolsa amounting to €0.7 million. Other intangible assets Changes in other intangible assets Market data Customer Member customer relationMiscelISE’s relationrelationSTOXX ships laneous exchange ships ships of ISE trade trade of STOXX intangible licence of ISE ISE name name Ltd. assets Total €m €m €m €m €m €m €m €m Balance as at 1 Jan 2012 115.2 317.7 18.2 4.7 420.0 30.8 4.5 911.1 Amortisation 0 – 12.2 – 0.7 – 0.8 0 – 3.1 – 2.7 – 19.5 Exchange rate differences – 2.4 – 6.5 – 0.4 – 0.1 0 0 0.1 – 9.3 Balance as at 31 Dec 2012 112.8 299.0 17.1 3.8 420.0 27.7 1.9 882.3 Remaining amortisation period (years) − 25 25 5 − 9 Other intangible assets: ISE ISE’s other intangible assets were tested for impairment at the end of the year. The recoverable amount of these assets was calculated on the basis of the value in use of the ISE cash-generating unit, which is attributable to the Eurex segment. The cash-generating unit of the ISE subgroup is the US options exchange International Securities Exchange, LLC. The key assumptions made, which are based on analysts’ estimates, relate to expected volumes and transaction prices on the US options market. Cash flows were projected over a five-year period (2013 to 2017). A 2.5 per cent growth rate was assumed beyond 2017 (2011: 2.5 per cent). The pre-tax discount rate used was 16.2 per cent (2011: 16.6 per cent). Exchange licence of ISE In the course of the purchase price allocation carried out in December 2007, the fair value of the exchange licence was determined. The exchange licence, granted in 2000 by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, permits the ISE subgroup to operate as a regulated securities exchange in the United States. The exchange licence held by the ISE subgroup is estimated to have an indefinite useful life, because the licence itself does not have a finite term and Eurex management expects to maintain the licence as part of its overall business strategy. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 247 Consolidated balance sheet The exchange licence does not generate cash flows largely independent from those generated by the ISE subgroup as a whole. Consequently, the exchange licence is allocated to the ISE subgroup as the cash-generating unit. Member relationships and market data customer relationships of ISE In the context of the purchase price allocation, the fair values of member and customer relationships were calculated. Both assets are being amortised over a period of 30 years using the straight-line method. Cash flows do not result from either the member or the customer relationships which would be independent of the entire ISE subgroup. Consequently, both items are allocated to the cash-generating unit “ISE subgroup”. ISE trade name The ISE trade name is registered as a trade name and therefore meets the IFRS criterion for recognition separately from goodwill. In accordance with the purchase price allocation of December 2007, the asset is being amortised over a period of ten years using the straight-line method. As there are no cash inflows that are generated independently from the ISE subgroup, the trade name is also allocated to the cashgenerating unit “ISE subgroup”. An increase in the discount rate by 1.0 per cent, a reduction in the planned sales revenue by 5.0 per cent per year or a decrease in the growth rate of the perpetual annuity to 0 per cent would lead to an impairment in the other intangible assets in the cash-generating unit ISE amounting to a volume of €20 million to €50 million. A more positive development of the parameters in future could, in contrast to the assumptions above, result in a reversal of impairment of the other intangible assets of ISE. Other intangible assets: STOXX The STOXX trade name, the company’s customer relationships as well as fully amortised non-compete agreements and other intangible assets were identified as part of the acquisition of STOXX Ltd. and allocated to the STOXX cash-generating unit, as they do not generate cash independently. The STOXX cashgenerating unit was allocated to the Market Data & Analytics segment. The impairment test was based on fair value less costs to sell, taking into account expected developments in the licence and sales fees for indices and data. Cash flows were projected over a five-year period (2013 to 2017). Cash flow projections beyond 2017 were extrapolated assuming a 2.0 per cent (2011: 2.0 per cent) growth rate. The after-tax discount rate amounted to 10.2 per cent (2011: 9.4 per cent). STOXX trade name The STOXX trade name includes the trade name itself, the index methodologies and the Internet domains because these can generally not be transferred separately. As the trade name is registered, it meets the IFRS criterion for recognition separately from goodwill. An indefinite useful life was assumed for the STOXX brand name given its history and the fact that it is well known on the market. 248 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Customer relationships of STOXX STOXX Ltd. has relationships with customers, which are based on signed contracts and thus meet the identifiability criterion for recognition separately from goodwill. Neither an increase in the discount rate by 1.0 per cent nor a reduction in the planned sales revenue by 5.0 per cent per year nor a decrease in the growth rate of the perpetual annuity to 0 per cent would lead to a goodwill impairment in the other intangible assets in the cash-generating unit STOXX. 12. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment Computer hardware, Payments on operating and account and Fixtures and office construction fittings equipment in progress Total €m €m €m €m Historical cost as at 1 Jan 2011 87.7 300.7 29.0 417.4 Additions 1.8 38.3 1.5 41.6 Disposals – 25.6 – 17.9 – 5.2 – 48.7 Reclassifications 10.0 9.6 – 22.9 – 3.3 Exchange rate differences 1.5 0.4 – 2.3 – 0.4 Historical cost as at 31 Dec 2011 75.4 331.1 0.1 406.6 Additions 6.6 36.2 1.7 44.5 Disposals – 3.4 – 37.3 0 – 40.7 Reclassifications 0.1 0 – 0.1 0 Exchange rate differences – 0.2 – 0.2 0 – 0.4 Historical cost as at 31 Dec 2012 78.5 329.8 1.7 410.0 Depreciation and impairment losses as at 1 Jan 2011 48.7 230.5 0 279.2 Depreciation 6.0 33.4 0 39.4 Disposals – 25.6 – 17.5 0 – 43.1 Exchange rate differences 0.3 – 0.3 0 0 Depreciation and impairment losses as at 31 Dec 2011 29.4 246.1 0 275.5 Depreciation 7.6 37.9 0 45.5 Disposals – 2.0 – 37.0 0 – 39.0 Exchange rate differences – 0.1 – 0.1 0 – 0.2 Depreciation and impairment losses as at 31 Dec 2012 34.9 246.9 0 281.8 Carrying amount as at 1 Jan 2011 39.0 70.2 29.0 138.2 Carrying amount as at 31 Dec 2011 46.0 85.0 0.1 131.1 Carrying amount as at 31 Dec 2012 43.6 82.9 1.7 128.2 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 249 Consolidated balance sheet 13. Financial assets Financial assets Receivables and securities from Other financial Investments in Other equity banking instruments and associates investments business loans €m €m €m €m Historical cost as at 1 Jan 2011 170.5 68.7 1,550.7 13.0 Additions 66.1 2.8 330.0 12.2 Disposals – 23.7 – 11.1 – 210.8 – 0.5 Addition/(reversal) premium/discount 0 0 – 0.3 0 Reclassifications – 83.2 83.2 – 236.11) – 4.0 Exchange rate differences 2.8 0.6 – 1.9 0.9 Historical cost as at 31 Dec 2011 132.5 144.2 1,431.6 21.6 Additions 2.2 2.6 80.5 7.23) Disposals – 21.5 – 2.6 0 – 1.3 Addition/(reversal) premium/discount 0 0 0 0 1) Reclassifications 68.8 – 82.4 – 25.0 0 Exchange rate differences 0.5 – 2.9 – 0.1 – 0.2 Historical cost as at 31 Dec 2012 182.5 58.9 1,487.0 27.3 Revaluation as at 1 Jan 2011 2.1 – 4.0 4.9 0.1 Disposals of impairment losses 0 0.3 0 0 Dividends – 5.8 0 0 0 Net income from equity method measurement2) 15.6 0 0 0 Currency translation differences recognised directly in equity – 0.8 0 0 0 Currency translation differences recognised in profit or loss – 0.6 0 0 0 Other fair value changes recognised directly in equity – 1.7 – 0.8 0 0 Other fair value changes recognised in profit or loss 0 6.0 0 – 3.0 Market price changes recognised directly in equity 0 0 – 26.4 – 1.5 Market price changes recognised in profit or loss 0 – 17.2 – 1.7 0 1) Reclassifications 16.8 – 16.8 – 3.8 0 Revaluation as at 31 Dec 2011 25.6 – 32.5 – 27.0 – 4.4 Disposals of impairment losses 0 10.4 0 0 Dividends – 10.1 0 0 0 Net income from equity method measurement2) 7.0 0 0 0 Currency translation differences recognised directly in equity 1.3 0.4 0 0.3 Currency translation differences recognised in profit or loss 0.1 0 0 0 Other fair value changes recognised directly in equity 0 0.3 0 0 Other fair value changes recognised in profit or loss 0 0 0 – 2.5 Market price changes recognised directly in equity – 2.0 0 25.0 0.9 Market price changes recognised in profit or loss 0 – 10.8 0 0 Reclassifications 0.4 0 0 0 Revaluation as at 31 Dec 2012 22.3 – 32.2 – 2.0 – 5.7 Carrying amount as at 1 Jan 2011 172.6 64.7 1,555.6 13.1 Carrying amount as at 31 Dec 2011 158.1 111.7 1,404.6 17.2 Carrying amount as at 31 Dec 2012 204.8 26.7 1,485.0 21.6 1) Reclassified as current receivables and securities from banking business 2) Included in the result from equity investments 3) Thereof part of a pledge agreement with the Industrieund Handelskammer (IHK, the Chamber of Commerce) Frankfurt/Main: €5.0 million. 250 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 For details on revaluations and market price changes recognised directly in equity, see also note 20. Other equity investments include available-for-sale shares. In the year under review, impairment losses amounting to €13.3 million (2011: €20.2 million) were recognised in the income statement. €2.5 million (2011: 3.0 million) of these impairment losses relate to loans which were impaired as part of the equity method measurement of Indexium AG and €10.8 million (2011: €17.2 million) to unlisted equity instruments. See note 8 for further details. Composition of receivables and securities from banking business 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Fixed-income securities from other credit institutions 858.2 763.7 from multilateral banks 467.1 425.3 from regional or local public bodies 159.7 40.6 from sovereign issuers 0 0 Other receivables1) – 175.0 Total 1,485.0 1,404.6 1) Secured through total return swaps Securities from banking business include financial instruments listed on a stock exchange amounting to €1,485.0 million (2011: €1,229.6 million). 14. Derivatives and hedges Deutsche Börse Group generally uses derivative financial instruments to hedge existing or highly probable forecast transactions. The derivatives are included in the positions “other non-current assets”, “other non-current liabilities” as well as “receivables and securities from banking business”, “liabilities from banking business” and “other current liabilities”. Derivatives (fair value) Note Assets Note Liabilities 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m €m €m Fair value hedges long-term – – – – short-term – – 28 – – 1.2 Cash flow hedges long-term – 0.9 – – 4.8 short-term 16 0.4 – 30 – 14.6 – Derivatives held for trading long-term – – – – short-term 16 0.1 45.8 28 – 16.7 – Total 0.5 46.7 – 31.3 – 6.0 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 251 Consolidated balance sheet As a result of the acquisition of Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Ltd., Clearstream International S.A. entered into three written put options which will be settled by delivery of equity instruments of Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Ltd. As at 31 December 2012, these options had a fair value of €3.4 million and are reported under “other non-current liabilities” and “other current liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheet. Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps, under which a fixed interest rate is paid and a variable rate is received, have been used to hedge the value of certain fixed-rate available-for-sale financial instruments. The following table gives an overview of the notional amount of the positions covered by fair value hedges at 31 December 2012: Outstanding positions fair value hedges 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Notional amount of pay-fixed interest rate swaps – 81.4 Fair value of pay-fixed interest rate swaps – – 1.2 Net hedging ineffectiveness – 0.2 0.1 Losses on hedged items – 1.0 – 1.8 Gains on hedging instruments 0.8 1.9 Cash flow hedges Development of cash flow hedges 2012 2011 €m €m Cash flow hedges as at 1 January – 3.9 9.9 Amount recognised in equity during the year – 9.4 – 12.3 Amount recognised in profit or loss during the year – – 0.5 Premium paid – – Realised losses – 0.9 – 1.0 Cash flow hedges as at 31 December – 14.2 – 3.9 252 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The following table gives an overview of the notional amount of the positions covered by cash flow hedges at 31 December 2012: Outstanding positions cash flow hedges Forward rate agreement Foreign exchange transactions 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Number 2 2 12 – Notional amount €m 300.0 300.0 24.9 – Fair value €m – 14.6 – 3.9 0.4 – In 2013, some of the bonds issued by Deutsche Börse AG will mature. To partially hedge future refinancing transactions which will occur in all probability, a forward interest rate payer swap and a payer swaption were used to (conditionally) lock in prevailing (forward) interest rate levels which were judged to be attractive. In October 2012, the Clearstream subgroup entered into twelve forward foreign exchange transactions amounting to US$2.7 million each, maturing at the end of each month in the period from January 2013 to December 2013 to hedge part of the expected US dollar sales revenue by converting it into euro thereby mitigating the risk of a devaluation of the US dollar. The contracts had a positive fair value of €0.4 million as at 31 December 2012. This positive fair value was included in the “receivables and securities from banking business” item, see note 16. Hedges of a net investment In connection with the private placements in the USA, the bonds of the series A to C were designated as hedges against currency risk arising from the translation of the foreign functional currency US dollar into euro in order to hedge the net investment in the ISE subgroup. Composition of private placements1) Type Issue volume Equivalent Term 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 as at emission from until US$m €m €m €m Series A 170.0 128.8 131.6 110.2 12 June 2008 10 June 2015 Series B 220.0 166.7 170.3 142.7 12 June 2008 10 June 2018 Series C 70.0 53.1 54.2 45.4 12 June 2008 10 June 2020 Total 460.0 348.6 356.1 298.3 1) Presented under “interest-bearing liabilities”. See section “Results of operations” of the combined management report. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 253 Consolidated balance sheet Effective exchange rate differences from the private placements are reported in the balance sheet item “accumulated profit”, as are exchange rate differences from the translation of foreign subsidiaries. €50.0 million (2011: €57.5 million) has been recognised cumulatively in this item directly in equity. There was no ineffective portion of the net investment hedges in 2012 and 2011. Derivatives held for trading Foreign exchange swaps as at 31 December 2012 expiring in less than three months with a notional value of €2,302.9 million (2011: €2,684.0 million) had a negative fair value of €16.7 million (2011: positive fair value of €45.8 million). These swaps were entered into to convert foreign currencies received through the issue of commercial paper by the banking business into euros, and to hedge shortterm foreign currency receivables and liabilities in euros economically. These are reported under “current receivables and securities from banking business” and “liabilities from banking business” in the balance sheet (see also note 16 and 28). As at 31 December 2012, there was one forward exchange transaction in US dollars classified as held for trading. The forward contract of US$10 million matures on 1 August 2013. This transaction intends to economically hedge a future foreign currency receivable within the Group that has not yet arisen at the balance sheet date. Outstanding positions derivatives transactions Foreign exchange swaps Foreign exchange futures 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Number 77 61 1 – Notional amount €m 2,302.9 2,684.0 – – Notional amount US$m – – 10.0 – Positive fair value €m – 45.8 0.1 – Negative fair value €m – 16.7 – – – 15. Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG Composition of financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Forward transactions in bonds and repo transactions 162,533.1 159,604.5 Options 15,430.3 23,384.4 Other 93.1 629.2 Total 178,056.5 183,618.1 254 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Receivables and liabilities that may be offset against a clearing member are reported net. See note 36 for details on the deposited collateral held by Eurex Clearing AG relating to its financial instruments. 16. Current receivables and securities from banking business In addition to non-current receivables and securities from banking business that are classified as noncurrent financial assets (see note 13), the following receivables and securities from banking business, attributable solely to the Clearstream subgroup, were classified as current assets as at 31 December 2012. Composition of current receivables and securities from banking business 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Loans to banks and customers Reverse repurchase agreements 2,847.4 5,567.8 Money market lendings 7,729.6 5,907.5 Balances on nostro accounts 1,975.4 1,810.9 Overdrafts from settlement business 228.4 559.6 12,780.8 13,845.8 Available-for-sale debt instruments 25.0 242.1 Interest receivables 2.0 10.4 Forward foreign exchange transactions1) 0.4 45.8 Total 12,808.2 14,144.1 1) See note 14. Overdrafts from settlement business represent short-term loans of up to two days’ duration that are usually secured by collateral. Potential concentrations of credit risk are monitored against counterparty credit limits (see note 36). Remaining maturity of loans to banks and customers 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Not more than 3 months 12,780.8 13,455.2 More than 3 months but not more than 1 year 0 390.6 Total 12,780.8 13,845.8 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 255 Consolidated balance sheet All of the securities held as at 31 December 2012 and 2011 were listed and issued by sovereign or sovereign-guaranteed issuers. Remaining maturity of available-for-sale debt instruments 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Not more than 3 months 0 38.7 3 months to 1 year 25.0 203.4 Total 25.0 242.1 17. Development of allowance against trade receivables As in the previous year, there were no trade receivables due after more than one year as at 31 December 2012. Allowance account €m Balance as at 1 Jan 2011 7.1 Additions 1.7 Utilisation – 0.8 Reversal – 0.5 Balance as at 31 Dec 2011 7.5 Additions 1.5 Utilisation – 0.1 Reversal – 0.8 Balance as at 31 Dec 2012 8.1 In the current year irrecoverable receivables of €0.7 million were written off, for which no provision for doubtful debts had been recognised. 256 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 18. Other current assets Composition of other current assets 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Other receivables from CCP transactions 87.7 108.3 Tax receivables (excluding income taxes) 21.5 18.3 Prepaid expenses 20.8 24.1 Receivables from insurance companies 2.0 1.6 Receivable from forward foreign exchange transaction 0 7.3 Collection business 0 4.4 Debt instrument1) 0 4.0 Miscellaneous 6.6 5.9 Total 138.6 173.9 1) Relates to a release of pledge and pledge agreement with IHK Frankfurt / Main (the Frankfurt / Main Chamber of Industry and Commerce) Miscellaneous other current assets include a certificate of deposit of €1.4 million (2011: €1.4 million) used as collateral for two letters of credit. 19. Restricted bank balances Amounts reported separately under liabilities as cash deposits by market participants are restricted. Such amounts totalling €19,450.6 million (2011: €13,861.5 million) are mainly invested via bilateral or triparty reverse repurchase agreements and in the form of overnight deposits at banks (restricted bank balances). Government or government-guaranteed bonds, mortgage bonds and bank bonds with an external rating of at least AA– are accepted as collateral for the reverse repurchase agreements. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 257 Consolidated balance sheet 20. Equity Changes in equity are presented in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. As at 31 December 2012, the number of no-par value registered shares of Deutsche Börse AG issued was 193,000,000 (31 December 2011: 195,000,000). Transaction costs of €–0.1 million incurred in connection with the buy-back of 4,724,005 no-par value registered shares were recognised directly in equity (2011: €0.1 million). Subject to the agreement of the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board is authorised to increase the subscribed share capital by the following amounts:  an Arbeitnehmer der Gesellschaft oder der mit ihr verbundenen Unternehmen im Sinne der §§ 15ff. Aktiengesetz (AktG) erfolgt, wobei ein anteiliger Betrag des Grundkapitals von bis zu 3 Mio. € nicht überschritten werden darf. Composition of authorised share capital Date of authorisation by the Existing shareholders’ pre-emptive rights may be disapplied for Amount in € shareholders Expiry date fractioning and/or may be disapplied if the share issue is: Authorised share 5,200,000 12 May 2011 11 May 2016  against non-cash contributions for the purpose of acquiring capital I companies, parts of companies, or interests in companies, or other assets. Authorised share 27,800,000 27 May 2010 26 May 2015  for cash at an issue price not significantly lower than the stock capital II exchange price up to a maximum amount of 10 per cent of the nominal capital to issue new shares.  to employees of the company or affiliated companies with the meaning of sections 15ff. of the Aktiengesetz (AktG, German Stock Corporation Act), with the pro rata amount of the share capital not allowed to exceed €3 million.  against non-cash contributions for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts of companies, interests in companies, or other assets. Authorised share 19,500,000 27 May 2010 26 May 2015 n.a. capital III Authorised share 6,000,000 16 May 2012 15 May 2017  for the issuance of up to 900,000 new shares per year to capital IV Executive Board members and employees of the company as well as to the management and employees of affiliated companies within the meaning of sections 15ff. of the AktG. In addition to authorised share capital I, II, III and IV, the company has contingent capital I that was created to issue up to 6,000,000 shares to settle stock options under the Group Share Plan (see note 39). There were no further subscription rights for shares as at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011. 258 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Revaluation surplus The revaluation surplus results from the revaluation of securities and other current and non-current financial instruments at their fair value less deferred taxes, as well as the value of the stock options under the Group Share Plan for which no cash settlement was provided at the balance sheet date (see note 39). This item also contains reserves from an existing investment in an associate, which were recognised in connection with the acquisition of further shares, as the company was fully consolidated as of this date. Following the revision of the accounting policies for defined benefit obligations, actuarial gains and losses are directly recognised in revaluation surplus. See also note 1. Revaluation surplus Recognition of hidden Other equity Securities from reserves from fair value investments (financial banking business measurement assets) (financial assets) €m €m €m Balance as at 1 Jan 2011 (gross) 103.7 8.8 – 0.2 Changes from defined benefit obligations 0 0 0 Fair value measurement 0 – 0.8 – 27.7 Increase in share-based payments 0 0 0 Reversal to profit or loss 0 – 4.9 1.2 Balance as at 31 Dec 2011 (gross) 103.7 3.1 – 26.7 Changes from defined benefit obligations 0 0 0 Fair value measurement 0 0.4 25.0 Increase in share-based payments 0 0 0 Reclassification taken directly to equity 0 0 0 Reversal to profit or loss 0 – 1.6 0 Balance as at 31 Dec 2012 (gross) 103.7 1.9 – 1.7 Deferred taxes Balance as at 1 Jan 2011 0 – 0.5 0.1 Additions 0 0 7.4 Reversals 0 – 0.1 0 Balance as at 31 Dec 2011 0 – 0.6 7.5 Additions 0 0.1 0 Reversals 0 0 – 7.2 Balance as at 31 Dec 2012 0 – 0.5 0.3 Balance as at 1 Jan 2011 (net) 103.7 8.3 – 0.1 Balance as at 31 Dec 2011 (net) 103.7 2.5 – 19.2 Balance as at 31 Dec 2012 (net) 103.7 1.4 – 1.4 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 259 Consolidated balance sheet Other financial Current securities instruments from banking GSP and SBP Defined benefit (financial assets) business Cash flow hedges options obligations Total €m €m €m €m €m €m 0.2 0 10.5 4.6 – 45.1 82.5 0 0 0 0 – 9.0 – 9.0 – 1.5 2.6 – 12.3 0 0 – 39.7 0 0 0 – 2.2 0 – 2.2 0 – 1.1 – 1.4 0 0 – 6.2 – 1.3 1.5 – 3.2 2.4 – 54.1 25.4 0 0 0 0 – 53.7 – 53.7 0.9 – 1.6 – 10.0 0 0 14.7 0 0 0 – 2.4 0 – 2.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.2 – 0.4 0 0 – 1.8 – 0.4 0.1 – 13.6 0 – 107.8 – 17.8 0 0 – 2.3 0 11.5 8.8 0 0 3.4 0 2.5 13.3 0 – 0.5 – 0.2 0 0 – 0.8 0 – 0.5 0.9 0 14.0 21.3 0 0.4 2.8 0 14.8 18.1 0 0 – 0.1 0 0 – 7.3 0 – 0.1 3.6 0 28.8 32.1 0.2 0 8.2 4.6 – 33.6 91.3 – 1.3 1.0 – 2.3 2.4 – 40.1 46.7 – 0.4 0 – 10.0 0 – 79.0 14.3 260 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Accumulated profit The “accumulated profit” item includes exchange rate differences amounting to €82.3 million (2011: €105.5 million). €30.7 million was withdrawn due to currency translation for foreign subsidiaries in the year under review (2011: additions €59.3 million) and €7.5 million was added relating to a net investment hedge that was used to hedge the net investment in ISE against currency risk (2011: withdrawal €11.4 million). Regulatory capital requirements and regulatory capital ratios Clearstream Banking S.A., Clearstream Banking AG and Eurex Clearing AG as well as the regulatory Clearstream group are subject to solvency supervision by the German or Luxembourg banking supervisory authorities (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, BaFin, and Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier, CSSF, respectively). All companies that are subject to this supervision are non-trading-book institutions. Market price risk positions consist only of a relatively small open foreign currency position. As a result of these companies’ specific businesses, their risk-weighted assets are subject to sharp fluctuations and their solvency ratios are correspondingly volatile. Thereby, the volatility of the ratio within the Clearstream subgroup is significantly higher than at Eurex Clearing AG and is subject to major fluctuations on a day-to-day basis in the course of the year. Due to a high degree of collateralised or zero-weighted cash investments, the capital requirements for credit and market price risks of Eurex Clearing AG are relatively stable. The capital requirements are subject to the national regulations of the individual companies. These are based on EU Banking and Capital Requirements Directives which are ultimately based on “Basel II”. The companies concerned homogeneously apply the standardised approach for credit risk. For calculating the operational risk charge, Eurex Clearing AG uses the basic indicator approach, while the Clearstream companies apply the AMA (advanced measurement approach). Of the companies subject to solvency supervision, only Clearstream Banking S.A. has a very limited amount of Tier 2 regulatory capital from the revaluation surplus under the relevant IFRS treatment. A minimum solvency ratio of 8 per cent applies. The individual companies’ capital resources sufficiently reflect the fluctuation in risk-weighted assets. Stress considerations are used to determine the capital required for expected peaks and additional reserves for unexpected events are added. The capital requirements determined in this way are met through the capital resources. As the actual capital requirements are below the expected peaks – significantly so under normal circumstances – this may lead to a very high technical closing date solvency ratio. The capital requirements of the Clearstream companies rose in the year under review. This was mainly driven by increased capital requirements for operational risk that arose during the annual review of the risk scenarios, as well as by higher business volumes at Clearstream Banking AG, combined with slightly lower capital requirements for credit and market risk at Clearstream Banking S.A. The reduction in the regulatory capital of the Clearstream Holding Group (under HGB) and the simultaneous increase in the equity of Clearstream Banking S.A. (under IFRSs) are primarily the result of different accounting requirements, especially in relation to the timing of measurement gains or losses recognised directly in equity. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 261 Consolidated balance sheet The change in equity at Clearstream Banking AG is mainly attributable to additions to retained earnings with the approval of the annual financial statements 2011. The increase in equity at Clearstream Banking S.A. was primarily driven by the effects of dividends and fluctuations in the revaluation surplus. The deposited cash collateral at Eurex Clearing AG fluctuated in the course of the year, rising overall to an equivalent value significantly in excess of €20 billion. This is due, among other factors, to the interest rate situation on the money and capital markets, especially with respect to the Swiss franc, which now has negative interest rates. However, since cash investments with central banks in Germany or Switzerland are risk-free from a regulatory perspective and most other collateralised cash investments are backed by prime collateral, the increase in cash deposits and, by implication, also in bank balances did not lead to a noticeable absolute increase in regulatory capital requirements for credit risk at Eurex Clearing AG. Eurex Clearing AG’s internal risk model assumes higher capital requirements for operational risk than does the accounting-based basic indicator approach in accordance with regulatory requirements. For this reason, Eurex Clearing AG has always maintained a capital buffer for these types of risk over and above the minimum regulatory requirements. Against this background, the banking supervisory authorities encouraged Eurex Clearing AG in 2011 to expand the basis for calculating the regulatory capital requirements to include an adequate clearing portion of the fees collected for the account of the operating companies. This resulted in an increase of around €61 million in its regulatory capital requirements to €70 million in 2011. The capital requirements for operational risk are calculated once a year on the basis of a three-year average of historical income, including the assumed clearing fees, and are therefore not subject to daily fluctuations. Compliance with the minimum supervisory ratio is maintained at all times due to the sufficient capital buffer for uncollateralised cash investments. To further strengthen its capital base, Eurex Clearing AG increased its own funds in 2012 by adding €25 million to capital reserves. Moreover, in anticipation of further increases in the capital requirements for Eurex Clearing AG as a central counterparty under the EMIR regime, Eurex Clearing AG increased its equity by another €110 million in January 2013 by making a further contribution to capital reserves. Composition of own funds requirements Own funds requirements for Own funds requirements for credit operational risk and market price risk Total capital requirements 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m €m €m % % Clearstream Holding group 195.1 181.3 73.9 79.3 269.0 262.8 Clearstream Banking S.A. 116.7 111.0 67.9 72.5 184.6 183.5 Clearstream Banking AG 74.4 68.9 25.8 18.5 100.2 87.4 Eurex Clearing AG 69.3 69.9 3.8 2.7 73.1 72.6 262 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Regulatory capital ratios Own funds requirements Regulatory equity Solvency ratio 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m €m €m % % Clearstream Holding group 269.0 260.6 783.0 821.1 23.3 25.2 Clearstream Banking S.A. 184.6 183.5 459.9 426.0 19.9 18.6 Clearstream Banking AG 100.2 87.4 188.1 183.1 15.0 16.8 Eurex Clearing AG 73.1 72.6 138.6 113.0 15.21) 12.5 1) Including the €110 million increase in its own funds at the beginning of January 2013, the solvency ratio for Eurex Clearing AG is 27.2 per cent. Eurex Clearing AG has been accredited by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in the UK as a Recognised Overseas Clearing House (ROCH). The FSA expects regulatory capital equivalent to at least half the operating expenses of the previous year to be maintained; the resulting regulatory minimum capital required by the FSA amounted to €48.0 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: €32.8 million). In principle, the regulatory minimum requirements were complied with at all times by all companies during the year under review and in the period up to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The situation on the money markets, especially in Swiss francs, has brought about a change in customer behaviour: cash receipts stay with the Clearstream companies for longer than usual and, as a result, credit balances accumulate in Clearstream Banking S.A.’s nostro accounts, which are maintained for securities settlement. In combination with the strict large-exposure rules for the interbank business in force since 31 December 2010, this led to isolated short-term breaches of the large-exposure limits, both at Clearstream Banking S.A. and at the level of the Clearstream group. Given the difficult market environment, the Group took appropriate countermeasures. 21. Shareholders’ equity and appropriation of net profit of Deutsche Börse AG The annual financial statements of the parent company Deutsche Börse AG, prepared as at 31 December 2012 in accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB, the German Commercial Code), report net profit for the year of €605.7 million (2011: €679.7 million) and shareholders’ equity of €2,301.5 million (2011: €2,255.9 million). Net profit for the year is significantly lower year-on-year, primarily due to a decrease in revenue. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 263 Consolidated balance sheet Proposal on the appropriation of the unappropriated surplus 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Net profit for the year 605.7 679.7 Appropriation to other retained earnings in the annual financial statements – 205.7 – 29.7 Unappropriated surplus 400.0 650.0 Proposal by the Executive Board: Distribution of a regular dividend to the shareholders of €2.10 per share for 184,051,513 no-par value shares carrying dividend rights (in 2012 from net profit for 2011: €2.30 plus a special dividend of €1.00 per share) 386.5 622.91) Appropriation to retained earnings 13.5 27.12) 1) Restated to reflect actual distribution (proposal for 2012: €605.4 million) after resolution of the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2012 due to the adjusted number of shares carrying dividend rights to 188,753,670 2) Restated to reflect actual appropriation to retained earnings No-par value shares carrying dividend rights Number Number of shares issued as at 31 December 2012 193,000,000 Number of shares acquired under the share buy-back programme up to the balance sheet date – 8,921,326 Number of shares outstanding as at 31 December 2012 184,078,674 Number of shares acquired under the share buy-back programme up to the date of signing of these financial statements – 27,161 Total 184,051,513 The proposal on the appropriation of the unappropriated surplus reflects treasury shares held directly or indirectly by the company that are not eligible to receive dividends under section 71b of the Aktiengesetz (AktG, the German Stock Corporation Act). The number of shares eligible to receive dividends can change until the Annual General Meeting through the repurchase or sale of further treasury shares. In this case, without changing the dividend of €2.10 per eligible share, an amended resolution for the appropriation of the unappropriated surplus will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting. 22. Provisions for pensions and other employee benefits Defined benefit pension plans The defined benefit obligations of the companies of Deutsche Börse Group relate primarily to final salary arrangements and pension plans based on ‘capital components’, which guarantee employees a choice of either life-long pensions or capital payments on the basis of the final salary paid. In Switzerland, there are guaranteed defined contribution plans. Deutsche Börse Group uses external trust solutions to cover some of its pension obligations. 264 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The following retirement benefit plans exist to provide retirement benefits to employees in the Group: There has been an employee-financed deferred compensation plan for employees of Deutsche Börse Group in Germany since 1 July 1999. This plan gives employees the opportunity to convert parts of their future remuneration entitlements into benefit assets of equal value. The benefits consist of a capital payment on reaching the age of 65 or earlier, if applicable, in the case of disability or death; when due, the payment is made in equal annual payments over a period of three years. The benefit assets earn interest at a rate of 6 per cent p.a. As a rule, new commitments are entered into on the basis of this deferred compensation plan; employees with pension commitments under retirement benefit arrangements in force before 1 July 1999 were given an option to participate in the deferred compensation plan by converting their existing pension rights. Individual commitment plans exist for members of the executive boards of Group companies; they are based on the plan for senior executives described below, i.e. in each calendar year the company provides an annual contribution to a “capital component” calculated in accordance with actuarial principles. The benefit assets equal the total of the acquired capital components of the individual years and are converted into a lifelong pension once the benefits fall due. In addition, retirement benefit agreements are in place with members of the executive boards of Group companies, under which they are entitled to pension benefits on reaching the age of 63 and following reappointment. When the term of office began, the replacement rate was 30 per cent of individual pensionable income. It rose by five percentage points with each reappointment, up to a maximum of 50 per cent of pensionable income. Details of the pension commitments for members of Deutsche Börse AG’s Executive Board can be found in the remuneration report. In the period from 1 January 2004 to 30 June 2006, senior executives in Germany were offered the opportunity to participate in the following pension system based on “capital components”: the benefit is based on annual income received, composed of fixed annual salary and the variable remuneration. Every year, participating Group companies provide for an amount that corresponds to a certain percentage of the pensionable income. This amount is multiplied by a capitalisation factor depending on age, resulting in the “annual capital component”. The benefit assets equal the total of the acquired capital components of the individual years and are converted into a lifelong pension once the benefits fall due. This benefit plan was closed to new staff on 30 June 2006; the senior executives who were employed in the above period can continue to earn capital components. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 265 Consolidated balance sheet The employees of the Clearstream subgroup in Luxembourg participate in separate defined benefit pension plans. The defined benefit pension plan in favour of Luxembourg employees of Clearstream International S.A., Clearstream Banking S.A. and Clearstream Services S.A. is funded by means of cash contributions to an “association d’épargne pension” (ASSEP) organised in accordance with Luxembourg law. The benefits consist of a one-off capital payment, which is generally paid on reaching the age of 65. The benefit plan does not cover disability or death in service. Contributions to the “association d’épargne pension” are funded in full by the participating companies. The contributions are determined annually on the basis of actuarial reports and the amount of the obligation is calculated in accordance with Luxembourg law. The employees of STOXX Ltd. participate in a separate defined benefit pension plan. They are insured by a pension fund of SIX Swiss Exchange AG at PREVAS Sammelstiftung, Zurich. Since 1 January 2012, there have been a separate pension plan (basic pension plan) and a supplementary benefits plan (bonus plan) for employees of Eurex Zürich AG; both plans are based on insurance policies and, in addition to retirement benefits, comprise disability benefits and dependants’ pensions. The contributions to the basic pension plan are paid by the employee and the employer, based on progressive percentages of the insured wage (annual wage less coordination deduction). For the bonus plan, the contributions are determined as a percentage of the bonus; it is also funded by contributions from employees and the employer. The retirement age is 65. The beneficiaries can choose between pension payments and a one-off payment. The present value of defined benefit obligations can be reconciled as follows with the provisions shown in the balance sheet: Net liability of defined benefit obligations 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Present value of the defined benefit obligations that are at least partly financed in advance 326.2 243.4 Fair value of plan assets – 233.4 – 197.6 Funded status 92.8 45.8 Present value of unfunded obligations 2.0 1.4 Net liability of defined benefit obligations 94.8 47.2 Impact of minimum funding requirement/asset ceiling 0.6 0 Amount recognised in the balance sheet 95.4 47.2 266 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Changes in the net defined benefit obligations Impact of minimum funding Present value Fair value of requirement/ of obligations plan assets Total asset ceiling Total €m €m €m €m €m Balance as at 1 Jan 2011 228.9 – 173.8 55.1 0 55.1 Current service cost 13.8 0 13.8 – 13.8 Interest expense/(income) 10.8 – 8.3 2.5 – 2.5 Past service cost and gains and losses on settlements 2.7 0 2.7 – 2.7 27.3 – 8.3 19.0 0 19.0 Remeasurements Losses on plan assets, excluding amounts already recognised in interest income – 13.6 13.6 – 13.6 Gains from changes in demographic assumptions – 0.2 – – 0.2 – – 0.2 Gains from changes in financial assumptions – 2.7 – – 2.7 – – 2.7 Experience gains – 1.7 – – 1.7 – – 1.7 – 4.6 13.6 9.0 0 9.0 Effect of exchange rate differences 0.7 – 0.2 0.5 0 0.5 Contributions: Employers 0 – 36.4 – 36.4 – – 36.4 Plan participants 0.7 – 0.7 0 – 0 Benefit payments – 8.2 8.2 0 – 0 Balance as at 31 Dec 2011 244.8 – 197.6 47.2 0 47.2 Current service cost 14.3 – 14.3 – 14.3 Interest expense/(income) 11.9 – 9.6 2.3 – 2.3 Past service cost and gains and losses on settlements 0.9 – 0.9 – 0.9 27.1 – 9.6 17.5 0 17.5 Remeasurements Return on plan assets, excluding amounts already recognised in interest income – – 8.3 – 8.3 – – 8.3 Losses from changes in financial assumptions 66.9 – 66.9 – 66.9 Experience gains – 5.5 – – 5.5 – – 5.5 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense – – 0 0.6 0.6 61.4 – 8.3 53.1 0.6 53.7 Effect of exchange rate differences 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 Contributions: Employers – – 23.4 – 23.4 – – 23.4 Plan participants 0.7 – 0.7 0 – 0 Benefit payments – 6.2 6.2 0 – 0 Settlements 0.1 0 0.1 – 0.1 Balance as at 31 Dec 2012 328.2 – 233.4 94.8 0.6 95.4 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 267 Consolidated balance sheet In financial year 2012, employees converted a total of €3.1 million (2011: €4.5 million) of their variable remuneration into deferred compensation benefits. Assumptions Provisions for pension plans and other employee benefits are measured annually at the balance sheet date using actuarial methods. The following assumptions were applied to the calculation of the actuarial obligations for the pension plans: Actuarial assumptions 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Germany Luxembourg Switzerland Germany Luxembourg Switzerland % % % % % % Discount rate 3.50 3.50 2.00 5.00 5.00 2.25 Salary growth 3.50 3.50 1.00 3.50 3.50 1.00 Pension growth 2.00 2.00 0 2.00 2.00 0 Staff turnover rate 2.00 2.00 n.a.1) 2.00 2.00 n.a.1) 1) Staff turnover rate in accordance with the Bundesgesetz über die berufliche Alters-, Hinterlassenenund Invalidenvorsorge (BVG, Swiss Federal Occupational Retirement, Survivors’ and Disability Pension Plans Act) In Germany, the “2005 G” mortality tables (generation tables) developed by Prof Dr Klaus Heubeck are used, modified by statistical information gathered by the German Federal Statistical Office and Deutsche Rentenversicherung (the German statutory pension insurance scheme) in the years 2006 to 2008. For Luxembourg, generation tables of the Institut national de la statistique et des etudes économiques du Grand-Duché du Luxembourg are used. For Switzerland, the BVG 2010 generation tables are used. Adjustment of prior-year amounts Because of the first-time application of the revised IAS 19, the prior-year figures have changed as follows: Adjustments to defined benefit obligations and revaluation surplus €m Net liability as at 31 December 2010 (corridor method) 11.1 Adjustment taken directly to equity 45.1 Accumulated profit – 1.1 Net liability as at 31 December 2010 (OCI method) 55.1 Revaluation surplus as at 31 December 2010 (OCI method) – 45.1 Net liability as at 31 December 2011 (corridor method) 1.7 Adjustment taken directly to equity 54.1 Increase in interest expense 2.5 Reduction in staff costs – 11.1 Net liability as at 31 December 2011 (OCI method) 47.2 Revaluation surplus as at 31 December 2011 (OCI method) – 54.1 268 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis presented in the following considers the change in one assumption at a time, leaving the other assumptions unchanged from the original calculation, i.e. possible correlation effects between the individual assumptions are not taken into account. Because of the early application of IAS 19 (2011) in financial year 2012, no comparative prior-period figures are provided for the sensitivity analysis. Sensitivity of defined benefit obligations to changes in the principal actuarial assumptions Impact on defined benefit Change in actuarial assumption obligations Defined benefit obligations Change €m % Present value of the obligations1) 328.2 – Discount rate Increase by 1.0 percentage point 278.7 – 15.1 Recution by 1.0 percentage point 388.1 18.3 Salary growth Increase by 0.5 percentage points 340.0 3.6 Reduction by 0.5 percentage points 318.7 – 2.9 Pension growth Increase by 0.5 percentage points 337.8 2.9 Reduction by 0.5 percentage points 319.6 – 2.6 Life expectancy Increase by 1 year 335.4 2.2 Reduction by one year 320.5 – 2.3 1) Present value of the obligations using assumptions in accordance with the table “actuarial assumptions” Composition of plan assets In Germany, the plan assets are held by a trustee in safekeeping for individual companies of Deutsche Börse Group and for the beneficiaries. At the company’s instruction, the trustee uses the funds transferred to acquire securities on a trust basis, without any consulting on the part of the trustee. The contributions are invested in accordance with an investment policy, which may be amended by the companies represented in the investment committee in agreement with the other members. The trustee may refuse to carry out instructions if they are in conflict with the fund’s allocation rules or the payment provisions. In accordance with the investment policy, about 50 per cent of fund assets are invested in shares with the aim of replicating the STOXX Europe 600 Index. A total return approach is pursued for the remaining fund assets, and investments can be made in different asset classes. In Luxembourg, the Board of Directors of the Clearstream Pension Fund is responsible for determining the investment strategy, with the aim of maximising returns in relation to a benchmark. This benchmark is derived in equal parts from the return on five-year German federal government bonds and the return on the EURO STOXX 50 Index. According to the investment policy, the fund may only invest in fixedincome securities, shares and listed investment fund units, and it may hold cash. Since 1 January 2012, the assets of the pension funds of Eurex Zürich AG and Eurex Global Derivatives AG have been invested with AXA Stiftung Berufliche Vorsorge and are therefore reported under “qualifying insurance policies”. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 269 Consolidated balance sheet Overview on plan assets 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m % €m % Equity instruments – Europe 86.3 37.0 70.9 35.8 Financial institutions 16.3 12.8 Manufacturing and Industrial 19.2 14.3 Energy and commodities 15.4 13.8 Technology companies 6.4 7.6 Other 29.0 22.4 Equity instruments – other 0.6 0.3 0.5 0.3 Financial institutions 0.1 0.1 Manufacturing and Industrial 0.1 0.1 Energy and commodities 0.1 0 Technology companies 0.1 0 Other 0.2 0.3 Bonds 104.0 44.6 88.1 44.6 Government bonds 87.6 76.4 Corporate bonds 16.4 11.7 Derivatives 0 0 0.7 0.4 Stock index futures 0.2 0.6 Interest rate futures – 0.2 0.1 Property 0.7 0.3 0.3 0.1 Europe 0.6 0.3 Other 0.1 0 Investment funds 19.0 8.1 15.7 8.0 Other 0.1 0 0.2 0.1 Total listed 210.7 90.3 176.4 89.3 Qualifying insurance policies 7.9 3.4 0.2 0.1 Property – Europe 0 0 0.3 0.2 Cash 14.8 6.3 20.7 10.4 Total not listed 22.7 9.7 21.2 10.7 Total plan assets 233.4 100.0 197.6 100.0 As at 31 December 2012, plan assets included financial instruments of the Group amounting to €0.1 million. They did not include any property occupied or other assets used by the Group. Risks In addition to the general actuarial risks, the risks associated with the defined benefit obligations relate especially to financial risks in connection with the plan assets, including in particular counterparty credit and market risks. 270 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Market price risk The return on plan assets is assumed to be the discount rate determined on the basis of corporate bonds with an AA rating. If the actual rate of return on plan assets is lower than the discount rate used, the net defined benefit liability increases accordingly. However, due to the equity ratio, in particular in the plan assets held in Germany, the actual return is expected to exceed the return on corporate bonds with a good credit rating in the medium to long term – although in the short term this may contribute to greater market price volatility of the plan assets. Deutsche Börse Group considers the share price risk resulting from the equity ratio of the plan assets to be appropriate. The company bases its assessment on the expectation that the overall volume of payments from the pension plans will be manageable in the next few years, that the total amount of the obligations will also be manageable and that it will be able to meet these payments in full from operating cash flows. Any amendments to the investment policy take into account the duration of the pension obligation as well as the expected payments over a period of ten years. Moreover, the level of the net liability is influenced by the discount rates in particular, whereby the current low interest rates contribute to a relatively high net liability. A continued decline in returns on corporate bonds will lead to a further increase in defined benefit obligations, which can be only partially offset by the positive development of the fair values of the corporate bonds included in the plan assets. Inflation risk Possible inflation risks that could lead to an increase in defined benefit obligations exist because some pension plans or the “annual capital components” are directly related to the salaries, i.e. a significant increase in salaries would lead to an increase in the benefit obligation from the plans. In Germany, however, there are no contractual arrangements with regard to inflation risk for these pension plans. An interest rate of 6 per cent p.a. has been agreed for the employee-financed deferred compensation plan; the plan does not include any arrangements for inflation, so that it has to be assumed that there will be little incentive for employees to contribute to the deferred compensation plan in times of rising inflation. In Luxembourg, salaries are adjusted for the effects of inflation on the basis of a consumer price index no more than once a year; this adjustment leads to a corresponding increase in the benefit obligation from the pension plan. Since the obligation will be met in the form of a capital payment, there will be no inflation-linked effects once the beneficiary reaches retirement age. In Switzerland, the benefit plans at AXA Stiftung Berufliche Vorsorge and PREVAS Sammelstiftung include the provision that the Board of the foundation decides annually whether the retirement pensions will be adjusted to price trends. The decision takes into account in particular the financial capability of the foundation. There are no arrangements for automatic adjustments to price increases over and above the legal requirements that apply to certain surviving dependants’ and disability pensions. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 271 Consolidated balance sheet Duration and expected maturities of the pension obligations The weighted duration of the pension obligations was 14.4 years as at 31 December 2012. Expected maturities of the undiscounted pension payments Expected pension payments1) 31 Dec 2012 €m Less than 1 year 8.1 Between 1 and 2 years 7.5 Between 2 and 5 years 39.3 More than 5 years up to 10 years 59.9 Total 114.8 1) The expected payments in CHF were translated into euros at the closing rate on 31 December 2012. The expected costs of defined benefit plans amount to approximately €19.9 million for the 2013 financial year, including interest expense. Defined contribution pension plans In the year under review, the costs of defined contribution plans amounted to €27.0 million (2011: €27.8 million). 23. Changes in other provisions Changes in other provisions Other noncurrent Other current provisions Tax provisions provisions Total €m €m €m €m Balance as at 1 Jan 2012 77.4 219.6 105.4 402.4 Reclassification – 6.41) – 0.3 6.5 – 0.22) Utilisation – 8.6 – 3.6 – 36.6 – 48.8 Reversal – 4.9 – 4.8 – 8.8 – 18.5 Additions 22.8 41.3 22.4 86.5 Balance as at 31 Dec 2012 80.3 252.2 88.9 421.4 1) Primarily reclassification of provisions from non-current to current 2) Relates to the reclassification to liabilities 272 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 24. Other non-current provisions Other non-current provisions have more than one year to maturity. Composition of other non-current provisions 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Restructuring and efficiency measures 42.3 45.6 Pension obligations to IHK1) 9.6 8.9 Bonus 8.6 4.9 Stock Bonus Plan 6.7 7.6 Anticipated losses 6.1 2.5 Jubilee 5.5 5.3 Early retirement 1.5 2.6 Total 80.3 77.4 thereof with remaining maturity between 1 and 5 years 61.1 60.7 thereof with remaining maturity of more than 5 years 19.2 16.7 1) IHK = Industrieund Handelskammer Frankfurt am Main (the Frankfurt/Main Chamber of Industry and Commerce) Provisions for restructuring and efficiency measures include provisions amounting to €8.5 million (2011: €9.9 million) for the restructuring and efficiency programme resolved in September 2007 as well as €33.8 million (2011: €35.7 million) for the programme resolved in 2010 to increase operational performance. Additions include discount effects amounting to €3.9 million (2011: €1.2 million) mainly from the passage of time. For details on the restructuring and efficiency programmes see “Internal management control – Control systems” section in the combined management report. Provisions for pension obligations to the Industrieund Handelskammer (IHK, the Chamber of Commerce) are recognised on the basis of the number of eligible employees. Provisions for early retirement benefits are calculated on the basis of the active and former employees involved. Additions include discount rate effects amounting to €0.3 million (2011: €0.4 million) mainly from the passage of time. For details on the Stock Bonus Plan, see note 39. As at 31 December 2012, the provisions for anticipated losses contain provisions for anticipated losses from rental expenses and restoration obligations amounting to €7.1 million (2011: €4.3 million), of which €1.0 million (2011: €1.8 million) are allocated to current provisions. The provisions classified as non-current are not expected to be utilised before 2014. €6.0 million of the non-current provisions relates to restoration obligations. The remaining portion of €0.1 million is for vacancy provisions; discount effects from the discounted portion are therefore immaterial. The provisions are calculated on the basis of existing rental agreements for each building. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 273 Consolidated balance sheet 25. Liabilities The euro and US dollar bonds as well as a hybrid bond denominated in euros issued by Deutsche Börse Group have a carrying amount of €1,737.4 million (2011: €1,458.3 million) and a fair value of €1,821.9 million (2011: €1,526.8 million). Thereof, €1,160.0 million are carried under Interestbearing liabilities and bonds maturing in financial year 2013 amounting to €577.4 million are recognised under Other current liabilities. In the current financial year, Deutsche Börse AG issued a corporate bond with a nominal amount of €600 million. The bond has a term of ten years and a coupon of 2.375 per cent annually; the bond mainly serves to refinance a portion of the outstanding financial liabilities. In this context, the company made creditors of outstanding euro-denominated bonds an offer to repurchase those bonds. Deutsche Börse AG purchased bonds with a principal amount of €309.2 million as part of this repurchase. For further details, see the “Results of operations” section and the table “Debt instruments of Deutsche Börse AG” in the combined management report. The financial liabilities recognised in the balance sheet were not secured by liens or similar rights, neither as at 31 December 2012 nor as at 31 December 2011. 26. Tax provisions Composition of tax provisions 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Income tax expense: current year 33.4 34.7 Income tax expense: previous years 168.9 127.9 Capital tax and value added tax 49.9 57.0 Total 252.2 219.6 The estimated remaining maturity of the tax provisions is less than one year. 274 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 27. Other current provisions Composition of other current provisions 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Interest on taxes 43.1 37.1 Recourse, litigation and interest rate risks 11.3 13.9 Claims for damages 10.1 11.7 Stock Bonus Plan 8.3 6.3 Restructuring and efficiency measures1) 5.6 9.8 Rent and incidental rental costs 3.1 4.3 Personnel expenses 2.3 0.7 Anticipated losses 1.0 1.8 Transaction costs advice2) 0.1 16.0 Miscellaneous 4.0 3.8 Total 88.9 105.4 1) Thereof provisions amounting to €0.4 million (2011: €0.5 million) for the restructuring and efficiency programme resolved in 2007 and provisions amounting to €3.6 million (2011: €7.9 million) for the programme to increase operational performance adopted in 2010 (for details see section “Internal management control” of the combined management report) 2) Relating to the acquisition of the remaining shares of Eurex Zürich AG and the merger of Deutsche Börse AG and NYSE Euronext that was prohibited on 1 February 2012 For details on share-based payments, see note 39. For details on non-current anticipated losses, see note 24. 28. Liabilities from banking business The liabilities from banking business are attributable solely to the Clearstream subgroup. Composition of liabilities from banking business 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Customer deposits from securities settlement business 12,542.5 13,900.9 Issued commercial paper 208.3 204.3 Overdrafts on nostro accounts 109.2 33.8 Forward foreign exchange transactions – held for trading 16.7 0 Money market borrowing 3.5 26.7 Interest liabilities 0.1 2.7 Interest rate swaps – fair value hedges 0 1.2 Total 12,880.3 14,169.6 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 275 Consolidated balance sheet Remaining maturity of liabilities from banking business 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Not more than 3 months 12,880.3 14,167.1 More than 3 months but not more than 1 year 0 2.5 Total 12,880.3 14,169.6 29. Cash deposits by market participants Composition of cash deposits by market participants 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Liabilities from margin payments to Eurex Clearing AG by members 19,447.4 13,858.0 Liabilities from cash deposits by participants in equity trading 3.2 3.5 Total 19,450.6 13,861.5 30. Other current liabilities Composition of other current liabilities 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Euro bond 577.41) 0 Payables to Eurex participants 152.1 155.2 Special payments and bonuses 37.7 50.1 Interest payable 33.4 42.0 Tax liabilities (excluding income taxes) 24.5 24.4 Vacation entitlements, flexitime and overtime credits 17.4 14.4 Derivatives 14.6 0 Liabilities as part of social security 3.8 4.4 Earn-out component 1.2 0 Miscellaneous 26.3 31.5 Total 888.4 322.0 1) See note 25 for further details. 276 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 31. Maturity analysis of financial instruments Underlying contractual maturities of the financial instruments at the balance sheet date Contractual maturity More than 3 months but not Sight Not more than 3 months more than 1 year 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m €m €m Non-derivative financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities1) 0 0 0 0 877.3 87.1 Other non-current financial liabilities 0 0 0 0 0 0.1 Non-derivative liabilities from banking business 12,651.7 13,960.4 211.9 205.2 0 1.3 Trade payables, payables to associates, payables to other related parties and other current liabilities 0 11.6 317.4 837.5 5.6 9.2 Cash deposits by market participants 19,450.6 13,861.5 0 0 0 0 Other bank loans and overdrafts 0.1 0.4 0 0 0 0 Total non-derivative financial liabilities (gross) 32,102.4 27,833.9 529.3 1,042.7 882.9 97.7 Derivatives and financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG Financial liabilities and derivatives of Eurex Clearing AG 21,255.7 23,202.7 120,780.9 139,808.62) 36,018.7 20,606.8 less financial assets and derivatives of Eurex Clearing AG – 21,255.7 – 23,202.7 – 120,780.9 – 139,808.62) – 36,018.7 – 20,606.8 Cash inflow – derivatives and hedges Cash flow hedges 0 0 6.1 0 18.7 0 Fair value hedges 0 0 0 0 0 3.4 Derivatives held for trading 471.1 962.8 1,831.8 1,679.5 7.7 0 Cash outflow – derivatives and hedges Cash flow hedges 0 0 – 6.2 0 – 18.7 0 Fair value hedges 0 0 0 – 0.3 0 0 Derivatives held for trading – 346.8 – 964.2 – 1,973.3 – 1,724.6 – 7.6 0 Total derivatives and hedges 124.3 – 1.4 – 141.6 – 45.4 0.1 3.4 1) Included in non-current interest-bearing liabilities and other current liabilities 2) The prior-year figure includes the traditional options in the amount of €23,384.4 million because no analysis was provided for reasons of immateriality. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 277 Consolidated balance sheet Reconciliation to carrying Contractual maturity amount Carrying amount More than 1 year but not more than 5 years Over 5 years 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m €m €m €m €m 244.8 1,393.6 895.2 245.3 – 279.9 – 267.7 1,737.4 1,458.3 0.8 0.4 0 0.5 2.2 5.1 3.0 6.1 0 0 0 0 0 1.5 12,863.6 14,168.4 0 0.7 0 0 97.9 117.3 420.9 976.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 19,450.6 13,861.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.1 0.4 245.6 1,394.7 895.2 245.8 – 179.8 – 143.8 34,475.6 30,471.0 1.2 0 0 0 0 0 178,056.5 183,618.1 – 1.2 0 0 0 0 0 – 178,056.5 – 183,618.1 5.6 18.6 1.4 13.6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 – 16.8 – 26.1 – 4.2 – 17.4 0 0 0 0 – 5.5 0 0 0 – 16.7 – 7.5 – 2.8 – 3.8 278 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 32. Classification of financial instruments under IAS 39 The following table shows an analysis of the financial instruments in the balance sheet in accordance with their classification under IAS 39 as well as the corresponding carrying amounts: Classification of financial instruments Consolidated balance sheet item (classification) Note Category Measured at Carrying amount 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Other equity investments 13 AFS1) Historical cost 20.9 33.0 AFS1) Fair value 5.8 78.7 Non-current receivables and securities from 13 AFS1) Fair value banking business 1,485.0 1,229.6 Loans and Amortised cost receivables 0 175.0 Other financial instruments 13 AFS1) Fair value 21.5 16.6 Other loans 13 Loans and Amortised cost receivables 0.1 0.6 Other non-current assets 14 Cash flow Fair value hedges 0 0.9 Loans and Amortised cost receivables 3.8 3.7 Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG 15 Held for trading Fair value 178,056.5 183,618.1 Current receivables and securities from 14, 16 AFS1) Fair value banking business 25.0 242.1 Cash flow Fair value hedges 0.4 0 Loans and Amortised cost receivables 12,782.8 12,657.3 Derivatives held Fair value for trading 0 45.8 Trade receivables 17 Loans and Amortised cost receivables 211.8 224.3 Associate receivables Loans and Amortised cost receivables 2.1 2.7 Receivables from other related parties Loans and Amortised cost receivables 0.9 5.1 Other current assets 14, 18 Held for trading Fair value 0.1 0 Loans and Amortised cost receivables 92.0 122.4 AFS1) Fair value 0 4.0 Restricted bank balances 19 Loans and Amortised cost receivables 19,450.6 15,060.4 Other cash and bank balances Loans and Amortised cost receivables 641.6 925.2 1) Available-for-sale (AFS) financial assets 2) This relates to the private placements designated as hedging instruments of a net investment hedge (see note 14). 3) This relates to the put options issued by Clearstream International S.A. relating to Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Ltd. (see note 2). Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 279 Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated balance sheet item (classification) Note Category Measured at Carrying amount 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Interest-bearing liabilities (excluding 14, 25 Liabilities at Amortised cost finance leases) amortised cost 811.4 1,102.2 Net investment Amortised cost hedge2) 348.6 356.1 Other non-current liabilities 14 Cash flow Fair value hedges 0 4.8 Liabilities at Amortised cost amortised cost 1.7 0 Puttable Fair value instruments3) 3.0 0 Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG 15 Held for trading Fair value 178,056.5 183,618.1 Liabilities from banking business 14, 28 Liabilities at Amortised cost amortised cost 12,863.6 14,168.4 Held for trading Fair value 16.7 0 Fair value Fair value hedges 0 1.2 Other bank loans and overdrafts 33 Liabilities at Amortised cost amortised cost 0.1 0.4 Trade payables Liabilities at Amortised cost amortised cost 108.2 114.6 Payables to associates Liabilities at Amortised cost amortised cost 15.1 13.2 Payables to other related parties Liabilities at Amortised cost amortised cost 1.6 314.5 Held for trading Fair value 0 214.2 Cash deposits by market participants 19 Liabilities at Amortised cost amortised cost 19,450.6 13,861.5 Other current liabilities 14, 25, 30 Liabilities at Amortised cost amortised cost 771.0 197.6 Cash flow Fair value hedges 14.6 0 Puttable Fair value instruments3) 0.4 0 280 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The carrying amount of other loans, current receivables and other assets as well as current and noncurrent receivables from banking business measured at amortised cost, restricted bank balances, and other cash and bank balances corresponds to their fair value. The “other equity investments” item, which is carried at historical cost less any impairment losses, comprises non-listed equity instruments whose fair value generally cannot be reliably determined on a continuous basis. For the year under review, their fair value is estimated to be close to their carrying amount. The bonds reported under interest-bearing liabilities and under other current liabilities have a fair value of €1,430.9 million (2011: €1,125.3 million). The fair values are the quoted prices of the bonds as at 31 December 2012. The fair value of the private placements is €391.0 million (2011: €400.6 million). This figure was calculated as the present value of the cash flows relating to the private placements on the basis of market parameters. The carrying amount of current liabilities and cash deposits by market participants represents a reasonable approximation of fair value. The financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value are to be allocated to the following three hierarchy levels: financial assets and liabilities are to be allocated to level 1 if there is a quoted price for identical assets and liabilities in an active market. They are allocated to level 2 if the inputs on which the fair value measurement is based are observable either directly (as prices) or indirectly (derived from prices). Financial assets and liabilities are allocated to level 3 if the fair value is determined on the basis of unobservable inputs. In financial year 2012, only puttable instruments with a carrying amount of €3.4 million were allocated to level 3. In the previous year, the investment in Direct Edge Holdings, LLC was disclosed as level 3. After obtaining significant influence, this investment is accounted as an associate in 2012. No profits or losses were involved relating to these instruments in 2012. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 281 Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2012, the financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value were allocated to the following hierarchy levels: Fair value hierarchy Fair value as at 31 Dec 2012 thereof attributable to: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 €m €m €m €m ASSETS Financial assets held for trading Derivatives Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG 178,056.5 178,056.5 0 0 Current receivables and securities from banking business 0.4 0 0.4 0 Other current assets 0.1 0 0.1 0 Total 178,057.0 178,056.5 0.5 0 Available-for-sale financial assets Equity instruments Other equity investments 5.8 0.5 5.3 0 Total 5.8 0.5 5.3 0 Debt instruments Other financial instruments 21.5 21.5 0 0 Current receivables and securities from banking business 25.0 25.0 0 0 Non-current receivables and securities from banking business 1,485.0 1,485.0 0 0 Total 1,531.5 1,531.5 0 0 Total assets 179,594.3 179,588.5 5.8 0 LIABILITIES Financial liabilities held for trading Derivatives Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG 178,056.5 178,056.5 0 0 Liabilities from banking business 16.7 0 16.7 0 Other current liabilities 15.0 0 14.6 0.41) Other non-current liabilities 3.0 0 0 3.01) Total liabilities 178,091.2 178,056.5 31.3 3.4 1) This relates to the put options issued by Clearstream International S.A. relating to Clearstream Fund Services Ireland Ltd. (see note 2). 282 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 By comparison, the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value as at 31 December 2011 were allocated to the hierarchy levels as follows: Fair value hierarchy Fair value as at 31 Dec 2011 thereof attributable to: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 €m €m €m €m ASSETS Financial assets held for trading Derivatives Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG 183,618.1 183,618.1 0 0 Current receivables and securities from banking business 45.8 0 45.8 0 Other non-current assets 0.9 0 0.9 0 Total 183,664.8 183,618.1 46.7 0 Available-for-sale financial assets Equity instruments Other equity investments 78.7 1.7 4.6 72.41) Total 78.7 1.7 4.6 72.4 Debt instruments Other financial instruments 16.6 16.6 0 0 Current receivables and securities from banking business 242.1 242.1 0 0 Other current assets 4.0 4.0 0 0 Non-current receivables and securities from banking business 1,229.6 1,229.6 0 0 Total 1,492.3 1,492.3 0 0 Total assets 185,235.8 185,112.1 51.3 72.4 LIABILITIES Financial liabilities held for trading Derivatives Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG 183,618.1 183,618.1 0 0 Liabilities from banking business 1.2 0 1.2 0 Liabilities to other related parties 214.2 214.2 0 0 Other non-current liabilities 4.8 0 4.8 0 Total liabilities 183,838.3 183,832.3 6.0 0 1) Relates to Direct Edge Holdings, LLC (see note 2) Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 283 Other disclosures Other disclosures 33. Consolidated cash flow statement disclosures Cash flows from operating activities After adjustments to net profit for the year for non-cash items, cash flows from operating activities excluding CCP positions amounted to €726.2 million (2011: €700.0 million). After adjustment for the change in CCP positions cash flow from operating activities amounted to €707.7 million (2011: €785.6 million). The other non-cash income consists of the following items: Composition of other non-cash expenses/(income) 2012 2011 €m €m Subsequent measurement of the liability from the acquisition of further shares of Eurex Zürich AG 27.4 – 77.4 Impairment of other equity investments/loans 11.4 20.2 Equity method measurement 4.5 – 9.1 Fair value measurement of Direct Edge Holdings, LLC 0 – 6.0 Fair value measurement of interest rate swaps 0.8 – 5.0 Miscellaneous 6.6 6.5 Total 50.7 – 70.8 Cash flows from investing activities Investments in intangible assets include an amount of €0.1 million (2011: €2.4 million) relating to goodwill. Among the other investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, the measures undertaken under the strategic growth initiatives and infrastructure projects are classified as expansion investments, while all remaining investments are reported as replacement investments. The other investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are broken down as follows: 284 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Payments for investments in intangible assets other than goodwill and property, plant and equipment 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Expansion investments Xetra 1.0 0.1 Eurex 53.0 34.3 Market Data & Analytics 0 0.1 Clearstream 41.0 28.0 95.0 62.5 Replacement investments Xetra 7.5 12.9 Eurex 20.6 13.7 Market Data & Analytics 4.3 4.9 Clearstream 18.2 19.2 50.6 50.7 Total 145.6 113.2 Of the investments in non-current financial instruments, an amount of €255.6 million (2011: €330.0 million) related to the purchase of variable-rate securities in the banking business. Securities and other non-current receivables in the amount of €392.2 million (2011: €558.3 million), of which €387.7 million (2011: €547.4 million) related to the banking business, matured or were sold in financial year 2012. In 2012, there were cash outflows of €295.5 million in connection with the acquisition of shares in subsidiaries. €295.0 million of this amount related to the acquisition of the shares in Eurex Global Derivatives AG, which holds 50 per cent of shares of Eurex Zürich AG. The purchase price was paid in cash in the amount of €295.0 million as well as by delivery of 5,286,738 shares of Deutsche Börse AG; at the time of delivery, the shares had a fair value of €255.9 million. The acquisition of shares in subsidiaries led to a cash outflow of €3.5 million in 2011. This related to the acquisition of shares in Open Finance, S.L. No non-current assets or liabilities were acquired as part of this transaction. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 285 Other disclosures Reconciliation to cash and cash equivalents Reconciliation to cash and cash equivalents 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Restricted bank balances 19,450.6 13,861.5 Other cash and bank balances 641.6 925.2 less bank loans and overdrafts – 0.1 – 0.4 20,092.1 14,786.3 Reconciliation to cash and cash equivalents Current receivables and securities from banking business 12,808.2 14,144.1 less available-for-sale debt instruments – 25.0 – 242.1 less derivatives – 0.4 0 Current liabilities from banking business – 12,880.3 – 14,169.6 Current liabilities from cash deposits by market participants – 19,450.6 – 13,861.5 – 19,548.1 – 14,129.1 Cash and cash equivalents 544.0 657.2 34. Earnings per share Under IAS 33, earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to shareholders of the parent company (net income) by the weighted average number of shares outstanding. In order to determine diluted earnings per share, potentially dilutive ordinary shares that may be acquired under the Stock Bonus Plan (SBP) (see also note 39) were added to the average number of shares. In order to calculate the number of potentially dilutive ordinary shares, the exercise prices were adjusted by the fair value of the services still to be provided. In order to determine diluted earnings per share, all SBP tranches for which cash settlement has not been resolved are assumed to be settled with equity instruments – regardless of actual accounting in accordance with IFRS 2. 286 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The following potentially dilutive rights to purchase shares were outstanding as at 31 December 2012: Calculation of the number of potentially dilutive ordinary shares Adjustment of the Average number of Number of exercise price acoutstanding Average price for potentially dilutive Tranche Exercise price cording to IAS 331) options the period2) ordinary shares € € 2012 € as at 31 Dec 2012 20113) 0 15.31 124,852 43.69 81,101 20123) 0 29.24 94,232 43.69 31,166 Total 112,267 1) According to IAS 33.47(a), the issue price and the exercise price for stock options and other share-based payment arrangements must include the fair value of any goods or services to be supplied to the entity in the future under the stock option or other share-based payment arrangement. 2) Volume-weighted average price of Deutsche Börse AG shares on Xetra for the period 1 January to 31 December 2012 3) This relates to rights to shares under the Stock Bonus Plan (SBP) for senior executives. As the volume-weighted average share price was higher than the adjusted exercise prices for the 2011 and 2012 tranches, these stock options are considered dilutive under IAS 33 as at 31 December 2012. Calculation of earnings per share (basic and diluted) 2012 2011 Number of shares outstanding as at beginning of period 188,686,611 185,942,801 thereof number of shares received by SIX Swiss Exchange AG effective 1 January 2012 5,286,738 0 Number of shares outstanding as at end of period 184,078,674 183,399,873 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 187,379,239 185,819,757 Number of potentially dilutive ordinary shares 112,267 219,042 Weighted average number of shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 187,491,506 186,038,799 Net income (€m) 645.0 855.2 Earnings per share (basic) (€) 3.44 4.60 Earnings per share (diluted) (€) 3.43 4.59 1) Due to the change in the accounting policy for defined benefit obligations under IAS 19 in Q1/2012, net profit for 2011 has been adjusted retrospectively. As a result of this adjustment, diluted earnings per share for 2011 increased from €4.56 to €4.59; basic earnings per share increased from €4.57 to €4.60. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 287 Other disclosures 35. Segment reporting Segment reporting is governed by the internal organisational and reporting structure, which is broken down by markets into the following four segments: Internal organisational and reporting structure Segment Business areas Xetra  Cash market using the Xetra electronic trading system, Xetra Frankfurt specialist trading and Tradegate  Central counterparty for equities  Admission of securities to listing Eurex  Electronic derivatives market trading platform Eurex  Electronic options trading platform ISE  Over-the-counter (OTC) trading platforms Eurex Bonds and Eurex Repo  Central counterparty for bonds, onand off-exchange derivatives and repo transactions (Eurex  Clearing) Clearstream  Custody, administration and settlement services for domestic and foreign securities  Global securities financing services  Investment funds services Market Data & Analytics  Sales of price information and information distribution  Index development and sales In accordance with IFRS 8, information on the segments is presented on the basis of internal reporting (management approach). Sales revenue is presented separately by external sales revenue and internal (inter-segment) sales revenue. Inter-segment services are charged on the basis of measured quantities or at fixed prices (e.g. the provision of data by Eurex to Market Data & Analytics). Due to their insignificance to segment reporting, the “financial income” and “financial expense” items have been combined to produce the “net financial result”. 288 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Segment reporting Xetra Eurex Clearstream 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m €m €m External sales revenue 230.1 275.1 912.4 945.9 768.4 775.9 Internal sales revenue 0 0 0 0 5.5 6.6 Total sales revenue 230.1 275.1 912.4 945.9 773.9 782.5 Net interest income from banking business 0 0 0 0 52.0 75.1 Other operating income 7.3 13.0 10.2 40.1 3.1 8.4 Total revenue 237.4 288.1 922.6 986.0 829.0 866.0 Volume-related costs – 24.5 – 22.9 – 101.5 – 78.1 – 163.5 – 164.6 Net revenue (total revenue less volume-related costs) 212.9 265.2 821.1 907.9 665.5 701.4 Staff costs – 55.9 – 53.3 – 133.6 – 129.5 – 180.9 – 165.8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses – 13.8 – 12.5 – 48.2 – 42.2 – 32.5 – 26.8 Other operating expenses – 56.9 – 82.6 – 194.0 – 216.0 – 134.7 – 133.4 Operating costs – 126.6 – 148.4 – 375.8 – 387.7 – 348.1 – 326.0 Result from equity investments 4.9 8.6 – 4.72) – 1.43) – 0.5 – 0.3 Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) 91.2 125.4 440.6 518.8 316.9 375.1 Net financial result –2.7 – 1.9 –125.54) 0.65) –3.4 –1.8 Earnings before tax (EBT) 88.5 123.5 315.1 519.4 313.5 373.3 Investment in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 8.5 13.0 73.6 48.0 59.2 47.2 Employees (as at 31 December) 436 448 1,034 999 1,816 1,749 EBIT margin (%)7) 42.8 47.3 53.7 57.1 47.6 53.5 1) The consolidation of internal net revenue column shows the elimination of intragroup sales revenue and profits. 2) Includes impairment losses totalling €10.8 million that account for the interest in Quadriserv Inc. 3) Includes impairment losses of €17.2 million attributable to the interest in Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd. 4) Includes loss on subsequent measurement of liabilities to SIX Group AG of €27.4 million. 5) Includes gain on subsequent measurement of liabilities to SIX Group AG of €77.4 million. 6) Excluding goodwill 7) EBIT margin is calculated on the basis of EBIT divided by net revenue. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 289 Other disclosures Consolidation of Market Data & Analytics Total of all segments internal net revenue1) Group 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m €m €m €m €m 234.4 236.4 2,145.3 2,233.3 0 0 2,145.3 2,233.3 29.5 35.5 35.0 42.1 – 35.0 – 42.1 0 0 263.9 271.9 2,180.3 2,275.4 – 35.0 – 42.1 2,145.3 2,233.3 0 0 52.0 75.1 0 0 52.0 75.1 3.1 3.9 23.7 65.4 – 12.0 – 8.4 11.7 57.0 267.0 275.8 2,256.0 2,415.9 – 47.0 – 50.5 2,209.0 2,365.4 – 34.2 – 28.9 – 323.7 – 294.5 47.0 50.5 – 276.7 – 244.0 232.8 246.9 1,932.3 2,121.4 0 0 1,932.3 2,121.4 – 43.8 – 37.2 – 414.2 – 385.8 0 0 – 414.2 – 385.8 – 10.5 – 9.9 – 105.0 – 91.4 0 0 – 105.0 – 91.4 – 53.8 – 53.0 – 439.4 – 485.0 0 0 – 439.4 – 485.0 – 108.1 – 100.1 – 958.6 – 962.2 0 0 – 958.6 – 962.2 – 4.0 – 3.3 – 4.3 3.6 0 0 – 4.3 3.6 120.7 143.5 969.4 1,162.8 0 0 969.4 1,162.8 –1.1 – 0.7 –132.7 –3.8 0 0 –132.7 –3.8 119.6 142.8 836.7 1,159.0 0 0 836.7 1,159.0 4.3 5.0 145.6 113.2 0 0 145.66) 113.26) 418 392 3,704 3,588 0 0 3,704 3,588 51.8 58.1 50.2 54.8 n.a. n.a. 50.2 54.8 290 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 In the year under review, there were no extraordinary impairment losses (2011: nil). Non-cash valuation allowances and bad debt losses resulted from the following segments: Breakdown of non-cash valuation allowances and bad debt losses 2012 2011 €m €m Xetra 0 0.4 Eurex 0 0.2 Clearstream 0.4 0 Market Data & Analytics 0.3 0.6 Total 0.7 1.2 Deutsche Börse Group’s business model – and that of its segments – is focused on an internationally operating participant base and pricing does not differ depending on the customer’s location. From a price, margin and risk perspective, this means that it is unimportant whether sales revenue is generated from German or non-German participants. The risks and returns from the activities of the subsidiaries operating within the economic environment of the European Monetary Union (EMU) do not differ significantly from each other on the basis of the factors to be considered in identifying information on geographical regions under IFRS 8. As a result, Deutsche Börse Group has identified the following information on geographical regions: the euro zone, the rest of Europe, America and Asia-Pacific. Sales revenue is allocated to the individual regions according to the customer’s domicile, while investments and non-current assets are allocated according to the company’s domicile and employees according to their location. As described above, the analysis of sales is based on the direct customer’s billing address. This means for example: sales to an American investor trading a product with an Asian underlying via a European clearing member are classified as European sales. Thus, in addition to sales to customers based in the Asia Pacific region, Deutsche Börse Group also reports sales of products based on Asia Pacific underlyings. These include, for example, trading of the South Korean KOSPI index on Eurex, settlement and custody services for securities issued by Asian entities, and index products such as the STOXX China Total Market indices. Furthermore, the Group earns net interest income on Asian customer balances. In total, this Asia Pacific-driven business amounted to an additional €36.3 million in 2012 (2011: €34.2). Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 291 Other disclosures Information on geographical regions Sales revenue Investments3) Non-current assets Number of employees 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m €m €m Euro zone 1,076.81) 1,103.11) 133.6 105.5 1,442.72) 1,382.92) 2,652 2,613 Rest of Europe 727.81) 806.41) 5.3 1.1 579.92) 585.22) 633 557 1) 1) 2) America 295.1 290.5 6.5 6.5 1,488.5 1,483.92) 308 324 Asia/Pacific 80.6 75.4 0.2 0.1 0.8 1.0 111 94 Total of all regions 2,180.3 2,275.4 145.6 113.2 3,511.92) 3,453.0 3,704 3,588 Consolidation of internal sales revenue – 35.0 – 42.1 Group 2,145.3 2,233.3 145.6 113.2 3,511.92) 3,453.0 3,704 3,588 1) Including countries in which more than 10 per cent of sales revenue were generated: Germany (2012: €571.0 million; 2011: €579.8 million), UK (2012: €571.0 million; 2011: €625.9 million), and USA (2012: €285.1 million; 2011: €278.3 million) 2) Including countries in which more than 10 per cent of non-current assets are carried: USA (2012: €1,488.5 million; 2011: €1,483.9 million), Germany (2012: €1,266.0 million; 2011: €1,256.7 million) and Switzerland (2012: €573.2 million; 2011: €582.0 million) 3) Excluding goodwill 36. Financial risk management Deutsche Börse Group presents the qualitative disclosures required by IFRS 7 in detail in the combined management report (see explanations in the risk report, which is part of the combined management report), such as the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments, as well as the objectives, strategies and methods used to manage risk. Financial risks arise at Deutsche Börse Group mainly in the form of credit risk. To a very small extent the Group is exposed to market price risk. Financial risks are quantified using the economic capital concept (please refer to the risk report for detailed disclosures). Economic capital is assessed on a 99.98 per cent confidence level for a one-year holding period. The economic capital is compared with the Group’s liable equity capital adjusted by intangible assets so as to test the Group’s ability to absorb extreme and unexpected losses. The economic capital for financial risk is calculated at the end of each month and amounted to €184 million as at 31 December 2012. It is largely determined by credit risk. The economic capital for credit risk is calculated for each business day. The Group evaluates its financial risk situation on an ongoing basis. In the view of the Executive Board, no threat to the continued existence of the Group can be identified at this time. 292 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Credit risk Credit risks arise in Deutsche Börse Group from the following items: Classification of financial instruments Carrying amounts – maximum risk position Collateral Amount as at Amount as at Amount as at Amount as at Segment Note 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m €m €m Collateralised cash investments Overnight money invested under Eurex1) securities repurchase agreements 1,499.9 1,000.0 1,601.9 1,064.3 Interest-bearing receivables Clearstream 13 0 175.0 0 167.2 Reverse repurchase agreements Eurex1) 5,287.5 5,736.2 5,316.72) 5,972.12) Clearstream 16 2,847.4 5,567.8 2,842.63)4) 5,586.53)4) 1) Group 133.2 510.0 135.2 516.9 9,768.0 12,989.0 9,896.4 13,307.0 Uncollateralised cash investments Money market lendings – central Eurex1) banks 12,862.7 7,178.0 0 0 Clearstream 16 6,530.7 3,551.0 0 0 Money market lendings – other Eurex1) counterparties 29.6 154.4 0 0 Clearstream 16 1,198.9 2,356.5 0 0 1) Group 14.9 101.5 0 0 Balances on nostro accounts Clearstream 16 1,975.4 1,810.9 0 0 Group1) 264.3 106.6 0 0 Other fixed-income securities Clearstream 13 5.8 87.8 0 0 Floating rate notes Clearstream 13 1,504.2 1,383.9 0 0 Group 13, 18 5.05) 4.0 0 0 Fund assets Eurex 13 8.8 0 0 0 24,400.3 16,734.6 0 0 Loans for settling securities transactions Technical overdraft facilities Clearstream 16 228.4 559.6 n.a.6) n.a.6) Automated Securities Fails Clearstream Financing7) 741.3 723.5 800.4 992.2 ASLplus securities lending7) Clearstream 38,043.9 38,497.0 38,071.3 40,228.2 39,013.6 39,780.1 38,871.7 41,220.4 Total 73,181.9 69,503.7 48,768.1 54,527.4 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 293 Other disclosures Carrying amounts – maximum risk position Collateral Amount as at Amount as at Amount as at Amount as at Segment Note 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m €m €m Balance brought forward 73,181.9 69,503.7 48,768.1 54,527.4 Other receivables Other loans Group 0.1 0.6 0 0 5) Other assets Group 93.5 126.1 0 0 Trade receivables Group 211.8 224.3 0 0 Associate receivables Group 2.1 2.7 0 0 Receivables from other related Group parties 0.9 5.1 0 0 Interest receivables Clearstream 16 2.0 10.4 0 0 310.4 369.2 0 0 Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG (central counterparty) 34,864.78) 42,189.58) 45,881.29)10) 51,306.99)10) Derivatives 14 0.5 46.7 0 0 Financial guarantee contracts7) 11.7 0 0 0 Total 108,369.2 112,109.1 94,649.3 105,834.3 1) Presented in the items “restricted bank balances” and “other cash and bank balances” 2) Thereof, €0 repledged to central banks (2011: €503.0 million) 3) Thereof, €443.8 million repledged to central banks (2011: €2,832.7 million) 4) Total of fair value of cash (€0 million; 2011: €22.5 million) and securities collateral (€2,842.6 million; 2011: €5,564.0 million) received under reverse repurchase agreements 5) The amount includes collateral totalling €5.0 million (2011: €5.1 million). 6) The portfolio of deposited collateral is not directly attributed to any utilisation, but is determined by the scope of the entire business relationship and the limits granted. 7) Off-balance-sheet items 8) Net value of all margin requirements resulting from executed trades as at the balance sheet date; this figure represents the risk-oriented view of Eurex Clearing AG while the carrying amount of the position “financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG” in the balance sheet shows the gross amount of the open trades according to IAS 32. 9) Collateral value of cash and securities collateral deposited for margins covering net value of all margin requirements 10) The amount includes the clearing fund totalling €1,402.3 million (2011: €1,064.4 million). 294 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Cash investments Deutsche Börse Group is exposed to credit risk in connection with the investment of cash funds. The Group mitigates such risks by investing short-term funds – to the extent possible – on a collateralised basis, e.g. via reverse repurchase agreements. According to the treasury policy, only bonds with a minimum rating of AA– issued or guaranteed by governments or supranational institutions are eligible as collateral. The fair value of securities received under reverse repurchase agreements (Clearstream subgroup, Eurex Clearing AG and Deutsche Börse AG) was €8,273.6 million (2011: €12,053.0 million). The Clearstream subgroup and Eurex Clearing AG are able to repledge the securities received to their central banks. The fair value of securities received under reverse repurchase agreements repledged to central banks amounted to €443.8 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: €3,335.7 million). The contract terms are based on recognised bilateral master agreements. Uncollateralised cash investments are permitted only for counterparties with sound creditworthiness within the framework of defined counterparty credit limits or in the form of investments in money market or other mutual funds as well as US treasuries and municipal bonds with maturities of less than two years. The Clearstream subgroup assesses counterparty credit risk on the basis of an internal rating system. The remaining Group companies use external ratings available to them. Part of the available-for-sale fixed-income financial instruments and floating rate notes held by Clearstream are pledged to central banks to collateralise the settlement facilities obtained. The fair value of pledged securities was €1,352.0 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: €1,431.1 million). Loans for settling securities transactions Clearstream grants customers technical overdraft facilities to maximise settlement efficiency. These settlement facilities are subject to internal credit review procedures. They are revocable at the option of the Clearstream subgroup and are largely collateralised. Technical overdraft facilities amounted to €87.6 billion as at 31 December 2012 (2011: €102.3 billion). Of this amount, €2.8 billion (2011: €3.2 billion) is unsecured, whereby a large proportion relates to credit lines granted to central banks and other government-backed institutions. Actual outstandings at the end of each business day generally represent a small fraction of the facilities and amounted to €228.4 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: €559.6 million); see note 16. Clearstream also guarantees the risk resulting from the Automated Securities Fails Financing programme it offers to its customers. However, this only applies when the risk is collateralised. In the absence of collateral, this risk is covered by third parties. Guarantees given under this programme amounted to €741.3 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: €723.5 million). Under the ASLplus securities lending programme, Clearstream Banking S.A. had securities borrowings from various counterparties totalling €38,043.9 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: €38,497.0 million). These securities were fully lent to other counterparties. Collateral received by Clearstream Banking S.A. in connection with these loans amounted to €38,071.3 million (2011: €40,228.2 million). In 2011 and 2012, no losses from credit transactions occurred in relation to any of the transaction types described. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 295 Other disclosures Other receivables Trading, settlement and custody fees are generally collected without delay by direct debit. Fees for other services, such as the provision of data and information, are settled mainly by transfer. As a result of default by customers, receivables of €2.2 million (2011: €1.8 million) relating to fees for trading and provision of data and IT services are not expected to be collectable. Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG (central counterparty) To safeguard Eurex Clearing AG against the risk of default by a clearing member, the clearing conditions require the clearing members to deposit margins in the form of cash or securities on a daily basis or an intraday basis in the amount stipulated by Eurex Clearing AG. Additional security mechanisms of Eurex Clearing AG are described in detail in the risk report. The aggregate margin calls (after haircuts) based on the executed transactions was €34,864.7 million at the reporting date (2011: €42,189.5 million). In fact, collateral totalling €45,881.2 million (2011: €51,306.9 million) was deposited. Composition of Eurex Clearing AG’s collateral Collateral value as at 31 Dec 2012 Collateral value as at 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Cash collateral (cash deposits)1) 19,447.4 13,858.0 Securities and book-entry securities collateral2) 3) 26,433.8 37,448.9 Total 45,881.2 51,306.9 1) The amount includes the clearing fund totalling €680.3 million (2011: €242.8 million). 2) The amount includes the clearing fund totalling €722.0 million (2011: €821.6 million). 3) The collateral value is determined on the basis of the fair value less a haircut. In contrast to the risk-oriented net analysis of the transactions via the central counterparty, the gross amounts are reported in the balance sheet, as the offsetting rules defined in IAS 32 cannot be met. For a detailed explanation of this balance sheet item, see section “Financial instruments of Eurex Clearing AG (central counterparty)” in note 3 or note 15 for an analysis of the carrying amount of €178,056.5 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: €183,618.1 million). Credit risk concentrations Deutsche Börse Group’s business model and the resulting business relationships with a large part of the financial sector mean that, as a rule, credit risk is concentrated on the financial services sector. Potential concentrations of credit risk on individual counterparties are limited by application of counterparty credit limits. The regulatory requirements, such as those arising under the Großkreditund Millionenkreditverordnung (GroMiKV, ordinance governing large exposures and loans of €1.5 million or more) in Germany and the corresponding rules in Luxembourg arising under the revised CSSF circular 06/273, are in principle complied with. The German and Luxembourgian rules are based on the EU directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (commonly known as CRD) as revised in 2009 with effect as at 31 December 2010. 296 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 See also note 20 for an explanation of regulatory capital requirements. Deutsche Börse Group carries out VaR calculations in order to detect credit concentration risks. In 2012, no significant credit concentrations were assessed. The economic capital for credit risk is calculated for each business day and amounted to €184 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: €226 million). Market price risk As part of the annual planning, the treasury policy of Deutsche Börse Group requires that any net earnings exposure from currencies be hedged through foreign exchange transactions, if the unhedged exposure exceeds 10 per cent of consolidated EBIT. Foreign exchange exposures below 10 per cent of consolidated EBIT may also be hedged. During the year, actual foreign exchange exposure is monitored against the latest EBIT forecast. In case of an overstepping of the 10 per cent threshold, the exceeding amount must be hedged. In addition, the policy stipulates that intraperiod open foreign exchange positions are closed when they exceed €15.0 million. This policy was complied with as in the previous year; as at 31 December 2012, there were no significant net foreign exchange positions. Currency risks in the Group arise mainly from the operating results and balance sheet items of ISE, which are denominated in US dollars, plus that part of Clearstream’s sales revenue and interest income less expenses which is directly or indirectly generated in US dollars. As at 31 December 2012, ISE accounted for 22 per cent of the Eurex segment’s sales revenue (2011: 20 per cent). In addition, the Clearstream segment generated 9 per cent of its sales revenue and interest income (2011: 8 per cent) directly or indirectly in US dollars. Acquisitions where payment of the purchase price results in currency risk are generally hedged. The Group has partially hedged its investment in ISE against foreign currency risks by issuing fixedincome US dollar debt securities. The investment in ISE (hedged item) constitutes a net investment in a foreign operation. The US dollar securities designated as hedging instruments for the net investment hedge were issued in a nominal amount of US$460.0 million. Interest rate risks arise further from debt financing of acquisitions. The acquisition of ISE was financed through senior and hybrid debt. Senior debt was issued in euros and US dollars with tenors of five to twelve years and fixed coupons for the life of the instruments. The hybrid debt issue has a fixed coupon for the first five years to be refixed in case the instrument is not called. In October 2012, Deutsche Börse AG successfully issued a senior bond in an amount of €600 million that largely serves to refinance some of the outstanding long-term financial liabilities. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 297 Other disclosures Equity price risks arise to a limited extent from contractual trust arrangements (CTAs) and from the Clearstream Pension Fund in Luxembourg. In addition, there are equity price risks arising from strategic equity investments in other exchange operators. Economic capital is calculated at the end of each month for market price risks that can arise in connection with cash investments or borrowing as a result of fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates as well as through hedging corporate transactions. On 31 December 2012, the economic capital for market price risk was €1 million (2011: €7 million). In financial year 2012, impairment losses amounting to €13.3 million (2011: €20.2 million) were recognised in profit and loss for strategic investments that are not included in the VaR for market price risk. Liquidity risk For the Group, liquidity risk may arise from potential difficulties in renewing maturing financing, such as commercial paper and bilateral and syndicated credit facilities. In addition, required financing for unexpected events may result in a liquidity risk. Most of the Group’s cash investments are short-term to ensure that liquidity is available, should such a financing need arise. Eurex Clearing AG remains almost perfectly matched with respect to the durations of received customer cash margins and investments which in only limited amounts may have tenors of up to one month while the Clearstream subgroup may invest customer balances up to a maximum of one year under strict control of mismatch and interest rate limits (see note 31 for an overview of the maturity structure).Term investments can be transacted via reverse repurchase agreements against highly liquid collateral that can be deposited with the Luxembourg Central Bank and can be used as a liquidity buffer in case of need. Contractually agreed credit lines Amount as at Amount as at Company Purpose of credit line Currency 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 m m Deutsche Börse AG working capital1) – interday € 605.0 605.0 Eurex Clearing AG settlement – interday € 670.0 670.0 settlement – intraday € 700.0 700.0 settlement – interday CHF 200.0 200.0 Clearstream Banking S.A. working capital1) – interday US$ 0 1,000.0 working capital1) – interday € 750.0 0 1) €400.0 million of Deutsche Börse AG’s working capital credit lines is a sub-credit line of Clearstream Banking S.A.’s €750 million working capital credit line. Clearstream Banking S.A. has a bank guarantee (letter of credit) in favour of Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. issued by an international consortium to secure daily deliveries of securities between Euroclear and Clearstream. This guarantee amounted to US$2.75 billion as at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$2.75 billion). Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. has also issued a corresponding guarantee in favour of Clearstream Banking S.A. Furthermore, Eurex Clearing AG holds a credit facility of US$2.1 billion granted by Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. in order to increase the settlement efficiency. 298 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 A commercial paper programme offers Deutsche Börse AG an opportunity for flexible, short-term financing, involving a total facility of €2.5 billion in various currencies. As at year-end, there was no outstanding commercial paper (2011: no outstanding commercial paper). Clearstream Banking S.A. also has a commercial paper programme with a programme limit of €1.0 billion, which is used to provide additional short-term liquidity. As at 31 December 2012, commercial paper with a nominal value of €208.4 million had been issued (2011: €204.3 million). The rating agencies Fitch and Standard & Poor’s confirmed the existing credit ratings of the Group companies in the course of the financial year. However, because of the weaker business environment, Standard & Poor’s added a negative outlook to Deutsche Börse AG’s rating on 20 December 2012. On 1 February 2013, Fitch Ratings added a negative outlook to Clearstream Banking S.A.’s AA rating because of increased operational risk. As at 31 December 2012, Deutsche Börse AG was one of only two DAX-listed companies that had been given an AA rating by Standard & Poor’s. As at 31 December 2012, Deutsche Börse AG’s commercial paper programme was awarded the best possible short-term rating of A–1+. 37. Financial liabilities and other risks For the coming financial years, the Group’s expenses in connection with long-term contracts relating to maintenance contracts and other contracts are presented in the following: Breakdown of future financial obligations 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Up to 1 year 49.9 49.7 1 to 5 years 63.4 51.5 More than 5 years 9.5 8.9 Total 122.8 110.1 In connection with the cooperation agreement between SIX Swiss Exchange AG and Deutsche Börse AG with regard to both parties’ participation in Scoach Holding S.A., Deutsche Börse AG has the right and the obligation, at the end of the cooperation after expiration of the term or termination of the agreement, to retain the Scoach Holding S.A. (including the collateral participation in Scoach Europa AG, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Scoach Holding S.A.) as sole shareholder. This obligation results in a contingent liability of Deutsche Börse AG to SIX Swiss Exchange AG to make a compensation payment if the net financial liabilities and non-operating assets of Scoach Holding S.A. (including Scoach Europa AG) are higher than those of Scoach Schweiz AG, which is being taken over by SIX Swiss Exchange AG. The reverse case will result in an obligation of SIX Swiss Exchange AG to Deutsche Börse AG. In December 2012, SIX Swiss Exchange AG gave notice of termination of the cooperation agreement effective 30 June 2013. Due to this termination of the cooperation agreement, the joint venture will end on 30 June 2013 and the markets contributed to the venture will be transferred back to the parent companies. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 299 Other disclosures Other litigation and liability risks Contingent liabilities may result from present obligations and from possible obligations from events in the past. Deutsche Börse Group recognises provisions for the possible incurrence of losses only if there is a present obligation from an event in the past which is likely to cause an outflow of resources and if it is possible to reliably estimate the amount of such obligation. In order to determine for which proceedings the possibility of incurring a loss is more than unlikely as well as how the possible loss is estimated, Deutsche Börse Group takes into account a multitude of factors, including the nature of the claim and the facts on which it is based, the jurisdiction and course of the individual proceedings, the experience of Deutsche Börse Group, prior settlement talks (as far as have already taken place) as well as reports and evaluations of legal advisors. However, it is possible that a reliable estimate for a given proceedings could not be determined before the release of the consolidated financial statements, and that – as a result – no provisions are recognised. Eurex Clearing AG vs. Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG On 26 November 2012, the insolvency administrator of Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG (LBB AG), Dr Michael C. Frege, brought an action against Eurex Clearing AG before the Frankfurt/Main Regional Court. On the basis of German insolvency law, Dr Frege is demanding from Eurex Clearing AG the repayment of €113.5 million and payment of another amount of around €1.0 million plus interest of 5 percentage points above the base rate accrued on the total amount since 13 November 2008. Eurex Clearing AG considers the claim unfounded and is defending itself against the insolvency administrator’s action. LBB AG had made payments in the amount of €113.5 million to Eurex Clearing AG in the morning of 15 September 2008. LBB AG was thereby effecting collateral payments (intraday margin payments) of Lehman Brothers International (Europe) (LBIE) from the underlying clearing relationship to Eurex Clearing AG by acting as correspondence bank for the former clearing member LBIE. On 15 September 2008, administration proceedings were opened in the United Kingdom with respect to LBIE, and Bundesagentur für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin, German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) issued a moratorium with regard to LBB AG in the course of 15 September 2008. On 13 November 2008, insolvency proceedings were opened with regards to LBB AG. Clearstream Banking S.A. vs. OFAC The U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has contacted Clearstream Banking S.A. (Clearstream) regarding OFAC’s investigation under US Iran sanctions regulations of certain securities transfers within the Clearstream settlement system in 2008. These transfers implemented the decision taken by Clearstream in 2007 to close its Iranian customers’ accounts. OFAC had been informed of the closing of the accounts in advance. OFAC has now invited Clearstream to pursue closure of the matter through substantive discussions and settlement in accordance with OFAC’s standard procedures. Thereupon Clearstream has decided to enter into such settlement discussions with OFAC on 9 January 2013. OFAC has communicated to Clearstream its preliminary views on the investigation. OFAC’s preliminary views are that (1) apparent violations of US sanctions may have occurred in 2008 in connection with the aforementioned securities transfers, and (2) if OFAC were to issue a civil pre-penalty notice based only on information currently available to it, such a pre-penalty notice would indicate an amount of 300 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 approximately US$340 million. These views were shared for discussion purposes only and are subject to potential significant change in favour of Clearstream depending on the outcome of discussions with OFAC. OFAC has not taken any final decision either on a finding of any violation or on any amount. Any settlement with OFAC would not constitute a finding of a violation. Clearstream continues to believe that its actions were in compliance with any applicable US sanctions regulations and considers OFAC’s preliminary figure to be unwarranted and excessive. Clearstream appreciates the opportunity to engage in substantive discussions with OFAC on the facts and reasons why a penalty should not be imposed or, if a settlement payment is agreed upon, why it should be in a far lesser amount. Up until the release of these consolidated financial statements, the amount of a payment – also taking into account expert’s opinions and different evaluation methods – cannot be estimated reliably by Deutsche Börse Group (nor can a certain range be specified); as a result and in accordance with IAS 37.26 no provisions have been recognised. This approach reflects the information known at the time of the release of the consolidated financial statements; it may change over the course of time, in particular during the course of the proceedings or upon entering into settlement talks, as the case may be. Peterson vs. Clearstream Banking S.A., Citibank NA et al. Following a civil action against Iran, plaintiffs obtained a default judgement against Iran in September 2007 in US courts. In June 2008, plaintiffs commenced enforcement proceedings in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York to satisfy this judgement by restraining certain client positions held in Clearstream Banking S.A.’s securities omnibus account with its US depository bank, Citibank NA. The restrained positions are alleged to be beneficially owned by an Iranian government entity. Consistent with its custodial obligations, Clearstream defended against the restraints and filed a motion to vacate the restraints on various grounds. In October 2010, plaintiffs commenced a lawsuit which seeks to have the restrained positions turned over to plaintiffs. An amended complaint was received by Clearstream in Luxembourg on 7 January 2011. The amended complaint includes a cause of action directly against Clearstream with a claim for US$250 million in connection with purportedly fraudulent conveyances related to the restrained positions. In summer 2011, Citibank NA interpleaded other potential judgement creditors of Iran into the litigation. At the direction of the court, Clearstream renewed its motion to vacate the restraints. This renewed motion remains pending before the court. On 7 December 2011, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint, adding claims for damages against Clearstream and others of US$2 billion, plus punitive damages to be determined at trial and attorney’s fees. Clearstream considers the plaintiffs’ claims against it to be legally and factually without merit, as Clearstream will establish at the appropriate time in the litigation. Should the case proceed, consistent with its custodial obligations Clearstream intends to defend itself vigorously to the fullest extent. Heiser vs. Clearstream Banking S.A. In addition to existing enforcement proceedings in the Peterson case, another turnover proceeding was filed by another set of plaintiffs (the Heiser plaintiffs) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York in March 2011 in connection with the enforcement of the Heiser plaintiffs’ separate judgement against Iran. The Heiser plaintiffs are seeking turnover of the same above mentioned client positions held in Clearstream Banking S.A.’s securities omnibus account with its US depository bank. The Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 301 Other disclosures Heiser plaintiffs have been interpleaded into the Peterson case and the Heiser case has been stayed pending disposition of certain pending motions in the Peterson case. Clearstream Banking S.A. intends to defend itself vigorously to the fullest extent against this claim consistent with its custodial obligations, if the case proceeds. CBOE vs. ISE On 12 November 2012, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against the International Securities Exchange (ISE). CBOE alleges $525 million in damages for infringement of three patents, which relate to systems and methods for limiting market maker risk. ISE believes that CBOE’s damages claim lacks merit because it is unsupported by the facts and the law. ISE intends to vigorously defend itself in this lawsuit. In November 2006, ISE itself filed a patent infringement lawsuit against CBOE. In this on-going litigation, which is scheduled for trial on 11 March 2013, ISE alleges $475 million in damages for infringement of ISE’s patent which relates to systems and methods for operating an automated exchange. In addition to the matters described above and in prior disclosures, Deutsche Börse Group is from time to time involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of its business. Deutsche Börse Group recognises provisions for litigation and regulatory matters when it has a present obligation from an event in the past, an outflow of resources with economic benefit to settle the obligation is probable and it is possible to reliably estimate the amount. In such cases, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amounts accrued. When these conditions are not met, Deutsche Börse Group does not recognise a provision. As a litigation or regulatory matter develops, Deutsche Börse Group evaluates on an ongoing basis whether the requirements to recognise a provision are met. Deutsche Börse Group may not be able to predict what the eventual loss or range of loss related to such matters will be. Deutsche Börse Group does not believe, based on currently available information, that the results of any of these various proceedings will have a material adverse effect on its financial statements as a whole. 38. Leases Finance leases There were no minimum lease payments from finance leases for Deutsche Börse Group neither as at 31 December 2012 nor as at 31 December 2011. Operating leases (as lessee) Deutsche Börse Group has entered into leases to be classified as operating leases due to their economic substance, meaning that the leased asset is allocated to the lessor. These leases relate mainly to buildings, IT hardware and software. 302 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Minimum lease payments from operating leases 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Up to 1 year1) 68.8 73.6 1 to 5 years1) 176.6 189.3 More than 5 years1) 151.0 194.0 Total 396.4 456.9 1) The expected payments in US dollars were translated into euros applying the closing rate of 31 December 2012. In the year under review, €72.1 million (2011: €65.0 million) of minimum lease payments was recognised as an expense. No expenses were incurred for subleases or contingent rentals in the year under review. Operating leases for buildings, some of which are subleased, have a maximum remaining term of 13 years. The lease contracts usually terminate automatically when the lease expires. The Group has options to extend some leases. Rental income expected from sublease contracts 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 €m €m Up to 1 year 1.0 1.4 1 to 5 years 1.0 1.7 Total 2.0 3.1 39. Stock Bonus Plan, Stock Plan and Group Share Plan Stock Bonus Plan (SBP) and Stock Plan In the year under review, the company established an additional tranche of the SBP. In order to participate in the SBP, a beneficiary must have earned a bonus. The number of stock options for senior executives is determined by the amount of the individual and performance-based SBP bonus for the financial year, divided by the average share price (Xetra closing price) of Deutsche Börse AG’s shares in the fourth quarter of the financial year in question. Neither the converted SBP bonus nor the stock options will be paid at the time the bonus is determined. Rather, the entitlement is generally received two years after having been granted (so-called “waiting period”). Within this period, beneficiaries cannot assert shareholder rights (in particular, the right to receive dividends and attend the Annual General Meeting). The beneficiaries’ claims resulting from the SBP are calculated on the first trading day following the last day of the waiting period. The current market price at that date (closing auction price of Deutsche Börse share in electronic trading on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange) is multiplied by the number of SBP shares. Since 1 January 2010, a different method has been applied to calculate the number of stock options for Executive Board members which is described below. To calculate the number of stock options for Executive Board members under the 2010 SBP tranche and all subsequent tranches, the Supervisory Board defines the 100 per cent stock bonus target in euros for each Executive Board member at the beginning of each financial year. Based on the 100 per cent stock bonus target defined by the Supervisory Board at the beginning of each financial year, the corresponding number of virtual shares for each Executive Board member is calculated by dividing the Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 303 Other disclosures stock bonus target by the average share price (Xetra closing price) of Deutsche Börse AG’s shares in the two calendar months preceding the month in which the Supervisory Board adopts the resolution on the stock bonus target. Any right to payment of a stock bonus vests only after a performance period of three years. The year in which the 100 per cent stock bonus target is defined is taken to be the first performance year. The calculation of the subsequent payout amount of the stock bonus for the Executive Board depends on the development of two performance factors during the performance period: firstly, on the relative performance of the total shareholder return on Deutsche Börse AG’s shares compared with the total shareholder return of the STOXX Europe 600 Financials Index as the peer group, and secondly, on the performance of Deutsche Börse AG’s share price. This is multiplied by the number of virtual shares at the end of the performance period to determine the stock bonus. The share price used to calculate the cash payment claims of Executive Board members from the stock bonus is calculated as the average price of Deutsche Börse AG’s shares (Xetra closing price) in the two full calendar months preceding the end of the performance period. On 20 April 2009, the Luxembourgian Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF) published a circular on remuneration policies in the banking sector that addresses key aspects of remuneration practices for sustainable corporate governance and support their implementation in banking institutions’ day-to-day operations. According to this circular, every banking institution is required to introduce a remuneration policy that is in harmony with its business strategy and corporate goals and values as well as the long-term interests of the financial enterprise, its customers and investors, and which minimises the institution’s risk position. Clearstream companies in Luxembourg have therefore revised their remuneration system for executive boards in line with the circular, and introduced a so-called stock plan. The exercise process of this stock plan stipulates the allocation of a stock bonus at the end of each financial year, which will be paid in three tranches of equal size with maturities after one, two and three years, respectively. There is a cash settlement obligation for claims under the stock plan. The number of stock options under the stock plan is determined by the amount of the individual, performance-based bonus established for each Executive Board member, divided by the average market price (Xetra closing price) for Deutsche Börse AG shares in the fourth quarter of the financial year in question. As the contracts require the stock bonus to be exercised gradually, it is divided into three separate tranches, which are measured according to their respective residual term using the corresponding parameters of the Stock Bonus Plan for senior executives. In April 2012, Eurex Frankfurt AG introduced a special remuneration component for its Executive Board members in the form of a separate SBP tranche with a term of 21 months. For the stock bonus of senior executives under the 2010 to 2012 tranches, Deutsche Börse AG has an option whether to settle a beneficiary’s claim in cash or shares. The company decided to settle the 2010 tranche claims due in 2013 in cash. A cash settlement obligation exists for claims relating to the stock bonus of the Executive Board under the newly issued 2010, 2011 and 2012 SBP tranches, all future stock bonus programmes issued for the Executive Board and the stock plan for the executive board members of the Clearstream companies. In accordance with IFRS 2, the company uses an adjusted Black-Scholes model (Merton model) to calculate the fair value of the stock options. 304 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Valuation parameters for SBP shares Tranche 2012 Tranche 20111) Tranche 2010 Term until 31 Jan 2013 – 31 Jan 2015 31 Jan 2015 31 Jan 2013 Risk-free interest rate % – 0.04 – 0.04 – 0.02 0.02 Volatility of Deutsche Börse AG shares % 31.50 8.90 – 31.50 8.90 Dividend yield % 4.54 4.54 4.54 Exercise price € 0 0 0 1) The SBP 2011 tranche also includes SBP options of the Stock Plan for the executive board members of the Luxembourgian companies and SBP options for the Executive Board of Eurex Frankfurt AG. These options are evaluated using different parameters. The valuation model does not take into account exercise hurdles. The volatilities applied correspond to the market volatilities of comparable options with comparable maturities. Valuation of SBP shares Deutsche Börse AG Current Non-current share price Intrinsic provision as provision as Balance as at as at value/ Fair value/ Settlement at 31 Dec at 31 Dec 31 Dec 20121) 31 Dec 2012 option2) option2) obligation 2012 2012 Number € € € €m €m €m Tranche 2010 177,564 46.21 46.21 46.03 8.2 8.0 0 Tranche 2011 198,834 46.21 46.21 42.11 – 46.03 8.8 0.3 5.3 Tranche 2012 109,4023) 46.21 46.21 42.11 4.6 0 1.4 Total 485,800 21.6 8.3 6.7 1) There were no exercisable SBP shares as at 31 December 2012. 2) As at the balance sheet date 3) As the grant date for the 2012 tranche for senior executives is not until financial year 2013, the number indicated for the balance sheet date may change subsequently. The stock options from the 2009 SBP were exercised in the year under review following expiration of the vesting period. The average exercise price for the 2009 tranche following expiration of the vesting period was €47.33 for the 2009 tranche. Shares of the SBP tranches 2009, 2010 and 2011 were paid to former employees as part of severance payments in the reporting year. The average exercise price amounted to €42.37 for the 2009 tranche, €43.26 for the 2010 tranche and €50.10 for the 2011 tranche. The amount of provisions for the SBP results from the measurement of the number of SBP shares with the fair value of the closing auction price of Deutsche Börse shares in electronic trading at the Frankfurt Stock Exchange as at the balance sheet date and its proportionate recognition over the vesting period. Provisions amounting to €15.0 million were recognised as at the balance sheet date of 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: €13.9 million). Thereof, €6.7 million are non-current (2011: €7.6 million). Of total provisions amounting to €15.0 million, €5.9 million were attributable to members of the Executive Board (2011: €4.0 million). The total cost of the SBP shares in the year under review was €8.7 million (2011: €7.7 million). Of that amount, an expense of €3.7 million was attributable to active members of the Executive Board as at the balance sheet date (2011: €1.9 million). For the number of SBP shares granted to members of the Executive Board, please also refer to the remuneration report. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 305 Other disclosures Change in number of SBP shares allocated Disposals Disposals Additions Balance as at 2010 2011 2012 Options Options Balance as at 31 Dec 2011 tranche tranche tranche exercised forfeited 31 Dec 2012 To the Executive Board 178,707 2,3771) 2,7221) 69,514 37,401 0 205,721 To other senior executives 440,082 0 66,899 39,888 128,391 4,601 280,079 2) Total 618,789 2,377 69,621 109,402 165,792 4,601 485,800 1) This relates to a decline in the number of SBP shares caused by a decline in the TSR compared to the 100 per cent value at the time the tranche was issued. 2) As the grant date for the 2012 tranche for senior executives is not until financial year 2013, the number indicated for the balance sheet date may change subsequently. Group Share Plan (GSP) Employees of Deutsche Börse Group who are not members of the Executive Board or senior executives have the opportunity to subscribe for shares of Deutsche Börse AG at a discount of 30 or 40 per cent to the issue price under the Group Share Plan (GSP). This discount is based on the employee’s performance assessment and length of service. Under the 2012 GSP tranche, eligible employees were able to buy up to 100 shares of the company. The purchased shares must be held for at least two years. In 2004 to 2006, employees participating in the GSP received an additional stock option for each share acquired through the GSP, which they could exercise after two years at a fixed premium to the issue price. The options of the remaining 2006 GSP tranche expired on 30 June 2012 when the plan ended, because the exercise price of the options exceeded the closing auction price of Deutsche Börse shares. In the year under review, expense in the total amount of €0.6 million (2011: €0.1 million) was recognised in staff costs for the Group Share Plan. Change in number of GSP options allocated Balance as at Options Options Balance as at 31 Dec 2011 exercised forfeited 31 Dec 2012 Tranche 2006 44,719 0 44,719 0 ISE Group Share Plan As a component of remuneration with a long-term incentive effect the company also issued an annual tranche of the Group Share Plan for employees of the US subgroup ISE in the past. Under these tranches of the ISE Group Share Plan, eligible employees had the opportunity to acquire a number of shares in Deutsche Börse AG based on their earned bonus plus an additional personal contribution. The purchase price for the shares, which was reduced by 90 per cent, was paid from the granted GSP bonus and an additional contribution by the beneficiary. For the 2009 tranche of the stock options, a three year vesting period was scheduled. Neither the GSP bonus nor the number of GSP shares were paid at the time the bonus was determined. Rather, the payments were made two years after the grant date of the 2009 tranche. Within this period, beneficiaries could not assert shareholder rights (in particular, the right to receive dividends and attend the Annual General Meeting). 306 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 The shares under the Group Share Plan were delivered no later than 45 days after the vesting period expired. The difference between the average purchase price and the reduced subscription price was charged to staff costs. ISE has not issued any further tranche for the ISE Group Share Plan. The stock options from the 2009 tranche were exercised following expiration of the vesting period. The average share price for the 67,064 stock options exercised was €46.34. Change in number of ISE GSP shares allocated Balance as at Options Options Balance as at 31 Dec 2011 exercised forfeited 31 Dec 2012 Tranche 2009 67,064 67,064 0 0 After exercise of the 2009 tranche, there were no more provisions under the ISE’s GSP programme as at the balance sheet date on 31 December 2012 (2011: current provisions of €2.4 million). 40. Executive bodies The members of the company’s executive bodies are listed in the “Executive Board” and “Supervisory Board” chapters of this corporate report. 41. Corporate governance On 10 December 2012, the Executive and Supervisory Boards issued the latest version of the declaration of conformity in accordance with section 161 of the Aktiengesetz (AktG, the German Stock Corporation Act) and made it permanently available to shareholders on the company’s website (see also chapter “Corporate governance declaration” of this corporate report). 42. Related party disclosures Related parties as defined by IAS 24 are members of the executive bodies of Deutsche Börse AG and the companies classified as associates of Deutsche Börse AG and other investors, and companies that are controlled or significantly influenced by members of the executive bodies. The remuneration of the individual members of the Executive and Supervisory Boards is presented in the remuneration report. The remuneration report is a component of the combined management report. Executive Board In 2012, the fixed and variable remuneration of the members of the Executive Board, including noncash benefits, amounted to a total of €14.3 million (2011: €14.8 million). In 2012, no expenses for non-recurring termination benefits for Executive Board members (2011: nil) were recognised in the consolidated income statement. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 307 Other disclosures The actuarial present value of the pension obligations to Executive Board members was €31.7 million at 31 December 2012 (2011: €27.3 million). Expenses of €1.4 million (2011: €1.3 million) were recognised as additions to pension provisions. Former members of the Executive Board or their surviving dependents The remuneration paid to former members of the Executive Board or their surviving dependents amounted to €1.6 million in 2012 (2011: €1.6 million). The actuarial present value of the pension obligations was €41.5 million at 31 December 2012 (2011: €33.3 million). Supervisory Board The aggregate remuneration paid to members of the Supervisory Board in financial year 2011 was €2.1 million (2011: €1.8 million). Other material transactions with related parties The two following tables show the other material transactions with companies classified as related parties. All transactions were effected on an arm’s length basis. Material transactions with associates Amount of the transactions Outstanding balances 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m Loans from Scoach Holding S.A. to Deutsche Börse AG as part of cash pooling 0 0.1 – 13.1 – 11.8 Loans from Scoach Europa AG to Deutsche Börse AG as part of cash pooling 0 0 – 0.1 – 0.8 Services of Deutsche Börse AG for Scoach Europa AG 6.0 5.9 0.4 1.2 Loans from Deutsche Börse AG to Indexium AG 0.2 0.1 01) 0.6 Loans from Deutsche Börse AG to Digital Vega FX Ltd. 0 0 0.1 0 Operation of trading and clearing software by Deutsche Börse AG for European Energy Exchange AG and affiliates 9.7 10.1 0.7 0.3 IT services and infrastructure by International Securities Exchange, LLC for Direct Edge Holdings, LLC2) 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.4 Development and operation of the Link Up Converter system by Clearstream Services S.A. for Link Up Capital Markets, S.L. 1.6 1.8 0.2 0.5 Material transactions within the framework of gold under custody between Clearstream Banking AG and Deutsche Börse Commodities GmbH – 5.1 – 4.3 – 0.4 – 0.4 Calculation services, provision of software solutions for indices and benchmark and operation of necessary software for Deutsche Börse AG by Indexium AG 0 0 – 2.53) 0 Calculation services, provision of software solutions for indices and benchmark and operation of necessary software for STOXX Ltd. by Indexium AG – 1.4 0 – 1.64) 0 Other outstanding balances with associates – – – 0.1 0 1) Outstanding balance after impairment losses of €5.5 million on the loan granted to Indexium AG by Deutsche Börse AG 2) Direct Edge Holdings, LLC has been classified again as an associate since the restoration of significant influence on 9 February 2012. 3) Thereof provisions for development costs amounting to €1.5 million 4) Thereof provisions for development costs amounting to €1.3 million 308 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Material transactions with other related parties Amount of the transactions Outstanding balances 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 2011 2012 2011 €m €m €m €m Office and administrative services by Eurex Zürich AG for SIX Swiss Exchange AG1) 0 28.0 n.a. 5.0 Loans from SIX Group AG provided to STOXX Ltd. as part of the acquisition and interest charges thereon1) 0 – 0.3 n.a. – 6.2 Office and administrative services by SIX Group AG for STOXX Ltd.1) 2.2 – 1.3 n.a. – 1.3 Office and administrative services by SIX Swiss Exchange AG for Eurex Zürich AG1) – 2.3 – 8.4 n.a. – 1.1 Office and administrative services by SIX Swiss Exchange AG for Eurex Frankfurt AG1) – 2.0 – 7.2 n.a. – 0.2 Transfer of revenue from Eurex fees by Eurex Zürich AG to SIX Swiss Exchange AG1) n.a. n.a. n.a. – 16.5 Operation and development of Xontro by Deutsche Börse AG for BrainTrade Gesellschaft für Börsensysteme mbH 9.6 12.3 0.9 2.0 Operation of the floor trading system by BrainTrade Gesellschaft für Börsensysteme mbH for Deutsche Börse AG 2.4 4.9 0 – 0.3 1) On 30 April 2012, SIX Group AG sold its remaining shares in Eurex Zürich AG to Deutsche Börse AG. Since then, SIX Group AG and its affiliates have not been considered as related parties within the meaning of IAS 24. Transactions with key management personnel Key management personnel are persons who directly or indirectly have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of Deutsche Börse Group. The Group defines the members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board as key management personnel for the purposes of IAS 24. In the context of the proposed transaction between Deutsche Börse Group and NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Börse AG entered into contracts for the provision of advisory services with Deutsche Bank AG, Frankfurt / Main, and Mayer Brown LLP, Washington. In the period under review, two members of the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG also held key management positions in these companies. In the financial year ended 31 December 2012, Deutsche Börse Group paid Deutsche Bank AG and Mayer Brown LLP a total of €1.1 million (2011: € 3.0 million) for advisory services in connection with this transaction. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 309 Other disclosures Furthermore, Deutsche Börse AG has entered into a contract for the provision of advisory services with Richard Berliand Limited, whose Executive Director Richard Berliand is a member of Deutsche Börse AG’s Supervisory Board. Significant elements of this contract include strategies relating to the competitive positioning of Deutsche Börse AG’s new clearing business in the market as well as advisory services in connection with major strategic projects. Deutsche Börse Group made payments of €42.5 thousand to Richard Berliand Limited for advisory services in the year under review (2011: €161.4 thousand). In financial year 2012, the employee representatives on Deutsche Börse AG’s Supervisory Board received salaries (excluding Supervisory Board remuneration) amounting to €0.7 million (2011: € 0.5 million). The total consists of the respective total gross amounts for those employee representatives who drew salaries from Deutsche Börse AG in the year under review. Further transactions with related parties In the context of the transaction between Deutsche Börse AG, SIX Group AG and SIX Swiss Exchange AG described in detail in note 2, it was agreed that all of Eurex’s sales and profits will accrue to Deutsche Börse AG with effect from 1 January 2012; instead of the economic interest of 85 per cent of these amounts included in Deutsche Börse AG’s consolidated financial statements. In return, SIX Swiss Exchange AG received consideration of €295.0 million in cash and 5,286,738 shares of Deutsche Börse AG. 43. Shareholders Section 160 (1) no. 8 of the Aktiengesetz (AktG, German Stock Corporation Act) requires disclosure of the existence of long-term investments that have been notified to the entity in accordance with section 21 (1) or section 21 (1a) of the Wertpapierhandelsgesetz (WpHG, German Securities Trading Act). The following table provides an overview of the disclosable investments as at 11 March 2013 that had been notified to the company. The information was taken in all cases from the most recent notifications provided by disclosers to the company. All notifications provided by the company concerning disclosure of investments in the year under review and thereafter until 11 March 2013 are accessible on www.deutsche-boerse.com/ir_news. Please note that the information with regard to the percentages and voting rights held under these long-term investments may no longer be up-to-date. The company received the following notifications pursuant to section 21 of the WpHG: 310 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Domicile and country in which the domicile or place of Date investment Over-/ residence of the discloser is reached, exceeded or understepping Discloser located fell below threshold (+/–) Deutsche Börse AG Frankfurt/Main, Germany 17 Feb 2012 + BlackRock Advisors Holdings, Inc. New York, USA 1 Dec 2009 + BlackRock Financial Management, Inc. New York, USA 14 Apr 2011 + BlackRock Holdco 2, Inc. Delaware, USA 14 Apr 2011 + Black Rock Group Limited London, United Kingdom 7 Dec 2012 + BlackRock, Inc. New York, USA 12 Apr 2011 + Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Edinburgh, United Kingdom 16 May 2011 Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. Amsterdam, Netherlands 16 May 2011 BR Jersey International Holdings, L.P. St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 8 Feb 2012 + BlackRock International Holdings, Inc. New York, USA 2 Aug 2012 + RFS Holdings B.V. Amsterdam, Netherlands 16 May 2011 – RBS Holdings N.V. Amsterdam, Netherlands 16 May 2011 – Capital Research and Management Company Los Angeles, USA 1 Oct 2011 – Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC Washington, USA 12 Oct 2011 – Sun Life of Canada (U.S.) Financial Services Holdings, Inc. Boston, USA 19 Dec 2011 – Sun Life Financial (U.S.) Investments LLC Wellesley Hills, USA 19 Dec 2011 – Sun Life Financial (U.S.) Holdings, Inc. Wellesley Hills, USA 19 Dec 2011 – Sun Life Global Investments Inc. Toronto, Canada 19 Dec 2011 – Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada – U.S. Operations Holdings, Inc. Wellesley Hills, USA 19 Dec 2011 – Sun Life Financial Inc. Toronto, Canada 19 Dec 2011 – Massachusetts Financial Services Company (MFS) Boston, USA 19 Dec 2011 – Credit Suisse Group AG Zurich, Switzerland 23 May 2012 – Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited London, United Kingdom 23 May 2012 – The Capital Group Companies Los Angeles, USA 2 Oct 2012 – Morgan Stanley Delaware, USA 29 May 2012 – Morgan Stanley International Holdings Delaware, USA 29 May 2012 – Morgan Stanley International Limited London, United Kingdom 29 May 2012 – Morgan Stanley Group Europe London, United Kingdom 29 May 2012 – Morgan Stanley UK Group London, United Kingdom 29 May 2012 – Morgan Stanley & Co International Plc London, United Kingdom 29 May 2012 – Deka Bank Deutsche Girozentrale Frankfurt/Main, Germany 11 May 2012 + Credit Suisse AG Zurich, Switzerland 23 May 2012 – Credit Suisse Investments UK London, United Kingdom 23 May 2012 – Credit Suisse Investment Holdings UK London, United Kingdom 23 May 2012 – Warburg Invest Kapitalanlagegesellschaft Hamburg, Germany 21 May 2012 – Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 311 Other disclosures Reporting Investment Investment threshold Attribution in acc. with sections 22, 25 and 25a of the WpHG (%) (voting rights) 3.00% n.a. 4.94% 9,533,068 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 3.35% 6,526,163 5.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 5.04% 9,821,174 5.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 5.04% 9,821,174 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 3.00030% 5,790,525 5.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 5.01% 9,773,982 1.50344 % of the voting rights in acc. with section 22 (1) sentence 1 of the WpHG and 0.00006 % of the voting 1.50350% 2,931,849 3.00% rights in acc. with section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 3.00% n.a. 1.50344% 2,931,719 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 3.58% 6,981,055 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 3.58% 6,981,055 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 1 of the WpHG 1.50344% 2,931,719 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 1 of the WpHG 1.50344% 2,931,719 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 of the WpHG 2.88% 5,562,043 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 of the WpHG 2.96% 5,771,503 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 2.92% 5,699,639 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 2.92% 5,699,639 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 2.92% 5,699,639 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 2.92% 5,699,639 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 2.92% 5,699,639 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 in conjunction with section 22 (1) sentence 2 of the WpHG 2.92% 5,699,639 3.00% section 22 (1) sentence 1 no. 6 of the WpHG 2.92% 5,699,639 5.00% 1.34% 2,587,486 section 25a of the WpHG 0.02% 39,420 section 25 of the WpHG 0.04% 71,843 sections 21, 22 of the WpHG 1.28% 2,476,223 5.00% sections 21, 22 of the WpHG 1.28% 2,471,378 5.00% sections 21, 22 of the WpHG 2.75% 5,310,796 5.00% 3.54% 6,834,833 section 25a of the WpHG 2.31% 4,462,194 section 25 of the WpHG 1.17% 2,253,884 sections 21, 22 of the WpHG 0.06% 118,755 5.00% 1.03% 1,984,463 section 25 of the WpHG 1.00% 1,930,473 sections 21, 22 of the WpHG 0.03% 53,990 5.00% section 25 of the WpHG 0.88% 1,693,951 5.00% section 25 of the WpHG 0.88% 1,693,951 5.00% section 25 of the WpHG 0.88% 1,693,951 5.00% 2.99% 5,775,662 section 25a of the WpHG 2.11% 4,081,711 section 25 of the WpHG 0.88% 1,693,951 5.00% 5.70% 11,008,669 section 25 of the WpHG 0.81% 1,567,000 sections 21, 22 of the WpHG 4.89% 9,441,669 5.00% 1.34% 2,587,486 section 25a of the WpHG 0.02% 39,420 section 25 of the WpHG 0.04% 71,843 sections 21, 22 of the WpHG 1.28% 2,476,223 5.00% sections 21, 22 of the WpHG 1.28% 2,471,378 5.00% sections 21, 22 of the WpHG 1.28% 2,471,378 3.00% sections 21, 22 of the WpHG 1.61% 3,108,037 312 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 44. Employees Employees 2012 2011 Average number of employees during the year 3,654 3,522 Employed as at the balance sheet date 3,704 3,588 FTE annual average 3,416 3,278 Of the average number of employees during the year, 9 (2011: 8) were classified as Managing Directors (excluding Executive Board members), 365 (2011: 373) as senior executives and 3,280 (2011: 3,141) as employees. There was an average of 3,416 full-time equivalent (FTE) employees during the year (2011: 3,278). Please refer also to the “Employees” section in the combined management report. 45. Events after the balance sheet date On 5 February 2013 Deutsche Börse AG has announced that the Executive Board of the company, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, is planning to accelerate the measures to increase the operating efficiency. For that purpose the company will identify and implement additional personnel and non-personnel cost savings of €70 million per annum. This will allow the company to compensate expected inflationary cost increases ahead of time. Furthermore, this ensures the necessary flexibility to continue the growth and infrastructure investments, which will allow the company to seize opportunities relating to structural and regulatory changes in financial markets and potential in markets like Asia. At the same time the company continues to adapt to evolving customer needs. All efficiency measures shall be fully realised by 2016. To achieve the efficiency improvements, the company is expecting implementation costs in a magnitude of €90 to €120 million. The majority of this amount is expected to be recognised in the income statement in the form of provisions already in 2013. 46. Date of approval for publication Deutsche Börse AG’s Executive Board approved the consolidated financial statements for submission to the Supervisory Board on 11 March 2013. The Supervisory Board is responsible for examining the consolidated financial statements and stating whether it endorses them. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 313 Responsibility statement Responsibility statement by the Executive Board To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the combined management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Frankfurt / Main, 11 March 2013 Deutsche Börse AG 314 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Auditor’s report We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by Deutsche Börse Aktiengesellschaft, Frankfurt / Main, comprising the consolidated income statement, the statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, together with the combined management report for the business year from 1 January to 31 December 2012. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315a Abs. [paragraph] 1 HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch “German Commercial Code”] are the responsibility of the parent company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the combined management report based on our audit. In addition we have been instructed to express an opinion as to whether the consolidated financial statements comply with full IFRS. We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the combined management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual financial statements of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Our audit has not led to any reservations. In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and full IFRS and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The combined management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Frankfurt / Main, 13 March 2013 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Braun Beier Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 315 Summarised annual financial statements of Deutsche Börse AG A summary of Deutsche Börse AG’s financial statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB, the German Commercial Code) is presented below. In accordance with section 328 (2) HGB, the information is not presented in the legally required form of publication. A copy of the complete financial statements can be obtained from Deutsche Börse AG, Investor Relations, 60485 Frankfurt/ Main, Germany. A pdf version may be downloaded from the Internet at www.deutsche-boerse.com/agm under the “Annual General Meeting” navigation point as part of the “Materials on the Annual General Meeting 2013”. Income statement for the period 1 January to 31 December 2012 2011 €m €m Sales revenue 1,110.3 1,280.7 Other operating income 109.2 118.8 Total costs – 692.6 – 741.2 Income from equity investments 79.7 39.4 Income from profit pooling agreements 215.4 173.4 Write-downs of non-current financial assets and current financial instruments – 2.7 – 25.9 Net financial result – 93.0 – 85.1 Profit before tax from ordinary activities 726.3 760.1 Taxes – 120.6 – 140.6 Extraordinary income 0 60.3 Extraordinary expense 0 – 0.1 Extraordinary earnings 0 60.2 Net profit for the year 605.7 679.7 Appropriation to other retained earnings – 205.7 – 29.7 Unappropriated surplus 400.0 650.0 316 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 BBalance sheet as at 31 December 2012 2011 €m €m Assets Fixed assets 4,221.7 3,572.5 Current assets 749.8 981.9 Total assets 4,971.5 4,554.4 Equity and liabilities Equity Subscribed capital 184.1 183.4 (thereof par value of shares acquired for retirement: €– 8.9 million; previous year: €–11.6 million) Share premium 1,286.3 1,284.3 Other retained earnings 431.1 138.2 Unappropriated surplus 400.0 650.0 2,301.5 2,255.9 Provisions 279.1 287.0 Liabilities 2,390.9 2,011.5 2,670.0 2,298.5 Total equity and liabilities 4,971.5 4,554.4 Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 317 Proposal on the appropriation of the unappropriated surplus The Executive Board proposes that the unappropriated surplus amounting to €400.0 million (2011: €650.0 million) reported in the annual financial statements of Deutsche Börse AG be appropriated as follows: Proposal on the appropriation of the unappropriated surplus 2012 2011 €m €m Distribution of a regular dividend to the shareholders of €2.10 per share for 184,051,513 no-par value shares carrying dividend rights (in 2012 from net profit for 2011: €2.30 plus a special dividend of €1.00 per share) 386.5 622.91) Appropriation to retained earnings 13.5 27.12) Unappropriated surplus 400.0 650.0 1) Restated to reflect actual distribution (proposal for 2012: €605.4 million) after resolution of the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2012 due to the adjusted number of shares carrying dividend rights to 188,753,670 2) Restated to reflect actual appropriation to retained earnings The proposal on the appropriation of the unappropriated surplus reflects treasury shares held directly or indirectly by the company that are not eligible to receive dividends under section 71b of the Aktiengesetz (AktG, the German Stock Corporation Act). The number of shares eligible to receive dividends can change up until the Annual General Meeting through the repurchase of further treasury shares (irrespective of whether or not such shares are subsequently retired) or through the sale of treasury shares. In this case, without changing the dividend of €2.10 an amended resolution for the appropriation of surplus will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting. 318 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Glossary B Collateral management Collateral comprises assets given as a guaran tee­by­a­borrower­(collateral­provider)­to­secure­a­loan­or­other­financial­ Basel III Recommendations by the Basel Committee on Banking Superexposures­and­which­are­subject­to­utilisation­by­the­lender­(collateral­ vision at the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland. taker) in the event of default. Collateral management encompasses the The aim of the recommendations is to ensure the stability of the administration and custody­of­deposited­collateral­to­cover­financial­ financial­system.­They­supplement­the­regulatory­framework­for­banks­ exposures,­for­example­resulting­from­ securities lending transac(Basel II recommendations) that were resolved in 2004; they update tions or derivatives transactions. and complement the Basel II requirements especially to eliminate weaknesses­of­the­framework­which­got­visible­during­the­global­financial­ Commercial paper A debt security traded on the money market that and economic crisis. has a short or medium term (mostly less than one year) and is issued by­issuers­with­a­high­credit­rating­to­finance­their­short-term­capital­ Beta An indicator of the sensitivity of the price of an individual share requirements. to the performance of the market as a whole. Beta systematically denotes­the­relationship­between­the­risk­of­a­specific­investment­and­ Corporate bond In addition to bank loans, companies can also raise the market risk. debt capital by issuing corporate bonds on the capital market. The interest that a company must pay investors who buy its bond is based on­the­company s­credit­quality,­among­other­things. C Credit default swap A separate asset class and part of OTC derivaCarbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) tives. Credit default swaps (CDSs) are used to hedge default risk and is­an­independent,­not-for-profit­organisation­which­has­the­world s­ make it tradeable. The buyer of a CDS receives credit protection and is largest database of climate-relevant company information. It provides compensated by the CDS seller in the event of default. In return, the the data for the capital markets and the general public. seller receives periodic payments from the CDS buyer. CCP Central counterparty; also: clearing house. An institution that acts CSD Central securities depository. Clearsteam Banking AG, Frankfurt/ as a legal intermediary between the trading partners as a buyer or seller Main,­acts­as­the­officially­recognised­German­bank­for­the­central­ after a transaction has been completed, facilitating netting, min depository of securities under the Depotgesetz (the German Securities imising the default risk of a contracting party (margining and collateDeposit Act), among other things. In this function, it offers a wide range ralisation), and carrying out all process steps necessary for clearing. of post-trade services relating to securities issued in Germany and other countries, both as a CSD for securities eligible for collective safe Central counterparty CCP custody and as a custodian for other securities. Certificate­The­holder­of­a­certificate­participates­in­the­price­performCustody The safekeeping and administration of securities for others. ance­of­an­underlying­to­which­the­price­performance­of­the­certificate­ A custody account (similar to an account for money transactions) is is linked. This underlying can be a basket of shares compiled according established for each customer. The account information includes details to­specific­criteria,­for­example.­ nderlyings­may­also­be­bonds,­indices,­ of the types, nominal values or quantities, volumes, etc. of the securicurrencies, funds, precious metals, commodities, or real estate. From ties held, as well as the name and address of the account holder. a legal perspective, an investor in a certificate acquires a legal obligation­on­the­part­of­the­issuer.­Certificates­can­be­freely­traded. E Clearing The netting and settlement of receivables and liabilities arising from securities and derivatives transactions; determination of EBA European Banking Authority, in London. Has the aim of creating the bilateral net debt of buyers and sellers. a common legal framework for the national banking supervisory authorities. Like the ESMA, it is part of the new European System of Finan cial Supervision (ESFS). Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 319 EMIR The European Market Infrastructure Regulation regulates OTC EU prospectus Mandatory publication for the public offer and the admisderivatives, central counterparties ( CCPs) and trade repositories, and sion of securities with all material information about the issuer and the aims to improve security and integrity within the OTC securities. In addition to the issuer, its underwriting bank is also derivatives market by promoting transparency and reducing risk. Among responsible and liable for the accuracy of the content. The minimum other things, the Regulation achieves this by introducing a clearing requirements for prospectuses are derived from the EU prospectus obligation for eligible OTC derivatives, measures to reduce counterparty regulation. credit risk and operational risk for OTC derivatives not cleared via CCPs, as well as disclosure requirements for all derivatives. It also estab lishes general requirements for CCPs and trade repositories. F Entry Standard Subsegment of the exchange-regulated market Forward rate agreement OTC, non-standardised interest rate deriva(Open Market) of Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse (FWB ®, the Frankfurt tive­in­which­both­parties­agree­on­a­fixed­rate­of­interest­to­be­paid­or­ Stock Exchange) with additional transparency requirements. received on an obligation beginning at a future start date. ESG criteria ESG stands for “Environment, Social, Governance”. The Future Standardised, exchange-traded derivatives contract in which composition of ESG indices such as the STOXX ® ESG Global Leaders sellers agree to deliver, and buyers agree to purchase, a certain quantity Index­reflects­these­selection­criteria. of an underlying at a predetermined price. ESMA European Securities and Markets Authority, in Paris. Has the aim of creating a uniform legal framework for the national banking G supervisory authorities. Like the EBA, it is part of the new European System of Financial Supervision (ESFS). GC Pooling ® Product segment developed by Eurex Repo and Clearstream Banking that is tailored to meet the needs of short-term collatETC Exchange-traded commodity. Security on individual commodities eralised money market trading and offers collateralised short-term or commodity baskets that can be traded on-exchange in the same way financing­and­efficient­collateral­management. as a share via the Xetra ® trading system. Unlike ETFs, ETCs are perpetual debt instruments that are secured by the respective commodities. General Standard Transparency level on the EU-regulated market of Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse (FWB ®, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange). ETF­Exchange-traded­fund.­Mutual­fund­with­indefinite­maturity­whose­ In contrast to the Prime Standard, issuers need only meet the minishares can be bought or sold in continuous trading on the exchange. mum statutory requirements (such as an annual report and ad hoc It tracks the performance of the index on which it is based. disclosures) to be admitted to and remain in the General Standard. ETN Exchange-traded note. ETNs are exchange-traded bonds that Global Liquidity Hub An integrated risk and liquidity management in track­the­performance­of­specific­market­indicators.­Examples­include­ the GSF­business­field.­The­Global­ iquidity­Hub­offers­integrated­ volatility indices, foreign currencies, or equity indices. In contrast to financing­services,­including­ securities lending services and ETCs, ETNs track the performance of indices outside of the comcollateral management for a range of major asset classes including modities sector. fixed-income­securities­and­equities.­Through­the­Global­ iquidity­Hub,­ customers­can­fulfil­their­ margin obligations and cover their global Eurex Bonds ® Electronic platform for bond and basis trading. Eurex exposures. Clearing AG acts as the central counterparty ( CCP) for transactions on Eurex Bonds. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Independent­not-for-profit­organisation that publishes guidelines for creating sustainability reports in Eurex Repo ® Electronic platform for trading general collateral ( GC cooperation with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Pooling ®), repos and securities with Eurex Clearing AG as the central Transparency is the basis of reporting in accordance with the GRI, counterparty ( CCP). which aims to ensure that sustainability reports are standardised and comparable. GSF Global Securities Financing; a business area within Deutsche Börse Group’s Clearstream segment that comprises automated securities lending services and collateral management in tripartite repo transactions. 320 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 H MiFID II MiFID II refers to the revision of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive ( MiFID). The overarching goal of the legislation Hedge funds Alternative form of investment that allows fund manageis­to­make­financial­markets­more­efficient,­more­resilient­and­more­ ment­to­enjoy­a­significantly­greater­choice­of­investment­strategies­ transparent, and to provide new rules of procedure for algorithmic than in the traditional investment fund business due to less regulation. trading in addition to strengthening investor protection. This also allows highly speculative strategies, which, if successful, improve­the­fund s­performance.­Hedge­funds­are­counterparties­in­risk­ MiFIR Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation. A supplementary transfer transactions, contributing to the ability of capital markets to E ­regulation­to­ MiFID II. MiFIR regulates the disclosure of trade operate and increasing liquidity in highly specialised market segments. transparency data to the public and transaction data to competent authorities and enables non-discriminatory access to clearing faciliHedging Method­of­securing­open­positions­exposed­to­price­risks­by­ ties and the mandatory trading of derivatives on organised venues. entering­into­a­position­with­an­offsetting­risk­profile.­For­example,­an­ existing­portfolio­can­be­hedged­against­price­risks­through­the­use­of­ Monthly Carbon Report (MCR) Deutsche Börse Group has published derivatives, such as futures and options. the MCR since October 2010. It provides analysts and traders with transparent­information­on­companies ­carbon­footprint. I MTF Multilateral­trading­facility.­Securities­firm­or­market­operator­that­ Initial public offering (IPO)­An­I O­is­the­first­time­a­company­offers­ represents the interests of a large number of persons in the buying shares­to­the­public­and­places­them­on­a­stock­exchange. and­selling­of­financial­instruments­within­the­system.­It­applies­defined­ provisions so as to lead to an agreement on the purchase of these Interbank market The­market­that­pools­banks ­supply­and­demand­ financial­instruments. for money, currencies and securities. N M Netting Offsetting buy and sell positions over a given period of time Maker-taker model A maker-taker model is a pricing system that is used so that market participants only have to settle the balance. One of the by­some­exchanges­and­ MTFs. Market makers, who provide addifunctions and advantages of the CCP. tional liquidity on the market by entering bid and offer orders, are ensured transaction fees at a discount from the operator; market participants who withdraw liquidity from the market (takers) pay higher fees. O Margin Collateral (cash or pledged security) deposited by the clearing Open Market In addition to the Regulated Market, Open Market is the member­(the­buyer­or­seller)­to­guarantee­the­fulfilment­of­a­derivatives­ second statutory market segment in Germany and is a private sector transaction­and­cover­the­risk­exposure­of­the­clearing­house. segment. Primarily foreign shares, bonds and funds from German and foreign issuers, certificates and warrants are traded on the Open MiFID Markets in Financial Instruments Directive. MiFID establishes Market in addition to German shares. a regulatory framework for the provision of investment services in financial­instruments­(such­as­brokerage,­advice,­dealing,­portfolio­ Operating leases Operating­leases­are­a­financing­method­in­which­ management,­underwriting­etc.)­by­banks­and­investment­firms­and­ the lessee is generally able to use equipment with a longer depreciation for the operation of regulated markets by market operators. The oveperiod (compared with the term of the lease). rarching objective is to promote the integration, competitiveness and efficiency­of­E ­financial­markets. Options Options convey the right, but not the obligation, to buy (call) or sell (put) a certain quantity of the associated underlying at the end of­the­term­at­a­specific­price.­As­the­buyer­is­not­obliged­to­exercise­ the option, it is referred to as a conditional forward transaction. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 321 OTC short­for:­over­the­counter,­off-exchange.­Describes­transactions­ T between two or more trading parties that are not conducted on a regulated market. The OTC segment accounts for by far the largest part T2S short for: TARGET2-Securities. Initiative to create a single platform of the derivatives market. for transmitting securities within the euro zone. The objective of this platform is to reduce the cost of cross-border securities settlement within the euro zone. It will be operated by the European Central Bank. P “TARGET” is short for “Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement­Express­Transfer­System”.­ Prime Standard Subsegment­of­the­E -regulated­market­of­Frankfurter­ Wertpapierbörse (FWB ®,­the­Frankfurt­Stock­Exchange)­for­companies­ that meet high transparency standards. A listing in the Prime Standard U is­a­precondition­for­admission­to­one­of­Deutsche­Börse s­selection­ indices, such as DAX ®, MDAX ®, SDAX ® or TecDAX ®. United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) This­initiative,­launched­in­2005­by­the­ nited­ ations­and­a­network of­institutional­investors,­defines­six­principles­for­responsible­investR ment­and­helps­global­financial­system­players­to­put­these­into­practice and factor them into their daily decisions. Repurchase agreement (Repo) The sale of securities with a simultaneous agreement to buy back securities of the same kind at a later date. X Xetra ® Frankfurt Specialist S Supports trading in equities, bonds, funds and structured products using the Xetra trading system. These specialists ensure liquidity. Their Securities lending Transfer of securities by a lender for a fee and on function­is­to­guarantee­tradability,­for­example­of­less­liquid­securities, condition that the borrower returns securities of the same kind, quality and they are committed to ensuring minimum spreads and avoiding and­amount­to­the­lender­at­the­end­of­a­fixed­term. partial­executions­that­are­not­economically­attractive. Settlement­The­completion­of­an­exchange­transaction,­i.­e.­the­transfer of money and traded securities from the seller to the buyer and vice versa. Within Deutsche Börse Group, Clearstream is responsible for this post-trading function. Specialist Xetra ® Frankfurt Specialist 322 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Deutsche­Börse­Group­ ­international­presence Europe London North America 3-1-41­Tayuan­DRC Representative­Office 1 Xindong Road Berlin Floor­2 Chicago 100600­Be ing,­ Representative­Office 11­ estferry­Circus Willis Tower Chaoyang­District Unter den Linden 36 Canary­ harf 233­South­ acker­Drive .R.­China 2) 10117 Berlin London Suite­2455 Germany E14­4HE Chicago,­I ­60606 Dubai United Kingdom USA Representative­Office Kurfürstendamm 119 City­Tower­2 10711 Berlin Willis Tower ondon­Branches Sheikh­Zayed­Road­Flat­902 Germany 1) 233­South­ acker­Drive Floor­1 P.O. Box 27250 Suite­2450 Berlin­Branch 11­ estferry­Circus Dubai Chicago,­I ­60606 ressehaus Canary­ harf nited­Arab­Emirates­ USA 7) Raum­1105,­1.­Stock London Schiffbauerdamm­40 E14­4HE Hong Kong New York 10117 Berlin United Kingdom 2),4),7) Representative­Offices Representative­Office Germany 2) 2606-7­Two­Exchange­Square 60­Broad­Street­Floor­31 Luxembourg 8­Connaught­ lace,­Central ew­ ork,­ ­10004 Brussels The­Square Hong­ ong USA Representative­Office 42,­Avenue­ F­ ennedy 11 F,­Room­1101­ 11–13, rue d’Idalie -1855­ uxembourg 60­Broad­Street­Floor­26 1­Duddell­Street,­Central­­ 1050 Bruxelles ew­ ork,­ ­10004 Hong­ ong­ Belgium Madrid USA 8) alacio­de­la­Bolsa 40­Fulton­Street­Floor­5 Singapore Dublin Plaza de la Lealtad, 1 ew­ ork,­ ­10038 Singapore­Branches 13–17 Dawson Street 28014­Madrid USA 2) 9­Raffles­ lace Dublin­2 Spain 5) 55-01­Republic­ la a Ireland 3) Ottawa Singapore­048619 Moscow Ottawa­Branch Republic­of­Singapore Eschborn Representative­Office 130­Albert­Street­ The­Cube Bolshaya­Tatarskaya­42 9­Raffles­ lace Suite 705 Mergenthalerallee­61 115184,­Moskva 56-01­Republic­ la a Ottawa­O ­ 1 ­5G4 65760­Eschborn Russia Singapore­048619 Canada 7) Germany Republic­of­Singapore Postal address: Paris Washington, D.C. Representative­Office 60485­Frankfurt Main Representative­Offices Representative­Office 50­Raffles­ lace Germany 17, rue de Surène National Press Building #30-03 Singapore Land Tower 75008­ aris 529­14th­Street­ Singapore­048623 Frankfurt / Main France Suite 1100 Republic­of­Singapore 2) Börsenplat ­4 38,­rue­des­Blancs­Manteaux ashington,­D.C.­20005 60313­Frankfurt Main 75004­ aris USA 2) Tokyo Germany France 2) Representative­Offices 529­14th­Street­ Frankfurt­Branch 12 F,­ urakucho­ITOCiA­ Suite 1100 iedenau­45 Prague 2-7-1,­ urakucho,­Chiyoda-ku ashington,­D.C.­20045 60325­Frankfurt Main Futurama­Business­ ark Tokyo­100-0006­ USA 7) Germany 2) Building B apan Sokolovsk ­662 136b 9 F,­Toranomon­4-chrome­MT­ Leipzig 18600­ raha­8 Asia Building II Augustusplatz 9 C ech­Republic 4-2-12,­Toranomon,­Minato-ku­­ 04109­ eip ig Be ing Tokyo­105-0001­­­­­­­­­­­ Germany 4) Zurich Representative­Office apan Löwenstrasse 3 nit­01-06,­7 F,­China­Central­ P.O. Box 12 F,­ urakucho­ITOCiA­ lace,­Tower­3 8021­Zurich 2-7-1,­ urakucho,­Chiyoda-ku 77­ ianguo­Road­ Switzerland Tokyo­100-0006 100025­Be ing,­ apan 2) Selnaustrasse 30 Chaoyang­District P.O. Box .R.­China 8021­Zurich Switzerland 6) 1)­Tradegate­Exchange­GmbH 5)­Infobolsa­S.A. For­more­information­on­our­Group s­addresses­please­visit­our­website:­ 2)­Market­ ews­International­Inc. 6) STOXX Ltd. www.deutsche-boerse.com addresses 3)­Clearstream­Fund­Services­Ireland­ td. 7)­ eed­to­ now­ ews,­ C 4)­European­Energy­Exchange­AG 8)­­International­Securities­ Exchange­Holdings,­Inc. Strategic perspectives | The exchange | Responsibility | Governance | Management report | Financial statements | Notes 323 Imprint Contact Published by Investor Relations Deutsche Börse AG E-mail ir@deutsche-boerse.com 60485 Frankfurt/Main Phone +49-(0) 69-2 11-1 16 70 Germany Fax +49-(0) 69-2 11-1 46 08 www.deutsche-boerse.com www.deutsche-boerse.com/ir_e Concept and layout Corporate Responsibility Deutsche Börse AG, Frankfurt/Main E-mail corporate-responsibility@deutsche-boerse.com wirDesign Berlin Braunschweig Phone +49-(0) 69-2 11-1 46 80 Fax +49-(0) 69-2 11-1 80 20 Photographs www.deutsche-boerse.com/cr_e Jörg Baumann, Frankfurt/Main (portrait of Reto Francioni) Becker Lacour, Frankfurt/Main (cover) Marketing Communication Thorsten Jansen, Frankfurt/Main (portraits) E-mail corporate.report@deutsche-boerse.com Patrick Raddatz, Frankfurt/Main (situational photographs) Phone +49-(0) 69-2 11-1 53 79 Fax +49-(0) 69-2 11-1 37 81 Financial reporting system Combined­management­report,­consolidated­financial­statements­ and notes produced in-house using FIRE.sys Printed by Kunstund Werbedruck Hinrich H. Leonhardt Günther Wedekind Further information GmbH & Co. KG, Bad Oeynhausen Principles of sustainability reporting carbon neutral In compiling the information on sustainability in this corporate report, natureOffice.com | DE-149-429763 our aim is to achieve the highest possible degree of clarity and trans print production parency.­The­non-financial­facts­and­figures­published­generally­refer­ to­Deutsche­Börse­Group­as­a­whole.­Topics­that­are­specific­to­a­cer­tain location or sustainability activities that are managed locally are Publication date identified­accordingly. 15 March 2013 The German version of this report is legally binding. The company canerification o non financial ey figures not be held responsible for any misunderstanding or misinterpretation The non-financial key figures as well as the qualitative statements in arising from this translation. relation to corporate responsibility in this corporate report were subject Reproduction – in total or in part – only with the written permission of to review by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, an indepenthe publisher dent external auditor. The respective independent assurance is available on the Internet under www.deutsche-boerse.com/cr_e. KPMG’s audiNotes from the editor tor s­report­on­the­con­s olidated­financial­statements­and­the­combined Where only the masculine form has been used to refer to groups management report of Deutsche Börse AG as at 31 December 2012 of­people,­this­is­not­intended­to­be­gender-specific­but­merely­serves­ can be found on page 314 of this corporate report. to enhance readability. Assessment of the application level of the GRI guidelines We would like to thank all colleagues and service providers who Companies that base their sustainability reports on the GRI guidelines participated in the compilation of this report for their friendly support. can­define­the­level­to­which­they­have­applied­GRI­guidelines.­ Deutsche­Börse­Group­has­classified­its­report­in­this­way­and­had­ Publications service this­self-assessment­verified­by­the­GRI.­It­has­attained­level­A . Order number 1000-4380 (German) Order number 1010-4381 (English) The corporate report of Deutsche Börse Group is available here: Registered trademarks as pdf, html version and in a document library app on the Internet: www.deutsche-boerse.com /annual_report and www.deutsche-boerse.com /order_reports AlphaFlash ®, CEF ®, DAX ®, DAXglobal ®, DivDAX ®, ERS ®, Eurex ®, Eurex Bonds ®, Eurex Clearing Prisma ®, Eurex Repo ®, FWB ®, GC Pooling ®, PROPRIS ®, TRICE ®, Tradegate ®, Xetra ®, Xetra-Gold ®, XTF ® are registered trademarks of Deutsche Börse AG. EURO STOXX 50 ®, STOXX ® and STOXX 50 ® are registered trademarks of STOXX Ltd. Vestima ® is a registered trademark of Clearstream International S.A. KRX and KOSPI are registered trademarks of Korea Exchange, Inc. as print version at Deutsche Börse Group’s publications hotline: Phone +49-(0) 69-2 11-1 15 10 Fax +49-(0) 69-2 11-1 15 11 324 Deutsche Börse Group corporate report 2012 Index of charts and tables Charts Tables Cover Cover Financial­reporting­segments:­breakdown­of­net­revenue­­­C3 4 Deutsche­Börse­Group:­financial­highlights­­­C2 Strategic perspectives Governance The most complete business model worldwide 12 Executive­Board­remuneration­system­­­92 Strategic roadmap 15 2012­expense­for­share-based­payments­­­93 Effective cost management 16 2012­total­expense­­­94 Cost growth of key exchange organisations 16 aluation­parameters­­­95 umber­of­2012­phantom­shares­­­96 The exchange Total Executive Board remuneration for 2012, Our six services 18 without­retirement­benefits­­­97 Process “Listing” 20 Retirement­benefits­­­99 Customised transparency – for shares and bonds 22 Supervisory Board remuneration 103 Process “Trading” 24 Xetra:­presence­in­Europe­and­beyond­­­26 Combined management report Eurex:­a­global­network­­­28 Development­of­trading­activity­on­selected­European­cash­markets­­­117­ Process “Clearing” 30 Development of contracts traded on selected derivatives markets 118 Clearing reduces and hedges risks 32 Deutsche­Börse­Group­key­performance­figures­­­120 Process “Post-trade” 34 Overview of operating costs 121 Vestima ®:­access­to­more­than­100,000­funds­­­37 ey­figures­by­quarter­­­122 Process “IT services” 40 EBIT­and­net­profitability­by­segment­­­123 Exchange trading accelerates 42 Cash­market:­trading­volume­(single-counted)­­­125 Process “Market data” 44 Xetra­segment:­key­figures­­­125 STOXX ® – setting the standard for markets around the world 46 Eurex­segment:­key­figures­­­126 Contract­volumes­in­the­derivatives­market­­­127 Responsibility Clearstream­segment:­key­indicators­­­131 Deutsche Börse Group’s corporate responsibility strategy 48 Clearstream­segment:­key­figures­­­131 Internal trainings, divided up according to topic 53 Market­Data­ ­Analytics­segment:­key­figures­­­134 Summary of key stakeholders 55 Deutsche Börse’s cost of capital 134 Areas­for­action­at­Deutsche­Börse­­­57 Consolidated­cash­flow­statement­(condensed)­­­136 ey­examples­of­dialogue­in­2012­­­58 59 Interest­coverage­ratio­of­Deutsche­Börse­Group­­­137 Relevant­key­performance­indicators­­­137 Governance Ratings of Deutsche Börse AG 138 Regulatory and supervisory bodies for exchange trading 64 Ratings of Clearstream Banking S.A. 138 Measurement­of­the­target­achievement­for­the­variable­stock­bonus­­­94­­ Debt­instruments­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG­­­139 Measurement­of­the­target­achievement­for­the­variable­cash­bonus­­­95 Deutsche­Börse­Group:­ten-year­review­­­142 143 Supervisory Board remuneration in 2012 under the two remuneration Exchange data of Deutsche Börse shares 144 systems­applicable­for­the­financial­year­­­102­ Deutsche­Börse­AG­share:­key­figures­­­145 Employees by segment 148 Combined management report Employees­per­countries regions­­­148 Simplified­shareholding­structure­of­Deutsche­Börse­Group­ ey­figures­on­Deutsche­Börse­Group s­workforce­as­at­31­December­2012­­­151 as­at­31­December­2012­­­107 Corporate­Responsibility:­key­figures­of­Deutsche­Börse­Group­­­156 eadership­structure­of­Deutsche­Börse­Group­as­at­1­ anuary­2013­­­109 erformance­figures­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG­­­190 et­revenue­by­segment­­­119 Sales­revenue­by­segment­­­191 EBIT by segment 121 Overview­of­total­costs­­­191 Breakdown of net revenue in the Xetra segment 124 Cash­flow­statement­(condensed)­­­192 Breakdown­of­net­revenue­in­the­Eurex­segment­­­127 on-current­assets­(condensed)­­­­193 Breakdown of net revenue in the Clearstream segment 130 Employees­per­country region­­­193 Origination of value added 141 Age­structure­of­employees­­­193 Distribution of value added 141 Employees ­length­of­service­­­194 Share price development of Deutsche Börse AG and benchmark indices in 2012 145 Share price development of Deutsche Börse AG and benchmark indices since listing 146 Share­of­international­shareholders­on­a­high­level­in­2012­­­147 Deutsche­Börse­AG:­analysts­predominantly­issue­ buy­recommendations­­­147 Deutsche Börse Group employees’ age structure (by gender) 150 Deutsche Börse Group employees’ age structure (by location) 150 Governance­structure­of­risk­management­­­159 Five-stage risk management system with central and decentral­responsibility­­­159 Risk structure of Deutsche Börse Group 163 Business continuity measures 164 C5 Index A Eurex Clearing CCP R Annual­General­Meeting­­­86,­107,­147,­C8 Eurex­Repo­28,­128,­319 Ratings Annual­financial­statements­(in­accordance­ European Energy Exchange EEX – Credit ratings 136, 138 with­HGB)­­­190­f f.,­315­f. Executive­Board­­­66­f.,­76­f.,­78­f.,­81,­87,­ – Sustainability ratings 155 92­f f.,­107,­116,­157­f.,­176­f.,­306­f. Regulation­­­175­f.,­181­f f. B Regulatory capital requirements 260 ff. Basel III 36, 183 f. F Results­of­operation­­­119­f f.,­185­f f. Basis of consolidation shareholding structure Financial­postion­­­134­f f.,­141,­188,­192 Return on shareholders’ equity 111 f., 134, Business model 12, 106 ff., 181 Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse (Frankfurt Stock 142­f.,­191 Exchange) 22, 24, 64 Risk­management­­­32­f.,­36,­56,­157­f f.,­177,­ C 291­f f. Capital structure 136 f., 188 G Cash­flow­­­134­f f.,­142­f.,­188,­192,­283­f. Global­ iquidity­Hub­­­36f.,­131­f.,­179,­187,­319 S CC ­­­30ff.,­127­f.,­140,­171­f f.,­177,­225­f.,­ Global­securities­financing­­­39,­129,­130,­142­f. Sales­revenue­­­111,­191,­232,­288­f. 295,­321 Good corporate citizenship 61 ff., 153, 156 Scoach 26, 64, 115, 121 Central counterparty CCP Group Share Plan 228, 305 f. Segment­reporting­­­287­f f. Clearing­­­30­f f.,­171­f.,­178­f. Share­buy-backs­­­136,­137,­189 Clearing house CCP I Share of Deutsche Börse AG 144 ff. Clearstream Information­Technology­­­40­f f.,­108,­187­f. Shareholders­­­113,­309­f f. – Contributions to sustainable business activInternational Securities Exchange (ISE) 28, Shareholding structure 14, 106 f., 212 ff. ities­­­39 29,­63,­127,­170 Social responsibility CR – Customers 36 Interest­coverage­ratio­­­111,­136­f.,­189 Stock­Bonus­ lan­(SB )­­­93­f f.,­228,­302­f f. – EBIT 131 Internal control system 112 f. STOXX Ltd. 46 f., 133, 153, 212 f. – Key indicators 131 Inverstor­base­­­147 Strategy 13 ff., 108 ff. – Linked markets 38, 132 Investor relations 146 f. Supervisory­Board­­­68­f.,­70­f f.,­78­f f.,­86­f f.,­ ­ et­revenue­­­129­f.,­232­f. 101­f f.,­107,­157,­307,­308­f. ­ artnerships­­­37­f.,­131­f. L ­Committees­­­73­f f.,­84 ­Segment­­­14,­34­f f.,­129­f f.,­187,­288 eadership­structure­­­109 ­Conflicts­of­interest­­­77 Code of conduct 80, 151 Liquidity management 15, 34, 36, 131 f., Supplier policy 80 Compliance 156, 164 136,­179,­183,­187 Sustainability­­­C4,­23,­29,­33,­47,­110,­ Corporate­governance­­­78­f f.,­86­f f. Listing 20 ff., 125 153 ff., 323 Corporate­Governance­Code­(German)­­­78­f f. Locations 18, 62 f., 106, 322 Sustainability­Code­(German)­­­80,­90,­152 CR (corporate responsibility) 48 ff., 56 ff., 110, 152 f., 156 M T Costs 111 Market capitalisation 142 f., 145 TARGET2-Securities­­­4,­38­f.,­132,­169,­321 – Capital costs 134 Market Data & Analytics Ten-year review 142 f. – Operating costs 121, 186 – Contributions to sustainable business actiTradegate Exchange 26, 64, 124, 212 f. ­Total­costs­of­Deutsche­Börse­AG­­­190­f. vities­­­47 Trading 24 ff. – EBIT 133 f. D ­ et­revenue­­­119,­132,­232­f. U Debt­instruments­­­116,­138,­139,­192 ­Segment­­­16,­44­f f.,­108­f.,­132­f f.,­187­f.,­ ­Global­Compact­­­10,­80,­152,­C7 Declaration­of­conformity­­­78­f. 289 Directors ­dealings­­­91 Monthly Carbon Report 153 V Dividend­­­9,­137­f.,­141,­145,­147­f.,­188 Value added 140 f. N E et­assets­­­138­f f.,­192­f. W Earnings per share 122, 142 f., 145, 285 f. et­interest­income­­­111,­119­f.,­129,­131,­ orking­capital­­­135,­140,­193 EBIT 111, 121, 123, 186, 288 f. 142 f., 185, 234 Economic capital 160 f. et­revenue­­­111,­119,­122,­123,­142­f.,­150,­ X EEX­­­29,­153,­215 185 f., 188, 232 ff. Xetra Efficiency­programme­­­120,­144,­148,­185­f. on-financial­performance­indicators­­­148­f f.,­ – Contributions to sustainable business EMIR­­­178­f.,­182,­319 188 activities­­­23,­27 Employees­­­51­f f.,­58,­148­f f.,­291,­312 – EBIT 124 Environmental protection 152, 154 f., 156 O ­ articipants network­­­26,­124 Eurex Opportunity­management­­­177­f f. – Net revenue 123 ff., 232 f. – Contributions to sustainable business Organisational structure 108 ­Segment­­­26­f.,­108,­123­f f.,­174­f.,­186,­288 activ­ities­­­29,­33 – System 14, 23, 26 f. 43, 124, 156 ­Cooperations­­­17,­129 P ­Trading­volume­­­7,­125,­142­f. – EBIT 126 rofitability­­­123 Xetra Frankfurt Specialist Trading 26, 124 f., – Net revenue 126 f., 232 f. 144, 321 ­ articipants network­­­17,­28­f.,­126­f f. Q ­Segment­­­14,­28­f.,­126­f.,­169­f f.,­186­f.,­288 uarterly­key­figures­­­122 ­System­­­5,­14,­29,­42­f.,­156 ­Trading­volume­­­7,­127­f.,­186 Eurex­Bonds­­­28,­128,­319 C6 GRI Index and Global Compact principles A detailed GRI Index and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact are available online at www.deutsche-boerse.com /cr_e Global-CompactGRI Code Subject Page/Data Principle Company 1 –10 1.1 Statement from the CEO 6 –10 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 110, 152, 188 2.1– 2.10 Organisation, data and facts title, C2, C3, C4, 16, 106 – 109, 148, 155, 212 – 216 3.1– 3.4 Reporting­profile 2, 206, 323 3.5 – 3.13 Boundary of the report 2, 55 – 59, 151, 156, 206 – 211, 217 – 231, 323, C7, online version 1 –10 4.1 – 4.7 Corporate governance 55 – 59, 86, 88 – 89, 92 –103, 109 1 –10 4.8 – 4.13 Engagement 75, 78 – 80, 86 – 103, 151, online version 1 –10 4.14 – 4.17 Stakeholders 10, 55 – 59 1 –10 Economy/Management approach 110, 152 EC 1 Economic value generated and distributed 140 – 141 7, 8 EC 2 Consequences of climate change online version EC 3 Coverage­of­the­organisationʼs­defined­ benefit­plan­obligations online version EC 4 Financial assistance received from government none EC 5 Local minimum wage 150 EC 6 Local suppliers online version 6 EC 7 Local hiring 149 EC 8 Investments­for­public­benefit C3, C4 EC 9 Indirect economic impacts 140 – 141 7– 9 Ecology/Management approach 110, 152 7, 8 EN 1–2 Materials 156, online version 7, 8 EN 3 –7 Energy primary energy: 73,134 GJ, online version; 154 –156 7, 8 EN 8 Water 156, online version EN 11 –13 Natural biosphere online version 7, 8 EN 16 – 20 Emissions 154 –156, online version 7, 8 EN 21 Water discharge 59,474 m³, online version 7, 8 EN 22 – 23 Waste and pollutants 789 t, online version 7– 9 EN 26 – 27 Products and services online version EN 28 Degree of regulation online version 1– 6 Social/Management approach 110, 152 1, 6 LA 1– 2 Employees 148 –151, 193, online version 1, 3, 6 LA 4 –5 Collective agreements 151, online version LA 6–9 Occupational health and safety online version LA 10 –11 Education and training 150–151, 194, online version LA 12 Performance reviews 95.3 % 1, 6 LA 13 Composition of governance bodies online version 1, 6 LA 14 Equal remuneration 149 6 LA 15 Parental leave 149 1– 6 Human Rights/Management approach 110, 152 1– 6 HR 1 Investment agreements 90.51 % 1– 6 HR 2 Suppliers and contractors 90.51 % 1– 6 HR 3 Employee training 151 1, 2, 6 HR 4 Discrimination none 1, 2, 3 HR 5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 80, 155 1, 2, 4, 5 HR 6–7 Child labor/forced and compulsory labor 80, 155 1– 6 HR 10 Human rights reviews online version 1– 6 HR 11 Addressed and resolved human rights grievances online version 10 Society/Management approach 110, 152 SO 1 Local community 61 – 63 10 SO 2–4 Compliance online version 10 SO 5–6 Public policy 181–185, online version 1–10 SO 7–10 Degree of regulation 299 – 301, online version 1–10 Product Responsibility/Management approach 110, 152 PR 1, 3, 4 Information regarding products and services online version PR 5 Customer satisfaction online version PR 6–7 Marketing online version PR 8 Customer privacy none PR 9 Fines 299 – 301 GJ = Gigajoule C7 Financial calendar 29 April 2013 Q1/2013 results 15 May 2013 Annual General Meeting 18 June 2013 Investor Day 25 July 2013 Half-yearly­financial­report 29 October 2013 Q3/2013 results Deutsche Börse AG 60485 Frankfurt /Main www.deutsche-boerse.com
