United Nations Global Compact WE SUPPORT The University of South Africa Communication on Progress 2012 Towards a High-Performance University in a Sustainable World university of south africa ON DISK: Appendices Preface Honourable Dr Bonginkosi Emmanuel Nzimande Republic of South Africa Minister of Higher Education and Training To adequately address the current global socio-economic According to the UNGC, the global compact advanced status aims challenges, South Africa needs innovative strategies and committed to create a higher standard for corporate sustainability performance, efforts towards sustainable development. The triple bottom up and disclosure, based on the Blueprint Model. In order to acquire approach (People, Planet and Profit) is an important heuristic the global compact advanced status, Unisa will be required during dimension for moving the higher education sector in the right the 2012 reporting period to demonstrate that it has adopted, and direction to foreground the critical pillars of teaching and learning, reported on policies and processes related to strategy, governance research and innovation and community engagement. and engagement, UN goals, implementation of global compact principles, value chain implementation, verification and disclosure. The Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET) recognises the important role and contribution of institutions It is indeed an important achievement for the university to have offering post-school education and training in promoting achieved an active status, based on its 2011 Communication sustainability as a major pillar of our developmental agenda. They on Progress (COP) Report. It is encouraging that Unisa do this through their teaching, research and advocacy activities. demonstrates high levels of performance in furthering the vision We strongly support the inclusion of sustainability principles in the of active participation by academic institutions in the promotion business of universities and colleges. of sustainability. Key departmental initiatives in 2012 in support of Unisa’s mandate By becoming the first South African university signatory to the include the launch of the Africa Green Campus Initiative (AGCI) United National Global Compact (UNGC), the institution serves and the continual engagement of the stakeholders that are as an example to the other academic institutions in South Africa in instrumental in the fostering sustainability in the education sector, working towards a sustainable future for mankind, for example, the National Environmental Skills Planning Forum (NESPF). On behalf of the government and my ministry, I applaud Unisa for qualifying for the global compact active level status. Unisa is now required to improve on its policy implementation and increase its level of transparency in order to progress towards achieving global Dr BE Nzimande, MP compact advanced status for the 2012 reporting period. These Minister of Higher Education and Training imperatives are closely aligned to our national goals of improving performance and the optimal utilisation of resources in the higher education and training sectors. Contents 1 List of acronyms and abbreviations 2 2 Executive summary and recommendations 4 3 Background 5 3.1 Purpose and Context 5 4 Overview and profile of Unisa 6 4.1 Teaching and Learning 7 4.2 Research and Innovation 8 4.3 Community Engagement (CE) 8 4.4 Unisa’s Governance and Management Structures 8 4.4.1 Staffing Profile 9 4.4.2 Staff by race group 9 4.4.3 Geographical footprint 10 4.4.4 Student enrolments per college 10 4.4.5 Student success rates 11 5 Unisa’s ViceChancellor’s Perspective on Sustainability 11 6 Unisa Integrated Planning Approach 12 6.1 Integrated Planning 12 6.2 Key Related Sustainable Aspects 13 7 Unisa’s Transformation Charter 14 8 Unisa 2013 – 2015 “Towards a High Performance University” (Efficiencies, Service and Value Chain) 15 9 Corporate external stakeholder relations and community engagement 16 9.1 Overview 16 9.2 External Corporate Stakeholder Management 16 9.3 Community Engagement 17 10 Progress Account on the Implementation of the Global Compact principles 21 10.1 Pro Vice Chancellor’s Office 21 10.2 College of Economic and Management Sciences 22 10.2.1 Overview 22 10.2.2 Human Rights 22 10.2.3 Anti-Corruption 23 10.2.4 Environmental Stewardship 23 10.3 College of Education 24 10.3.1 Overview 24 10.3.2 Human Rights 24 10.3.3 Environmental Stewardship 28 10.4 The College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences 29 10.4.1 Environmental Stewardship 29 10.5 College of Law 30 10.5.1 Overview 30 10.5.2 Environmental stewardship 31 10.6 The College of Science, Engineering and Technology 31 10.6.1 Overview 31 10.6.2 Environmental Stewardship 31 10.7 The College of Human Sciences 32 10.7.1 Overview 32 10.7.2 Human rights 32 10.8 Unisa Library 33 10.8.1 Overview 33 10.8.2 Human Rights 33 10.8.3 Labour 34 10.8.4 Environmental Stewardship 34 10.8.5 Anti-Corruption 34 10.9 The Department of Tuition and Facilitation of Learning 35 10.9.1 Human Rights 35 10.9.2 Anti Corruption 36 10.9.3 Environmental Stewardship 36 10.10 Dean of Students 36 10.10.1 Overview 36 10.10.2 Human rights: 36 10.10.3 Environment: 36 10.10.4 Labour: 37 10.11 Department of University Estate 37 10.11.1 Overview 37 10.11.2 Human Rights and Labour 37 10.11.3 Environmental Stewardship 38 10.12 Corporate Communication and Marketing 44 10.12.1 Human Rights 44 11 Unisa’s Organisational Architecture And Business Model 45 11.1 Organisational Architecture 45 12 Advanced Level Reporting 47 12.1 Strategy, governance and engagement 47 12.2 UN Goals and Issues 48 12.3 Human Rights Implementation 49 12.4 Labour Principles Implementation 52 12.5 Environmental Stewardship Implementation 54 12.6 Anti-Corruption Implementation 56 12.7 Value Chain Implementation 59 12.8 Verification and transparency 60 13 Global Compact Self-Assessment 61 13.1 Assessment Tool and Percentage Analysis Results 61 13.2 Analysis of the Global Compact Self Assessment 62 14 Conclusion 62 15 Acknowledgements 62 16 Resource List 63 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 1 1 ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS ABEERU Applied Behavioural Ecological and DBE Department of Basic Education Ecosystem Research Unit DCC Disability Coordination Committee ABET Adult Basic Education and Training DCLD Department of Curriculum and Learning ACHRAM Academic Human Resources Allocation Development Model DES Department of Environmental Sciences AGCI Africa Green Campus Initiative DHET Department of Higher Education and AIMS Administration Information Management Training System DISA Department of Information and Statistical AMIFAM Archie Mafije Institute for Research Analysis APSA Academic and Professional Staff DoL Department of Labour Association DSPQA Department of Strategy, Planning and ARCSWID Advocacy and Resource Centre for Quality Assurance Students with Disabilities ECD Early Childhood Development BLA Black Lawyers Association ECE Early Childhood Education BMR Bureau of Market Research EE Employment Equity CCM Corporate Communication and Marketing EE Environmental Education CAES College of Agriculture and Environmental EMI Environmental Management Inspector Sciences ESD Education for Sustainable Development CE Community Engagement ERM Enterprise Risk Management CEDU College of Education FAWE Forum for African Woman Educationists CEMS College of Economic and Management FTFA Food & Trees for Africa Sciences GBCSA Green Building Council of South Africa CESM Classification of Education Subject Matter GCSAT Global Compact Self-assessment Tool CHE Council on Higher Education GIZ Gesellschaft für Internationale CHS College of Human Sciences Zusammenarbeit CLAW College of Law GRI Global Reporting Initiative CSET College of Science, Engineering and GSDC Governance and Sustainable Technology Development Coordinator COP Communication on Progress HE Higher Education CoP 17 Seventeenth Session of the Conference HEIs Higher Education Institutions of Parties HEQC Higher Education Quality Committee CHE Council on Higher Education HRD Human Resources Development CRPD Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities HR Human Resources DEAT Department of Environmental Affairs and HVAC Heat Ventilation and Air Conditioning Tourism 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 ICT Information and Communication OHS Act Occupational Health and Safety Act (Act Technology No 85 of 1993) IOP Institutional Operational Plan ODL Open Distance Learning IPF Integrated Planning Framework PQM Programme Qualification Mix IPMS Integrated Performance Management PVC Pro Vice-Chancellor System SADA South African Disability Association IRPD International Relations and Partnerships Directorate SADC Southern African Development Community ISPCAN International Society for the Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect SANParks South African National Parks LSSA Law Society of South Africa SAPS South African Police Service LSSA-LEAD Law Society of South Africa Legal SAQA South African Qualifications Authority Education and Development SETSA Science, Engineering and Technology MANCOM Management Committee Student Association MDGs Millennium Development Goals SGBs School Governing Bodies MIT Multi-, inter-and transdisciplinary projects SLC Senate Library Committee / programmes SLPs Short Learning Programmes MOA Memorandum of Agreement SMPPD Study Material, Publication, Production MPRDA Mineral and Petroleum Resources and Delivery Development Act, 2002, (Act No 28 of SRM Student Relations Management 2002) SWD Students with Disabilities NCPPDSA National Council for People with Physical Disabilites in South Africa QA Quality Assurance NDP Non-degree Purposes QEI Quality Evaluation Instrument NECSA National Energy Commission of South QIP Quality Improvement Plan Africa QMS Quality Management System NEHAWU National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union TMIAL Thabo Mbeki Institute for African Leadership NEMA The National Environmental Management Act (Act No 107 of 1998 TYP Ten Year Plan as amended) UCECE Unisa Centre for Early Childhood NERCHE New England Resource Centre for Education Higher Education UCLG United Cities Local Government NESPF National Environmental Skills Planning UE University Estates Forum ULSA Unisa Law Students Association NFSD National Framework for Sustainable Development UN United Nations NGOs Non-governmental Organisations UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change NPA National Prosecution Authority UNGC United Nations Global Compact NRF National Research Foundation UNISA University of South Africa NWA National Water Act (Act No 36 of 1998) UNISARH Unisa Reaching Hand NSSD National Strategy on Sustainable Development UWF Unisa Women’s Forum RECC Risk Ethics and Controls Committee VC Vice-Chancellor OERs Open Educational Resources WIL Work-integrated Learning UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 3 2 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS It is imperative for Unisa to ensure that it fulfills all, if not most, of the criteria to achieve the advanced level reporting status. A study was conducted to examine the extent to which the UNGC set standards and practices were complied with. Unisa compliance/non-compliance YES NO UNGC broad Unisa Unisa Principles Further Total principles adheres does not are not % % attention % % to the adhere to applicable is required UBC the UNGC to Unisa principles principles HUMAN RIGHTS 213 79% 18 7% 22 8% 18 7% 271 LABOUR 95 83% 2 2% 5 4% 12 11% 114 ENVIRONMENT 172 53% 37 11% 54 17% 60 19% 323 ANTI-CORRUPTION 124 82% 20 13% 8 5% 0 0% 152 TOTAL 604 70% 77 9% 89 10% 90 10% 860 TABLE 1: SELF ASSESSMENT TABLE: COMPLIANCE AND NON-COMPLIANCE According to table 1 above, Unisa’s higher compliance rate is 83% • Procedures to assess and address the environmental and in the labour principles standards followed by anti-corruption social impact of Unisa operations on the human rights of 82%, human rights 79% and lastly the environmental standards local communities. 53%. There is a great amount of work and commitment that • Statement of compliance to all relevant environmental Unisa has invested into improving environmental initiatives and legislation. this will be highlighted later in the report. The high percentage • System and procedure to monitor the implementation of the in terms of compliance with labour, anti-corruption and human environmental policy and standards. rights is a result of the number of interventions, structures, • Procedure to assess and address environmental impacts policies and procedures that Unisa have put in place to adhere before any construction activities. to national regulatory requirements and to comply with the King • Development of international environmental standards for Code of Governance Principles (King lll). However, there is a any partnership agreement. need for Unisa to investigate and mitigate the following actions: • Promote international labour standards in Unisa’s interactions The current environmental policy must address the following with suppliers and business partners. issues: • Evaluate and assess the risk of corruption when doing • Minimisation of any impacts on the working environment business. from noise, odour, light and air emissions. • Take a clear stand against corruption. • Prevent, minimise and remedy significant impacts in • Develop internal procedures and guidelines to mitigate biodiversity. corruption. • Prevent, reduce and treat waste water discharges. • Remedy soil and water contamination at the site and Unisa demonstrated only a 53% compliance rate towards surroundings. environmental sustainability. It is important for Unisa to investigate this category and have a principle improvement The overall 70% compliance in terms of the four principles is position regarding the following: an indication that Unisa is working towards addressing and achieving all aspects of sustainability and corporate governance. 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 3 BACKGROUND 3.1 Purpose and Context governance in all institutional operations and practices. The cascading of these principles will become evident in the accounts of performance and achievements across the institution. The 2012 Communication on Progress Report mirrors Unisa’s commitment and advancing practices with regard to the Unisa’s governance structure and practice is currently ranked principles espoused in the United Nation’s Global Compact. The among the best in higher education in South Africa and this is title “Towards a High Performance University in a Sustainable buttressed by the outcomes of various institutional audits and World” captures the essence of the improved business model the unqualified reports issued by independent auditors. Unisa relevant to a changed landscape of higher education, globally, in embraces an ethical African leadership approach within all Africa and closer to home, in South Africa. activities guided by the strategic direction of the Council, through recognition and implementation of relevant stakeholder relations Unisa’s approach centres on the institution being adequately management and processes. positioned as a future global participant, while upholding the concept of sustainability in the face of burgeoning competition. Against this background, this report communicates the progress Transparency and achievements of Unisa towards meeting the UNGC advanced criteria on corporate sustainability. The twenty four criteria are Unisa remains committed to high standards of transparency in all extracted from and underpin the five key thematic areas: its operations. The UNGC report for 2012 extensively discusses • strategy, governance and engagement the university’s anti-corruption strategies and recommended • UN goals and issues four additional strategies for strengthening the institution’s • implementation of the Global Compact Principles anti-corruption arsenal. The new strategies proposed include • value chain implementation fostering a working relationship with institutions like the Office • transparency and verification of the Public Protector in corruption related cases, amplifying the operational scope of the university’s ombudsman, personnel Integrated into its public undertaking to be an ethical university, training on the anti-corruption drive (e.g. 100% training of Unisa is emphatic about establishing the platform of sustainability all top management, directors, managers and employees on in terms of the triple complex. Goal 6 of Unisa’s strategic goals anti-corruption) and developing a two-pronged approach specifically expresses the intention to ”Establish Unisa as a encapsulating an internal and external anti-corruption strategy. leader in sound corporate governance and the promotion of Progress on these initiatives is conveyed later in the report. sustainability”. This goal is well-aligned to the expectations of the UNGC management model, and enables the institution to nurture corporate sustainability as one of the key principles Engagement that define its activities in a modern academic dispensation. The institution concurs that the successful implementation of the The 2012 report deliberates on how the inclusive stakeholder UNGC management model is facilitated by three “crosscutting model of corporate governance concurs with the socioefforts”, namely governance, transparency and engagement. cultural values that interact with university governance policies, Unisa identifies itself with all the principles in the following particularly the concept of ubuntu (an African concept associated manner: with being humane). The report also emphasised Unisa’s corporate citizenship responsibilities within the context of the inclusive stakeholder model of corporate governance and also Governance highlights Unisa’s commitment to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG’S). External corporate stakeholder relations have Unisa is responsive to external regulatory shifts and has developed now been entrenched as a strategic imperative as one of the a conscious strategy, and the necessary infrastructure, to ensure priorities in the Unisa plan 2013 – 2015 “Towards a high that it complies with external legal and financial reporting performance University”. requirements. A dedicated portfolio within the executive management sphere addresses the ethical, legal, compliance and A planned action is the development of a stakeholder management sustainability dimensions through supporting internal audit, ethics model with clearly defined goals and expectations. The university and risks management processes. As indicated, these principles implements a model of integrated strategic communication and are closely aligned to and in direct support of the principles marketing to ensure that all media platforms are used optimally advocated by the UNGC focus on corporate sustainability. to reach Unisa stakeholders, internally and externally, within the agreed parameters of fiscal prudence. The University of South Africa has ingrained in its DNA and culture an inculcation of sound and transparent corporate UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 5 4 OVERVIEW AND PROFILE OF UNISA The year 2013 would take a big cake to hold all 140 candles as Unisa celebrates this time-span of educational excellence. Unisa is now a ‘cente-quadra-generian’ university, as Professor Mandla Makhanya (Principal and Vice-Chancellor) has tongue-twistedly coined it, during the institution’s academic opening on 6 February 2013. The theme for the anniversary is “140 years of shaping futures”. The theme has been carefully crafted to highlight how Unisa has helped ordinary South Africans and those from across Africa and the globe to achieve their dreams of obtaining quality education. The establishment of the University of the Cape of Good Hope in 1873 and the subsequent creation of Unisa in 1918, culminated in Unisa becoming the largest open distance learning institution in Africa and the longest standing dedicated distance education university in the world. As one of the global mega-universities, Unisa enrols nearly one-third of all South African students. The university’s 2013 enrolment stands at over 350, 000 students. Founded in 1873 as the University of the Cape of Good Hope, the institution became the first public university in the world to teach exclusively by means of distance education in 1946. Unisa has a proud record of being the only university in South Africa to have provided all people with access to education, irrespective of race, colour or creed. This vibrant past is mirrored in its rich history, more particularly in the impressive database of alumni, some of whom are to be found in the most senior levels of society across the world. The former President of the Republic of South Africa, Dr R Nelson Mandela obtained a law degree from Unisa during the time he was incarcerated on Robben Island. He was also awarded an honorary doctorate by Unisa. Given its rootedness in South Africa and the African continent, Unisa today can truly claim to be “the African university in the service of humanity”, as promised in its vision statement. The strategy to adapt quickly to the fast-paced higher education environment of the 21st century is reflected in Unisa’s management style and leadership practices. Harnessing the new and emerging potential of information and communication technology to catapult the university into a truly digital future, features high on the transformation agenda. Unisa offers an unparalleled range of study choices. These range from short courses and certificate programmes to threeand four-year degrees and diplomas. The extent to which Unisa meets the needs for skills development is reflected in the enrolments for short learning programmes (SLPs). SLPs provide access to education for previously disadvantaged groups and contribute to the skills development of the country.The provision of SLPs at Unisa is currently decentralised through centres and institutes and managed within colleges. The Centre for Business Management constitutes the highest number of SLP students, with a total of 31 438 registered in 2011. Figure 2 indicates student registration count at programme level per college. 6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 The College of Economic and Management Sciences (CEMS) is extent to which these graduates articulate into mainstream higer the most active college in the provision of SLPs, accounting for education and training provisioning is undertaken. The current 84% of total registrations in 2011. In excess of 130 556 students financial model is under review to allow for a more sustainable enrolled, with 1 046 active modules registered in 2011; on model and a framework for dealing with the financial aspects of average 69 students per module. These numbers are fairly high all SLP activities for non-formal activities. and substantiate the South African Qualifications Authority‘s This account provides irrefutable evidence that Unisa continues (SAQA) findings as outlined in its criteria and guidelines for SLPs to seriously respond to its social justice mandate of facilitating that “the market for SLPs demands a small part of a learning area access and opportunities for advancement. as opposed to a full programme”. This market often demands a flexible and responsive approach to an identified need. The Unisa Programme Qualification Mix (PQM) provides an indication of what Unisa offers to the market in terms of its The throughput rates for SLP modules during the period product range. 2006 to 2010 are of concern. The 2010 data reveals that only three colleges, namely CEDU (68.11%), CHS (60.21%) Unisa had graduates studying for 819 formal qualifications and CLAW (61,45%), produced throughput rates above 60%, in 2012. The PQM is a planning device to characterise and with CEMS at 50%. Quality mechanisms for improvement are differentiate the higher education and training landscape in the receiving attention. The other centres and institutes produced a South African context. The core business pillars are teaching and throughput rate of 67.20%. Further analyses with regard to the learning, research and innovation, and community engagement. CEMS 84% CSET 2% CEDU 7% CLAW 3% CAES 2% CHS 2% FIGURE1: DR NELSON MANDELA CONGRATULATED BY FIGURE 2: SLP REGISTRATION ACTIVITY IN 2011 THE FORMER VICE-CHANCELLOR OF UNISA, PROF AP MELCK ON RECEIVING AN HONORARY DOCTORATE. 4.1 Teaching and Learning Unisa offers a combination of career-oriented courses (usually associated with universities of technology, whose programmes prepare students for the world of work), as well as generally formative academic programmes (typically linked to a traditional university). Its rich tapestry of study disciplines includes the humanities, business and management, law and criminal justice, agriculture and environmental sciences, and science, engineering and technology. Learning involves the use of blended techniques such as integrated and mixed media, and courseware with various modalities for learning development, facilitation and support. Going forward, Unisa aims to harness the immense potential of information and communications technology to provide our students with an online teaching and learning experience. Signature online courses have been introduced as prototypes of curriculum innovation in this regard. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 7 From 2013, any student starting a new undergraduate degree into five main categories that straddle community building and will be required to register for and successfully complete one capacity building, curriculum and research related initiatives. compulsory online module per college. As an ODL institution, Unisa determines its own admission requirements, grants access to traditionally disadvantaged 4.4 Unisa’s Governance students, recognises prior experiential learning, and promotes flexible learning in terms of its interactive learning material. and Management In an attempt to ensure that students are adequately prepared to Structures successfully pursue and complete their studies, Unisa has created new admission and re-admission policies, effective from 2013, Unisa has been privileged to retain the active support and supported by a tutor management model to facilitate student involvement of some of South Africa’s most respected and support to mediate learning on a national scale. visionary leaders in its governance and management structures. The summary below depicts the hierarchical levels of strategic and operational decision-making. 4.2 Research and Chancellor: Chancellor, Judge President Bernard Makgabo Innovation Ngoepe, is the head of the university and confers degrees in its name. Research and Innovation, the second of Unisa’s core areas of business, is spearheaded by the institution’s Research Unisa Council: Council is the highest decision-making body of and Innovation Portfolio. The primary responsibility of the the university and is chaired by business leader and politician, Dr portfolio is to advance the realisation of excellent research and M Phosa. innovative solutions that address important national and global questions, and to contribute to the economic, social, cultural Senate: This august body assumes responsibility for academic, and environmental well-being of South Africa and the African research and community engagement related matters, and continent. The portfolio also aims to produce research excellence is chaired by the Principal and Vice-Chancellor, Professor M. in all academic fields at Unisa and across all six colleges: Makhanya. Economic and Management Sciences; Law; Human Sciences; Education; Engineering, Science and Technology; and Agriculture Executive Management: The executive management consists of and Environmental Sciences. the Principal and Vice-Chancellor, the Pro Vice-Chancellor, and all Vice-Principals, including the Registrar and Chief Information Through its research and innovation initiatives, Unisa strives to Officer. attain its vision of being the African university in the service of humanity. The hard work of Unisa’s researchers is recognised and Executive and Deputy Executive Deans: Executive and Deputy rewarded through a number of awards, prizes and prestigious Executive Deans are in charge of each of our seven colleges. membership to notable research academies. Executive Directors: Executive Directors are responsible for strategic business planning and the management of staff in the The Portfolio consists of the Research Department, the College professional and administrative spheres. of Graduate Studies, The Department of Institutional Statistics and Analysis (DISA) and the Unisa library. The main campus and administrative centre is physically located in Preller Street, Muckleneuk Ridge, Pretoria, South Africa. Telephone: +27(0)12 429 3111 and website: www.unisa.ac.za 4.3 Community Engagement (CE) At Unisa, community engagement is actively promoted through the Community Engagement and Outreach Policy of 2008 that is currently under review. As a leading educational institution, Unisa remains mindful of its significant role in building ongoing, permanent relationships with the community to contribute to improving the quality of life; right down to grassroots level. The Department of Community Engagement and Outreach drives community engagement endeavours. The department ensures that arrangements for community engagement are formalised and integrated with those for teaching and learning, where appropriate, and are adequately resourced and monitored. The diverse range of CE activities is clustered 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 4.4.1 Staffing Profile 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 Institutional/Research Professional 500 Executive/Management Professional 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Preliminary) Specialised/Support 1,504 32.45 1,670 33.4% 1,689 32.3% 1,849 33.2% Professional 182 3.9% 158 3.2% 128 24% 118 21% Technical 707 15.2% 602 12.1% 564 10.8% 194 35% Non-professional Admin 134 29% 92 1.8% 51 1.0% 21 0.4% 1,751 37.7% 2,086 41.8% 2,435 46.6% 3,164 56.8% Crafts/Trades 230 4.9% 226 45% 215 4.1% 143 26% 141 3.0% 160 32% 148 28% 86 1.5% Service workers TABLE 2: Staff Catagories According to Table 2 above, from 2008 until 2011 the non-professional administrative staff has increased significantly from 1500 to over 3000 staff complement, followed by the institutional/research professionals ranging from 1500 to over 1500, respectively. This was due to the high demands for students to have better service in terms of more learner support (teaching and learning), research and innovation, community engagement and more investment in infrastructure and efficiency by the university. The percentage increase for nonprofessional administrative staff increased from 37.7% in 2008 to 56.8% in 2011, respectively. 4.4.2 Staff by race group 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 African 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Preliminary) 2,240 48.2% 2,648 53.0% 2,874 55.0% 3.211 57.6% Coloured 165 3.5% 169 3.4% 175 3.3% 200 3.6% Indian 160 3.4% 188 3.8% 204 3.9% 200 3.6% 2,084 44.8% 1,989 39.8% 1,977 37.8% 1,964 35.2% White TABLE 3: Staff Catagory by race *The 2008 to 2010 staff figures presented are based on data extracted from the final audited HEMIS submissions to the Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET).The 2011 figures represent information extracted from preliminary HEMIS student data information. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 9 According to table 3, the staff complement in terms of race changed tremendously from 2008 until 2011; with a significant increase of black staff increasing from 48.2% to 57.6% in 2011, as compared to a slight decrease of white staff from 44.8% in 2008 to 35.2% in 2011. The changes are due to the employment equity plan aimed at redressing the imbalances of the past and matching the staff profile with the geographic student population of Unisa. 4.4.3 Geographical footprint Unisa attracts students from 130 countries in Africa and globally. NATIONALITY 2009 2010 2011 (Prelim) South Africa 245.512 92% 269.061 97.7% 300.221 91.5% Other SADC countries 15.682 6.4% 18.647 6.6% 21.774 6.6% Other African countries 3.815 1.4% 4.067 1.4% 4.250 1.3% Rest of the world 1.505 0.6% 1.606 0.5% 1.746 0.5% No information 45 0.0% 56 0.9% 188 0.1% TABLE 4: Geographic footprint of Unisa According to table 4, it is evident that 91.5% of Unisa students are South Africans, with 6.6% coming from other Southern African Developing Countries (SADC) and with only 1.3% and 0.5% coming from other African countries and the rest of the world, respectively. 4.4.4 Student enrolments per college 160,000 140,000 120,000 100,000 80,000 60,00 40,000 CAES 20,000 0 CEDU 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Preliminary) 4,077 1.6% 4,030, 1.5% 5,341 1.8% 6,937 2.1% CEMS 34.208 13.1% 43,501 16.5% 49,509 16.9% 64,701 19.7% CHS 128,659 49.1% 122,825 46.6% 133,482 45.5% 139,358 42,5% 35,292 13.5% 36,248 13.8% 41.796 14.2% 48,093 14.7% CLAW 25,627 9.8% 25,648 9.7% 29,008 9.9% 32,469 9.9% CSET 17,278 6.6% 17.122 6.5% 19,335 6.6% 21,608 6.6% 16,789 6.4% 14,185 5.4% 14,966 5.1% 15.013 4.6% Occasional TABLE 5: Student enrolments per college. *The 2008 to 2010 student figures presented are based on data extracted from the final audited HEMIS submissions to the Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET). The 2011 figures represent information extracted from preliminary HEMIS student data information. According to table 5, Unisa students are spread over six colleges with a sizeable percentage registering for non-degree purposes (NDP) (occasional) through the six colleges. CEMS is the largest college with 42.5% of students registered at the college in 2011. It is followed by CEDU and CHS accounting for 19.7% and 14.7%, respectively. CAES is the smallest college accounting for 2.1% of the student population in 2011. There were 4.6% of students registered for NDP qualifications in 2011, the percentage has decreased from 6.4% in 2008 due to the fact these students are no longer funded by the DHET. 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 4.4.5 Student success rates Student success Unisa’s 2011 final (degree credit) course success rate of 66.2% represented a substantial increase of 5.9% over that of 2010. This means that the course success rate has increased substantially by 30.6% since 2006. Therefore, for the first time, Unisa’s course success rate has significantly exceeded the ministerial target of 63%. This trend marks a significant milestone in Unisa’s efforts to enhance its success and graduation rates. Increases were especially evident at the level of certificates, diplomas and honours degrees. With a total student body in the region of 350 000, Unisa offers a diverse choice of study fields at levels ranging from certificate to degree. In 2011, the South Africa Survey issued by the SA Institute for Race Relations, stated that Unisa is South Africa’s most productive university, accounting for 12,8% of all degrees conferred by a total of 23 public universities and universities of technology. This combined with the fact that Unisa has increased its African student population to the extent that they are now in the majority, leaves no doubt that Unisa is the university contributing most to the transformation of the South African higher education landscape. 5 UNISA’S VICE-CHANCELLOR’S PERSPECTIVE ON SUSTAINABILITY As Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the University of South Africa, Prof Mandla S Makhanya’s role is to provide strategic direction and guidance to the institution. A sociologist by training and practice, Prof Makhanya is dedicated to servant leadership. His leadership style is built on attributes such as listening, empathy, awareness, persuasion, trust, self-discipline, humility, stewardship, facilitating growth and building community. He asserts that the true test of one’s character is not so much to have power, but to ensure that the power that one has, is used to the benefit of others. True leadership implies a genuine love of people and ensuring that those under one’s leadership are inspired to excel. Prof Makhanya asserts: “You lead simply because you become a servant of those you are leading.” But, ultimately, Prof Makhanya sees his leadership of Unisa as an opportunity to steer the university forwards through positive thinking and action. He believes that his style of leadership will create conscientious and hard-working members of staff who are committed to the institution and to advancement. With his strong values at the forefront of all his decisions, Prof Makhanya seems destined to lead Unisa into a new age of excellence, building on its good standing, both locally and internationally. The following questions were posed to Prof Makhanya by the Office of the Vice-Principal Advisory and Assurance in a recent dialogue, and the answers reflect his perspective and commitment to sustainability. How can universities contribute to sustainability? Universities can contribute in diverse spaces and in a variety of ways, including: • Research on processes, systems and knowledge systems on, for example, the adaptation and mitigation approaches to climatic changes, thereby helping societies to begin to learn to cope or live with the changing weather patterns and/or agricultural production patterns influenced by climatic changes. • Educate conscientious members of society to use their resources constructively through inculcating attitudinal and ethical practice. Such includes activities like promoting recycling, or helping develop or promote the use of alternative energy resources such as the sun (solar energy), wind-energy, bio-gas and other modes of energy that do not contribute to the pollution of the earth. • Promoting systems by which communities can govern and manage their resources in ways that help meet peoples’ needs, while not compromising the present and the future generations. What is Unisa doing to promote sustainability within the organisation? As one of the leading comprehensive open and distance learning institutions in Africa, Unisa is by nature a carbon neutral university. Think, for example, about the emissions it saves since students do not travel to the university every day of the academic year, and opting for alternative communication technologies. On campus, Unisa tries to conserve energy and have installed recycling bins, among others. There are numerous programmes, curricula and research outputs that attest the university commitment to sustainability. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 11 The institution has inculcated the King Code of Governance encourage and help codify ideas and ideals that are essential for Principles (King lll) and United Nations Global Compact the success of any institution or society. principles into all relevant university. Activities and a workshop on sustainability reporting was held to develop an integrated strategy for corporate social responsibility in respect of economic, social Is Unisa a participant in external and environmental issues. environmental networks? Unisa colleges and faculties have begun to audit their contribution Yes, Unisa is active in national, regional and international to discourses on sustainability and thus are recommending that networks and projects on sustainability. The university also students across all disciplines explore and research environmental participated in the 17th Conference of the Parties (CoP 17) or sustainability issues in Unisa’s diverse institutes and centres United Nations Climate Change Conference in Durban where that promote learning. Unisa’s Exxaro Chair in business and Climate Change launched a book entitled, “Green economy and climate mitigation: Topics of relevance to Africa”. Whereas the CoP 17 is the most recent Does Unisa have an environmental global event, which has brought issues of environment and policy? climate to the public domain, Unisa staff members, me included, have been consistently involved in national and international Yes, there is the Environmental Sustainability Policy. Unisa intergovernmental events such as the World Summit on believes that policies on sustainability are important because they Sustainable Development. 6 UNISA INTEGRATED PLANNING APPROACH 6.1 Integrated Planning The schematic representation below illustrates how the Integrated Planning Framework (IPF) translates strategic goals into operational planning outcomes and targets. However, Unisa 2015 Revisited, the strategic transformation plan, comes the plan in itself is not a guarantee for achieving the desired to an end in 2015. The recently Council-approved plan, Unisa outcomes. The 2013 to 2015 planning cycle requires portfolio 2013 – 2015: Towards a High Performance University, embeds managers to ingrain a culture of execution through managing priority areas to give direction for the final three years of Unisa interdependencies by means of clear requirements, specifications 2015 Revisited. and deliverable dates, thus influencing institutional behaviour with a sense of urgency, pride and ultimately institutional In order for Unisa to have a sustainable strategy, the institutional performance. plan focuses on areas that have emerged as key institutional imperatives. These imperatives are clustered around strategic Unisa follows an inclusive approach to sustainability, which takes themes namely academic performance, corporate governance cognisance of all relevant stakeholder groups. The preferred and sustainability, service excellence, people centeredness, cohybrid model of corporate governance is tied to the African operative governance, and external stakeholder relations. values of defining the African society and context, informed by the concept Ubuntu. The principle of Ubuntu has been These themes transpired from a range of activities that constitutionally accepted as an important aspect of nation include, among others, an institutional risk analysis, institutional building, democracy and constitutionalism. By subscribing to conversations with key stakeholders and the analysis of the the concept, Unisa becomes a participant in promoting the emerging challenges Unisa is facing regarding the changing constitutional values that define modern South Africa and Africa higher education landscape. Evidently, these activities together at large. Sustainable development is also fore-grounded in Unisa’s with the drive towards a new organisational culture and ethos, business practices and processes. have implications for how Unisa positions itself in the higher educational and training environment in a sustainable manner. Sustainable development is an important driver for engaged This means that the actions in the Institutional Operational scholarship and community engagement at Unisa. The drive Plan (IOP) have to be structured in a way that systematises towards social, economic and environmental sustainability is organisational energies and proactively mitigates risks. therefore not only an institutional imperative and commitment, but is also expected at personal and professional levels. The 2013 IOP will be subjected to the new requirements for public accountability; requiring universities to comply with the A list of critical factors that can constrain the institution to meet audit prescripts, comprehensive reporting, compliance and these challenges has been collectively identified into 11 high governance requirements in line with the dictates of the King risks, 44 medium risks and 3 low risks, with relevant mitigation III code. strategies until 2015. See Unisa 2015 Revisited on www.unisa. ac.za. Appendix 1 12 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 STRATEGIC PLAN PRIORITY OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES INSTITUTIONAL OPERATIONAL PLAN (IOP) AND RISK MITIGATION PERFORMANCE AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS FIGURE 3: Levels of planning 6.2 Key Related In this interview, Prof Singh introduced the key components of the Advisory and Assurance Services Portfolio launched this year, Sustainable Aspects highlighting the importance of managing an ethical corporate culture, as advised in the King III Report on Corporate Governance. The importance of the newly established Department of Risk Ethics, unity and value at Unisa and Compliance ensures that the university adheres to external compliance requirements. To distinguish itself as a university of choice, one of the levers for that distinction is to use ethics to differentiate itself as a Two main aspects of the Ethics Office are the Ethics Helpline and responsible corporate citizen and as a marketing tool to attract a the Ethics Hotline. population of like-minded employees and students. From a different vantage point, a marker of a transforming Ethics hotline (reporting line) university is one that can acknowledge inherent contradictions and put in place mechanisms and tools to manage these in a If employees observe or become aware of any serious, illegal fair and transparent manner. Among some of the tools one can misconduct within Unisa, they can report it as soon as possible. use to deal with this disjuncture, is to ensure that all institutional The Ethics Hotline is an external, independent service that policies and practices are aligned with the institutional values. In is administered by an external service provider, KPMG. The Unisa’s case, it means ensuring that all policies are in line with Ethics Hotline telephone number is 0800 86 96 93 (toll free social justice and fairness as well as excellence with integrity. from any landline), the KPMG fax number is 0800 200 796, Clearly the call is for the university community to begin to give and the e-mail address is fraud@kpmg.co.za. Reporting to this effect to the 11Cs + 1 and create a culture of inclusion is a hotline is confidential, secure and completely anonymous. The beginning point of translating theory into praxis. service is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. This service has been established to enhance an honest work ethic and to “We talk about ethics, and everybody believes that they are provide all Unisa stakeholders with a mechanism to bring any ethical, but what do we (Unisa) do to ensure we have a holistic unethical business practices to the attention of management. All understanding, a culture of ethics at the university?”This was the reports, once processed by the KPMG call centre, are forwarded question posed by Prof Divya Singh, the Vice-Principal: Advisory to the Department of Internal Audit for follow-up and further and Assurance Services, ahead of the formal launch of Unisa’s investigation. The types of matters to be reported to the Unisa Ethics Office on Thursday 25 October 2012. Ethics Hotline are: • Fraud (fraudulent claim forms, falsified documents, etc) • Misconduct (intimidation, discrimination, etc.) UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 13 • Unethical behaviour (favouritism, nepotism, plagiarism, etc.) • Behaviour that is perceived as being unethical, but where • Theft (unlawful possession of any university resources, such uncertainty exists whether it warrants a report to the Ethics as stationery, library books or computers) Hotline. • Corruption (bribery, third-party collusion, etc.) • Ethical concerns on which clarification and advice are needed. • Advice on the application of the Code of Ethics, policies and procedures. Ethics helpline (advice line) In addition, a dedicated Ethics Website will be launched and The Ethics Helpline offers advice to Unisa stakeholders who are updated regularly with articles and frequently asked questions. faced with ethical dilemmas, but for various reasons may not Employees will be encouraged to participate and communicate want to consult with or make enquiries with their respective on ethical matters via this channel. It is important that the “ethics supervisors, managers or colleagues, can ask for advice and be talk” be promoted within Unisa, for the university to move told how to handle ethical issues. Matters that can be discussed towards a healthy ethical culture. via the Ethics Helpline: 7 UNISA’S TRANSFORMATION CHARTER The Charter of Transformation is seen as a way in which Unisa In the process of reimagining a new university, characterised commits itself to the principles and values of transformation. The by innovation and change that will be responsive to a new university acknowledges the fact that it operates in a political, generation of students who need to function in a technologically economic, social, technological, economic and legal environment; driven environment, Unisa’s staff will need to be: hence there are values that need to be upheld and respected to • aware of new possibilities accomplish its goals. Unisa’s 11 C’s plus 1 try to project a culture • motivated and driven that needs to be practiced and buttressed in all business activities • provided with opportunities for innovation and creative in order to move “towards a high performance organisation”. thinking • entrepreneurial in mobilising new methods of teaching and One of the most significant consequences of Unisa’s research transformation will be the requirement to operate more flexibly, which poses significant challenges for an institution of Unisa’s It follows then that Unisa should provide staff with appropriate size and with such a long history of implementing a largely professional development opportunities, both formal and uniform educational delivery model. This introduces four specific informal, to enable them to function in a changing and renewing challenges: environment. Capacity development of staff should provide them • A requirement for greater flexibility in how Human Resources with necessary skills to ensure that change is not viewed as a (HR) appointments of different kinds are made and by whom, threat. in order to deploy HR as necessary to support growth and contraction across the Student Walk for different courses. Enhancing capacities will include building initiatives for the • A need to introduce different models of quality assurance scholarship of teaching and research through a variety of (QA) for courses in a context in which changes to course approaches, including a scholars’ network that will support materials and the support environment can be made strategic change through leadership activities embedded in incrementally on an on-going basis in response to identified authentic learning tasks. Leaders through the network may needs. then use cascading methods of distributive leadership through • An accompanying requirement for faster turnaround in mentoring of future implementations within the institution. The procurement processes to ensure that resources are in place notion of distributive leadership provides the institution with a where and when they are required for different purposes sociocultural context of distributed power, sharing of knowledge (understanding especially that changes in procurement and practice and reflection through collegiality. needs will accelerate with growing flexibility in the teaching and learning model. Appendix 2 • An Automation and digitisation of key administrative processes to remove unnecessarily lengthy processes of physical completion of forms and their manual verification. 14 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 8 UNISA 2013 – 2015 “TOWARDS A HIGH PERFORMANCE UNIVERSITY” (EFFICIENCIES, SERVICE AND VALUE CHAIN) As discussed, the recently Council-approved Unisa 2013 – 2015: When analysing the student satisfaction with registration Towards a High Performance University plan gives direction to efficiency, students in general seem more satisfied when the final three years of Unisa 2015 Revisited. The focus areas compared to previous years. In fact, the Unisa student satisfaction within the plan have emerged as key institutional imperatives and index recorded the highest levels since 2008. reiterate the significance of promoting efficiency, effectiveness and service delivery within the institution. This plan defines clear roles In general, the findings of the first wave of the 2012 study indicate and responsibilities that are fundamental elements for executing that student satisfaction with the Unisa registration environment the agreed to actions, together with an inclusive organisational seems fairly positive and is gradually improving. Loyal Unisa culture that stimulates high performance and recognition. students, indicating that they plan to remain studying at Unisa and those who have not interrupted their studies, showed higher Continual developments in the higher education sector have satisfaction ratings during the first wave of the 2012 study. This compelled Unisa to move towards a more risk-based planning presupposes the need for Unisa to venture in changing the methodology that accommodates the new regulations of the perceptions of disloyal and disruptive students. Auditor General regarding public accountability and performance based planning. Moreover, Council has in 2012 decided to move In fact, Unisa has some challenges remaining to transcend towards prioritising annual objectives and actions. approximately 30% of disillusioned students’ perceptions away from viewing the institution as a monopolistic powerless ODL Unisa has adopted a new three tier planning approach that institution with substandard qualifications to one which is a includes a long-term strategic plan (10 years), a prioritised threefavored by all students as a preferred life-long learning institution. year plan (3 to 5 years) and the Institutional Operational Plan By attending to the proposed restorative strategies emerging (IOP).To further support the promotion of performance, Unisa from this study, could guide Unisa in aspiring to become the has generated a number of the key indices within the institution leading and desired university in the service of humanity. to address key performance oriented issues. Finally, the survey findings and anticipated improvement The Student Satisfaction Survey is a key component of both the strategies will be communicated and shared with the broader Unisa 2015 Revisited strategic plan and the 2013 ‒ 2015 plan Unisa community and stakeholders in particular. This approach of Unisa. Since 2005, this periodic survey has been an effective will express Unisa’s commitment to external stakeholder relations strategic management tool, particularly in the improvement of an (as key stakeholder and respondent group) about the intent to Open and Distance Learning (ODL) context. Student Satisfaction endlessly seek to improve the study environment. Surveys have been centered on issues that affect students, namely (i) the efficiency of the application and registration process, (ii) This approach is further supported as it will encourage future student integration and (iii) study facilities. The mentioned areas participation of students in similar studies where the inputs are were the focus of the first 2012 Student satisfaction survey. The recognised and intergraded in the transformation of Unisa in objectives of the first wave of 2012 were to determine student becoming the African University in the service of humanity. In satisfaction with the following variables: Unisa as a place to fact, Unisa is busy investigating the possibility of venturing into study, colleges’ satisfaction with the efficiency of the application establishing an automated customer satisfaction centre to allow and registration processes, student integration into Unisa study for the immediate capturing of students’ feedback on service environments and student study facilities. experience. Such an invention will ideally guide the development of contingency planning and contribute to improve service The findings of the 2012 Student Satisfaction Survey indicated a delivery and value chain to a student population of which the need for Unisa to make improvements on the following aspects: younger generation is nowadays characterised by a culture of • Developing and publishing clear service quality standards for immediacy, militancy and impatience, which creates increased dealing with student enquiries and complaints and aligning ‘customer’ expectations towards ‘service providers’, such as these with the Integrated Performance Management System Unisa to download instantly and deliver on demand. (IPMS). • Embracing a peer collaborative learning approach to improve Appendix 3 reflection and engagement with the learning tasks through increasing group work opportunities and assisting students to establish support groups. • Designing an effective marketing communication campaign to expedite efforts to change students’ perceptions with regard to the perceived inferiority of Unisa qualifications. Consider using successful alumni to support such image building campaign. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 15 9 CORPORATE EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 9.1 Overview edge, for example, Michael Porter’s Five Forces Model. The crux of this model is that “the state of competition in an industry depends on five basic competitive forces”, namely suppliers Unisa acknowledges the importance of building and maintaining (service providers to Unisa), entrants (Unisa’s competitors i.e. strong and mutually beneficial relationships with all its stakeholders. other local institutions offering distance learning programmes ‒ The institution follows an integrated strategic communication and these are new competitors who stand a chance of competing marketing model to ensure that all media platforms are used with Unisa on a domestic or international arena. Unisa identifies optimally to reach Unisa stakeholders within agreed parameters other institutions in South Africa which have entered the Open of fiscal prudence. Key external stakeholders of Unisa include its Distance Learning fraternity (e.g. University of the North West alumni, government, business, NGOs, civic organisations, research and University of Pretoria). Rivalry (competition existing between institutions and others, whereas internal stakeholders include, Unisa and its competitors), substitutes (product offerings and students, staff, management, the Council, academic and support services that can substitute Unisa’s offerings in the market) and services departments and unions. Video conferencing is used buyers (this refers to Unisa students) are the remaining forces of extensively to ensure immediate dialogue across the regional the model. In the business arena, buyers or consumers dictate infrastructure on all critical issues, such as the academic opening the nature of service or products which the market has to supply. and closing ceremonies and the budget presentation. In an academic context, Unisa recognises its students as its customers and their needs or demands determine the nature of service the university offers. 9.2 External Corporate In an endeavour to foster external stakeholder relation, the Public Stakeholder Management Protector, Advocate Thuli Madonsela, was recently invited among others to give a public lecture at Unisa on combating corruption Unisa recognises the importance of well-planned and and maladministration. “All citizens including Unisa, have a implemented strategies in fostering a good relationship with its duty and a responsibility to expose corruption and ensure the external stakeholders. The institution follows a generic model of attainment of a society who values ethical behaviour.” This was strategic management in relating with its external stakeholders. the overriding message during a conversation held between the Public Protector and the Pretoria Alumni Chapter of Unisa, held This model consists of three key processes, namely strategic on Unisa’s Muckleneuk campus on Tuesday 16 October 2012. analysis, strategic choice and strategic implementation. Delivering the keynote address at this auspicious event under the Strategic analysis involves the consideration of the position of the theme “What role should the citizenry play in exposing corruption institution, projections of goals that the institution should fulfil. and maladministration, particularly in view of intimidation The key question is: Where are we and what do we expect to be and victimisation of whistle blowers?”, Advocate Madonsela done? The underlying reasons for this stage in the model includes emphasised the centrality and pertinence of honesty and ethical the avoidance of surprises, fast identification of opportunities behaviour, rather than only the enforcement of corruptionand threats, improving planning and decreased response times busting laws, in the national drive to bring about a society free and enhancing self-understanding. At this stage of the planning of corruption and maladministration. There are currently nine process, Unisa uses the PESTLE model to guide its institutional internal target market categories including Council, academic planning processes and analysis. PESTLE is an acronym for the and support service departments, and unions, and 37 external political, economic, social, technological, legal and environmental target market categories including alumni, government, business aspects that affect business life and subsequently, the activities and research institutions. of the organisation. An impact analysis is also important to determine the potential effect of each of the factors identified by Social media also showed steady growth to more than the PESTLE model. Furthermore, a market analysis is essential to 30 000 students on Facebook and close to 10 000 students on set market-related goals. Twitter. Social media provided a platform for students to raise their concerns and voice their opinions. Sites such as HelloPeter.com are (i) Strategic choice: involves the formulation of strategy options monitored and reported on a monthly basis. The main focus in the and selection from them, the optimum strategy mix. social media strategy is relationship building with students. (ii) Strategic implementation: is the last stage of the model and Management further engages with employees through staff involves the execution of the suitable strategy and preparation assemblies, meetings with union leadership, various staff on how necessary changes will be handled. publications and daily electronic communiqués. Feedback from the weekly Management Committee meetings is immediately Unisa strives to maintain a steady relationship with its stakeholders, published on the university’s intranet for the notice of all staff while pursuing strategies that will enable it to attain a competitive members. 16 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 9.3 Community Engagement Unisa has made some great strides in 2012 in conceptualising, enabling and institutionalising community engagement to enhance research, teaching and learning while simultaneously bearing on the socio-economic development imperatives of the country and the continent. These activities informed the revision of the 2008 Community Engagement and Outreach Policy. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) had already been adopted by the Senate Tuition and Learning Committee in 2010, serving as a framework against which to capture benchmark and assess community engagement. The 2011/12 pilot alignment and scoping investigation, conducted by the College of Economic and Management Sciences (CEMS), generated an inventory of practice, and led to an institutional database. The outcomes of this study enabled Management to respond strategically with regard to the development and improvement of programmes and policies in support of community engagement. Significant findings are that: Advocate Thuli Madonsela (Public Protector) • A substantial number of academics viewed sustainable responding to questions from the audience. development as an important driver for community engagement. • Multi-disciplinary, interdisciplinary and trans-disciplinary The October Exxaro Symposium and Biennial Lecture on (MIT) research is being stimulated. “Energy Solutions in the Context of Sustainable Development, • Improving communication and public relations on Green Economy and Poverty Eradication in Africa” provided community engagement will contribute to more effectively a platform for an advisor on sustainable development for the managing ethical and reputational risks. World Economic Forum. November 2012 saw the launch of the Tshwane Global Shapers Community, an initiative of the This year has also witnessed the development of a funding model World Economic Forum’s Young Global Leaders by the Unisa for community engagement. The Community Engagement Graduate School of Business Leadership (SBL) in partnership and Outreach Directorate is responsible for the decentralised with Nedbank. This initiative was undertaken to identify and budgets to colleges, regions and programmes in 2013. The develop young leaders between the ages of 20 and 30 years Senate Community Engagement Committee monitors the to innovate and drive projects for sustainability. A study visit to implementation of the plans against budgets at its quarterly the University of Victoria and the UNESCO Chair in Community meetings. Based Research and Social Responsibility in Higher Education, sought to exchange knowledge and explore international The Community Engagement and Outreach Directorate collaboration opportunities. introduced an annual planning indaba for community engagement in 2012, resulting in the constitution of a Substantive community engagement activities were performed representative Community Engagement Coordination and by Unisa academics committed to sustainable development Operational Committee. through engaged research, teaching and learning. The seven colleges are deploying their knowledge and expertise to work The community engagement calendar for 2012 is impressive. through the implementation of 101 projects, giving effect to In March 2012 Unisa hosted its first national and very successful the strategic intention in the Unisa 2015 Revisited strategic Engaged Scholarship Conference, well attended by academics plan, to “Utilise the resources and capacities of the University and practitioners alike. The dialogue between the Vice-Chancellor in community development initiatives, and collaborative of Unisa and the Executive Mayor of Tshwane explored partnerships”. The actual number is higher since the projects partnerships between Unisa and the Tshwane Municipality to are thematic and programmatic in nature. It must be noted in advance sustainable societies. this context that 219 academics impact on the lives of close The Next Generation Engagement Project, during October 2012, to 41 000 people through engaged research and teaching in hosted the recipient of the 2010 International Association for communities. The activities include workshops: engaged training, Research on Service Learning and Community Engagement, and teaching and learning, engaged research projects: meetings: a visiting fellow at the New England Resource Centre for Higher technical advising: short learning programmes: case study and Education (NERCHE). The CEO of Greenpeace International, and materials, programme and product development, seminars the Executive Director of Greenpeace Africa, engaged with Unisa and public lectures, publications in the popular press, technical academics and management on COP 17 and Rio +20 during a reports, exhibitions, showcase events and exhibitions, as well as lecture and roundtable discussion. in-service learning programmes, work integrated learning and outreach activities. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 17 The table below presents a brief overview. Included in this overview is the Human Resources Department (HRD) addressing challenges faced by people living with disabilities and the Chance 2 Advance Programme. The latter is a community engagement initiative in the office of the Pro Vice-Chancellor, reaching more than 20000 poor and disadvantaged young people annually, demonstrating the commitment of Unisa to community engagement and sustainability at the highest levels. COLLEGE AND NUMBER OF PROJECTS STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS CHS (26) Developing a CE culture in which members of the public and wider communities have parity with collaborators from the university. CAES (14) Sustainability (sustainable environment: sustainable livelihoods: sustainable agriculture) CSET (3) Raising awareness and understanding of science, engineering and technology. CGS (7) Researching communities CEDU (18) Sustainable communities and schools CLAW (6) Addressing important issues affecting communities, making a positive impact in the lives of the people of South Africa across knowledge, society: social security: migration and citizenship: African traditional leadership: community safety: and prevention of drug abuse themes. CEMS (27) CEMS for better community lifelong learning for sustainable change at grassroots level; instilling values of society, social justice and fairness in communities, and transfer of knowledge and skills for fundamental citizenship. HRD Supports Unisa to achieve its business goals with regard to disabilities. Chance 2 Advance Meeting the learning needs of our society by providing members of the public, workers and civil society a kaleidoscope of creative and innovative learning opportunities and a range of informal learning initiatives. TABLE 6: College Strategic Projects Unisa has the added advantage of extending its geographical reach through the seven regions in Mpumalanga, the Midlands, Western Cape, Limpopo, Gauteng, Eastern Cape and KwaZulu Natal, through joint outreach and community engagement projects with academics in their localities. The Department of Environmental Sciences (DES) in the College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences (CAES) held a very successful colloquium on 1 November 2012 at the Florida Campus, focusing on the value of urban green spaces and greening. Papers were submitted by two international speakers and academics from the department. The presentations included the following: • The real value of urban trees and landscapes, University of Melbourne, Australia • The arboriculture and economic benefits of formative pruning of street trees, University of Melbourne, Australia • The diverse values and uses of parks , Ireland • Management of parks and open spaces – strategies and models, Ireland • Estimates of carbon storage by Jacaranda street trees in the City of Tshwane, Unisa The variety of benefits, both socio-economic as well as environmental, that urban greening and trees have within an urban environment was highlighted. The presentation was especially apt in the light of climate change and global warming. The most important aspects are summarised in the table below: 18 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 CLIMATE RALATED VALUES ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES Shade Production of oxygen Shelter from the wind Fixing of carbon dioxide Thermal insulation Reduced soil erosion Temperature modification Protecting watersheds Reduction in glare Ameliorating wind flow Humidification of the air Improved air quality Filtration of polluted air Altering ambient temperature Interception of rainfall Noise abatement Reduced water runoff Wildlife habitat Reduced stream turbidity Create ecosystems Altered effective precipitation TABLE 7: CLIMATE VS ENVIRONMENTAL RELATED VALUES At a time when urban trees and public open space were being appreciated as urban infrastructural assets, they were being threatened and neglected in many major cities. This will have a serious impact on the capacity of cities and regions to mitigate at least some of the effects of global climate change. Also, this will have a deleterious effect on human health, social structures and the economic components of our society as well as the environment. The focus on professional street tree pruning highlighted the environmental and economic benefits, if these practices were implemented scientifically and correctly by city parks departments, which is seldom the case. The various and diverse values and uses of parks were outlined; giving an array of benefits including human health and well-being, economic in terms of tourism, visual impacts and biodiversity, engineering values, education and research values, heritage values, social interaction and community development. The presentation on parks management strategies and models highlighted the benefits and risks of four options of private-public management models for the management of urban green spaces, as well as seven ingredients required to do so successfully. Unisa presented findings of a study published in 2012 by Unisa Press, which indicated that about 17% (33 300) of the City of Pretoria’s urban street tree forests (195 000 trees) consisted of Jacaranda trees. This research indicated that these trees stored more than 41 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents in their wood and roots. Carbon dioxide is the main greenhouse gas and it thus places great emphasis on the critical necessity of street tree urban infrastructure to reduce global climate change impacts. The participation of the Department of Environmental Sciences in Unisa recycling initiatives; since 2008 in an advisory capacity to Unisa Estates Department regarding recycling at the main campus, and for the Florida Campus since 2009, resulted in the compilation of a Waste Management Action Plan by July 2011. A key initiative was raising awareness of separation at source. The Unisa Recycling Project was launched on 14 February 2012. The table below shares the range of programmes and outreach activities: PROJECT NAME PROJECT SUMMARY OUTPUTS/OUTCOMES SPAR waste campaign – a Informative recycling stations are placed at the Increases awareness and promote national supermarket chain show grounds and at SPAR stores to increase recycling. waste awareness. Annual Recycling Awareness The race organised by NetsAfrica, focuses Increase awareness on recycling and its Race, Benoni on awareness of waste management. DES importance. participated in the campaign by engaging with Targets at least 500 people to run or the Wattville and Actonville communities and walk the races. addressing them on waste managementand Large media coverage for the initiative recycling practices; contributing in creating and the programme as a whole. a sense of responsibility and change of behaviour. Waste management puppetry Educational recycling and capacity building Increases awareness and promotes performance project, for selected high school learners, in recycling, improvement of household collaboration with a drama group. management and public awareness of waste impacts. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 19 Garden World exhibition Students volunteer to assist Unisa staff with Introduces students needing WIL gardens, part of the prestigious the construction and design of a landscaped experience to Green Industry Chelsea Garden Show in the garden according to the annual theme set by members. Student participation UK the exhibition organisers. Prizes are awarded also contributes towards their WIL according for the inclusion of Water Wise portfolios. principles, as well as design and construction Collaborates with internal and external quality. stakeholders. The media coverage Unisa has received with these projects includes TV coverage on 50/50, Top Billing, Morning Live, Front Row, SABC 3 News, Vertoon Venster, Down to Earth, Tuin Paleis, Agri TV, Ontbytsake, Morning Live, and radio shows, newspapers and magazines, and 70,000 visitors. Eco-schools environmental Increases environmental management Encourages participation in education programme awareness through active and relevant issues environmental action projects by relating to and supporting the curriculum. sharing appropriate knowledge and DES staff members address the learners on developing responsible values and various environmental issues, while Delta attitudes. Environmental Education centre work with Highlights environmental issues linked the educators. This dual approach allows to learning across the curriculum. the DES staff to share their knowledge, Increases level of awareness of DES conduct practical experiments to demonstrate and career opportunities within environmental management and highlight department programmes. environmental issues linked to learning across Exchanges of knowledge to support the curriculum. teaching and learning within the community. Research results will indicate level of environmental awareness and management Collaborates with internal and external stakeholders. Arbour Day celebration Provides an opportunity for participating Encourages participation in schools to interact during environmental environmental action projects by learning activities, plant trees on the day that sharing appropriate knowledge and marks the beginning of a school arboretum. developing responsible values and attitudes. Future educational purposes of this arboretum Highlights environmental issues linked by UNISA staff members, as well as registered to learning across the curriculum. students, will offer botanical interpretations Increase level of awareness of DES and and lessons. Key objectives include the career opportunities within department importance of trees and their role in our programmes. environment, learners should gain techniques/ Exchanges of knowledge to support knowledge to enable them to plant trees teaching and learning within the effectively, and the importance of indigenous community. trees compared to alien trees. Research results will indicate level of environmental awareness TABLE 8: DESCRIPTION OF THE DIFFERENT DES OUTREACH PROGRAMMES AND OUTCOMES/OUTPUTS The discipline of Geography engages in field trips and engagement with community members; allowing geographers to function within a multi-, interand trans-disciplinary team of academics as well as being exposed to members of the team outside of academia, including business, civil society and NGOs, in order to ensure sustainability of our environment and communities. Below are some of the CE related projects undertaken: • Open source community mapping • Roots Driven Rural Change – North West Province • Environmental Impact Assessment • Nutrition and primary health care • Developing indigenous nurseries The activities of the roots-driven change process is presently captured on a number of short DVD clips that are being placed on YouTube. There are three short learning programmes; two shares the methodology of community asset mapping that has been developed in the 20 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 project in two different formats of teaching (online vs workshop). To further meet global environmental challenges, Unisa commits The second is an online programme that will in essence be a itself to: toolkit on the creation of Community Foundations. This project • maintaining environmental sustainability on top of the has led to planned roundtable discussions with the Department of university agenda Social Development that aims to create national policy on roots• working closely with policy makers, communities, industry driven development in South Africa. The KwaZulu Natal region and business and other universities has held three stakeholder and media breakfasts in Durban, • sharing examples of green practices, evaluating and Richards Bay and Pietermaritzburg. The sessions were used to producing status reports, plans and progress to all update business, government and community leaders about stakeholders UNISA developments in the region. The Student Association from the College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences partnered with eThekwini Municipality (Parks & Recreation) and IDube landscaping to establish a Garden Project. An advocacy and grassroots based NGO, Food & Trees for Africa (FTFA), participated in the Unisa International Open Distance Learning Conference held in September 2012. Unisa donated 250 trees to FTFA as part of the mitigation action to offset the amount of carbon footprint produced by 250 delegates attending the conference. Unisa received a certificate of recognition from FTFA for its efforts towards a carbon neutral university. The carbon footprint analysis for Unisa conducted in 2011, shows that 89% of the carbon is generated by electricity, followed by paper and travelling, destroying approximately 161 497 trees. The Sustainability Plan will incorporate mitigation actions to influence Unisa’s operational processes, enabling the reduction of the total carbon footprint. The various initiatives FROM LEFT MR AUBREY SIBANDA (UNGC RESEARCHER) from University Estates are described in this report. AND MR JAPHTA MAKGAMATHO (UNGC PROJECT LEADER) AT A FUNCTION ORGANISED BY FOOD & TREES FOR AFRICA (FTFA). 10 10.1 Pro Vice-Chancellor’s Office The Pro Vice-Chancellor (PVC), Prof Narend Baijnath, is pivotal in guiding the transformation of Unisa to effectively respond to internal and external challenges, while ensuring that the institution remains sustainable during unprecedented change in the world of higher education. Since 2011 the PVC is responsible for cohering the ICT, Open Distance and e-Learning, Organisational Architecture, Open Education Resources (OERs), Academic Planning and Procurement streams into a super-nexus that will take Unisa confidently into the digital age. The significance of ICT and OER cannot be underestimated by the institution, because this has impacted on other areas of Unisa’s institutional functioning. Hence, it was with all of these factors in mind, that Unisa management decided to move the ICT portfolio to the Office of the PVC at the beginning of 2011. Unisa realised that the ICT project required dedicated high-level focus and impetus, and that there was no better place to locate it than in the Office of the PVC. All of these strategic four institutional functions are linked at a very fundamental level. Under the PVC office there has been solid and sustained progress across the broad front of ICT strategy, planning and implementation. Digitisation is recognised as a fundamental shift within Unisa’s organisational architecture that effectively prepares the university’s business model to suit a vibrant academic environment driven by the maximum utilisation of modern technology. Furthermore, the use of technology will not only catapult the university into a digital future, but also give it a competitive edge. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 21 Digitisation will also enable Unisa to fulfil its commitment as a the very nature of the course offerings in the field of economics, signatory to the Berlin Declaration on Open Access to education; management and accounting. This places a responsibility on following its adoption of an Open Educational Resource (OER) teaching and learning to ensure that the college emphasises policy as part of its larger curriculum policy in 2010. Through in all its teaching the subject of ethics, social responsibility, and its curriculum policy Unisa is committed to the following: (i) sustainable practices. critically evaluating the appropriateness and availability of OER before prescribing textbooks, (ii) ensuring that the sourcing and CEMS envisages doing this in a number of ways, and most adaptation of OER are a standard practice and supported as part notably, via developing a relevant Programme Qualification of the module design and material development process; (iii) Mix (PQM), developing content in each of these programmes making material, tools and management resources available to so as to address these very important elements of the UNGC. its staff, using the different licence types as proposed by a range CEMS sees its role as a college being responsible for framing of OER providers and (iv) creating and supporting processes for and disseminating knowledge and capabilities concerning both the identification and review of potential Unisa OER and markets, positive externalities (e.g. employment) and negative externalities and celebrating its OER releases. (e.g. discrimination, pollution, gender awareness). Unisa continues to pursue other initiatives to make it more socially This approach will ensure that the actions of the current student relevant. Recently, the university embarked on the “Chance 2 body and alumni reflect directly back upon their institutions; Advance Programme”, which is a strategic community learning through implementing the statement of graduateness. The core initiative that seeks to raise awareness of the inherent human graduate values are reflected below: capacity to learn. Communities are mobilised towards the distinct • participation of graduates in the economic and ethical pursuit of learning; to know, to work, and to serve. Marginalised development of society communities are the primary dialogue partners and participants • socially responsible behaviour of graduates and alumni in this project. Given the learning deficit in communities, the • personal and professional well-being of graduates project uses a campaign methodology to promote a culture of learning through relevant and creative informal learning The college introduced a very broad Programme Qualification interventions. The goal is to contribute to skills learning, critical Mix that focuses on skills development for South Africa and thinking, social revitalisation and social justice. The campaign for the African continent in the field of economics, management learning methodology is succeeding. Communities are being and accounting. There are very specific programmes also that mobilised to regain a joy and appreciation for learning and the address some national challenges such as: empowerment it brings. • entrepreneurship development with the introduction of a bachelors’ degree in Small Business Management and The first initiative was the Better World Village, which was a Entrepreneurship; given the huge unemployment rate in partnership with the Tshwane Leadership Foundation, City of South Africa Tshwane and four other NGOs. This was a four-week learning • the Diploma in Safety Management, given the poor and social justice intervention in the Pretoria inner-city. Thereafter working conditions of many South African workers on the Chance 2 Advance Programme was launched in Pretoria mines and farms. and Durban. The programme involved the creation of learning opportunities that are relevant, practical and geared for public More than eight Higher Certificates provide opportunities to consumption towards the goal of purposeful, positive and students who do not ordinarily meet entry requirements for productive change. Each programme was tailor-made in dialogue studies in higher education. These will then provide a 12-month with local communities to cater for specific community needs. full qualification and also provide an alternative pathway to degree studies During the course of 2011 the programme offered over a hundred pertinent workshop choices to communities in Pretoria and Durban, Wentworth and Oakford. 2012 was set to be a 10.2.2 Human Rights productive year for the programme with initiatives in the Eastern Cape, KZN, Gauteng and the Free State. Student admissions are based on generic requirements regardless of gender, race and religion. There is a strong awareness campaign in CEMS to enlighten all staff to always be 10.2 College of Economic aware of class differences created by the many years of Apartheid that limited the opportunities of black students. The college and Management Sciences strongly supports the need for added tutor support systems to assist such disadvantaged students to give them all a fair chance. Although the college does not have a formal bursary scheme 10.2.1 Overview in place, a number of such bursaries are given annually by the various centres (Short Learning Programmes) to needy students. The recent financial, ecological and social crises have raised The well-being of all organisational members: students, staff questions concerning the responsibility of the corporate world. and administrators, are ensured through a process of managing In the College of Economic and Management Sciences (CEMS), employee well-being, career conversations, talent management the college realises the role that it has to play in addressing and annual employee and student satisfaction surveys. these concerns. This responsibility is thrust on the college by 22 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 Non-discrimination, gender awareness and needs of people with Unisa Living Green initiative was launched towards the end of disabilities are managed through the office of the Executive Dean, 2011 and on 24 January 2012 the Vice-Chancellor and Principal, Directors and Chairs of departments, as well as through the Prof Mandla Makhanya, launched the Unisa Recycling initiative as college’s Transformation, Innovation and Change Management subsidiary to the Unisa Living Green initiative. The launch took Committee and in collaboration with the institutional Employee place at Unisa’s main campus in Pretoria. Wellness Directorate. Contributions to public debate are afforded on a regular basis by encouraging members of the The Unisa Living Green initiative has resulted in high levels of college executive to issue public statements about national environmental stewardship awareness. The launch witnessed and international matters. Press statements have been issued members of staff across colleges as well as rank and file of Unisa and public debates and discussions held with external national staff attending the critical occasion. and internal speakers. Merit-based allocation of faculty/staff development opportunities is ensured via the submission of annual work allocation and personal development plans that are openly discussed and agreed to via a committee that oversees these matters in each department. 10.2.3 Anti-Corruption CEMS actively supports the creation of institutional policies and procedures that help ensure compliance to institutional values on such matters. These include the declaration of gifts and donations in accordance with institutional policies, responsible purchasing practices in accordance with institutional procurement policies and procedures, and recruitment and selection in accordance with institutional guidelines on employment of permanent and contract staff. The college supports the institutional position of zero tolerance on any issues of extortion and bribery by participating in all internal IN the middle, Prof Mandla Makhanya (Viceaudit requests, and student and staff disciplinary procedures for Chancellor and Principal OF Unisa), flanked by those in violation of institutional values and policies. Falsification the now retired Registrar, Prof L Molamu. of results is monitored by Chairs of Department who ensure that institutional policies and procedures are adhered to. Plagiarism, fair assessment practices, and cheating in examinations are not tolerated and those found guilty of contravening this are dealt After the launch, Unisa rolled out a range of recycling bins; placed with via staff and student disciplinary codes that are enforced strategically in common printing rooms and other public places. institutionally. Among some of the public places with recycling points and In dealing with the issues of transparency in promotion and bins, are entrances to main buildings and passages within to tenure, the college implements institutional procedures that are facilitate smooth recycling from offices. Support and cleaning guided by a short listing committee and a selection committee, staff members were oriented in separation at source processes, which always includes external observers representing unions especially in the offices. and the university’s Senate. 10.2.4 Environmental Stewardship CEMS is supported through a number of initiatives that range from the university’s top management, through the Deanery, from the schools, departments, centres, institutes, research chairs and individual staff members. Unisa’s Living Green Initiative The CEMS’s environmental stewardship is complementary to Unisa’s overall sustainability drive. The institutional sustainability drive has launched a number of landmark initiatives, such as, the Environmental Policy and the Unisa Living Green initiative. The UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 23 CEMS Going Green Initiative The Signature Module Initiative: The CEMS Going Green initiative started in March 2011. This Sustainability and Greed – Module Code project remains one of the flagships in the university. Since SUS1501 its launch in 2011, staff in the CEMS has networked into environmental stewardship activities at Unisa, including the Unisa has embarked on a programme to develop signature recycling initiatives being driven throughout the university. CEMS modules in 2013.The signature module for the CEMS is one Going Green initiatives were on display during the launch of the entitled “Sustainability and Greed”. Being the largest college at Unisa Going Green Day. Unisa, with a student enrolment of over 143 000 in 2012 out of the university total of about 357 500, the CEMS signature module The CEMS Going Green initiatives also raise awareness through will go a long way to address key issues in the environment and the distribution of souvenirs such as mugs and jugs. related areas. It is therefore anticipated that in the next three year more than 150 000 Unisa students and a large number of those exiting the systems as graduates would have taken the signature Exxaro Chair in Business and Climate module. The initial estimate for 2013 is for 5000 students to be Change Initiative enrolled, and then phased in for all first-year students from 2014 until 2019. The endowed Exxaro Chair, established in 2008, is mandated “to create a Centre of Excellence in Business and Climate Change research, education and advocacy oriented community 10.3 College of Education engagement”. Its mission is to support South African and African stakeholders (including business, government and civil society) in their quest to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to 10.3.1 Overview climate change. The Exxaro Chair is mandated to operate in three thematic areas namely: (1) cutting edge research: (2) academic The College of Education (CEDU) at Unisa is, by virtue of its programme development (including training and capacity central mandate, uniquely situated to address many of the building): and (3) advocacy oriented community engagement. thematic areas highlighted in the UN Global Compact and related UN Development Goals. The mandate of the college The key research projects include: Climate Policy (ongoing): to train teachers who will teach the next generations, requires Green Economy in the Context of Sustainable Development, the college to continuously be aware of the social imperatives Poverty Eradication and Jobs Creation (ongoing): and Climate in order that the graduate teachers, acquire values and ethics Change Education in the SADC School Curriculum (three-year and an awareness of the importance of social responsibility and project to December 2014). For the reporting period, a book environmental sustainability. manuscript focusing on “Corporate South Africa in a Green and Global Economy” was completed. The book was written by a The college’s responsibility for training a large proportion of multidisciplinary team involving 18 authors and it constitutes the nation’s teachers requires the college to ensure that both 17 chapters. Another book project focusing on the Southern the design of its courseware and its practices align with the African Development Community (SADC) project on “Climate UNGC principles, its sustainability strategies and governance and Change Education in the SADC School Curriculum” is underway. human rights ethos. The CEDU is particularly committed to the This project has drawn 30 authors from 14 SADC countries. advancement of human rights and environmental sustainability. Internal and external advocacy oriented community engagement with stakeholders dealing in business and climate change issues 10.3.2 Human Rights continued, such as the 26 October 2012, one-day symposium and biennial public lecture under the theme “Energy Solutions in The CEDU is committed to the enhancement of human rights the Context of Green Economy, Sustainable Development and and its courses are informed by a human rights based paradigm. Poverty Eradication in Africa”. The Green Economy and Climate Much of the course offerings address the right to education, Change flagship programme attracted more the 50 researchers; universalisation of schooling; specifically with a focus on children’s both within and outside Unisa. World Environment Day was held rights, the rights of the girl child, the rights of the disabled and on 5 June and a one-day research day for Unisa students on 27 also on language rights. August was organised jointly by the Vice-Principal for Research and Innovation and the Students Representative Council. The college regards universal and compulsory basic education as an inalienable fight for all children. By implication, the college regards quality education as inseparable from the delivery of The Graduateness Book Initiative universal education. It has as its goal – high quality training for its teacher education graduates. The role of college in the supply of A publication entitled “Developing Student Graduateness and professional teachers is critical and the college has ensured that Employability provocations, theory and practical guidelines” its courses, in particular its signature module, contribute to the includes a chapter on “Sustainability education and graduateness: professionalisation of teachers; ensuring positive attitudes, values A way of life?” edited by Dr Muchaiteyi Togo and Prof Godwell and respect for human rights as an integral part of the training. Nhamo, the Exxaro Chair. 24 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 The curricula of the various teacher development programmes aimed at ensuring that all teachers are trained in identifying and presented in the college include modules on the range of social remediating (or referring) learners with learning barriers. The contexts in which education and training take place – requiring Department of Inclusive Education will have a specific focus on teachers to have an awareness of challenges across ccontexts, the capacitation of teachers for learners with visual challenges specifically for schools in lower socio-economic areas and in specialising in the teaching of Braille, as well as responding to all rural areas. The newly established college has given attention to other forms of disability. language rights and is targeting young African language speakers specifically for training as foundational phase teachers to ensure The college has been awarded a prestigious grant from the that children are able to exercise their right to a basic education Department of Education and Training, supported by Unisa’s in an official language of their choice. Council, to amplify its diagnostic capacity and interventionist reach during 2012. It is the most substantive award of the new The right to basic education also applies to the rights of funding categories of the infrastructure and efficiency earmarked adults who had been denied education or adequate education grants. when they were of school-going age. The college houses the Department of Adult Basic Education and Youth Development that trains teachers of adults who require basic education or Goal 3: Youth and adult learning needs literacy programmes. This is in recognition of Section 29 of the The Department of Adult Basic Education and Youth South African Bill of Rights that establishes the right to a basic Development within the college recognises the need for a posteducation and includes adult basic education. schooling system that might cater for the approximately 4 million youth, between the ages of 18 and 24 years, who are neither in In addressing Human Rights, the college is cognisant of the UN education nor in employment or training and who are in need of Education for All Goals, which guides its vision and mission. education and training opportunities. The Adult Basic Education department (in cooperation with Goal 1: Early childhood care and the Commonwealth) provides training for youth development education practitioners in order that the learning and social needs of these The college has established a dedicated department for Early youth might be met. Childhood Education (ECE) that caters for teachers of children from birth to three years of age, as well as those children requiring preschool and Grade R (Pre Grade 1) schooling. The Goal 4: Adult literacy college targets enrolments for ECE students who are mother The Department of Adult Basic Education and Youth Development tongue speakers of African languages to ensure the right of also provides training for the educators of adults who require learners to be educated in an official language of their choice. basic education. In line with the government’s policies for adult The core of the curriculum for all Foundation Phase teachers will basic education and training, the department aims to serve a include learning an African language. range of social, economic and developmental needs. Its training of educators for the adult basic sector contributes to ensuring The South Africa Department of Basic Education (DBE) has that adults are enabled to participate actively in the social aspects committed to expanding the provision of Grade R towards of their lives; to access learning and other social institutions universal Grade R services in 2013. Given the acute shortage aimed at redressing historical imbalances; and for development, of Grade R teachers, Unisa’s College of Education will be both personal and socio-economic, through skills development. accentuating the training of Grade R and Foundation Phase teachers (who are speakers of the African languages) in order to Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET) provides adults with expand capacity for the proposed new intervention. the basic foundation for lifelong learning and equips them with the skills and critical capacity to participate fully in society. It targets specifically women (and, in particular, rural inhabitants), Goal 2: Universal primary education out-of-school youth, the unemployed, prisoners and adults The CEDU at Unisa is the largest teacher training provider in with disabilities. Moreover, the provision of basic education is the country. The numbers of trained educators contribute constitutionally enshrined as a basic right of all citizens and a significantly to the achievement of the “Education for All” goal legal entitlement to which every person has a claim (Section 29 of achieving universal education. In line with this goal, there of the Bill of Rights in the Constitution of the Republic of South is a need to improve education services and to improve the Africa 1996). standards of teachers’ and (consequently) learners’ performance. The challenge for the college now lies in ensuring high quality teachers to meet the demand. Goal 5: Gender parity and equality Addressing the needs for gender parity and equality is addressed In addition, the DBE’s proposed new intervention of inclusive in the college through the presentation of gender issues as education requires that teachers are equipped to identify learning separate modules within the curriculumn as well as through deficits. Diagnostic and remedial tools are used to ensure that ensuring a “gendered” curriculum in which gender issues learners with special needs are identified and their barriers to are mainstreamed with a special focus on the girl child. The learning and meaningful participation mitigated. The newly courseware makes provision for the treatment of unequal gender established Department for Inclusive Education in the CEDU is social relations while the college itself has taken special measures UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 25 to empower women who were previously disadvantaged or the participants from the different ethnic groups that the South excluded. Through its Employment Equity planning, the college African experience and history taught them a great deal – to makes it possible to facilitate gender empowerment strategies strengthen identities, but at the same time maintain a pluralistic and target-setting. society that is open, accepting and inclusive.” Goal 6: Quality of education Violence in Schools The right to a basic education implies, by extension, the right to good quality learning programmes and high quality learner Dealing with the problems of violence in our schools is one of the support materials and teaching practices. ways that the college contributes to ensuring the right of children to enjoy a quality education while at the same time ensuring The Department of Language Education recognises that the that schools, SGBs (school governing bodies) and principals diversity of our languages plays a vital role in attaining quality are aware of good governance principles. The Dynamics of education, for building inclusive knowledge societies and for Violence in Schools Report states that many of our schools are applying the benefits of science and technology for sustainable dysfunctional and lack the means of protecting the learners from development. The department focuses on the development external violence impacting on the school from the surrounding of teacher’s skills to recognise language as a component areas. The research study shows that teacher absenteeism is high of democracy, and also as a tool for improving the quality of and incidences of bullying tend to be ignored, which equates to learning outcomes. violence by omission. The study entailed an in-depth study of a sample of four schools in each of six South African provinces. The Across the CEDU, recognition is given to teachers as a critical schools were surveyed and focus groups were conducted with resource for improving learning. The college focuses not only principals, teachers, students, security personnel and members on the development of initial teachers, but also on ensuring of the governing bodies. The research recommends that security that through further education and training, teacher quality is needs to be placed high on the school agenda. Schools must developed and maintained. On-going training and retraining of become more democratic in line with government policy with teachers is necessary; if teachers are to remain relevant in an learners voices also being heard. Masculinity as a social construct environment where they are required to fulfil the new demands needs to be deconstructed and the integration of different made on them through curricula reform and other school-based cultures and race issues must be tackled at school level. innovations. Empowerment Mainstreaming HIV/AIDS education A project sponsored by Anglo American enabled education The CEDU has mainstreamed the teaching of HIV/AIDS by managers from 30 schools in the Nkangala region to participate integrating HIV/AIDS into the curriculum wherever possible. The in the Professional Learning in School Management. The aims teacher development courses across the curriculum focus on of the project were to present professional learning seminars to the provision of support and care for children living with HIV/ education managers. Although the project started in the Nkangala AIDS, for orphaned and vulnerable children, and for school and district of Mpumalanga, its success has resulted in its expansion community support for children heading households. to other areas; and to gathering appropriate data that would assist the college in developing relevant management curricula The ABET and Youth Development modules have mainstreamed and programmes for education managers. The management HIV/AIDS dealing with prevention, care and support and course teaches democratic management principles specifically the need to influence ABET learners and the youth for school and education managers and considers with safe sex messages to mitigate HIV/AIDS effective management systems for South African transmission among adult learners. schools and systems of education. The course focuses on good governance whether it The college has a number of HIV/AIDS is in handling school fees and school specific research students at Master’s income or in the procurement of school and Doctoral level who are focusing on supplies. the various dimensions of HIV/AIDS. The Department of Educational Improving education Studies has been involved in an quality to ensure the international collaborative research Right to Education project in the Middle East. As part of the project entitled ”Peace Education”, the The 500 Schools Project is another project programme brings together opposing youth in the CEDU aimed at ensuring the right of groups (on ethnic, political or interpersonal children to a better quality education. There is grounds) at a relatively isolated location. a need to better understand under-achievement in order to improve the quality of teaching and learning According to the project leader, “It was encouraging to hear from and the improvement of learning outcomes. 26 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 In 2012 the college launched its 500 Schools Project aimed Right to Good Quality Education at improving the teaching and learning in schools that underperform. The project comprises a multidisciplinary team of The teaching of the basics – mathematics and English as an academics from across the 10 departments in the CEDU. Each additional language, literacy and home language – has constantly department is responsible for its section of the instrument and been flagged as problematic in our schools. As part of the for the analysis and interpretation of data. Each department will Department of Basic Educations interventions for improving the contribute to development of the proposed interventions in the quality of teaching in these areas, a team of language experts second phase. mainly from CEDU has worked with the Department in the development of workbooks. The project has produced close to The two-phased project has involved initially a desk study of 600 workbook titles, including large print books and Braille texts school underperformance and a large scale survey will be for the visually impaired. With due regard to linguistic rights, the administered to school principals and four teachers in each books have been produced in all eleven official languages and of 500 schools. The survey is multidisciplinary; focusing on with adaptations for Sign language. This large-scale project has learning areas, inclusive education, school management, teacher resulted in the distribution of some 50 million workbooks to the development, language education and inclusive educational schools in 2012. needs. The college has also assisted with the development of the The research will also include focus group discussions with Department of Basic Education’s Grade R workbooks, teachers of the identified learning areas and subjects, which form part of the Department of Basic principals, members of school governing bodies Education’s strategy to boost South African and other parents, learners (from Grades 3 children’s school performance. Research and 6) and school management teams from shows that for every year that children a subset sample of schools to analyse the are exposed to stimulating activities causes of Grade 3 and 6 under-performance before Grade 1, they perform and ways of mitigation. Focus group better academically in later years interviews with 500 primary schools – throughout their primary and classified as underachieving schools by the secondary schooling. Department of Basic Education (DBE) from the Eastern Cape, KwaZulu Natal, Limpopo, The Grade R workbooks aim to assist Mpumalanga and Free State provinces will children in developing these skills and be held. The study will interrogate literacy the key initial concepts they need to achievements in Home Language, First Additional lay the foundations for learning in later Language, Natural Science and Mathematics/ phases. This is an important contribution to Numeracy with the purpose of developing guidelines ensuring the right to a quality education. that may be useful in addressing this problem. A range of projects in the CEDU have been targeting the The second phase of the project will include designing improvement of the practices of Mathematics and Physical Science interventions for school clusters to address problems identified teachers. One of the key mathematics projects, based on the in phases through the research. Both the research and the lesson study approach, is being implemented in eight Mamelodi interventions will be beneficial for the training of initial and inprimary schools together with the Gauteng Provincial Department service educators enrolled in the college. of Education. Lesson study is a Japanese method successfully used for the development of Mathematics teachers in Asian Pacific countries. The objective of this project is to develop teachers’ Unisa Early Childhood Education Centre professionalism in mathematics teaching by encouraging teachers Many of CEDU’s community projects have centred on the to develop their lessons collaboratively, to observe each other areas in which there are critical skills shortages. For example, and to reflect on their teaching. Many of the children who have the Unisa Centre for Early Childhood Education (UCECE) on benefited from this project, even though from less advantaged the Sunnyside campus has recently been brought under the schools, found their way into the last Mathematics Olympiad. umbrella of the CEDU. The historic preschool on the Unisa Other INSET projects in the college have also produced excellent Sunnyside grounds not only provides the much-needed ECD results in working with mathematics and literacy teachers to assist (Early Childhood Development) within that neighbourhood and provincial departments of education to improve the learning community, it also offers trainee teachers and academics in the outcomes of learners in underperforming schools. Department of Teacher Education with opportunities for piloting and practising play-centred approaches for ECD, Grade R and Inclusive Education; all of which will enable children to reach their Children’s Rights – A Safe Environment full potential. UCECE will also act as a research site for improving early childhood education in South Africa and the rest of the Many children in South Africa lose their lives as a result of African continent. fires, especially if they live in informal settlements without infrastructure and electricity. Residents often use alternatives such as open fires or paraffin stoves for cooking and keeping School Workbook Development and the warm. Teaching children about the safety measures when living UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 27 in such environments can make a significant contribution to Children’s rights curbing the number of deaths resulting from open source fires. With this in mind, the Learn not to Burn project worked with In conclusion, many of the courses presented in the CEDU focus foundation phase children and their teachers to teach them on children’s rights. The Learning Area Didactics Life Orientation about home safety and the dangers of fire. The skills emanating module includes a section of Respect for Human Rights (the from this project have begun to permeate the foundation phase concept human rights, The SA Constitution, the UDHR, Bill of curriculum in the college. Rights, different types of human rights, African Charter on Human and People’s Rights, struggle for human rights in SA, Ubuntu and rights as explicated in Indigenous Knowledge Systems). Another Inclusive Education module outlines the role of the educator in a pastoral role and includes a section on education for human rights and inclusivity, A team from the CDEU has been involved in hearing testing entitled “What is education for human rights and inclusivity”, for adults and school children in impoverished areas. The project and a section “Teaching for human rights and inclusivity in the has given exposure to students to do screening of learners in classroom”. The Master’s coursework: Inclusive Education deals the schools. The team also worked with parents and teachers with issues concerning the right to education for all learners. who needed to be made aware of these health issues, teaching Academics in the college have been focusing on the importance them how to identify a potential problem before they turn into a of a rights-based perspective for some. permanent hearing disability. Hard of hearing learners are often regarded as stupid by the community and often those learners are excluded and receive insufficient support in the classroom. 10.3.3 Environmental Stewardship Students and teachers are trained to identify which learners in their classrooms suffer from hearing loss and who may be in Focused courses on the environment and environmental need of hearing aids. education are presented as a cross-cutting thematic area. Central to this is the recognition of the relationship between social justice and ecological sustainability and the importance Women’s Rights of the relationship between sustainable development and the sustainability of our natural resources. With a College that so actively engaged in empowering community projects, a lecturer in the Department of Teacher These themes have begun to permeate the new PQM across Education of the College of Education, was the winner of the the various phases of education where environmental education 2011 Unisa Woman of the Year Award for her transformative now cuts across the curriculum. The new PQM of the college leadership and her engagement in a community project aimed includes a core module, Environmental Education, to prepare at advocacy and promotion of women’s rights, specifically in teachers to teach sustainable development and the need to care reclaiming the role of women in the history of South African for our natural resources. education. The college strives to develop teachers who are environmentally literate, active, competent, and committed citizens of the planet Improving Education for the Girl Child who are able to ensure our human rights, inclusivity, and a healthy environment. The Forum for African Woman Educationists (FAWE), an organisation whose agenda is to strengthen gender research In addition to the focus on the environment in our curriculum, to improve girls’ and women’s education in Africa, has awarded the college has committed itself to green practices such as the $21 000 in research funds to conduct a cross-national study reduction of printing, double-sided printing, a reduction in the covering South African and Kenya in October 2012. The study use of heaters, air conditioners and lights, and the recycling of addresses “Gender-based violence in schools for learners with “waste” products (much of which is transferred to pre-schools disabilities” and will tease out school processes and practices and schools for use in art classes). underlying gender-based violence as it pertains to learners with disabilities. This form of violence on the marginalisation and In conclusion, in its community outreach and engagement disempowerment of the group in question will be analysed. programmes, the college commits itself to serving the Millennium The findings will be used to develop ways in which schools Development Goals. In particular the Community Engagement can contribute towards reversing the damage created by an projects of the college can be seen to be fulfilling Goals 2, 3, 6 experience of gender-based violence among learners with special and 7. needs and in promoting safe learning environments. • Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger • Achieve universal primary education This study broadens an National Research Foundation (NRF)• Promote gender equality and empower women funded study on abused children with intellectual disability. The • Reduce child mortality ramifications of gender-based violence are far-reaching. The • Improve maternal health experience poses a serious educational obstacle to an extent • Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases that learners could resort to irregular school attendance and • Ensure environmental sustainability ultimately to school dropout as an avoidance strategy. • Develop a global partnership for development 28 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 Environmental Sustainability 10.4 The College A graduate student was nominated for the (GIZ) leadership of Agriculture and training project of Deutsche Gesellschaft fur International Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) in Germany. Subsequently, the German Environmental Sciences Federal government entered into multilateral discussions with the South African, Indian and Mexican governments to promote ESD and to train a core group of nominated individuals from 10.4.1 Environmental Stewardship different sectors in different countries to serve as multipliers in promoting ESD in their respective countries. The implementation of the signature module in the first semester of 2012 was very successful, and despite concerns that students A project is currently registered with South African National would not like the online platform, the majority of students were Parks (SANParks), focussing on the impact of the “kids-in-parks” very positive about the module and the teaching platform. The initiative on professional development of teachers. The “kidssignature module will be taken by all undergraduate students in-parks” programme is an environmental education project and focuses on Environmental Awareness and Responsibility and that came about through a four-way partnership between the arose from the signing of the UNGC compact. previous Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism, SANParks, Department of Education and a retail chain. The The efforts of the lecturers of the signature module were programme aims to increase access for previously disadvantaged recognised through Excellence in Tuition Award in 2012. The school learners to national parks and further seeks to give training of the teaching assistants for 2012 was done, and learners the opportunity to experience and interact with their meetings with representatives of participating programmes will cultural and natural heritage and its conservation. Though not take place in mid-November; ensuring that the module was focused on the professional development of teachers, it does developed in such a way that it addresses the graduateness give teachers the opportunity to acquire knowledge and skills and UNGC principles related to environment. Academics have on site. been tasked with mainstreaming activities that address UNGC environmental issues and graduateness in the Geography Six environmental education courses were presented in the modules in 2012. College of Education ,for example, an Environmental Education module is included in the BEd degrees across the Foundation, Intermediate and Senior Phases where Research Initiatives teachers are assisted to integrate Environmental Education into The Applied Behavioural Ecological and Ecosystem Research Unit their own subjects and a (ABEERU) was established in 2003 and is a research unit within short learning programme the Department of Environmental Sciences. The unit conducts for environmental basic and applied research to solve industry-related problems. educators in schools Research is conducted to acquire knowledge on indigenous and at botanical wildlife, vegetation and water (species and ecosystems) in the gardens, national natural and urban environment as well as the monitoring of parks, and government their reaction to different management actions. This knowledge departments. A number is applied to develop models and make recommendations to of Master’s and Doctoral improve management and understanding of these ecosystems students in the college to ensure sustainability and biodiversity protection. are presently conducting post-graduate research in ABEERU is actively involved in research collaboration with Environmental Education and various research partners and institutions on regional, national Education for Sustainability. and international level. These include the Mpumalanga Parks and Tourism Agency, SANParks, Save the Elephant Foundation, The In 2012 the CEDU organised the “Best of Both Worlds University of Pretoria, The University of the Free State, Lethbridge Environmental Education Conference” where delegates University (Canada), Western Kentucky University (USA) and discussed and reviewed activities and research conducted by Exeter University (UK). environmental educators worldwide and published its papers in conference proceedings. The college has published a book ABEERU currently has six international students and one South entitled “Environmental Education: Some South African African student conducting research on various aspects of vervet Perspectives”. monkey behaviour and also on the plant communities at the Loskopdam site. Two students at the Samara site near Graaf Reinett conduct research on vervet monkey behaviour and habitat selection. ABEERU recently signed a MoA (Memorandum of Agreement) with Telperion Nature Reserve in Mpumalanga and is in the process of opening a research site there. The nature reserve is UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 29 owned by Oppenheimer & Son Pty and a number of research topics on veld and game management to be conducted at the site have been identified. Oppenheimer & Son has donated R1.3 m to upgrade the facilities for ABEERU. The table below reveals that there are seven postgraduate students participating in a range of collaborative projects. A status account of progress is also shared: STUDENT INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS PROJECT Matthias Guenole University of Liege, Belgium Feeding ecology of three vervet monkey troops at the Loskop Dam Nature Reserve (SA): relative importance within the seed disperser community Viviane Fargeot University of Liege, Belgium A comparative analysis of three vervet monkey troops (Chlorocebus aethios)behaviour, activity budgets and habitat utilization at the Loskopdam Nature Reserve Selina Nkosi UNISA Collection of Vegetation Data on the Bakenveld Area of Loskopdam Nature Reserve Laura Amy Universities of Exeter, UK, Lethbridge, Canada Long-term Monitoring of Giraffe Social Structure Rozario and UNISA and Feeding Ecology at Loskop Dam Nature Reserve’ Rachel Bover Universities of Exeter, UK, Lethbridge, Canada Long-term Monitoring of Giraffe Social Structure and UNISA and Feeding Ecology at Loskop dam Nature Reserve’ Tabitha Price The Cognitive Ethology research group Variation in Vervet (Chlorocebus spp) Vocalisations: at The German Primate Center (DPZ), in insights into Mechanisms of Call Production and Call affiliation with Göttingen University, Germany Perception N Herzog University of Utah Primate Foraging Strategies in Fire-Altered Landscapes: Is Burning a Boon TABLE 9: RESEARCH PROJECTS CURRENTLY UNDERTAKEN AT THE LOSKOP SITE 10.5 College of Law 10.5.1 Overview The College of Law strongly supports the key governance principles of effective leadership, sustainability and corporate citizenship as espoused in the King III Report of Corporate Governance and enforced by an “apply or explain” principle that overrides recommended practices. Similar principles underlie the UNGC guidelines. The Centre of Business Law, housed in the Department of Mercantile Law, offers two short learning programmes (SLPs) in corporate governance, three SLPs in conjunction with the Law Society of South Africa (a key stakeholder in the School of Law) in corporate law, administration of deceased estates and business rescue, respectively, and several programmes in labour, immaterial property and tax law. Lectures were presented to attorneys on the new company legislation at various venues in South Africa at the request of the Law Society. 10.5.2 Environmental stewardship The College of Law assists with training courses designed for Environmental Management Inspectors (EMIs). Regulations promulgated in terms of the National Environmental Management Act 107 of 1998 (NEMA) requires any person who wishes to become an Environmental Management Inspector (EMI) to complete a relevant training course approved by the Director-General: Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA). In order to give effect to this requirement, the DEA contracted the services of specialists to develop and present the EMI Basic Training Course. To build the sustainability and accessibility of the course, the DEA also approached other tertiary educational institutions with a view to establishing a collaborative project to have the modules of the EMI Basic Training Course presented as part of their own curricula. 30 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 Due to the dire need in the private sector for equivalent training, Ecotoxicology investigates the presence and distribution of the courses were redesigned to include, not only students from chemical substances in soils, water and atmosphere and the three tiers of government, but also from industry. The primary their impact on the surroundings and living matter; using purpose of these Advanced Short Courses is to provide students physicochemical methods (qualitative and quantitative analysis). with systematic knowledge, specialised skills and theoretical The flagship now has a Unisa research chair. competence to become an EMI. A second purpose of these Advanced Short Courses is to provide South Africa with EMIs with Fuel Cell and Nanotechnology focuses on generation of appropriate skills, and managerial and leadership acumen that will alternative energy sources. The flagship has generated substantial enable them to reach sound and responsible decisions – in keeping outputs in peer reviewed journals. In terms of Water Research, with the precautionary principle and sustainable development the research is motivated by the fact that South Africa is a water principles. Such professionals can serve the country in a variety of scarce country with its average rainfall at just over half of the important ways, in both the public and private sector. world’s average. The already precarious water situation is further convoluted by climate change that has the potential to impact The third purpose is to equip EMIs with problem-solving very significantly on both the availability of and requirements for competencies, and the ability to operate in multi-disciplinary water in South Africa. Thus, the research is focused on water teams. Entrance requirements to the Advanced Short Courses generation and water purification. Like the other flagships, the are any qualification on NQF level 5 (such as first year of a flagship has produced outputs in peer reviewed journals. Bachelors degree). During the month of September 2012, the college held a very As far as the principles relating to the implementation of human successful series of lectures and events called CSET Innovation rights are concerned, the College of Law plays an important role. Month. This inaugural series was entitled Transforming Thoughts The entire LLB curriculum and PQM is strongly influenced by the into Reality. Many of the lectures given during this series were values and rights embodied in the Constitution of the Republic concerned with greening issues. of South Africa, 1996. Both speakers at the opening session held on 3 September 2012 The College of Law (CLAW) has also established a Green contributed talks which directly addressed issues of sustainability. Committee, which specifically assist with matters relating to National Energy Commission of South Africa (NECSA) presented environmental sustainability. The CLAW has strengthened a lecture entitled Plasma Technology: Another Tool for the Green relationships with its stakeholders (Law Society of South Africa Economy, while the Department of Mechanical and Industrial (LSSA)) and students (via the Black Lawyers Association (BLA) Engineering gave a talk entitled Energy Savings in Biofuels and the Unisa Law Students’ Association (ULSA)). Three short Production: A Case Study of an Ethanol-Water Distillation learning programmes are offered as a result of partnership Column. agreements between the School of Law and the Law Society of SA-Legal Education and Development (LSSA-LEAD).The Unisa A week later the School of Engineering seminar on 10 September Law Clinic plays a very important role in providing the indigent 2012 had three speakers, two of whom spoke about green with access to legal services. issues, the PEM Fuel Cell A Viable Form of Alternative Energy in South Africa, and Power Optimisation. Also part of the CSET Innovation Month was an exciting and very 10.6 The College of well attended Science, Engineering and Technology Students’ Association (SETSA) Indaba on Climate Change, which took Science, Engineering and place on 13 September 2012. The College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences gave a talk entitled Does Clean Air Really Technology Exist? This talk generated many interesting comments and a great deal of debate. 10.6.1 Overview With the completion of the new Florida laboratories, the college will have even more resources to strengthen its current research The College of Science, Engineering and Technology (CSET) initiatives and students’ training. contributes to the UNGC principles by addressing the broad areas of Environmental Stewardship Implementation. The college focuses on activities, particularly in research reflection on its commitment towards environmental stewardship. 10.7 The College of 10.6.2 Environmental Stewardship Human Sciences There are three flagships that focus on environmental stewardship: 10.7.1 Overview • Ecotoxicology • Fuel Cell and Nanotechnology The College of Human Sciences (CHS) supports Unisa’s • Water Research commitment to corporate social responsibility in respect of UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 31 economic, social and environmental areas in line with King 10.7.2 Human Rights III, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the UNGC principles. The college also supports the Higher Education Sustainability Stakeholder engagement in HIV and AIDS-related programmes, Initiative for Rio + 20, which argues that universities “educate Tirisano, is a multi-, interand transdiciplinary centre in the decision makers” and that they, therefore, “play a key role in School of Social Sciences that brings together scholars from ‘building more sustainable societies and creating new paradigms’ Sociology, Social Work, Psychology, Health Studies and Theology, … through research and teaching, disseminating new knowledge in working with HIV and AIDS-related, as well as genderand insights”. based violence programmes in communities. Stakeholder engagement occurs through joint community and workplace On 31 August 2012, the college made its own contribution to advocacy, consultation, collaborative planning through capacity the university’s sustainability debate by hosting a seminar entitled building strategic planning sessions, capacity and skills transfer Sustainability: Human Sciences Perspectives and Action. The using collaboration and experiential learning workshops and purpose of the seminar was two-fold: experiential learning sessions. Workshops and in-service • To create an opportunity for colleagues from across the development, partnership development, technical advice and college to share their views and understanding of what support (face-to-face, e-support, in-service, document review, sustainability is all about. research, joint planning), job creation and support, monitoring • To explore ways in which to make sustainability sustainable. and evaluation through broad strategic planning processes of mainstream, community mobilisation, stakeholder involvement Ten academics from the CHS presented papers at the seminar and sustainable development are the other forms of engagement. and covered a range of topics, which included an interrogation of A summary is provided in table 10. theoretical constructs; an archaeological assessment of “rubbish” over the centuries; eco-theology; the sustainability of African Human Rights have been mainstreamed in the general formative Languages; and life stories depicted in art. The range of topics Bachelor of Arts degree in the form of a compulsory fundamental clearly demonstrated that discussions around sustainability are module HRV1601.The module has grown to around 600 not limited to Unisa’s policies and strategies. In some disciplines students in 2012. It is a strong MIT (multi-, inter-, and transsustainability is an integral part of formal study material. In disciplinary) module as students from various disciplines enrol for other instances colleagues have researched sustainability from it. Institutional partnership colleges, such as Varsity College, teach their disciplinary perspectives and have published widely on the module as a compulsory course in the first semester. Strong the topic. A third area in which sustainability features strongly and supportive links with the partners, who teach the module in is in the community engagement efforts of CHS staff. Both other institutions, have been forged. theoretical approaches and practical engagement illustrated The subject content of Human Rights and Values and the commitment of the CHS to advance knowledge and Transformation contains grassroots and experiential significance understanding of sustainability globally while remaining relevant as it touches the daily lives of all people in their own respective locally. socio-economic, religious and cultural contexts. The course reveals that there exists a definite need for students to be The wide-ranging interest in the CHS prompted a meeting informed about their human rights as well as the values that are where, on 2 October 2012, a multi-disciplinary sustainability imbedded in these rights. interest group was established. The interest group will initiate a variety of activities in 2013 and it is envisaged that the terms The chairperson of the Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Rights of reference for the interest group could serve the following Commission (CRLRC) spoke at the Africa Human Rights purposes: Commemorative Seminar that was held at Unisa on 29 October • a group of people who share interest in sustainability from a 2012. The purpose of the event was to encourage a discussion wide variety of disciplines and ideologies about human rights issues, the challenges affecting all South • a regular meeting to explore, critique, analyse concepts, Africans and measures to minimise and eradicate any issues approaches and notions of sustainability affecting human rights. • a research group to identify shared research opportunities across disciplines People from diverse cultural groups attended the event including • a reading group to stay abreast of latest developments in Rastafarians, traditional leaders and members of the Khoisan the broad area of sustainability groups. The event opened with prayers before speakers from • a means to identify opportunities for community various national associations and government representatives engagement took the stage. • a group to lobby, strategise, contribute to, guide or direct Unisa’s activities in the broad field of sustainability The Director-General of the Department of Traditional Affairs, • an opportunity to identify colleagues working on aspects gave the keynote address. He spoke about many issues of sustainability who could become supervisors, cosurrounding human rights and discussed the Khoisan report, supervisors, critical readers and examiners across disciplines which he stated will be used as a status quo report. A constructive Q&A session followed and the audience was encouraged to suggest potential solutions. A colleague from the Centre of Human Rights, University of Pretoria, concluded the seminar by speaking about the importance of teaching human rights. 32 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 STAKEHOLDER PROJECT SCOPE AND ACTIVITY Collaborated with Tshwane Traditional Healers on a Seminar called AFRICAN 1. Tshwane Traditional and Faith Healers Forum CHALLENGE: Bringing together the Healing Perspectives around HIV and AIDS 2. Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality Employee wellness training on HIV/ AIDS in the workplace for peer educators 3. Aids in the Workplace Collaborated on Peer Education Training 4. Tshwane Metropolitan AIDS Unisa Coordinating and capacity building on mainstreaming 5. US Embassy Collaborate on Seminars and Conferences 6. UNHCR (United Nation Higher Commission Providing HIV prevention education and health needs analysis for refugees and for Refugees asylum seekers 7. ARASA ( Aids and Rights Alliance for Advocating for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights Related to HIV Southern Africa) and AIDS in Southern Africa 8. Department of Correctional Services Advocacy for Peer Educators on HIV and AIDS 9. Directorate Student Development, Unisa HIV Programme for Students 10.UNISA Health and Wellness Programme Strategic Framework Development Developing A Project Plan for Advocacy Campaign on Gender Based Violence/ 11. South African Police Services HIV and AIDS Mobilisation of Students Leadership towards HIV-prevention through Community 12. AIDS Foundation Engagement and Outreach in South Africa 13. Zivikele Rovaro Collaboration in Gender based violence To establish strategic mentorship programme to provide technical advice and 14. Vaal University support to the Vaal University of Technology AIDS Committee to enhance the implementation of the institutional HIV/AIDS programme TABLE 10: TIRISANO INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTS 10.8 Unisa Library 10.8.1 Overview Aligned with sound corporate governance and support of the UNGC principles, the Unisa Library commits to high level services. The library reviews and adopts its operations to ensure compliance and to enhance its contributions to these projects. The library operations are very advanced in terms of employing technologies in its services and procedures, with positive impacts on the environment. The library actively participates in discussions on climate change and integration of the principles in the business and operations. 10.8.2 Human Rights The library has constituted a Staff Health and Wellness Committee with a focus on ensuring staff wellness and human rights. The Library Staff Development Coordinator coordinates matters of wellness for staff matters, including staff development and training. The library collaborates very closely with Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) to ensure a safe and healthy working environment. The Occupational Health and Safety Committee members prepare monthly reports to ensure a safe and healthy working environment facilitating action where necessary from Protection Services and other quarters. 10.8.3 Labour The library has introduced monthly staff meetings to engage with all staff members on topical issues in the university and in the library. The Principal and Vice-Chancellor as well as the Vice-Principal Research and Innovation attended such a meeting in August. A space is available on the intranet calling for comments on all documents and projects. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 33 The library in collaboration with the Directorate Employment The library has expanded the online Equity and Transformation hosted transformation request forms for various services workshops for all staff members in the library. The and encouraged users to request report is used to integrate recommendations in information and resources online the improvement plans and to improve working instead of printing, posting or relations and services in the library. faxing requests. In addition to all the electronic resources Monthly meetings with shop stewards in the available to its users, the library are continuing to discuss any concerns library has developed an and innovations to improve the working Institutional Repository with environment. The freedom of association of a comprehensive collection all library staff is acknowledged and respected. of Unisa’s research and Rotational staff attendance includes reporting back intellectual output. The library to colleagues that provide services to customers. also maintains the African Digital Library and facilitates access The library has performed well in terms of the Library to the collection for all residents on Employment Equity Plan, upholding the elimination of the continent. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The plan was reviewed and updated for the period 2012 – 2013. To create an awareness of the UNGC principles, the library and The library has established an Employment Equity Committee staff members are encouraged to include the UNGC logo in according to the requirements and was commended on the electronic signatures. functioning of this committee. The structure participates actively in the Unisa workshops on this matter. Various exhibitions with relevant library resources were held to promote the materials and to enhance an awareness of the The library reports to the Senate Library Committee (SLC) principles. on services and procedures and optimises this opportunity to consult with all stakeholders (represented on the SLC) in addition to consultative meetings with stakeholders. 10.8.5 Anti-Corruption The library collaborated with the Department of Enterprise Risk 10.8.4 Environmental Stewardship Management and has developed detailed Risk Registers for all directorates within the standards and requirements of the risk A comprehensive operational e-Strategy has been introduced. management system. The operational plan includes various goals with set targets to ensure an awareness of the UNGC principles and facilitate The library has instituted a Procurement Workgroup including integration into the operations of all directorates. The library has members across departments to select, evaluate and appoint monthly milestone meetings and reports to monitor progress suppliers in a transparent way; based on carefully designed and identify areas for improvement. These goals include the criteria. library’s e-Strategy to promote online services and processes to replace paper-based systems and this strategy was expanded in the Library Operational Plan. Electronic collection developments, including electronic selection and ordering processes, are implemented to replace manual and paper-based systems. 10.9 The Department of Other goals within the library’s e-Strategy include the digitisation Tuition and Facilitation of of collections and global access to these to enhance access and Learning limit paper copies, print and duplication. The library embarked on a comprehensive digitisation project. Learning The expansion of the library and information services on mobile devices facilitates paperless requests, renewals and searches. The The narratives outlined below represent UNGC-related activities library has also enabled access to surveys on mobile devices. that have taken place in two regions, namely: Western Cape and Paper notices to students have been replaced by a SMS system. KwaZulu Natal, under the themes of Strategy, Governance and Engagement, especially with regard to Criterion 3 – engagement The library has equipped its meeting rooms with overhead with all important stakeholders. projectors and screens to facilitate the projection of documentation for meetings. Documentation is also distributed electronically, and wireless connections in public areas have been 10.9.1 Human Rights implemented to enable participants to use laptops to access documents for meetings and workshops. In May 2012, Unisa, Western Cape, partnered with A Reaching Hand a non-profit organisation engaged in providing and 34 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 improving infrastructure while providing direct developmental support to uplift women, children and families in impoverished and marginalised communities with the aim of addressing Unisa’s third strategic goal for 2015. “Grow community engagement initiatives”. Community engagement is viewed as one of three core responsibilities of Higher Education (HE), alongside research and teaching. However, even amid a clear policy mandate, WOMEN community engagement often finds itself in an underrated space FROM NYANGA in HE, and the central focus thereof is often neglected. The COMMUNITY aim of this community engagement project is two-fold: (1) to PROJECT. provide structural support to A Reaching Hand, (2) to provide and redefine context for community engagement practices in the Unisa Western Cape region. The Unisa Reaching Hand (UNISARH) Project support is being UNISARH Project beneficiaries – women from the Nyanga structured through a series of workshops and site visits, covering township community project are exposed to a learning areas of job-readiness, employability, career and life-planning environment at the Unisa Cape Town campus, June 2012. skills. These aforementioned aims will be underpinned by the 11C’s A bi-monthly workshop on Job Readiness is held at St. Anne’s + 1, with the focus to support the integration of academic and Home, a shelter for destitute and abused women, located in the social support, while demonstrating greater Unisa visibility in Western Cape, started in August 2012. communities in need for socialand pedagogical engagement. In addition, it will further propose to design and redesign both pedagogical and service learning spaces for CE practices in local communities. The collaboration aims to showcase greater cohesion in an area where community projects often face various constraints, uncertainty and disconnection due to the non-sustainability and inchoate nature of various projects in marginalised areas. Further aims include promoting initiatives in areas where service learning and sustainable community projects are often lacking. This collaboration will add value to the lives of women, youth and children, while providing a space for Unisa students to volunteer, especially those students who are in need of experience in terms of professional exposure/practice. Beneficial to Unisa is that these types of involvement can lead to longitudinal studies, conducted by postgraduate learners in various disciplines of Unisa, to investigate developmental trends in local communities, while promoting community engagement, research and learning. UNISARH Project beneficiaries study orientation and career guidance counselling workshop at UNISA campus, Cape Town A UNISA STUDENT CONDUCTING in July 2012. BI-MONTHLY WORKSHOPS Ultimately, the outcomes would be to see higher levels of job-readiness in marginalised areas, increasing chances of youth and women in getting and maintaining different kinds of employment; to increase awareness on lifelong learning among youth and women and to promote a culture of lifelong learning in the marginalised communities. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 35 Learner Support Community Radio The Unisa Library display puts emphasis on developing reading, Project writing and study skills. Nearly 200 entries were received for the region’s on-line Library Quiz, with major prizes by Juta’s For the very first time the university has extended its Booksellers, Van Schaik Booksellers, Adam’s Book Stores and communication to stakeholders to include community radio Protea Boekehuis up for grabs. Closing the week with a prizestations as a long-term broad-based communication tool in giving ceremony attended by students, staff and representatives order to enhance learner support. This initiative originated as from Library and Information Association of South Africa a joint intervention between the Western Cape region and (LIASA), guests were treated to a passionate presentation by the College of Economic and Management Sciences, currently Dr Simphiwe Sesanti, guest speaker from the Department of comprising five community radio stations in the region. The Journalism, Stellenbosch University, on the importance of using project has been identified by Unisa as such an important the wealth of information contained in library collections to help engagement with regional stakeholders that the project will be develop and embrace all cultures. extended nationally in 2013. The Unisa mobile library was launched in June 2011 and services students in remote areas in the Western Cape. Key Outcomes of Integrating Human Rights The Cape Town campus recently gave students the opportunity to experience a different kind of ’surfing experience’ by celebrating CAREERS FAIR AND GRADUATE RECRUITMENT: technology and its uses in the tertiary environment with their NETWORKING RULES – MINING SOCIAL CAPITAL first-ever Technology Learning Festival. With the support of ICT, Power-in-the-community is developed by providing students DCLD, CC&M, Chance2Advance, Apple, as well as Van Schaik opportunities to enlarge their network. The enhancement Booksellers, a number of interactive sessions and discussions on of their individual networking skills promote more equitable technology were presented to students in the region. access to all levels of resources. This is a major component of the career development drives in the department. Networking skills create intangible resources for students. It is difficult to quantify the impact of these resources. The important factor is to have interventions in place. Collectively in the region different departments work together to ensure students make use of interventions such as the Career Fairs and Graduate Recruitment Day. Students meet and talk to industry, government departments, volunteer organisations, NGOs and business. These contacts increase their social capital. On 18 July 2012 the Western Cape region hosted their Career Fair and Graduate Recruitment Day. Twelve companies participated: Bass Gordon, CIMA, Mazars, Sizwe Ntsaluba Gobod Inc., Old Mutual, Dept of Environmental Affairs, Dept of Trade and Industry, Quest Staffing Solution, Eduloan, South African Defence Force, South African Police Services, and Chilli Adventures. Two hundred and ninety-four students participated with a bigger and more inclusive event, covering all the colleges, being planned for 2013. Large ‘footprint’ and Library Week posters showed students the way to the Unisa Library at the Cape Town campus during Library Week. Once students reached the library, they were treated to various displays, including displays by local booksellers. 36 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 TECHNOLOGY LEARNING FESTIVAL Ranging from how to better utilise Unisa’s technology platforms, Service learning described: Service learning is seen as applied e.g. myUnisa and the Unisa website, to the use of e-readers vs. learning directed at the needs of the community and integrated traditional books, the use of search engines, how to use social into an academic programme and curriculum. It could be networks for career advancement, mobile technology in the credit bearing and assessed and may or may not take place in library, and last but not least, with the support of Chance2Advance, a work environment. The criteria set for service learning is that there were sessions on online learning, social media in business it should: and learning and how to make the most of your iPad. • be relevant and meaningful • enhance academic learning Students were also given the opportunity to show Unisa what • be purposeful civic learning (social responsibility) they have been doing with technology and how they have utilised technology to enhance their academic experience at Unisa. Other services that should also be included are volunteerism, community outreach and internships. A second Service K2W initiatives include the Service Learning Site Partnerships: Learning Site, in partnership with eThekwini Municipality, is • The Social Work Department in KZN has a learning centre, planned for Welbedacht, a community that was relocated from the Brite Site, in Durban. shacks to low cost housing. The EThekwini Municipality entered • In 2012, Brite Site moved to a new home, off-campus, in into a MoA with Prefeitura do Municipio de Sao Paulo and the Point (Mahatma Ghandi) Road. United Cities and Local Government (UCLG) with the goal of the EThekwini Municipality being mentored by Sao Paulo from 2012 to 2014 during the upgrading of informal settlements. These projects will benefit from these partnerships, while also utilising the existing partnerships for Brite Site (NGOs, South Africa Police Service (SAPS), health workers and faith-based organisations). Isnembe Primary School Greening Project This project is also linked to the Brite Site team and recently benefited from the Chance to Advance perma culture expertise. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 37 The following activities were pursued from a human rights angle: As a governance mechanism, the monthly Executive Committee • formation of the Forum for Students with Disabilities meetings of the managers of the four directorates within the • participation in the First Things First Campaign – the Student Affairs Department (The Advocacy and Resource Centre region had more than 1 200. Students and staff tested and for Students with Disabilities (ARCSWiD), Directorate: Student counselled on HIV/AIDS Funding, Directorate: Student Development, and the Directorate: Information Services) serve as a useful forum to take strategic decisions on a range of issues, including: 10.9.3 Environmental Stewardship • strategies to respond to the diverse teaching and learning needs of students with disabilities registered with Unisa • funding streams and funding criteria Water Reservoir • student leadership development • strategies to manage student services About two years ago a • strategies on decentralising services to the regions strategic decision was taken to convert the Widely-consulted policies on the various facets of the deep end of the department’s operations guide the implementation of activities swimming pool and programmes. With specific reference to the sustainability at KZN regional of the department, and consequently, of the institution itself, hub into an the UNGC principles are adhered to. u n d e rg ro u n d water reservoir. This has been 10.10.2 Human rights achieved and the region is now In interacting with staff and students, the fundamental human able to store 100 rights principles of dignity, respect, equality of opportunity, 000 litres of water and full participation, are promoted. This is consistent with the that flow from the new values espoused by Unisa, namely social justice and fairness, and reservoir’s roof. excellence with integrity. WATER RESERVOIR UNDER CONSTRUCTION With its student-centred focus, the department plans activities and programmes that would be responsive to the needs of all This water will be used to irrigate our gardens and lawns and students, cognisant of the student profile at Unisa. reduce our water consumption and bill from the municipality. This initiative has another two spin-offs, namely: The water With specific reference to students with disabilities, the human can be used in case of a fire and also assists with the water rights principles of equality of opportunity and full participation attenuation on the campus – reducing the run off. are demonstrated through the following: • the provision of study material in alternative formats in • Indigenous plants response to individual needs All the alien plants on the campus are being removed and • providing Sign language interpretation services during will be replaced with indigenous plants that are more suited tutorials to our conditions and that are water wise. • offering orientation and mobility assistance to blind and partially-sighted students • Building Material Recycling • facilitating special arrangements with regard to assignments Building material on site is being recycled – the servants’ and examinations quarters are being dismantled and the bricks, tiles and usable wood are being used in the restoration project. The four directorates within the Student Affairs Department have entered into partnership agreements with external stakeholder organisations with the aim of assisting and supporting students. 10.10 Dean of Students 10.10.3 Environment 10.10.1 Overview In line with the vision of Unisa to be “The African university in the service of humanity”, the Student Affairs Department strives to With its motto: “We care, we develop and we support,” the create a nurturing, welcoming environment for staff and students. Student Affairs Department, under the Executive Director and Apart from regular discussions with the student leadership, the Dean of Students, adopts a consultative approach in its interaction department, through its four directorates, plans and implements with staff and students, ensuring that collective decisions are student development programmes. based on first-hand information. In addition, the caring environment also promotes staff development through the attendance of seminars, conferences and training workshops. 38 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 10.10.4 Labour to give expression to this objective the university commenced in 2011 with an audit on its facilities at the Muckleneuk and Sensitive to the issues of employment equity, the department Sunnyside campus on the accessibility, quality and relevance of promotes the active recruitment of women and persons with facilities for use by the Unisa disabled community. The report of disabilities. The equal representation of women in the four these facilities has since been completed. directorates, coupled with the fact that there are staff with disabilities in three of the four directorates, would attest to this. In The inputs have been of immense value and the university addition, in line with the focus of the institution, the department has since requested a quantity surveyor to compile tender actively identifies, attracts and develops talent with a view to specification and will soon commence in addressing the various personal and institutional growth and development. challenges to accessibility and ease of use of facilities for the disabled Unisa community. 10.11 Department of In addition to this, it is also exciting to note that the disability audit will now also role out to the various other facilities of the University Estates university and will ensure that the disabled Unisa community will receive easy and accessible support at all the university’s facilities. Recently some of our undercover parking bays, which include 10.11.1 Overview parking for the disabled, have been completed and will allow disabled community students easier access and also the comfort University Estates (UE) is increasingly becoming a vital role player of undercover parking to protect the user from environmental in giving expression at a high level to the effective and efficient aspects, such as rain and extreme management of the physical infrastructure of the university. The heat. of sustainability infrastructure and its impact on the management of environmental resources is a critical area. NEWLY ERECTED CARPORT AREA University Estates has thus in this context integrated the INCLUDING importance of sustainability into its Integrated Strategic Plan DISABLED for University Estates which is soundly rooted within the PARKING Unisa 2015 Revisited plan and its supportive institutional FACILITY. plans. The UE Integrated Strategic Plan guides planning activities such as the Property Plan and the development of vital documents such as a Heritage Plan. Towards a MoU In addition to the Integrated UE Plan, the Department has with also revised the 2020 Property Plan to be more reflective SADA of the university’s strategic intent and with heightened focus on matters that will impact the sustainability of the university’s Mid 2012 the infrastructure. university commenced with discussion with the Increasingly, Unisa staff are being exposed to the leadership National Council for Persons pledge towards aspects of sustainability, corporate leadership with Physical Disabilities in South Africa (NCPPDSA) to promote and responsibility – activities include (but are not limited to) the a better understanding of the challenges that people with establishment of the Living Green website that seeks to bring disabilities face and a more enabling environment. A drafted together the disparate activities across the university; research Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has since been projects, community engagement activities, waste management forwarded to South African Disability Association (SADA) and – reduce/reuse/recycle; a concerted effort to move the the university looks forward to positively building relationships organisation towards a paperless environment, workshops and that will promote the university facilities and its environment as seminars, and other specific college activities to foreground the user friendly to all. growing awareness of the importance of a sustainable world. The department has also started engaging with the Unisa Disability Forum, who will now form part of our stakeholders for 10.11.2 Human Rights and Labour all renovations and new building projects to ensure that there is compliance towards universal accessibility. Unisa disability audit on facilities The importance of providing quality and relevant resources to the Unisa community with disabilities has been identified in Unisa Revisited 2015 plan as a vital strategic objective. In an effort UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 39 10.11.3 Environmental Stewardship Natural Landscape Initiatives University Estates Support Services, Gardens and Grounds ensure that the upgrading and landscaping approach promotes the use of indigenous plants. The 2011 project to eradicate invader plants that utilise scares water resources has significantly altered the landscape. REMOVAL OF INVADER PLANTS AND INFUSION OF INDIGENOUS PLANTS Unisa’s Soshanguve Music School Garden and Landscaping Initiative The Unisa Music Foundation community outreach to develop music in previously disadvantaged communities partnered with University Estates to upgrade the gardens and landscaping of the facilities at Unisa’s Soshanguve Music School. The School is a modest community facility that provides access to musical instruments and special classes to children in the community; to promote the use of music and also to educate communities on the power of music and culture to contribute to social and economical upliftment of societies. The upgraded facility was celebrated by the community and Unisa at a formal event hosted at the facility in June. The enhanced facility is now open for the community and users often utilise the outdoor areas engage on matters pertaining to music and cultural BEFORE development. AFTER THE OFFICIAL INAUGURATION OF THE NEW FACILITY ENJOYED BY UNISA AND THE BROADER COMMUNITY. 40 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 Promotion of Natural Heritage & Heritage Art Sculptures The university is home to one of the most precious collection of cycads, already recorded in the 1970’s as one of the university’s valuable indigenous treasures. To protect the cycads and promote understanding of this natural heritage, the various species are indentified, the age of the plants recorded and their value estimated. This rich source of information will inform the heritage plan. This year these plants were identified and each species specification and security tag added. Another important project of significance in 2012 has been the restoration of the Idomeneo Kinetic Art Structure. The art structure, created by the English artist Keith Grant which, was donated by the legendary business entrepreneur of South Africa, Dr Anton Rupert, the chairperson to the then Rembrandt Tobacco Corporation in April 1974. The name of the structure, Idomeneo, symbolises the mythical King of Crete showcased in the overture to Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart’s opera, and symbolises beauty and bravery. The sculpture has now been fully restored and is switched on in the evenings to showcase the beautiful lights symbolizing the brave and boldness that underpins knowledge development and the IDOMENEO IN DAY LIGHT. application thereof. One of our most precious natural resources is water and the university already commenced in 2011 with prioritising the importance of saving the university’s water resources. The first initiative focussed on the removal of invader plants that out-compete indigenous species, and draws on the scares water resources. The university is now progressing towards an increasing IDOMENEO SHINING THE focus on planting indigenous plants at LIGHT OF KNOWLEDGE. our facilities and to ensure that water and irrigations systems are effectively managed and sustained. The design of the Unisa walk way will provide vital knowledge to the Unisa community on indigenous plants and the protection of water resources. With an estimated 30% carbon emission coming from buildings, the management of these facilities in a sustainable manner becomes a vital aspect when considering the sustainable use of resources. Many of the university’s buildings are over 40 years old and, besides the general repairs and maintenance, they require the implementation of various green practices to ensure the effective use of water and energy and a decrease in carbon emission. The Energy Management project follows a two-fold approach. Lighting systems are audited and replaced according to energy saving standards, and the required expert knowledge to ensure more technical energy use systems that are energy efficient. The use of grey water captured from rain water and drainage systems for irrigation has just commenced, but will indeed assist the university to use water resources effectively. INVADER PLANTS REMOVED TO SAVE WATER RESOURCES. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 41 Providing relevant and high quality spaces true to the identity more welcoming and tranquil community space as well as a of Unisa, as an open distance learning institution rooted in the healthier and more inspiring context for engaging in learning African context, will increasingly require a more integrative activities at this facility. approach in which the academic and supportive spheres seek to jointly plan teaching and learning, research and community engagement spaces. Unisa Florida Campus new Horticultural Facility and Science Laboratories National Arbor Week Reaching Out Building of these facilities officially commenced on 21 July 2010 to Enhance a Greener Educational and the Engineering Laboratory and Horticulture centre have Environment already been completed in July 2012. The main laboratories were completed in December 2012. During National Arbor Week Unisa took time to reach out to the community by not just ensure that the National Tree One of the vital aspects in this development was to ensure that of the Year, the Water Berry Tree, is planted at several of the green building practices were infused into the projects. Since the university facilities but also by requesting the Unisa community projects inception, the architectural team aimed toward utilising to make indigenous tree donations. These tree donations were spaces effective, ensuring that energy and water resources as well distributed to several of the previous disadvantaged schools in as physical structures will effectively utilise resources. close vicinity to the university. Waste Management Initiatives 2012 Commenced with a Green Recycling Day hosted at the university’s main campus in Muckleneuk. The day aimed at creating awareness on the importance of recycling as well as on the educational value of recycling in changing behaviour to ensure sustainability of resources. HORTICULTURAL CENTRE. The event included a Green Recycling team that collected recyclable items while also handing out folders to the university staff in which they could collect paper waste. Following this, an exhibition was also hosted that included the showcasing of all the various recycling activities that is currently happening at the university. The event was represented by a diverse group and included colleges as well as some of the university service providers for waste management. CIVIL ENGINEERING To ensure that sufficient resources are available for implementing BUILDING AND recycling practices at the university, a team of University Estates MAIN ENTRANCE (UE) Support Services secured and distributed various recycling BUILDING. bins throughout the university’s facilities. Education of the University community on ensuring the practical application of recycling remains a challenge and the Waste Management team is currently meeting every second week to ensure that the operational teams for waste management report on challenges and address them effectively. The exciting and tangible greening initiatives from UE is fast MAIN ENTRANCE becoming a vital role player in giving expression towards OF LABORATORIES. providing a greener and sustainable environment for the Unisa community. During the academic year a day was devoted to recycling to raise awareness on the importance of ensuring that waste is managed effectively. Cleaning staff were provided with a training programme to ensure that waste is separated at its source. Mindful of the university’s vision to humanity, a partnership between the UE Support Service Directorate and the Unisa Music Foundation saw the landscape and horticultural team ELECTRIC AND set up a new garden and supportive infrastructure for the ELECTRONIC Soshanguve Music School. A greener environment creates a LABORATORIES. 42 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 One of the notable governance perspective initiatives has been the Heritage Buildings Restored: Green Building Guidelines for the all new developments. These Government House guidelines ensure that the contractual service providers apply green building practices in the development of infrastructure as One of the university’s important heritage buildings is the well is in their operational practices. Government House in Pietermaritzburg, which was built in 1870. This building provides an administrative management The recently refurbished Parow Building in the Western Cape is point for students in the area and is also close to the various a flagship in this regard. This facility aims to achieve a green star learner support facilities. The university undertook the project rating from the Green Building Council of South Africa. Careful of renovating the facility in 2011 to ensure that the property consideration was given to the design; seeking out opportunities remains in good condition but also to ensure that the facility’s through which the reliance on mechanical heating and cooling can heritage value is protected for future generations. The renovation be reduced in an effort to save energy consumption. In addition, project required the assistance of various building specialists since various materials used at these facilities aim to ensure that water the facility is old and required structural strengthening that will and energy sources are utilised effectively. The facility can harvest not impact on its heritage value. In addition to the renovation the grey water and has its own building management system that university also added some can monitor the use of energy and water consumption. additional tutoring spaces at these facilities. The Western Cape Parow Regional Offices were also upgraded between 2011 and 2012. The purpose of the upgrade of these facilities were to enhance the teaching and learning facilities in the region while also aspiring towards achieving a Green Star rating by the Green Building Council of South Africa for its North and South blocks at these facilities. The Green Star rating acknowledges that the University has acquired a certain standard with regard to energy efficiency, resource efficiency, environmental responsibility and that the facilities significantly reduce or eliminate the negative impact of development on the environment and occupants. The new enhanced environment will not only benefit the sustainability of the infrastructure, but also ensures that academic scholarly activities can take place in an environment that is geared towards the institutional strategy; focusing on enhancing accessibility to technology for students (satellite broadcasting, a computer support centre and a multipurpose community centre). In addition to this, the regional facility also provides access to counselling, career development, administrative support and an academic literacy centre. In an effort to inspire the community and to infuse the university’s unique identity, a local artist was commissioned to design and prepare large scale mosaic murals, which are not just decorative, but educational in their selection of phrases. The importance of developing and maintaining sustainable academic scholarly environments are undoubtedly a vital aspect in ensuring that the university gives effective expression to the institution’s identity and strategy. PARROW OFFICE AT NIGHT all lighting systems is centrally controlled through a building management system and energy saving lighting systems is utilized. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 43 Energy Management Initiative will endeavour to achieve green building grading. This will automatically enforce modern energy saving technology and The mandate to undertake energy efficiency initiatives is not only modern design in line with the guidelines of the Green Building derived from the compliance requirements to the current legislative Council of South Africa. framework, but from realising the benefits of reducing energy cost, mitigating future risks, and to satisfy stakeholder expectations. The university’s Carbon Footprint Report 2012 revealed that the 10.12 Corporate university’s largest generator of carbon is energy consumption, Communication and with a total of 89% of carbon that can be attributed to energy generated from the university’s facilities. Against this backdrop Marketing the university must acknowledge its socioand economical responsibility and set strategies in place, which will ensure that these resources are managed in an ethical manner that will be 10.12.1 Human Rights sustainable for future generation. In keeping with the UNGC’s theme of strategy, governance and The university has thus set out the following strategies to assist in engagement, the Corporate Communication and Marketing reducing the carbon footprint: Department has placed great emphasis on stakeholder • Increased use of energy saving or energy efficient technologies engagement (Criterion 3). This is done also in accordance with the and operational best practices. tenets and precepts of King III (Chapter 8). The university’s revised • Improved performance and efficiency of University building communication and marketing strategy has four key thrusts: systems. stakeholder relationship management, strategic themes, strategic • Increased energy awareness and energy conservation efforts communication and content management, and brand positioning. by all university faculties, students and staff. The strategy is premised on the close relationship between the institution’s engagement with important stakeholders and its These strategies will be achieved by setting in place various action corporate reputation. It has as its underpinning the principles plans that will aim to achieve the following two goals: contained in King III (Chapter 8) and seeks to give expression to a To reduce Unisa’s overall electrical power (kWh) consumption by sound stakeholder engagement approach. a margin of approximately 20% by 2015 when compared to the current 2012 baseline. This consumption usage will consider the Unisa therefore implements a stakeholder engagement model future growth of Unisa campuses. To have energy saving systems that is predicated on integrated strategic communication and operational in the various facilities and applying industrial best marketing. In this way the university ensures that all channels practices with regard to maintenance programmes for all Unisa and media platforms are used optimally to reach stakeholders buildings is the second goal. within the agreed parameters of fiscal prudence. A stakeholder mapping process is envisaged to record how stakeholders are The Executive Management team approved a closed tender to disposed towards the university. It will serve as an instrument for commence with Phase 1 of an energy saving initiative during midfurther planning and decision-making (e.g. actions to manage 2012. The process includes the implementation of efficient energy perceptions and issues and to influence key stakeholders in favour saving lighting stems, and improved building management systems of the institution, identification of sustainability issues, embedding to control and monitor energy usage, and lastly, a metering system a sustainability culture, and managing sustainability information). to assist in determining benchmarks and to continuously monitor energy consumption. Phase 2 will focus on heat ventilation and There are currently identified internal and external stakeholder air-conditioning systems (HVAC), elevators and hot water systems. segments, including various categories of staff, labour unions, These systems are generally more complex and require specialised governance structures, students, alumni, government, and skills. The project will be introduced into facilities already identified commerce and industry. The various categories constitute a large for refurbishment. database of several thousands of people. A large number of communication channels and media platforms are used, including 2012 has been a significant year for the department, and corporate publications and mass media, electronic media including sound foundations to ensure that environmental protection and the Unisa websites, events and marketing, as well as social media. sustainability becomes a vital strategic imperative, have been laid. Endeavors are made to provide each stakeholder group with The department has become a member of the Green Building information that is complete, timely, relevant, accurate, honest and Council of South Africa (GBCSA) and several of its staff attended accessible, and then to obtain feedback on their satisfaction. conferences and seminars focusing on facility management in the context of sustainability and infusing green practices within facility The Unisa website provides information to all stakeholders, notably management. staff, students (current and prospective), and the general public. It also offers the myUnisa site which has been joined by more than The Library Refurbishment project considers the recently approved 200 000 students. Providing a platform for students to voice their green building principle to ensure a minimum target of a 4 star opinions and raise their concerns, Unisa’s social media has also green building grading by the completion of the project. Green shown steady growth. The main focus in the social media strategy building principles for new buildings and refurbishment projects is relationship building with students. 44 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 11 UNISA’S ORGANISATIONAL ARCHITECTURE AND BUSINESS MODEL 11.1 Organisational completes this realignment within a reasonable timeframe (within three to five years at most) holds such potentially serious Architecture systemic risks that there is a strong case to be made for requiring a dedicated focus on this to the exclusion of other, more peripheral Unisa is busy with the process of developing an organisational institutional activities. architecture. The organisational architecture forms the basis from which the university conducts its business, moreover, it explores To this end, the following points are worth noting from the a different business model. The organisational architecture will perspective of organisational architecture: serve as the blueprint of the institution and will be used to conduct 1) The current systems primarily serve Unisa’s legacy operational Unisa’s core business, which is teaching and learning, research and model, not its proposed future one. innovation and community engagement. The business model that 2) The ICT applications on which these systems depend are Unisa has chosen will be relevant to the university’s positioning in complex and use technology that is outdated and increasingly the current higher education system locally, while being conscious hard to integrate effectively with other systems. Thus, their and forward-looking in how it positions the institution strategically replacement is an urgent imperative. and sustainably as a competitive global player. 3) Re-development of the ICT applications that will replace the current ones must be informed and driven by a broad base of The business model will leverage the avalanche of opportunities stakeholders so that proper attention is given to the required available in ICT-based teaching and learning tools, methods, parameters of Unisa’s new business model. and resources, including the effective use of open educational 4) Given the urgent need to replace these applications and both resources (OERs). In doing so, it will overhaul the institution’s their current and envisioned complexity, it is highly implausible underlying operational model to transform all student experiences that Unisa will be able to develop new ICT applications. Unisa for the better; ensuring that students get a consistently high quality will thus progress fastest and most effectively by procuring education, in an efficient and effective manner. existing applications and deploying them in ways that meet its operational requirements. Unisa will definitely move towards online teaching and learning, but it faced challenges, some of which include the rapid changes The re-design of these systems to meet the requirements of a in technology, the type of technology which would best suit Unisa new business model needs to incorporate a clear understanding students, developing capabilities among staff, and re-skilling staff of which ICT applications will be procured to support each system, to deliver online teaching and learning as well conducts online what specific constraints they impose, and how these might be assessments and examinations. either worked around or accepted as an integral part of the overall system design. The definition of these core requirements should Unisa is faced with an immediate and increasingly pressing priority: be sufficiently detailed to ensure that ICT applications procured namely, the need to re-align its three core primary systems, both will reliably meet the majority of Unisa’s systems requirements, to accommodate growing student demand by harnessing ICT but need not depend on concluding a complete system re-design applications to increase productivity and cost-effectiveness, and to exercise. support implementation of Unisa’s proposed new business model. Failure to focus on implementing a process that successfully SYSTEM CUSTODIAN SUB-SYSTEM ‘OWNERS’ Student System Dept Institutional Statistics and Analysis Department: Human Resources (DISA) Division: Student Funding Selected as the custodian because DISA’s core function is to determine Directorate: Student Admissions & what kinds of information needs to flow Registrations out of the student system and in what level of aggregation and analysis. As this Directorate: Programme Registration and requirement logically determines every Accreditation other aspect of how the Student System is designed and because the Department Student Assessment Administration has no vested interest in any single aspect of the individual sub-systems of the Division: Graduations Student System, it is a logical custodian. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 45 CONTENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT: LIBRARY SERVICES DEPARTMENT: STUDY MATERIAL SYSTEM Selected as the custodian because the Production and Delivery (suitably library is the location within any university renamed to reflect the reality that where skills of content management Production and Delivery will no longer be and duration are based, and these skills required) will grow in importance as growing volumes of digitised content become Department: Corporate Communication readily accessible. If the library does not and Marketing transform into an institutional custodian of all kinds of content, it risks growing Division : Records Management redundancy. Conversely, the library has Department: Research no vested ‘business’ interest in any of the individual content datasets and is Respective Colleges and Institutes thus well placed to coordinate their (including SBL) management SRM SYSTEM DIRECTORATE: STUDENT DIVISION: STUDENT FUNDING DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT: TUITION AND FACILITATION OF LEARNING Selected as the custodian because Directorate: Instructional Support and Student Development, overseen by the Services Dean of Students, is the logical point of coordination within the current Unisa Directorate: Counseling and Career organisational structure from which Development to coordinate all aspects of student relationship management. Respective Colleges and Institutes (including SBL) Table 11: Custodianship and Ownership Matrix for the Design of Unisa’s Core Systems If ICT applications procurement is successfully separated from that environment are fully digitised and thus underpinned by system design, the immediate priority is to map an appropriate robust, effective, and integrated ICT applications. This will apply custodianship and ownership matrix for each core primary system, to every aspect of the Unisa Student Walk: enquiry; application which can form the basis of a systems design project structure. The (and application registration); orientation and counselling; intention of this structure will not be to replace current structures registration; receipt of learning materials; student support; student or functional responsibilities in the short term, but rather to provide assessment; student remediation (where required); graduation; a basis for enabling all of those directorates and departments that and post-graduation alumnus interaction. This does not mean need to play an active role in design of new systems to work that Unisa will no longer have any face-to-face interaction with together successfully in a dedicated project structure. students. For example: students may still choose to visit a campus or regional office to apply or register, student support strategies If Unisa is to be a quality higher education ODL institution, it will still incorporate – as defined by the pedagogical requirements cannot ignore the rapid and varied changes occurring in the higher of individual courses – face-to-face interaction with students or education landscape. One of these changes is the increasing use workplace learning activities, examinations may still occur at a of technology for teaching and learning, and if Unisa is to deliver central venue where necessary, and graduation may still involve a graduates who can make critical contributions to South Africa and physical ceremony. Africa, and be globally competitive, graduates cannot leave Unisa without digital competencies. Unisa can no longer continue with Unisa’s work culture reflects an interesting, although also “business as usual”. Utilising technology will not only catapult the sometimes challenging, blend, too diverse and complex to university into a digital future, but also give it a competitive edge. analyse. There are clearly highly dedicated, experienced, and talented personnel operating across all of the university, who By changing the way business is done at Unisa means “developing are committed to fulfilling Unisa’s mandate as a comprehensive an organisational architecture that effectively translates the business ODL institution. In addition, Unisa’s Organisational Architecture: model into a vibrant academic architecture, robust and stable a Framework, reflects an institution that has thought carefully and technological architecture, appropriate solutions architecture, in detail about how it intends to function, in ways that are largely relevant organisational design, infrastructure, and suitable human internally consistent across diverse structures. capacities for this digital future”. As ICT becomes increasingly integrated into all aspects of society, Likewise, there is a possibly surprising degree of consensus on it is now essential for Unisa to transform the entire institution’s what the future direction of the institution is and what challenges ‘transactional environment’ with students so that all aspects of make it difficult to follow this path. 46 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 Conversely, though, there are two aspects to the working culture 3) Move away from pilot activities as a method for designing that create particular cause for concern. First, there is a pervasive new operational approaches pertaining to Unisa’s new sense that some of the systems challenges that Unisa faces are so organisational architecture. Finally, a tendency exits to use pilot vast that they are effectively unsolvable (including the challenge projects as a method for testing new operational approaches to shift to a new and quite significantly transformed operational related to Unisa’s new operational model. The rationale for model). Second, there has been an unsustainable proliferation of this is understandable; after all, one naturally desires to test parallel, overlapping, and sometime competing initiatives, which new ideas before rolling them out on a wholesale basis. has had the unfortunate effect of dispersing institutional energy Of course, pilot projects can be very useful ways of testing and productivity rather than focusing it on solving core problems. innovations and learning from that process. The problems with This is manifested in the proliferation of ad hoc committees and this approach as a way of leading systems change, though, project management structures, which are having a debilitating are that: (a) they cannot predict the unforeseen consequences effect on productivity (largely because they are all driven by regular of system-wide implementation of new approaches, so meetings that absorb unsustainable portions of people’s available their research value is limited; (b) they tend to be inherently productive time). Re-designing of Unisa’s core primary systems unscaleable, as their implementation success can usually be simply cannot occur effectively within such a working environment. primarily attributed to the dedication, passion, and enthusiasm This suggests that three key imperatives should underpin further of the few individuals who lead them; (c) they tend to lead to development of Unisa’s organizational architecture: models and approaches that are too expensive to sustain on a large scale; and (d) they can lead to long delays in systems 1) Improved communication. Many of the excellent ideas and change. In the case of Unisa’s core primary systems, there is visions already defined for Unisa’s new operational model already sufficient consensus on the future direction that the are not yet being communicated in a compelling, simple, and institution will take, which is already captured in institutional internally consistent way. This creates confusion and disables policy commitments and based on extensive research. Given people from making effective operational decisions at their this, the urgent imperative is to begin phased implementation respective levels of management control. of change at a systemic level. 2) Reduction of initiatives. Given the clear evidence of parallel, overlapping, and sometimes competing initiatives and the accompanying urgency of tackling Unisa’s systems design challenges, there is an urgent need to liberate and focus institutional capacity by halting and/or merging many activities. Specifically, unless initiatives have a clear and integral connection to the priorities. 12 ADVANCED LEVEL REPORTING 12.1 Strategy, governance and engagement This chapter provides a comparative account of the UNGC and Unisa’s best practices according to all the criteria required for the advanced level reporting. Criterion 1: Strategic aspects of Global Compact implementation TABLE 12: ADVANCED LEVEL REPORTING TEMPLATE GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Impact of broader sustainability trends on the long-term See the annual report 2011 page 65. prospects and financial standing of the organisation See website under other publications; www.unisa.ac.za Appendix 4 Social and environmental impact of the organisation’s See unisa website www.unisa.ac.za under Strategic Projects with a link activities Unisa Living Green. Key performance indicators to measure progress See attached Council performance indicators to measure progress Appendix 5 Major successes and failures during the reporting period See recent climate survey results by KPMG UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 47 Criterion 2: Implement effective decision-making processes and systems of governance for corporate sustainability GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Involvement and accountability of Unisa corporate governance and sustainability activities are managed from the management in corporate sustainability Office of the Vice-Principal: Advisory and Assurance who reports directly to strategy or initiatives and implementation. the Principal and Vice-Chancellor. It is the responsibility of the Vice-Principal: Advisory and Assurance to ensure that all governance and sustainability issues are embedded in the university processes, procedures and systems. Corporate governance structure and its Unisa has not considered this element of the criterion in regard to the UNGC role in oversight of corporate sustainability specifications yet. A Compliance Director and related initiatives are in place implementation in line with Global Compact towards this UNGC best practice. principles. Governance and Sustainable Development Co-ordinator (GSDC) is The UNGC Project Team recommends to Management that a Sustainable necessary for coordinating and monitoring all Development Policy and Charter be developed and the dedicated coordination these activities and to promote compliance. capacity be built. Evaluation and executive incentive structures Work in progress through Office of the Vice-Principal: Advisory and Assurance, promoting sustainability strategy in line with and proposal for consideration by Management to develop strategy and incentives Global Compact principles to promote sustainable development initiatives. This must be embedded in the proposed Policy and Charter mentioned above. Criterion 3: Engage with all important stakeholders GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES List of stakeholder groups engaged by the One of the key priority areas for Unisa embedded in the Unisa 2013 -2015 organisation “Towards a High Performance University” is to promote external stakeholder relations. See Annual report 2011 page 47-50 for a list of stakeholder groups. Process for stakeholder identification and Process for stakeholder identification and engagement incorporated in Annual engagement Report 2011 page 47-50 Process of incorporating stakeholder input Unisa implements a range of activities for engagement as follows: into corporate strategy and business decision• Road shows and meetings making • Conversation cycles • Dialogue with civil society, unions, donors, students, professional bodies, staff, government and corporate sector • Public lectures and seminars • Conferences • Community engagement and outreach • Research and Innovation • Awareness programmes and campaigns • Framework for Team Approach to Curriculum and Learning Development 12.2 UN Goals and Issues Criterion 4: Take actions in support of broader UN goals and issues GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Adoption or modification of business strategy Unisa’s sustainability strategy is integrated in the Unisa 2015 Revisited and in the and operating procedures to maximise organisational processes and practices: The Mission, Vision and Values of Unisa contribution to UN goals and issues also encapsulate UN goals and issues. See Unisa website: www.unisa.ac.za Development of products, services and Unisa’s Programme Qualification Mix (PQM) are developed and designed to business models that contribute to UN goals provide academic solutions that are responsive to the needs of the society and and issues ensure a better enhancement of new sustainable technologies, particularly in line with the engagement of various stakeholders. 48 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 Social investments and philanthropic Unisa has adopted a Policy on Community Engagement as well as a Policy contributions that tie in with the organisation’s on Corporate Citizenship to make available knowledge, expertise and scarce core competencies, operating context and resources to the wider community in a number of ways. sustainability strategy and initiatives At corporate citizenship level, Unisa prioritises projects pertaining to science, engineering and technology, education, economy, agriculture and the environment, human sciences and development projects. At grassroots or community level, Unisa’s policies promote social and economic development of the environment within which it operates within the context of a long term relationship with its stakeholders. Corporate citizenship is embedded in Unisa’s Community Engagement Policy. Policy. Appendix 6 Our corporate philanthropy is also embedded in our Environmental Sustainability Policy. Appendix 7 Public advocacy on the importance of one or Ethics and values are crucial elements of sustainable growth and development more UN goals and issues for Unisa, hence Unisa has a Code of Conduct and Ethics. Unisa’s values and principles inform all employees and relevant stakeholders about what Unisa believes in. Appendix 8 Partnership projects and collective actions in Unisa has an International Relations and Partnership Policy to promote and support of UN goals and issues support UN goals and issues and regulate partnership projects. The Directorate of International relations and Partnership currently administers and manages over 115 collaboration agreements in 36 countries around the world. Out of 52 703 international students registered in South African Universities in the 2005 academic year, 16 600 of them (31, 4%) were Unisa students. The vast majority of them come from the African continent. South Africa is currently ranked the fifth destination of international students world-wide and the first on the African continent. Appendix 9 12.3 Human Rights Implementation Criterion 5: Formulate robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Reference to relevant international conventions Unisa’s commitment towards its values for social justice and fairness, and and other international instruments (e.g. excellence with integrity is well articulated in its Code of Conduct and Ethics the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Unisa 2015 goal of becoming “a Leader in Corporate Governance and (UDHR)) Sustainability”. The Code is informed by international statements such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights UN refugee UNCHR Conventions. Reflection on the relevance of human rights for Unisa’s Code of Conduct and Ethics, together with its Vision, Mission, Goals and the organisation Values, is a pillar of its strategy. Unisa’s Values (Social Justice and Fairness and Excellence with Integrity) and the 11C’s plus one (Communication, Conversation, Conservation, Community, Connection, Care, Collegiality, Commitment, Cooperation, Creativity, Consultation), shared and acknowledged by all employees are key levers of institutional change. Written organisation policy (e.g., in code of Unisa’s Code of Conduct and Ethics encapsulates the various elements of human conduct) on human rights rights issues. Management of responsibilities and Unisa has recently established a portfolio under the Vice-Principal: Advisory and accountability within the organisation Assurance Services to promote and enforce an ethical and compliance based culture within the university. Moreover, the Ethics Office was also launched in 2012 with the Ethics Helpline for advice on ethical matters and an Ethics Hotline for reporting unethical behaviour. Council has also approved a Compliance Charter in 2012. Appendix 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 49 Criterion 6: Implement effective management systems to integrate the human rights principles GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Risk and impact assessments in the area of “In its risk assessments operations and practices, human rights elements are taken human rights cognisance of by Unisa to amplify the human rights practices within Unisa. To give effect to that, Council has recently approved the Enterprise Risk Management Policy Framework. Moreover, various mitigation strategies have been developed to mitigate the risks categorised under high, medium and low. Appendix 11 Regular stakeholder consultations in the area The Unisa Student and Staff Satisfaction Surveys are internal surveys performed at of human rights regular intervals to assess the perceptions of students and staff on various aspects of Unisa’s performance and services, including human rights. Examples of surveys done in the past: • Service utilisation and satisfactory survey 2008 • 2008 Staff Communication Survey • Cafeteria Survey • Catering Services Customer Satisfaction • CEMS Survey Financial Literature • Chairperson of Council’s awards for Excellence • Department of Information and Strategic Analysis • Focus Staff Newsletter Survey • Staff Satisfaction with Finance Department • UNISA Staff Satisfaction Survey 2007 • Unisa Inspired week: 5-9 May 08 (ID 27) • Unisa Inspired Week satisfaction survey • Integrated Performance Management System • Internal Finance Climate Study • Shuttle services questionnaire (Pretoria-Florida-Pretoria) • Survey of impediments to research output • Skills requirements questionnaire • Survey of Units, Centres, Bureaux and Institutes • Unisa Community Engagements and Projects Database • Unisa Communication Survey for Staff 2008 Internal awareness-raising and training on Training programmes and induction activities organised to ensure that an ethical human rights for management and employees. and compliant conduct is practiced in the way activities are conducted at Unisa and also to deal with behavioural risks in certain specific areas, such as corruption. As part of Unisa’s responsibility, staff is trained in ethics. See policy on prevention of fraud and corruption. 50 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 Grievance mechanisms, communication The office of the Unisa Ombudsman was established by the University Council to channels and other procedures (e.g. enhance Unisa’s service delivery and to foster a culture of efficient and effective whistleblower mechanisms) for reporting administration. The Ombudsman draws his or her authority from a founding concerns or seeking advice document, approved by the University Council. The Ombudsman is a legally qualified, independent person, whose sole function is to investigate complaints referred by any person who feels aggrieved by conduct or lack of conduct which affects him or her on the part of the University. The purpose of the service is to resolve a matter without delay in an effective and inexpensive manner. Unisa has also got a whistle blowing hotline. See Ombudsman brochure. Appendix 12 Inclusion of minimum human rights standards With its Procurement Policy, Unisa promotes the respect and protection of in contracts with suppliers and other relevant human rights with its suppliers and subcontractors and expects that its suppliers business partners and subcontractors observe and respect the fundamental principles set out in its Code of Conduct and Ethics and in the Procurement Policy. See Procurement Policy. Appendix 13 Audits or other steps to monitor and improve Unisa applies its Procurement Policy and Code of Conduct among all its the performance of companies/organisations suppliers and sub-contractors and develop appropriate means to monitor their in your supply chain performance. See Procurement Policy. Internal Auditing … Criterion 7: Implement effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES System to track and measure performance Unisa under the portfolio of Vice-Principal: Advisory and Assurance Services, on human rights based on standardised with legal services, risk and compliance and internal audit departments monitor, performance metrics coordinate and manage Unisa’s compliance with applicable laws and its Code of Conduct. Leadership review of monitoring and It will be required of Unisa on an annual basis to submit a Compliance Report improvement results to Unisa Council as part of its commitment to good corporate governance principles. Process to deal with human rights incidents Any report of human rights violation will have to be adequately dealt with. Unisa will have to develop a register of any human rights violations against it and an internal helpline (advice to victims) and hotline (report on human rights violations) to manage any human rights violations and incidences. All cases registered must be investigated and their outcomes are reported and incorporated into the Annual Compliance Report and the Annual Report. Disclosure of main human rights incidents Unisa will report any human rights violations in the Annual Compliance Report. involving your organisation UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 51 Criterion 8: The COP contains standardized performance indicators (including GRI) on human rights GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Outcomes of risk and impact assessments This work is in progress. Unisa currently has developed risk mitigation strategies that impact on human rights elements. Outcomes of internal awareness-raising and Number of people trained on human rights related training HR Department to training efforts provide statistics) Outcomes of mechanisms for reporting Development of an internal helpline will help in registering concerns and providing concerns or seeking advice outcomes. Percentage of contracts with business partners Unisa is in the process of developing a suppliers’ Code of Conduct to be guaranteeing minimum human rights embedded in the Procurement Policy. Development of a management system standards or database will assist in tracking the percentage of suppliers complying with minimum standards. Outcome of audits or other steps to monitor Reports to be registered in the helpline and hotline. All incidents will be reported and improve the performance in the supply in the annual report and the annual UNGC COP report. chain regarding human rights 12.4 Labour Principles Implementation Criterion 9: Formulate robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labour GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Reference to relevant international conventions Unisa’s Code of Conduct and Ethics is informed by international statements such and other international instruments (e.g. ILO as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and various International Labour Core Conventions) Organisation (ILO) conventions. Reflection on the relevance of the labour Unisa has set a goal in the Unisa 2013-2015: Towards a High Performance principles for the company/organisation University plan. The goal reiterates “Establishing a people-centred university by enhancing capabilities and capacities and advancing cultural transformation” This is further complimented by embedding a people dimension priority theme in its Operational Plan. Written company policy (e.g., in code of The Code of Conduct and Ethics is augmented by various policies and procedures conduct) on labour committed to human resources practices: • Employee Integrated Performance Management System • Human Resources planning process • Recruitment and selection policy • Career management path • Job evaluation policy • Remuneration policy • Terms and conditions of employment policy • Recognition and procedural agreements with labour unions • Policy and procedures on salary increment and substantive issues Unisa still needs to develop a Charter on Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility. Allocation of responsibilities and accountability The allocation of responsibilities and accountability are defined within the specific within the organization policies dealing with Human Resources management and planning. Specific commitments and goals for specified All specific commitments and goals for specific years are encapsulated in the years institution Institutional Operational Plan (IOP). Go to https://staff.unisa.ac.za/ (Under Strategic documents/publications) 52 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 Criterion 10: Implement effective management systems to integrate the labour Principles GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Risk and impact assessments on labour The main risks for people in Unisa are those pertaining to the excessive exposure of employees, students, contractors and the public during labour unrest or strikes and possibility of stampede during registration periods as a result of long queues. There are currently mitigation strategies in place to avert such actions. See 2011 Annual report page 57-59. Report on risk exposure and risk management. Regular stakeholder consultations regarding With regards to internal stakeholders, students and staff satisfaction surveys are labour conducted at regular intervals to evaluate how employees and students consider the various key aspects of the University activities and its management. See 2011 Annual Report page 47-50, and the Stakeholder Report. Internal awareness-raising and training on Unisa provides Ethics training for staff and the recognized Labour unions labour principles for management and executives. Moreover, there are external labour training available for staff employees members and management. See the Annual Report pages 47 and 48 on staff training initiatives. Grievance mechanisms, communication Unisa under the portfolio of Vice-Principal: Advisory and Assurance Services, channels and other procedures (e.g. with legal services, risk and compliance and internal audit departments monitor, whistleblower mechanisms) for reporting coordinate and manage Unisa’s compliance with applicable laws and its Code of concerns or seeking advice Conduct. Unisa is using a general policy on reporting irregularities and misconducts. Hence, it encourages its employees to use the “External Whistle Blowing hotline managed by an independent auditing firm” when confronted with concerns or ethical dilemmas. Unisa’s Code of Conduct and Ethics and the Disciplinary Code for Staff encourages its employees to discuss these issues in the first place with their managers to exhaust all internal avenues before being escalated outside. Moreover, Unisa has Recognition and Procedural Agreements with unions on campus to manage grievances, disputes and policies on substantive issues to manage and agree on annual salary increment and fringe benefits for staff. Inclusion of minimum labour standards in Minimum labour standards to be incorporated into the, to be developed Suppliers’ contracts with suppliers and other relevant Code of Conduct. business partners Suppliers must be selected, without discrimination or favour, through open competition and fairness, and on the basis of an objective, transparent and verifiable evaluation of their performance and their ethical conduct based performance (on issues of safety, respect for the environment, labour standards, anti-corruption, and children rights). Audits or other steps to monitor and improve To be developed Supplier’s Code of Conduct will be gradually implemented and the performance of companies/organisations applied among all suppliers and sub-contractors. in your supply chain Criterion 11: Formulate robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labour GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES System to track and measure performance No system and information based on standardised performance metrics Leadership review of monitoring and It will be required of Unisa on an annual basis to submit a Compliance Report improvement results encapsulating the achievement of labour standard targets to Unisa Council as part of its commitment to good corporate governance principles. Process to deal with incidents The labour standard management system or database must include systems dedicated to check compliance. A programme of audits of processes and performances must be done through an independent third party. Disclosure of main incidents involving your See 2011 Annual Report page 12 and 47-48. company/organisation UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 53 Criterion 12: The COP contains standardized performance indicators (including GRI) on labour principles integration GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Outcomes of risk and impact assessments “In its risk assessments operations and practices, labour standard violations are taken cognisance of by Unisa to bring about industrial peace. To give credence to that, Unisa has among others the following policy, procedures and guidelines: • Employee Integrated Performance Management System • Human resources planning process • Recruitment and selection policy • Career management path • Job evaluation policy • Remuneration policy • Terms and condition of employment policy • Recognition and procedural agreements with labour unions • Policy and procedure on salary increment and substantive issues Outcomes of internal awareness-raising and See 2011 Annual Report page 47-48 staff training initiatives. training efforts Outcomes of mechanisms for reporting See 2011 Annual Report page 61-62. concerns or seeking advice Percentage of contracts with business partners There is no information yet available. guaranteeing minimum labour standards Outcome of audits or other steps to monitor See the Unisa Quality Improvement plan page 19-21. Staff capacity development. and improve performance in the supply chain regarding the labour principles Appendix 14 12.5 Environmental Stewardship Implementation Criterion 13: Formulate robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Reference to relevant international conventions Unisa refers in its reporting to the UNGC COP report for 2011. Unisa and other international instruments Environmental Sustainability Policy is consistent with its commitment to environmental protection. Reflection on the relevance of environmental See Unisa Environmental Sustainability Policy. stewardship for the organisation Appendix 15 Written company/organisation policy on See Unisa Environmental Sustainability Policy. environmental stewardship Management of responsibilities and Responsibilities and accountability are defined within the Environmental accountability within the organization Sustainability Policy. Specific commitments and goals for specified Among the objectives set by Unisa is to reduce carbon footprint on: years • Electricity usage • Paper consumption • Domestic and international air travel • Motor travel fleet 54 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 Criterion 14: Implement effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Environmental risk and impact assessments Refer to the Unisa Enterprise Risk Management Policy Framework attached above. Regular stakeholder consultations on Unisa regularly allows its stakeholders (communities, schools, and church) environmental impact to visit its campus for dialogue and engagement on matters of mutual interest. Internal awareness-raising and training It is imperative for Unisa to encourage the development of skills relating on environmental stewardship for to sustainability and build capacity in that area. Moreover, Unisa has fore management and employees grounded sustainability in all its operation and activities and participation with stakeholders. Grievance mechanisms, communication Unisa encourages all its stakeholders to report issues of ethical dilemma channels and other procedures on environmental violations, etc. Through the current hotline (managed by (whistleblower mechanisms) for reporting KPMG) and the Ombudsman; however efforts are being made to have a concerns or seeking advice regarding dedicated hotline to report cases of environmental violations. environmental impacts Inclusion of minimum environmental Minimum environmental standards to be incorporated into the, to be standards in contracts with suppliers and developed Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. other relevant business partners. Suppliers must be selected, without discrimination or favor, through open competition and fairness, and on the basis of an objective, transparent and verifiable evaluation of their performance and their ethical conduct based performance (on issues of safety, respect for the environment, labour standards, anti corruption, and children rights). Audits or other steps to monitor and To be managed through the proposed dedicated hotline. improve the environmental performance of companies/organisations in the supply chain Other established or emerging best Unisa’s is currently developing an Organisational Architecture that will be practices based on continuous improvement of systems and processes. These systems and processes will be characterised by the deployment of key elements such as risk identification, analysis and mitigation, monitoring of environmental performance, practices and compliance, follow-up and feedback on corrective actions, and review of performance indicators and improvement plans. Criterion 15: Implement effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES System to track and measure performance Unisa will develop a database or system (Environmental Management System) based on standardised performance metrics to capture all environmental activities and their KPIs (Key Performance Indicators). Leadership review of monitoring and To be developed and be part of the system above. improvement results Process to deal with incidents The Environmental management system or database must include systems dedicated to check compliance. A programme of audits of processes and performances must be done through an independent third party. Disclosure of main incidents involving the All incidents will be reported in the annual report and the annual UNGC company/company COP report. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 55 Criterion 16: The COP contains standardised performance indicators (including GRI) on environmental stewardship GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Outcomes of risk and impact assessments and See report on the assessment of Unisa carbon footprint. measurements of environmental footprint Appendix 16 Outcomes of internal awarenessraising and See page 16 of the Unisa Carbon Footprint Report above i.e. the Carbon Neutral training efforts Action Plan. Indicators and reporting to be further developed in this area. Outcomes mechanisms for reporting concerns Development of internal helpline and hotline will help in registering concerns and or seeking advice providing outcomes. Percentage of contracts with business partners Unisa is in the process of developing a Suppliers’ Code of Conduct to be guaranteeing minimum environmental embedded in the Procurement Policy. Development of management system standards or database will assist in tracking the percentage of suppliers complying with minimum standards. Outcome of audits or other steps to monitor Reports to be registered in the helpline and hotline. All incidents will be reported and improve performance in the supply chain in the Annual Report and the annual UNGC COP Report. Rewards, labels and certifications Rewards, labels and certification to be included in the Annual Report. 12.6 Anti-Corruption Implementation Criterion 17: Formulate robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anticorruption GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Reference to relevant international conventions Unisa’s commitment towards anti-corruption is found in its values for Social and other international instruments justice and fairness and Excellence with integrity and its well articulated in its Code of Conduct and Ethics and the Unisa 2015 goal of becoming “a Leader in Corporate Governance and Sustainability”. The Code is informed by international statements such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and various International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. Unisa is also the first University in South Africa to become a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Reflection on the relevance of anti-corruption See Annual Report page 61. Report on Corruption and Fraud. for the organisation Appendix 17 Written company policy on anticorruption The university has policies and procedures in place to address fraud and (code of conduct) corruption, all of which have been endorsed by Management and approved by Council. The relevant policies are: • Anti-Fraud/Corruption/Irregularities Statement • Fraud/Corruption/Irregularities Prevention Policy • Policy on Whistle Blowing • Fraud/Corruption/Irregularities Response Protocol • Unisa Code of Ethics and Conduct A hotline facility (hosted externally by KPMG auditing firm) is in place and reports of unethical conduct, including fraudulent or corrupt activities may be reported anonymously. Appendix 18 56 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 Allocation of responsibilities and accountability Unisa has recently established a portfolio under the Vice-Principal: Advisory and within the organisation Assurance Services to promote and enforce an ethics and compliance based culture within the University. Moreover, the Ethics Office was also launched in 2012 with Ethics Helpline for advice on ethical matters and Ethics Hotline for reporting unethical behaviour. Council has in 2012 also approved a Compliance Charter. Unisa needs to establish positions for compliance officers in all its campuses to coordinate and manage compliance activities. Specific commitments and goals for specified See page 61 of the Annual Report. years Criterion 18: Implement effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Risk and impact assessments in the area of See page 57-59 of the Annual Report on “Report on risk exposure and risk anti-corruption management” Regular stakeholder consultations on On 10 November 2012 the Chairperson of the National Anti-Corruption anticorruption efforts Forum and also the General Secretary of the largest Trade Union Federation in Africa (COSATU), Mr Zwelinzima Vavi, had a public lecture at Unisa to commemorate the International Anti-Corruption Day. Among the statistics and examples of corruption in South Africa provided by Mr Vavi were the Auditor General’s findings, which were also echoed in the findings of the Public Service Commission (PSC). These revealed that the cost of financial misconduct to the state in 2010/2011 was R932 million, up from R346 million in 2009/2010 and R100 million in 2008/2009. Unisa Chairperson of Council, Dr Mathews Phosa, said good governance is a priority at the university and “whether the conduct is termed corruption, bribery, fraud, or abuse or misuse of power, we abhor its existence and will ensure that it is rooted out.” “The university,” said Phosa, “has been fair but fearless in advancing its value proposition of zero-tolerance to fraud, corruption and other irregularities and we pride ourselves on the principle that the rules apply equally to all people in the university, irrespective of position, power or influence. The institutional policies and intrepid stance against corruption is supported by the Council. We recognise that we have set the bar high and intend to implement our commitment to our students and stakeholders – we want an ethical university.” Internal awareness-raising and training for It is imperative for Unisa to encourage the development of skills relating to management and employees regarding anti-corruption activities and build capacity in that area. Moreover, Unisa corruption and anti-corruption efforts has fore grounded anti-corruption in all its operation and activities and participation with stakeholders. See Code of Ethics and Conduct. Grievance mechanisms, communication Unisa encourages all its stakeholders to report issues of ethical dilemma on channels and other procedures (e.g. corruption and fraud through the current hotline (managed by KPMG). whistleblower mechanisms) for reporting concerns or seeking advice on corruption Inclusion of minimum anti-corruption Minimum environmental standards to be incorporated into the, to be standards in contracts with suppliers and developed Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. other relevant business partners. Suppliers must be selected, without discrimination or favor, through open competition and fairness, and on the basis of an objective, transparent and verifiable evaluation of their performance and their ethical conduct based performance (on issues of safety, respect for the environment, anti corruption, and children rights). Audits or other steps to monitor corruption Managed through the Hotline on Corruption and Fraud by KPMG. and improve the performance of companies in your supply chain UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 57 Criterion 19: Implement effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES System to track and measure performance Unisa under the portfolio of Vice-Principal: Advisory and Assurance Services, on corruption based on standardised with legal services, risk and compliance and internal audit departments performance metrics monitor, coordinate and manage Unisa’s compliance with applicable laws and its Code of Conduct. Leadership review of monitoring and It will be required of Unisa on an annual basis to submit a Compliance improvement results report to Unisa Council as part of its commitment to good corporate governance principles. Process to deal with incidents A programme of audits of processes and performances on anti-corruption is being done through an independent third party (KPMG). Disclosure of main incidents involving your See Annual Report page 61. Report on Corruption and Fraud. company Criterion 20: The COP contains standardised performance indicators (including GRI) on anticorruption GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Outcomes of risk and impact assessments “In its risk assessments operations and practices, anti-corruption elements are taken cognisance of by Unisa to root out any corrupt related activities within Unisa. To give credence to that: The university has policies and procedures in place to address fraud and corruption, all of which have been endorsed by Management and approved by Council. The relevant policies are: • Anti-Fraud/Corruption/Irregularities Statement • Fraud/Corruption/Irregularities Prevention Policy • Policy on Whistle Blowing • Fraud/Corruption/Irregularities Response Protocol • Unisa Code of Ethics and Conduct Outcomes of internal awareness-raising efforts It is imperative for Unisa to encourage the development of skills relating to and training for management and employees anti-corruption activities and build capacity in that area. Moreover, Unisa has fore grounded anti-corruption in all its operation and activities and participation with stakeholders. See Code of Ethics and Conduct. Outcomes of mechanisms for reporting The hotline serves as a mechanism for reporting incidences and thereafter concerns or seeking advice incorporated to the Annual report. See page 61 of the Annual Report. Percentage of contracts with business partners Unisa is in the process of developing a suppliers’ Code of Conduct to be guaranteeing minimum anticorruption embedded in the Procurement Policy. Development of management system standards or database will assist in tracking the percentage of suppliers complying with minimum standards. Moreover, KPMG will provide data in this regards. Outcome of audits or other steps to monitor Managed through the Hotline on Corruption and Fraud by KPMG. and improve performance in the supply chain regarding anti-corruption efforts 58 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 12.7 Value Chain Implementation Criterion 21: Implement the Global Compact principles in the value chain Verification and Transparency GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Description of the organisation products range. Unisa offers a combination of career-oriented courses (usually associated with universities of technology, whose programmes prepare students for the world of work), as well as generally formative academic programmes (typically linked to a traditional university). Unisa’s rich tapestry of study disciplines includes the humanities, business and management, law and criminal justice, agriculture and environmental sciences, and science, engineering and technology. The unparalleled range of study choices on offer, range from short courses and certificate programmes to three-and four-year degrees and diplomas. Postgraduate studies are offered up to doctoral level. Unisa follows an open distance learning (ODL) model of teaching, which represents an approach that combines the following principles: • Learner-centredness • Lifelong learning • Flexibility of learning facilitation provisioning • Removal of barriers to access • Recognition of prior learning • Provision of relevant learner support • Construction of learning programmes Description of key suppliers, subcontractors It is acknowledged that stakeholder relationships and corporate reputation are and other business partners involved in the undisputedly linked. The university implements a model of integrated strategic value chain communication and marketing to ensure that all media platforms are used optimally to reach Unisa stakeholders within the agreed parameters of fiscal prudence. See page 47-50 of the Annual Report. Value chain risk assessment to identify See page 57-59 of the Annual Report on the risk exposure and management. potential issues with suppliers and other business partners Policy on value chain, including a policy for Unisa has a Quality Management and Assurance Policy to ensure that all the value suppliers and subcontractors chain elements and principles are recognized and enforced in its operations and activities. Appendix 19 Moreover, Unisa has a Quality Improvement plan as per the recommendation made by the HEQC audit. Appendix 20 Unisa also has a Service Charter that serves as a commitment towards providing an effective and efficient service all its stakeholders. Appendix 21 Communication of relevant policies/codes, It is acknowledged that stakeholder relationships and corporate reputation are positions or concerns to suppliers and other undisputedly linked. The university implements a model of integrated strategic business partners communication and marketing to ensure that all media platforms are used optimally to reach Unisa stakeholders within the agreed parameters of fiscal prudence. Appendix 22 Audits/screenings for compliance in value Through the Business Architecture and sustainability initiatives project, appropriate chain types of audits will be developed and organized. Allocation of responsibility in the value chain This addressed by the University Quality Improvement Plan. and procedures to remedy any noncompliance issues Other established or emerging best practices No information yet to report in this area. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 59 12.8 Verification and transparency Criterion 22: The COP provides information on the company’s profile and context of operation GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Legal structure, including any group structure See Unisa’s 2011 Annual Report page 8-9. and ownership Countries where the organisation operates, See Unisa’s 2011 Annual Report page 11. with either major operations or operations that are specifically relevant to sustainability Markets served (including geographic See Unisa’s 2011 Annual Report page 8-11. breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Primary brands, products, and/or services In the Unisa’s web page www.unisa.ac.za (Study at Unisa) Direct and indirect economic value generated See Unisa’s 2011 Annual Report page 22 and 33. Sustainability is part of the for various stakeholders (employees, owners, Annual Report. Appendix 23 government, lenders, etc.) Criterion 23: The COP incorporates high standards of transparency and disclosure GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES COP uses the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) See Unisa’s COP Report for 2011 page 36 (Global Compact Self Assessment Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Tool Table). Appendix 24 COP qualifies for Level B or above of the GRI There is no information reported yet at this stage. application levels COP includes comparison of key performance There is no information reported yet at this stage. indicators with peer companies/organisation COP includes comparison of key performance This is usually the case for the KPIs selected and reported by Unisa. indicators for the previous 2 to 3 years See Unisa’s 2011 Annual Report page 65-69. Other established or emerging best practices Unisa has set a Sustainability Goal in its 2015 Strategic Plan with a number of objectives to accomplish the goal of being “A leader in corporate governance and sustainability” and now recently being prioritised as a thematic area in the Unisa 2013 – 2015: Towards a High Performance University plan, which gives direction for the final three years of Unisa 2015 Revisited. Unisa still needs to start producing the Sustainability Indicators Report annually and incorporated into its annual report. Criterion 24: The COP is independently verified by a credible third party GLOBAL COMPACT BEST PRACTICES UNISA’S BEST PRACTICES Independently verified against assurance A programme of external verification of processes and performances has to be standard (e.g. AA1000 Assurance Standard, initiated and further deployed in the coming years. Currently Unisa uses Higher ISAE 3000) Education Quality Committee, Common Wealth on Learning and Council on Higher Education etc.) Verified by independent auditors (Sustainability Still to be published in the coming years and verified by Independent Auditors. Indicators Report) Reviewed by a multi-stakeholder panel No information yet reported at this stage. Reviewed by peers (e.g. Global Compact Local No information yet reported at this stage Network) Verified through other form of independent No information yet reported at this stage verification 60 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 13 GLOBAL COMPACT SELF-ASSESSMENT 13.1 Assessment Tool and Percentage Analysis Results UNISA 2012/12/01 NOT TOTAL TOPIC YES % NO % F/A % N/A % % TOTAL ANSWERED % HUMAN RIGHTS 213 78.60 18 6.64 22 8.12 18 6.64 0 0.00 271 100.00 Health and Safety 20 7.38 1 0.37 1 0.37 0 0.00 0 0.00 22 Hours, Wages and 58 21.40 4 1.48 4 1.48 0 0.00 0 0.00 66 Leave Fair Treatment 57 21.03 3 1.11 2 0.74 1 1.59 0 0.00 63 Community Impacts 40 14.76 4 1.48 10 3.69 7 11.48 0 0.00 61 Product Stewardship 12 4.43 1 0.37 2 0.74 5 25.00 0 0.00 20 Country Risk 14 5.17 4 1.48 1 0.37 1 5.00 0 0.00 20 Suppliers 12 4.43 1 0.37 2 0.74 4 21.05 0 0.00 19 LABOUR 95 83.33 2 1.75 5 4.39 12 10.53 0 0.00 114 100.00 Trade Unions 29 25.44 1 0.88 0 0.00 8 21.05 0 0.00 38 Forced Labour 18 15.79 0 0.00 0 0.00 1 5.26 0 0.00 19 Child Labour 19 16.67 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 19 Non-discrimination 16 14.04 1 0.88 2 1.75 0 0.00 0 0.00 19 Suppliers 13 11.40 0 0.00 3 2.63 3 15.79 0 0.00 19 ENVIRONMENT 172 53.25 37 11.46 54 16.72 60 18.58 0 0.00 323 100.00 Compliance and 25 7.74 5 1.55 8 2.48 0 0.00 0 0.00 38 Management Precaution 31 9.60 5 1.55 12 3.72 9 15.79 0 0.00 57 Responsibility and 102 31.58 27 8.36 32 9.91 48 22.97 0 0.00 209 Performance Technology 14 4.33 0 0.00 2 0.62 3 15.79 0 0.00 19 ANTI124 81.58 20 13.16 8 5.26 0 0.00 0 0.00 152 100.00 CORRUPTION Anti-Corruption 35 92.11 3 1.97 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 38 Environment Policy and Procedures 45 78.95 8 5.26 4 2.63 0 0.00 0 0.00 57 Third Parties 30 78.95 6 3.95 2 1.32 0 0.00 0 0.00 38 Joint Actions 14 73.68 3 1.97 2 1.32 0 0.00 0 0.00 19 TOTAL 604 70.23 77 8.95 89 10.35 90 10.47 0 0.00 860 100.00 604 77 89 90 0 860 TABLE 12: GLOBAL COMPACT SELF ASSESSMENT RESULTS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 61 13.2 Analysis of the Global Compact Self Assessment In 2011, Unisa scored 58.67% across all four UNGC areas when assessment of the standard of operation was conducted in terms of the progress made with regards to the UNGC standard practice. This year; it is with great pleasure and enthusiasm to report that the university scored 70.3%. That is an overall improvement of 11.63%. In terms of order of priority, the participants in the Global Self Assessment Tool were most inclined to labour matters like the previous year, followed by anti-corruption, human rights and the environment, respectively. There is a shift from human rights to anti-corruption in the second order from 2011 with anti-corruption scoring 81.5% against human rights with 78.60%. This could be due to the university establishment of the Ethics Office and the newly formed portfolio named Vice– Principal: Advisory and Assurance Services, which is responsible for ethics, governance, risk management and compliance assurance among others. There is also an improvement in terms of addressing issues of the environment from 32.43% to 53.25%. This could be due to the university awareness campaign in terms of Unisa living green initiatives and the promotion of green economy initiative projects. 14 CONCLUSION The mindful and comprehensive submissions from across the institution, careful consideration of the criteria for advanced levels of reporting, provide a compelling account of the maturity of Unisa as an UNGC signatory. As the first South African academic signatory of the UNGC, Unisa’s experiences provide a basis for it to confirm that by engaging in the Global Compact and implementing the principles, institutions of higher learning position themselves to benefit in different ways, not only limited to: (i) becoming role models for their different stakeholders, (ii) expanding and deepening views about their research and development initiatives, (iii) improving organisational integration of environmental, social and governance issues, (iv) operational efficiencies and mitigating risks, (v) accessing the experiences and good practices of peers, (vi) networking with other enlightened organisations, (vii) engaging in proactive and constructive dialogue with civil society and other stakeholders, (viii) establishing better links with the United Nations and (iv) maintaining a leadership role on critical green economy issues. Not withstanding the intricacies of applying the UNGC principles in an academic environment, Unisa welcomes its admission into the UNGC advanced level of reporting as an opportunity to further participate in creating a sustainable world for posterity. In that respect, the university extends its gratitude to the Global Compact for showing confidence in Unisa as a partner in fulfilling the organisation’s vision. The CoP 2012 Report provides insights into Unisa’s advancement in the implementation of principles espoused by the Global Compact. The leadership of Unisa concurs that commitment is the driving force behind the implementation of the Global Compact, which had subsequently transformed the institution into a more responsible and environmentally sustainable agent in the green economy. In conclusion, this report gives full expression to the theme “Towards a High-Performance University in a Sustainable World” and provides indisputable evidence of the claims made in this regard. 15 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The Department of Strategy, Planning and Quality Assurance (DSPQA) under the auspices of the Portfolio of Institutional Development was responsible for the drafting of the report in consultation will all the relevant stakeholders. The following colleagues made a valuable contribution to the completion of the report for 2012, and are duly acknowledged: Overall strategic leadership • Dr M Qhobela, Vice-Principal: Institutional Development • Ms L Griesel, Executive Director: Strategy, Planning and Quality Assurance • Ms R Prinsloo, Director: Strategy and Planning Authors • Mr J T Makgamatho, UNGC Project Leader • Mr A Sibanda, UNGC Researcher and Assistant Project Leader 62 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 Contributors • Prof M Makhanya, Principal and Vice-Chancellor • Prof N Baijnath, Pro Vice-Chancellor • Prof D Singh, Vice-Principal: Advisory and Assurance Services • Prof R Mare, Vice-Principal: Teaching and Learning • Prof M Phakeng, Vice-Principal: Research and Innovation • Prof B Erasmus, Vice-Principal: Operations • Mr A T Robinson, Vice-Principal: Finance and University Estate • Prof M Mosimege, University Registrar • Dr M Qhobela, Vice-Principal: Institutional Development • Dr B Mbambo-Thata, Executive Director: Library Services • Dr L Sangqu, Executive Director: ICT • Mr H van Kradenburg, Enterprise Risk Management • Mr C Baloyi, Dean of Students • Prof M Linington, Executive Dean: CAES • Prof VA Clapper, Executive Dean: CEMS • Ms l Sangqu, Executive Director: ICT • Prof IOG Moche, Executive Dean: CSET • Prof R Moeketsi, Executive Dean: CHS • Prof KP Dzvimbo, Executive Dean: CECU • Prof R Songca, Executive Dean: CLAW • Prof O Mashile, Executive Director: Tuition and Facilitation of Learning • Mr I Mogomotsi, Acting Executive Director: University Estates • Prof G Nhamo, CEMS 16 RESOURCE LIST • A Practical Guide to the United Nations Global Compact • Unisa Service Charter for Higher Education Institutions: Implementing the Global • Unisa Quality Improvement Plan in response to HEQC Audit Compact Principles and Communicating on Progress. Report, June 2009, Number 24. • Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership. • Unisa Quality Management and Assurance Policy. • Criteria for the GC Advanced Level. • Unisa Whistle blowing Policy • Generic Model of Strategic Management. • Unisa Environmental Sustainability Policy • Solvay UN Global Compact, Communication on Progress, • Unisa Ombudsman Principles for the Referral of Matters Advanced Level. • Unisa Organisational Architecture: Interim report • Towards Environmental Sustainability: An Assessment • Unisa Policy on Procurement of Unisa’s Carbon Footprint and Appropriate Mitigating Actions. • Unisa Policy on Prevention of Fraud/Corruption and Other Irregularities • Summary of the Unisa Student Satisfaction Survey 2012. • Unisa Enterprise Risk Management Policy Framework • Unisa Integrated Planning Framework. • Unisa Compliance Charter • Unisa 2015 Revisited. • Unisa International Relations and Partnership Policy • Unisa 2015 Strategic Plan. • Unisa Code of Ethics and Conduct • Unisa 2013-2015, Towards a High Performance University. • Unisa Environmental Sustainability Policy • Unisa Discussion Document: An Organisational Architecture for a Digital Future. • Unisa Community Engagement and Outreach Policy • UNGC Management Model, Framework for Implementation. • Initial Report to Council on the Performance of the University presented to the Council at the Meeting of 22 June 2012. • Unisa Student Satisfaction Survey 2012. • Other documents • Unisa Annual Report 2011. • Intergrating Strategy, Budgeting and Reporting, Wits Business • Unisa UNGC CoP Report 2011. School Manual for 2012. • Unisawise, Summer 2011. • Unisa Corporate Communication and Marketing Strategy, 2012 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 63 64 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2012
