Communication on progress 2012 Implementing UN global compact principles in the Association of Danish Law Firms Communication on Progress 2012 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that the Association of Danish Law Firms reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. In this our second annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Paul Mollerup Managing Director 2 2. The Association of Danish Law Firms The Association of Danish Law Firms was founded in January 2008, in order to further the interests of Danish law firms, their owners and employees. The goal is to promote the practice of law and the use of lawyers in society and also be an important public voice in respect to the rule of law and other matters essential to the functioning of a modern democratic society. We therefore bear actively to the law-making process by participating in public consultations as well as appointing members to governmental committees. The Association has two main tasks as a business association for the Danish law firms: 1. To further the interests of our members by exerting influence on politicians and policy makers within all policy areas of interest to law firms. 2. To help develop the business of running law firms, enabling our members to meet their current challenges – and the challenges of the future – with respect to competition, new services, human resources and best practice. Furthermore, we provide a wide range of services and products to our members: • Continuing legal education – tailored to the special requirements of law firms – both legal and law firm management. As the law firm is the member entity, we offer training courses for the entire law firm staff; lawyers, administrative personnel and secretaries alike. • Advice on innovation, IT and business development in the law firm. • Access to domestic and international networks, benchmark data, political influence and cash benefits such as reduced course fees, competitive legal indemnity insurance, legal publications and conferences. Legally, the Association is governed by a council and a Board of Directors, which jointly formulate the Association’s political views. Members of the Council are elected at the General Assembly and elect the Board of Directors from their midst. The Association’s Managing Director and management oversee the daily activities of the 26 employees of the Secretariat and co-ordinate the activities of the large number of subcommittees and network groups linked to the Association. You can find further information on our website: www.danskeadvokater.dk 3 Communication on Progress 2012 3. The approach to the 10 principles – our CSR strategy In the fall of 2010 the Association of Danish Law Firms joined the UN Global Compact program. At that point we could define three major stakeholders, who could guide the direction of our CSR policy where we wanted to make a difference within the natural context of our business. These are: • People (employees and members) • Society (locally) • Society (globally) In this connection we decided to implement our CSR initiatives in respect to the three subareas; people, planet and profit, in two stages. The first stage would thus concentrate on implementing initiatives within the Secretariat to ensure that all members of staff understood UN’s basic principles and to ensure the willingness to implement sustainable solutions throughout the organization. The second stage would hereafter be directed at initiatives outside the secretariat, first towards our members, and later toward society, locally and finally globally. It is this second stage that has been our primary goal since our last Communication of Progress. The journey has meant figuring out how to motivate our members, the law firms in Denmark, to embrace CSR principles and at the same time not compromising the progress within the Secretariat. LABOUR ENVIRONMENT PROFIT 4 3 a. Summary of CSR initiatives – within our own organisation. To make sure that all initiatives were employee borne, we set up a CSR committee from the beginning. This CSR committee is still responsible and dedicated to improving and implementing a number of CSR initiatives. The CSR initiatives, which still make most sense in the context of our relatively small organisation, have been initiatives concerning people (securing a healthy and safe working environment, where our employees thrive) and our planet (our contribution to minimising our impact on the environment). Planet (environment) The environmental impact of a small business entity, which provides services, and our ability to reduce the global carbon footprint, is rather small. Even so, we find that this is no excuse not to contribute or make an effort. We have therefore adopted a green purchasing policy, in which environmental considerations are essential. This policy has been normative to our 2012 purchases, e.g.: • Our water bottles are now 100 % recyclable. • When changing electricity supplier – we chose the provider that could supply electricity primarily derived from wind power. • Purchase of two more bicycles, as an alternative to reaching meetings by taxi. • Maximum use of low energy light and LED spots. • Paper policy, meaning: • Printing on environmentally friendly paper. • Minimising the use of paper, e.g. finding electronic alternatives to billing, registering for our courses, etc. printing on both sides of the paper and in general only printing when absolutely necessary. • All external printing of brochures, magazines, course material etc. are printed with the maximum respect to the environment. Goals We wish to continue to find areas where we can reduce our CO2 emissions and motivate our employees to follow the prescribed guidelines. How we monitor and evaluate performances The CSR committee regularly informs the organisation about new initiatives. The use of electricity is closely monitored and registered. 5 Communication on Progress 2012 People (human rights and labour) The Association of Danish Law Firms believes that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion. This is upheld by regular meetings between management and employee groups and conducting monthly office meeting, where any topic can be discussed. In November 2012 we conducted a work place assessment survey, which showed a few areas of employee discontent. The survey will be the basis of an employee seminar in June 2013, where we hope to produce action plans to minimize stress and discontent. New initiatives in 2012 have included: • Life-saving first aid training, including training in the use of a heart defibrillator. • Employee support to humanitarian organisations such as Børnehjertefonden, WWF, SOS Børnebyer through participating in Ecco Walkathon. • Focus on health through participating in the initiative “walking to work”. • Partner with “The Worlds Best News”, an initiative to promote positive stories about the benefits of development assistance. Goals It is our goal to have a high rate of employee satisfaction and a low rate of absenteeism. Monitoring and evaluating performances Continuous dialogue with employees is deemed the best way of securing a good working environment and preventing stress. The management has the overall responsibility for monitoring the employees’ well being, both on a regular basis and through the annual “Performance and Development review”. In addition we regularly conduct work place assessment surveys, measuring all employees’ mental and physical well-being. 6 3 b. Summary of CSR initiatives – towards the legal profession. In 2012 the Association of Danish Law Firms manifested our “2020 Vision” which was adopted at the general assembly in September 2012. This vision has three goals for the legal profession – and one of these visions focuses on the legal profession as a socially responsible and useful profession. Our ambition is, not only prove to society that the legal profession largely contributes to securing the rule of law and due process, but also inspire our members to engage in a further number of sustainable and pro bono initiatives. One of our goals within our 2020 vision is that at least 50 % of our members have signed a “Social Responsibility Code” for the legal profession. We hope that this code will act as an inspiration and standard for the whole profession. In order to reach our 2020 goals we have initiated the following in 2012: People (human rights and labour) • Put social responsibility on the agenda in the strategy process. • Set up a committee looking at the diversity in the profession with the aim to encourage equal opportunities in recruitment, training and promotion, especially for female lawyers. The committee has finalized it report and implementation of the ideas can commence. • Sent out a tender to produce the toolkit, which can train the law firms in giving CSR-related advice to their clients. • High-lighted the problems with legal aid in Denmark , where certain population groups in most need of legal aid, have difficulty in getting the required aid. The initiatives have included numerous meetings with politicians, the Danish Consumer Council and the Danish Insurance Association. • Set up a counselling hotline for lawyers, who are experiencing work related crisis, e.g. in the form of violent clients, a long term illness, etc., where it could be beneficial to speak to a colleague. 7 Communication on Progress 2012 Profit (anti-corruption) • Updated our prevention of money-laundering and corruption toolkit in order to secure that our members have concurring anti-money laundering policies. • Produced comments to the professions Code of Conduct issued by the Danish Bar and Law Society in order to help our members uphold the professions requirement of confidentiality, avoid conflict of interest and acting in coherence with the ethical nature of the legal profession. Goals It is our goal to motivate our members to act as socially responsible members of society. Monitoring and evaluating performances The initiatives are still too new to monitor and evaluate 8 4 Future initiatives In 2013, we will: • Focus on employee well being, both mental and physical health and the benefits that this will have in our everyday work life. • Continue our efforts to reduce our consumption of electricity • Strengthen our commitment in relation to communicating on the benefits of CSR – especially towards our members. • Launch our CSR tools, helping our members to consult on CSR initiatives and help their clients join UN Global Compact. • Initiate the work in designing a “Social Responsibility Code” for the profession. EMPLOYEE WELL BEING REDUCE USE OF ENERGY COMMUNICATE THE BENEFITS OF CSR LAUNCH CSR TOOLS FOR MEMBERS CSR CODE FOR THE PROFFESSION 9 H.C. Andersens Boulevard 45 1553 København V 33 43 70 00 danskeadvokater.dk
