Sustainability Report 2013 Statement of support by the CEO Throughout the past years the focus of CSR has, for In our daily work our paths cross with clients and many businesses, moved from solely supporting the stakeholders ranging from large, multi-national cor‘greater good’ to being a strategic discipline placed porations to innovative start-up companies and inon the corporate agenda as the tendency shows ventors. Supporting the UN Global Compact is a that in order to provide a trustworthy message matter of taking a stance and signaling to our stakeabout your social responsibility your CSR activities holders that we care to be a responsible business in must be connected to the core of your business. In all possible aspects. this sense, the result of CSR is two-fold: your company is able to support the greater good while Being involved with innovation and new inventions also strengthening its competitive power as a busion a daily basis also gives us the opportunity to give ness. back by providing guidance and in some cases sponsoring initiatives that we believe to be truly Similar to CSR, strategic use of intellectual property unique and able to provide a societal and environrights can also improve your company’s competitive mental difference. We hope that you will enjoy power. At Plougmann & Vingtoft we consider ourselreading this year’s Communication on Progress ves to be our clients’ navigators to increased comreport. petitive power. Our employees and their knowledge are thus our greatest asset and, ultimately, the core of our business. Our efforts in supporting the personal and professional development of all of our employees has been, and continues to be, an important area in our HuAnnette Siewert Lindgreen man Resources department. Therefore, we are very CEO pleased that the results of our employee satisfaction survey, conducted earlier this year, shows that we have a good working environment and a high job satisfaction among our employees. Our employees Continuing professional development Furthermore, a number of our consultants also work as lecturers at educational institutions such as the As a knowledge-based consultancy our employees University of Copenhagen and the Technical Univerare our greatest asset. We invest in having a positisity of Denmark. on on the market as trusted advisors to our clients in areas that are vital to their business. This means Diversity at our company that our employees are setting new standards for what customers can expect from the cooperation As an internationally oriented company we welcome with an IPR consultancy. employees from any part of the world, as we see diversity as a strength and competitive advantage in We have a strong focus on the further development an international company like ours. of our employees. In addition to the European Qualifying Examination (EQE), all our IP attorneys receive Our international diversity also benefits our clients as internal training tailored to their individual function we can provide legal expertise in the form of a Japaand level. In this way, all attorneys get introduced to nese Patent Attorney and a U.S. Patent Attorney. processes that secure a consistent high level of Currently, we have employees from many European quality in each single assignment. countries as well as Japan. Our IP coordinators also participate in additional traThe male/female ratio of our company is close to ining and education, and many of them are QIPA – being 50/50 which also contributes to providing Qualified Intellectual Property Administrator. gender diversity at our company. Job satisfaction Earlier this year, we conducted a large survey with the purpose of mapping out the physical and psy84 % of our employees feel chological working environment of our employees. The results were very positive and showed that both that their workplace at our physical and psychological working environment is above the average in comparison to similar Plougmann & Vingtoft has Danish companies. Key words such as cooperation, trust, security, and job development were highligreat personal meaning for ghted in the concluding report. Naturally, we are very pleased with these results and we will continue them to work on all aspects of the well-being of our employees in order to continue to be a desired place of work. Facts and figures We have 76 employees, 37 male and 39 female The average age at Plougmann & Vingtoft is 44 71 % of our employees have been at the company more than 4 years 20 of our 32 patent attorneys are certified European Patent Attorneys Focus on innovation and clean technology Working with clean technology Communication on sustainable inventions The world of intellectual property revolves around innoWithin our team of consultants we have a compevation and inventions. Many of the inventions we work tent and innovative cleantech team whose work with are smart solutions which contribute to making helps to promote technological development which small or large changes regarding the environment and can improve environmental conditions. Besides society at large. working with the technological aspects of cleantech, our experts are also keen on communicating the reOne of the primary industries in which we work is the sults and impacts of various inventions within this clean technology sector. Clean technology relates to sector. products and services that improve operational performance, productivity or efficiency while reducing costs, Our magazine BRIGHT NOW is a channel for inputs, energy consumption, waste or pollution. Creacommunication about the stories that lie behind intors of clean technology need patent protection for ventions. Through BRIGHT NOW, we have told stortheir inventions and investments, as it secures their ies about using algae as a ‘green’ form of aircraft business and stimulates further innovation for the fuel, the development of a special type of fish feed good of all of us. for sustainable fish farming, using ozone for efficient water purification, and a solution for environmental garbage sorting and recycling. With BRIGHT NOW we share stories of the societal impact of inventions Networks and sponsorships Learning by helping others During occasions where the density of people is larger than normal, such as outdoor events like festiAs intellectual property consultants, we meet innovals, the amount of littering also rises. A group of vative people on a daily basis, both at large corpostudents from the Technical University of Denmark rations and small start-up companies. In order to has provided a solution for solving this problem with keep our network updated and gain access to new the invention of the DropBucket. contacts, Plougmann & Vingtoft is a member of CONNECT Denmark. Dropbucket is a garbage bin designed to be transported in folded condition and quickly be set up. It is CONNECT Denmark is a network for growth, innomade of recycled cardboard and the material is envation and business development where businesses hanced in order to make it water-resistant. When the from various sectors can help innovators realize their DropBucket is full, the entire waste bin can be ideas. CONNECT Denmark is a nonprofit organizatithrown away, along with the garbage. on, which consists of about 900 people from more than 400 companies in all parts of Danish business The idea and concept behind the DropBucket is life. It is the only network that offers knowledge shasimple, yet very efficient and is part of solving a large ring between experienced business people and environmental issue. Therefore, we were not in small and medium-sized companies and as a memdoubt whether or not to sponsor this project. ber, we have the opportunity to be a mentor for companies with great growth potential. Our membership of CONNECT Denmark gives us access to committed and inspiring people and thus not only keeps out network but also our own minds updated. Sponsorship of inventions A client base which is also very innovative and inspiring to us is the university sector. Plougmann & Vingtoft enjoys cooperating with entrepreneurs and students and in one particular case we not only helped our clients obtain protection of their invention but took the opportunity to partly sponsor the invention as we believed that this was an innovate and truly great initiative. DropBucket is a garbage bin made for single use when the need for bins is larger than normal, for example at festivals and concerts. Plougmann & Vingtoft Plougmann & Vingtoft is a European intellectual property consultancy which places IPR on the agenda of top management for our clients. Our mission is to strengthen our clients’ competitive power by working with IPR. Copenhagen Aarhus Munich Munich Rued Langgaards VejArnulfstrasse 8 Aaboulevarden 37 23 Arnulfstrasse 37 2300 Copenhagen S 80636 Munich8100 Aarhus C 80636 Munich Denmark Germany Denmark T +49 89 5155 543 Germany Munich Arnulfstrasse 37 Oslo Madrid 80636 Munich Bergen Germany Nedre Vollgate 4 Parque Empreserial “La T +49 89 5155 543 Bergen Business Centre 0158 Oslo Finca” Strandgaten 209 Norway P Club Deportivo, 1 Edificio 5004 Bergen 15A Norway 28223 Pozuelo de Alarcón, Madrid Spain
