Introduction As a socially responsible company, Supreme adheres to sustainable business practices while maintaining high legal and ethical standards. Our ethical culture is built on principles of commitment, responsibility, respect, integrity, protection, fairness, compliance and support. Integrity is one of our key values, and we insist that integrity and ethics define our decisions and our actions. A strong commitment to ethics and integrity isn’t just the right way to do business; it’s how we earn the trust and respect that is crucial to our success. Despite the fact that we operate in many countries and in differing conditions, our values have universal application. Our customers trust us to be their advocate. Our suppliers trust us to be an equitable partner. And we trust Supreme employees to uphold the highest standards of conduct as part of day-to-day activities. Supreme’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct confirms our commitment to conducting our business legally and to the highest ethical standards. The Code describes what we believe are the right things to do, not just what we are required to do under the law. Supreme conducts business in many different parts of the world, each governed by a different set of laws, regulations, and business practices. Because of this, Supreme has established global standards to help ensure that our values are upheld wherever we do business, and that we conduct business fairly and honestly in all areas of operation. The Code of Business Ethics and Conduct has been translated into 13 languages and applies to all employees, at all levels of the organization, including management. Every newly-hired employee receives ethics induction training and must sign an acknowledgement that they have read and understood the Code. All employees of Supreme Group must adhere to Supreme’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct at all times. No one in Supreme is authorized to conduct any business or to act in a manner that conflicts with the guidelines set out in the Code of Conduct, or any applicable law, and no one is authorized to ask another employee or a third party (such as a supplier or subcontractor) to do so on Supreme’s behalf. In 2010 we formalized our commitment to an ethics and compliance program in the company to foster and build awareness of an ethical business culture. The program includes globally published workplace standards and a worldwide ethics and compliance hotline that provides employees and other stakeholders with an anonymous channel to ask questions, express concerns, and raise issues about workplace activities. We also communicate the importance of ethical behavior to our employees through regular induction sessions, individual employment contracts, general training sessions and regular employee communications. We aim to treat all our stakeholders fairly and to have a positive social impact in the countries in which we operate by minimizing the environmental impact of our operations, providing employment opportunities and working in partnership with local communities to promote sustainable welfare initiatives. Corporate Social Responsibility is a fundamental part of the way we do business, and an essential element of our success. Our strategies, achievements and challenges to date are outlined in our 2012 CSR Report. October 2013| UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress| Supreme Group Marketing and Communications| Page 1 of 10 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals: At Supreme, we are fully committed to upholding the principles outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and we make every effort to integrate these principles into our operations. In line with this, we have established the Supreme Group Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, published on our website, to outline our total support of the enforcement and preservation of human rights across our operations. We respect the law, traditions and cultures of the countries in which we operate; however in those countries where there is limited or no human rights protected by legislation, the higher standards set out in the Group’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct will prevail. We have established global employment standards and policies across the company to ensure that employees in all locations are treated with respect, dignity and fairness. Our Zero Tolerance Policy states that Supreme will not tolerate any of the following behaviors: • Threats, assaults, or other acts of violence whether verbal or physical; • Coercing, extorting, or creating fear of bodily harm; • Intimidation or harassment based on protected characteristics; • Taking or threatening to take a personal action against any employee for making a complaint or disclosing information which the employee or applicant reasonably believes presents a violation of any law, rule or regulation, gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health and safety. Supreme’s goal is to ensure that all employees, suppliers and contractors uphold, and operate in total compliance with the principles outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Implementation: Supreme has taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations in its work locations: 1) All employees, suppliers and contractors must adhere to Supreme’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, which addresses company policy relating to respect for Human Rights and the prevention of potential abuses. 2) Anyone can raise a concern anonymously through Supreme’s Ethics hotline or via the website www.supremegroupethics.ethicspoint.com. The service is available 24-hours a day; allows toll free calls from all our countries of operation; has a dedicated multilingual capability; and, internet-based access for confidential investigation and response to concerns. 3) All employees, suppliers and contractors must adhere to the various policies, including the Recruitment Agency Policy, Zero Tolerance Policy and Exploitation Policy, which are in place to prevent human rights infringements. 4) Supreme utilizes external companies to thoroughly check our recruitment agencies and provide proof that they operate in accordance with global best practices in terms of recruitment. 5) Our commitment to human rights extends beyond the workplace to the areas in which we live and work. In 2009, we launched the Supreme Foundation to support underprivileged children in local communities where we operate. The Foundation focuses on improving the health, education, safety October 2013| UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress| Supreme Group Marketing and Communications| Page 2 of 10 and living conditions of disadvantaged children around the world. It is our vision to help vulnerable children develop the skills, knowledge and experience necessary to lead successful, sustainable lives and contribute to their families, communities and countries. Learn more about the Supreme Foundation. Measurement of outcomes: Supreme annually reviews its company policies and procedures, and implements changes whenever necessary. We measure our performance using reporting tools, self-inspections and audits to evaluate our systems effectiveness and review the goals and methods used as part of a continuous improvement approach. Supreme will continue to audit and evaluate all contractors and suppliers against a set of defined principles, policies and guidelines. Any contravention of human rights will be documented and the responsible party will be reprimanded or terminated, depending on the violation. Severe or continued non-compliance will lead to termination. All reported concerns are reviewed directly by Supreme’s Director of Investigations. If an investigation reveals evidence of unethical conduct, disciplinary action is taken which may range from a formal reprimand to termination of employment. October 2013| UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress| Supreme Group Marketing and Communications| Page 3 of 10 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals: As a service company, our people are key to the success of our business. Supreme Group adheres to international labor standards and implements best practice industry benchmarks. Supreme has a diverse and multicultural workforce; with employees comprising around 70 nationalities dispersed across five continents. Due to the nature of the countries in which we operate and the wide variety of nationalities employed, Supreme fully understands the risk of our employees being involved with forced labor when recruited from their home country. Our Recruitment Agency Policy ensures a stringent checking procedure and due diligence process for the use of any recruitment agencies sourcing from an ‘at risk’ country. Similarly, Supreme’s Exploitation Policy states that Supreme has zero-tolerance for trafficking in persons, commercial sex acts, use of forced labor, and child labor. Employees are required to take all appropriate measures to prevent any of these acts by any of its employees or any other persons who may be engaged by the company to perform any services under contract to the company. As an equal opportunity employer, we have established a number of policies to prevent employee discrimination and we take a zero tolerance approach to any form of mistreatment. In addition to our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy and Procedure, the principle of equal opportunity runs throughout all company policies and procedures. This includes a Grievance Policy and Procedure, a Whistleblower Protection Policy and Procedure, and a Workplace Bullying Policy and Procedure – all in place to protect employees from mistreatment. Furthermore, our Zero Tolerance Policy, which applies to all Supreme employees and contractors, states that Supreme has zero tolerance with regards to employees engaging in any of the following behaviors: • Unfair treatment, harassment, or denial of privileges to persons because of protected characteristics; • Engaging in the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, transfer, or receipt of a person for labor or services, by means of threat, use of force, fraud, abduction, deception, abuse, exploitation, or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage or slavery. Regardless of an individual’s nationality, position or function, we seek to offer high-quality benefits for all employees. We implement compensation packages, employee benefits policies, work-life balance programs and other initiatives in each country of operation in accordance with local practices, laws and regulations. Supreme’s Recruitment and Selection Policy incorporates the principles of equal opportunity employment to ensure the most capable person is selected for a position on the basis of merit. At the same time, we operate with a ‘local first’ mentality, which means that in the regions where we support our clients, we also strive to support the wellbeing of individuals in local communities. We hire and train local workers wherever possible, October 2013| UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress| Supreme Group Marketing and Communications| Page 4 of 10 we source product from local farms and suppliers, and we make considerable investments in infrastructure projects that benefit communities long after our work is done. Read more about our local first commitment around the world in our CSR report. We also place the highest priority on the occupational health and safety (OHS) of our employees, and we are committed to providing the highest possible standards in workplace OHS to all employees, contractors and visitors, as well as the broader community where we have control or influence. We operate in countries and environments where the risk of incidents involving company employees and property is high; despite this, our goal is to reduce the occurrence of workplace accidents to the lowest possible level. Implementation: Supreme has taken the following measures to uphold the highest standards of labor principles across our operations: 1) All employees and contractors must adhere to Supreme’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, which addresses company policy relating to labor principles. 2) Anyone can raise a concern anonymously through Supreme’s Ethics hotline or via the website www.supremegroupethics.ethicspoint.com. The service is available 24-hours a day; allows toll free calls from all our countries of operation; has a dedicated multilingual capability; and, internet-based access for confidential investigation and response to concerns. 3) Supreme utilizes external companies to thoroughly check the recruitment agencies we use and provide proof that they operate in accordance with global best practices in terms of recruitment. We have also moved towards more direct recruitment in order to further reduce the risk of forced labor. 4) Following a discrimination complaint, a thorough investigation is conducted by our Ethics & Compliance team. In the event that the complaint is found to be genuine, there are consequences for the respondent which range from written warnings to termination with immediate effect. 5) All employees and contractors must adhere to our various policies, including the Recruitment and Selection Policy, Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, Zero Tolerance Policy, Exploitation Policy, Grievance Policy and Procedure, a Whistleblower Protection Policy and Procedure, and the Workplace Bullying Policy and Procedure. 6) We consider our suppliers to be an integral part of our operations and work closely with them to make improvements in our services and processes. Our main suppliers undergo strict vetting to ensure they meet our quality, health, safety and environmental standards. 7) All managers, supervisors, and employees in positions of authority have an additional responsibility to maintain and support a healthy work environment. Supreme Group has zero tolerance for bullying and harassment and considers it a fundamental obligation of all employees to behave appropriately in the workplace. 8) We are committed to a safe workplace; with more than 6,000 of our employees trained in health and safety courses over the past year. We have also adopted internationally recognized standards for QHSE within our business and have successfully attained both ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 certification. Measurement of Outcomes: Underscoring our commitment to international labor principles, we have cancelled a number of agreements with existing recruitment agencies following the due diligence process due to concerns relating to their recruitment practices. In addition to the background check for the ‘at risk’ countries of sourcing, all agencies are now required to sign terms and conditions aligned with Supreme’s business practices, which includes a section on human trafficking, and furthermore, sign a copy of Supreme’s agency best practice letter, which reconfirms Supreme’s zero tolerance stance to human trafficking. Furthermore, our commitment to hiring local National employees is increasing year-on-year, with an average of more than 80 per cent local National employees in ten countries around the world where we operate. October 2013| UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress| Supreme Group Marketing and Communications| Page 5 of 10 In terms of HSE, during 2012, we were awarded an International Safety Award by the British Safety Council for our fuel operations in Afghanistan as well as our operations in the UAE. The International Safety Awards recognize organizations that show a strong commitment to good corporate health and safety; this is the third consecutive year that our fuel operations received this recognition. We also recently achieved OHSAS 18001:2007 certification for occupational health and safety and we implemented prevention and protection systems that are subject to ongoing monitoring and continuous training. All incidents, injuries and near-misses are reported, recorded and investigated in accordance with our health and safety management system. October 2013| UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress| Supreme Group Marketing and Communications| Page 6 of 10 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals: At Supreme Group, sustainability is one of our core values. As a responsible business partner and employer, we are dedicated to protecting the environment and creating a sustainable future for communities where we operate. Environmental stewardship is an important part of our strategy and forms an essential foundation on which we carry out our business. Working in remote and sometimes stark locations presents inherent difficulties in addressing environmental issues due to the lack of infrastructure and solutions. However, we are making progress in addressing this situation by implementing a range of initiatives that will allow us to measure and improve our own environmental performance, and ultimately help our suppliers and customers to do the same. Supreme recognizes that we have a responsibility to conduct our operations in an environmentally sustainable and responsible manner to safeguard local environments. We identify and eliminate aspects of our operations that either pollute or degrade the surrounding environment, where feasible. Risk assessments are carried out for each facility to establish the risk posed based on a number of factors. These assessments are always completed at the start of a new operation and whenever a situation has occurred where the assessments needs to be reviewed. Before commencing operations, the local community and relevant government bodies are approached to inform them of our intentions to start working in the area. At this point, officials inform us of any issues or concerns that they may have and notify us of any procedures or restrictions that may be imposed on our activities. We also conduct environmental surveys that check for soil pollution and water pollution (where applicable), so that we can set a baseline for the state of the environment before we start work. More information about our ‘local first’ mentality and our sustainability program is available in Supreme’s CSR report. Following the implementation of our environmental management system in 2012, it is our intention to identify and implement initiatives during the next reporting year to reduce the energy requirements of our operations. We also aim to implement a more systematic approach to setting environmental objectives and targets, to achieving these and to demonstrate that they have been achieved. In the near future we also hope to establish a recycling program in our Dubai office to regularly collect drinks cans, cardboard, plastics and toner cartridges. To fulfill our commitment in 2013, we will develop a structured approach to implementing and managing our sustainability initiatives consistently and systematically across our business. We aim to bring further coherence to our programs and improve our measurement and data collection techniques. October 2013| UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress| Supreme Group Marketing and Communications| Page 7 of 10 Implementation: In line with our commitment to environmental stewardship, we have implemented a number of sustainability initiatives into our operation: 1. In 2012 we completed our first Carbon Footprint audit and achieved ISO 14001 accreditation for Environmental Management. This standard and the underlying practices we are implementing will allow us to identify, measure and control the environmental impact of our activities and to continually improve our environmental performance. 2. Supreme became a member of the Emirates Environmental Group (EEG), which reflects the company’s efforts to be an environmentally aware and responsible organization. 3. During 2012 we implemented an Environmental Management System (EMS) that aims to integrate sustainable environmental practices into our operations in order to control the impacts of our activities. 4. In our Afghanistan-based catering facilities we have introduced automatic hand dryers to replace the use of paper hand towels. As a result, we have completely eliminated the transportation and use of paper towels from the supply chain. More detailed information about our sustainability initiatives is available in Supreme’s CSR report, published on our website. Measurement of outcomes: We are proud of the progress we have made in improving the environmental management of our operations. We are, for instance, one of the few defense subcontractors operating in Afghanistan able to offer a complete recycling solution for expired plastic water bottles. By switching from paper hand towels to the hand dryers, we were able to save an estimated 80 tons of CO2 from being released to the atmosphere from our Kandahar facilities. Similarly, in our United Arab Emirates office, we have managed to reduce our energy consumption considerably following an employee awareness initiative. We are also currently investigating carbon offset schemes as we further develop our carbon footprint evaluations. As the EMS expands, our goal is to eliminate, where possible, all aspects of our operations that either pollute or in any way degrade the surrounding environment. The EMS will enable us to monitor, report and review our activities to improve our environmental practices. In 2013 we also intend to provide several employees with ISO 50001 Energy Management training, which will improve our ability to manage energy consumption across sites and locations. No litigation has ever been brought against Supreme Group for environmental failings and we have a robust system to ensure that all environmental legislation is regularly checked and updated. October 2013| UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress| Supreme Group Marketing and Communications| Page 8 of 10 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals: We consider our reputation to be one of our most important assets and have made a substantial commitment to foster an ethical business environment on behalf of our employees and customers. The Supreme Group Code of Business Ethics and Conduct outlines Supreme’s policies with regards to working with integrity and compliance. Our Ethics & Compliance Department is responsible for maintaining and delivering ethics and compliancerelated activities company-wide, and implementing anti-corruption training. This is particularly important as, due to the nature of our business, we operate in many countries identified by Transparency International as some of the most perceived corrupt places in which to do business. Our employees face regular requests for grease payments, bribes, gifts or anything to make the system flow quickly and we have to be confident that our employees know how to respond and that we can manage any fall-out from the refusal to accede to such requests. All employees, officers, and directors of Supreme, or any of its affiliates, and all persons or entities that act as a representative of or advisor to Supreme shall comply fully with all applicable provisions of the U.K. Bribery Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and all applicable local laws where Supreme operates. Supreme is committed to a zero-tolerance policy in relation to any form of bribery, corruption and extortion. It is also Supreme’s policy to require those agents, consultants and business partners who work on Supreme’s behalf to comply with these laws and practices. Our Group’s strategy around Ethics & Compliance is therefore at the very heart of all that we do, every day. Our goal is to continue educating our employees and business partners about how to maintain the highest ethical standards across all of our operations. Implementation: Our strategic objective is to promote and further entrench ethical business practices across the company. The following steps help to ensure anti-corruption compliance: 1) Supreme’s detailed Code of Business Ethics & Conduct includes policies covering topics such as Conflicts of Interest, Anti-Bribery, Gifts & Entertainment etc. 2) Anyone can raise a corruption-related concern anonymously through Supreme’s Ethics hotline or via the website www.supremegroupethics.ethicspoint.com. The service is available 24-hours a day; allows toll free calls from all our countries of operation; has a dedicated multilingual capability; and, internetbased access for confidential investigation and response to concerns. 3) Supreme employees, suppliers and contractors must adhere to various policies relating to anticorruption, including the Zero Tolerance Policy; Gifts, Entertainment and Anti-Bribery Policy; and Subcontractor Management and Oversight Policy. 4) We developed and implemented a Group‑wide training and awareness program about corruption, and we further advanced our audit capabilities and whistle-blowing processes. 5) We communicate the importance of ethical behavior to our employees through regular induction sessions, individual employment contracts, general training sessions and regular employee October 2013| UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress| Supreme Group Marketing and Communications| Page 9 of 10 communications. 6) To ensure full independence, the Ethics & Compliance is now a separate Group Function at Supreme, operating independently of any other function (such as Finance or Legal). The Director reports to the Group Compliance Committee. 7) All employees have received face-to-face Ethics & Compliance training as part of an employee-wide training program. Refresher training takes place regularly and all new employees are required to complete Ethics training as part of their induction to the company. 8) Supreme has a large internal investigations team, some of whom are located in our key operational locations. They can deploy wherever required globally and operate in accordance with global best practices and a detailed Investigations Policy. 9) We take a firm stance on employees who breach our Code of Conduct including taking legal action if appropriate. 10) This year we are also launching a strengthened Due Diligence program for all third parties with whom Supreme wishes to operate. Later in the year we will be requiring many of our key suppliers to attend mandatory Ethics training. Measurement of outcomes: The promotion of ethics-related and anti-corruption policies during 2012 has resulted in a substantial increase in the total number of reports received. Every claim is taken seriously and thoroughly investigated. In championing business integrity in the workplace, the number of reports has increased as employees have been encouraged by positive outcomes to date. In addition, a total of 2,870 employees received ethics training in 2012; a large portion of which focused on avoiding corruption in the workplace. Furthermore, one hundred percent of management employees and 75 per cent of non-management employees have received anti-corruption training during the reporting period. Supreme is also a sponsoring partner of the Ethics & Compliance Officers Association (ECOA) and a member of the Defense Industry Initiative (DII), which is a body of US-based defense companies who seek to lead the industry in respect to ethical conduct. October 2013| UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress| Supreme Group Marketing and Communications| Page 10 of 10
