volvo car group sustainability report 2012 Table of contents Our achievements in 2012: Highlights 1 Business ethics: integrity is never compromised 35 Our Code of Conduct  35 Letter from our CEO 4 Training our employees in compliance and ethics  36 Ethical business and anti-corruption  36 Our way of engaging with stakeholders  6 Fair competition  36 External audits undergone  36 Our impact on sustainability 9 Public dialogue and leading change  36 Responsible business 10 Feature: Business ethics beyond regulation 37 Our sustainability mission 10 Our responsibility  10 Suppliers and partners as part of our sustainability work 38 Sustainability in our day-to-day business  11 Our commitments to sustainability  11 Always one step ahead – Our product responsibility 40 Our economic performance 11 Research and collaboration  40 Financial implications of climate change  12 Marketing our products  41 Quality for a Scandinavian premium brand  41 Feature: The Volvo Adventure 13 Leadership in safety 41 Safety highlights 42 Our responsibility towards the environment 14 Our safety performance  42 Managing our environmental impacts  14 Holistic view of safety – five phases to improve vehicle safety 44 Reducing the CO2 emissions of our cars 15 Reducing fuel consumption of diesel and petrol engines 15 About Volvo Cars 45 CO2 emissions of our cars  16 Our products  45 Electrification  16 A global company  46 Renewable fuels 17 Significant events in 2012  46 Materials and recycling 17 Our governance structure 47 Zero environmental accidents in our production  18 Minimising our water footprint 18 About our sustainability reporting  49 Towards climate-neutral production 18 Managing our emissions to air  20 GRI Index 50 Reducing waste in our production  21 Our operations in protected areas  22 Glossary54 Sustainable transport  22 Feature: Sustainable driving – What does it take?  23 Mobility of the future – Achievements in the past year 24 Autonomous driving technology  24 Avoiding collision 25 Strategic partnerships for future vehicle technologies 25 Volvo Cars – An attractive place to work 26 Strengthening diversity and inclusion 28 Health and safety of our employees 31 Feature: Our people in the spotlight 32 Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 Our achievements in 2012: Highlights Our achievements in 2012: Highlights Leadership in safety • It was announced in Geneva in February 2013 that the Volvo V40 is now Our vision for 2020 is that no one should be killed or severely injured in available in a manual D2 version with CO2 emissions down to 88 g/km, a new Volvo car. To achieve this goal, we continued our long tradition of which translates into fuel consumption of 3.4 l/100 km. research and other efforts to enhance security in and around the cars • Our fleet average of CO2 decreased with 5.3%. On a yearly basis, car throughout 2012. Extensive independent safety testing is part of this makers get individual CO2 targets per brand from the European Union. ambition. Our highlights for 2012 are listed below: In 2012, the average fleet CO2 emission for newly registered Volvo cars in the EU was 144 g/km and we are well on track to meet the • O ur most significant product announcement of 2012 was the launch of 2012-2015 EU target. the All-New Volvo V40 in the spring of 2012. It offers two world-first safety systems – the innovative Pedestrian Detection system and the groundNew technology breaking Pedestrian Airbag Technology. We aim to be a leader in autonomous driving and plug-in hybrid technology • The  V40 received the top rating of five stars in the European New Car and we are investing heavily in new technology, such as cars powered by Assessment Programme (Euro NCAP) collision test – the overall result electricity. Highlights for 2012 include: was the best ever recorded by the institute. • T he large-scale European Field Operational Test on Active Safety Systems • T he European SARTRE (Safe Road Trains for the Environment) project, (EuroFOT) final report confirms that our systems to help drivers avoid in which we are the first and only participating car manufacturer, was incidents and collisions deliver significant benefits. A car with adaptive successfully completed in 2012. The road train offers the best of two cruise control and collision warning reduces the risk of colliding with the worlds – enjoying all the multi-tasking possibilities of public transportation, vehicle in front on a motorway by up to 42%. One hundred Volvo V70 behind the wheel of the customer’s own car, while also contributing to and XC70 models, with a total of 263 drivers, participated in the EuroFOT lower CO2 emissions and a safer driving environment. research project. All cars were fitted with cameras and sensors that • T he Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid reached the first customers in the autumn of registered every second of every journey for 18 months, which meant 2012, with the first ‘Pure Limited’ cars sold out even before they reached that every little incident and situation could be studied and evaluated. the showrooms. The V60 Plug-in Hybrid is the world’s first diesel-powered • The China–Sweden Research Centre for Traffic Safety in Beijing, China plug-in hybrid. It is an electric car, a highly economical hybrid and a was inaugurated. Apart from Volvo Cars, the other research partners in the powerful high-performance car – all rolled into one. project are Volvo Group, Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg, • D uring the Detroit Auto Show in January 2012, we revealed the Volvo the Chinese Ministry of Transport’s Research Institute of Highway and XC60 Plug-in Hybrid Concept – a unique blend of gasoline and electric Tongji University in Shanghai. The research centre focuses on a number of power. areas, such as improving traffic safety in Sweden and China and promoting • T he strategic partnership between Volvo Cars and Siemens was continued the exchange of technology and knowledge between both countries. during the year with the intention to jointly spearhead the development of The Centre will also act as a platform for research into traffic safety and electric cars. We started testing a new fast-charger for electric cars that supporting government decision-making in matters relating to traffic safety. cuts recharging time to an outstanding 1.5 hours – six times faster than today’s on-board devices. Improved care for the environment Care for the environment characterises all operations within our company, Volvo Cars – An attractive place to work from development to sales and service. We are pursuing our environmental Working at Volvo Cars means working for a global employer in an goals by increasing fuel efficiency in our conventional cars, introducing international setting. Since 2009, we have seen an overall positive trend in electrification and making our manufacturing more efficient. In 2012, we terms of our internal employer attractiveness. The possibility of training and focused on minimising the energy loss by developing efficient engines, development is something that our employees highlight as an advantage of transmissions and electrical systems. Furthermore, we continuously seek working at Volvo Cars. Many employees say that their colleagues and the perfection in aerodynamic shape while at the same time reducing weight atmosphere at work are the main reasons why they want to work and and minimising mechanical losses of our cars. We have an overall target to continue working at Volvo Cars. During 2012, we also saw a positive trend continuously reduce our total energy consumption, and our aim is to be in terms of our external employer attractiveness. For the first time ever, we climate-neutral. We also took far-reaching steps to cut water consumption made it onto the list of the world’s most attractive employers. According to in the production process and to minimise emissions to groundwater, air the Universum global talent attraction index: ‘The World’s Most Attractive and soil. Highlights in this area are listed below: Employers 2012’, Volvo Cars is ranked 43rd among career seekers with an engineering background from the world’s 12 greatest economies. • W e have a zero tolerance policy towards environmental accidents. During 2012 no serious environmental incident was reported. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 1 Our achievements in 2012: Highlights We aspire to achieve world-class performance when it comes to the health Awards received and safety of our employees. Sick leave among Volvo Cars’ employees in In the reporting period, we received the following awards for our products. Sweden and Belgium has been falling slowly but steadily over the past few Full details can be found on the web, via the Volvo Car Group Global years. In 2012, Volvo Cars recorded two consecutive years of the all-time low Newsroom www.media.volvocars.com figure of 4.4% sickness absenteeism in Sweden. Work-related accidents are monitored and followed up to avoid future occurrences. In 2012, we reached a result of 0.55 LTCR (the number of injuries resulting in at least one day of sick leave per 200,000 hours worked). V40 • T echnical Innovation Of The Year: Pedestrian Airbag – Czech Car Of The Year Jury, 2013, Czech Republic • Trophée De La Sécurité – L’Automobile Magazine, 2013, France • Car Of The Year – Greek Car Of The Year Jury, 2013, Greece • P remium Car Of The Year – Chilean Association of Automotive Journalist, 2013, Chile • Business Car Of The Year 2013 – Business Denmark Union & Jyllands-Posten, 2013, Denmark • B est Compact Car Of The Year (Import) – Auto Motor und Sport, • Golden Steering Wheel – Auto Swiat, 2013, Poland 2013, Germany • Golden Steering Wheel Award – Auto Bild Magazine, 2013, Croatia • C ompact Car Of The Year, AMI Insurance & Autocar New Zealand, • M ost Attractive Small and Compact Car – Auto Tip/Auto Bild 2013, New Zealand Design Award, 2013, Czech Republic • C ompact Family Car Of The Year – Irish Motoring Writers • F avourite Compact Car – ‘Readers Car’ award, Editorial Prensa Association, 2013, Ireland Ibérica & La Vanguardia, 2013, Spain • S afest Car Of The Year – Croatian Automotive Journalist • Winter Car Of The Year – Tekniikan Maailma magazine, 2013, Finland Association, 2013, Croatia • S afety Award for World’s first Pedestrian Airbag – Scottish Car • Award for Safety – Croatian Automotive Experts Association, of the Year Awards, 2012 2013, Croatia • Executive Hatchback Award – Scottish Car of the Year Awards, 2012 • P aul Pietch Award for Outstanding Innovation for Pedestrian Airbag – Auto Motor und Sport, 2013, Germany • T op choice for Safety and best in Small Family class 2012 – Euro NCAP, 2012 V60 S60 • B est Performing Family Car – Allianz Asian Auto-VCA Industry • C ar Of The Year – Best Safety Technology, Bangkok International Award, 2012, Malaysia Motor Show, 2012, Thailand • Full-sized Sedan of the Year – Car & Bike Awards, 2012, India • A utomotive Technology of the Year – ET Zigwheels Awards, 2012, India Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 2 Our achievements in 2012: Highlights Key sustainability data 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Trend1 Creating value Total sales (retail deliveries) 421,951 449,255 373,525 334,808 374,297 458,323 ( ) Assuming social responsibility Product responsibility Safety test results Share of independent tests where Volvo Cars received the highest 95 89 88 80 70 69 ( ) rank (%) Occupational health and safety Health 4.4 4.4 4.5 4.7 5.0 5.5 ( ) Sick leave per available hours (%) Occupational injuries Number of injuries resulting in at least one day of sick leave 0.55 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.9 1.5 ( ) per 200,000 worked hours Diversity and equal opportunity Gender balance. Share of women in leading positions (%) 21.3 21 19.6 18.7 18.5 18.0 ( ) Gender balance. Ratio of basic salary of women to men (white 0.97 0.97 0.790 0.994 0.974 n/a ( ) collar; average for eight salary grade levels. ‘SGD’ – ‘sgk’) Ratio of basic salary of women to men (bluecollar; average for five 0.99 0.99 1.010 1.034 1.027 n/a ( ) salary grade levels “41-42” – “49-50”) Employment Total workforce 22,715 21,512 19,494 19,650 22,732 24,384 ( ) Rate of employee turnover 2.8 2.3 3.3 12.8 9.2 9.1 ( ) Promoting ecological sustainability Emissions from product Fuel efficiency 143 151 157 173 182 190 ( ) Fleet average CO2 in EU (g/km) Energy use in car production Total energy consumption in car production (MWh) 798,487 815,3012 837,7852 713,079 816,581 916,669 ( ) Emissions from production Total carbon dioxide emissions (tonnes) 61,670 62,9222 67,585 58,980 68,367 126,735 ( ) NOx emissions (tonnes) 72 80 85 71 90 101 ( ) SOx emissions (tonnes) <1 <1 <1 <1 <1 1 ( ) VOC emissions (tonnes) 796 828 738 527 712 740 ( ) Hazardous waste (tonnes) 10,837 11,439 9,087 5,594 9,320 11,395 ( ) 1 Trend indicates our progress in relation to Volvo Cars’ goals and vision. A plus sign (+) indicates that the company is moving in the right direction toward our goals, a minus sign (–) indicates that actions need to be taken for the company to develop towards our desired direction. 2 Restated. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 3 Letter from our CEO Letter from our CEO Dear Stakeholder, It is with great pride that I share with you Volvo Car Group’s accomplishments in the field of sustainability during 2012. We are a relatively small car maker, but our brand is strong and so is our heritage in the areas of environment and social awareness. At Volvo Cars, we want to utilise our strengths in technical excellence and innovation – represented by our co-workers – to push the envelope in terms of sustainable mobility. I strongly believe we will make it. However grim the global economy, especially in Europe, it does not affect our determination. We are transforming our company to become a solid premium brand, with China as our second home market and where sustainable mobility is an important part of the brand and product delivery, today and in the years to come. I strongly believe we will make it. However grim the global economy, especially in Europe, it does not affect our determination. Håkan Samuelsson President & CEO Volvo Car Group We believe strongly that our combination of fuel efficiency and efficient manufacturing with intuitive human-centred design and safety innovations serves both our customers and society. We continue the exciting path on our electrification strategy. Our innovative, world-first diesel Plug-in hybrid reached the first customers during the year. These cars sold out before they reached the showrooms. This unique car is the product of close cooperation with the Swedish electricity supplier Vattenfall. In terms of production, it has been successfully integrated in the established production flow together with other conventional car models at the plant in Gothenburg. Together with our partner Siemens, we are securing a leadership position in electromobility. The first fleet of our C30 electric generation II with a new electric engine will be on the roads in 2013. These cars will have been upgraded with a new electric engine and a new inverter from Siemens and will have an extended range and better and faster charging capacity. In terms of fuel efficiency, we are also very proud that our V40, launched in 2012, is currently our most efficient model with CO2 emissions down at 88 g/km. During 2012, we confirmed our leadership in safety by introducing the world’s first pedestrian airbag technology in our new V40. This car delivered on our safety promise by receiving the best ever result recorded by the Euro NCAP institute. The SARTRE project (Safe Road Trains for the Environment), involving seven European partners where we were the first and only participating car manufacturer, was successfully completed in 2012. This unique project features the potential for implementing road trains on conventional highways, with platooned traffic operating in a mixed environment with other road users. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 4 Letter from our CEO is also under construction and will supply engines to Our human-centric culture is also one of the most important the Chengdu production. Establishing domestic production is the basis for means of attracting the right people. sustainable growth in China and we will do so according to our existing standards and ambitions in terms of sustainable and responsible business. Håkan Samuelsson President & CEO In 2013, most of the cars in our range will have been upgraded significantly in Volvo Car Group terms of both design and improved functionality. Later in 2013, an entirely new engine family, VEA (Volvo Engine Architecture) will be launched with improved fuel economy, considerably lower emissions and high performance output. Our human-centric culture is also one of the most important means of attracting the right people. The past year we have been expanding our company, welcoming new members to our global team primarily as part of Ever since the foundation of Volvo Cars in 1927, the humanour China growth. In 2012, we proved that we are an attractive employer centric approach has prevailed. Putting people in the centre from a global perspective when we made it onto a list of the top 50 most of our business has resulted in Volvo Cars’ attractive employers among engineers. world leadership in safety. We have recently established a new function in the company – the Corporate Håkan Samuelsson Compliance & Ethics office. This function will strengthen the Compliance and President & CEO Ethics programme with the overall objective to support everybody in the Volvo Car Group organisation in understanding the ethical norms and legislation that are relevant for our business in all our operations globally. Ever since the foundation of Volvo Cars in 1927, the human-centric approach We are in a stage of intensive development during which we will continue has prevailed. Putting people in the centre of our business has resulted in to build this company and the Volvo brand. We will continue to invest in Volvo Cars’ world leadership in safety. This approach is also the guiding technology and people that will help solve the big challenges, but also principle in how we treat our employees and our approach to society in identify new opportunities, in order to contribute to a more sustainable future. general. Recognising and actively trying to minimise the negative impact our products and operations have on the environment is one effect of our culture. We acknowledged it back then and we are still acknowledging right now that we have a great responsibility. Håkan Samuelsson In 2013 we will inaugurate our first Chinese manufacturing plant in Chengdu. President & CEO Volvo Car Group An international team of experienced co-workers from Sweden and Belgium Gothenburg, May 2013 together with new Chinese colleagues has been leading this project. The first cars will leave the plant at the end of 2013, with the same precision as the cars produced in our other plants in Europe. Our engine plant in Zhangjiakou Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 5 Our way of engaging with stakeholders Our way of engaging with stakeholders At Volvo Cars, we see an on-going and trustful interaction and dialogue with Customers our stakeholders as key to provide guidance as to how we shall develop our Our success as a company is built on satisfied customers. When we plan our work with sustainability. Following the disintegration of Ford Motor Company products and services, we do this on the basis of careful analyses of different in 2010, we are still developing the methods and the ways to interact with customers’ needs and desires. During the development phase of a product, key stakeholders in this aspect. One of the objectives is to gather inputs on we perform tests on how the proposed solutions are perceived by our which sustainability issues we should work on, and how we should work with consumers. When our cars have reached the market, we follow closely how these issues. Another objective is to develop an on-going two-way discussion they are received by media, through feedback from dealers, and by holding that can lead to collaboration on specific issues and mutual benefits. a dialogue with our customers. In addition to our on-going stakeholder engagement activities, we organised two structured stakeholder consultations in 2012. The first one was conducted An important question for the automotive industry is the as part of the development of our sustainability positioning. As a part of this development of urban communities which will increase process, we held interviews with Key Opinion Leaders from important significantly. It is unclear what kind of mobility will evolve, but stakeholder groups and conducted a workshop where we invited external it is likely that we will move less and use digital and web-based experts representing different thematic areas and markets. solutions to reduce travelling time. Our future infrastructure needs to be sustainable and resource efficient and needs to be The second engagement was part of our sustainability reporting process, and built upon a circular energy and resource supply efficiency, where it aimed to identify the issues that stakeholders see as most relevant for us to work with and report on. In this engagement process, we conducted two energy and materials are recycled and flow back into the system. internal workshops around two themes: our environmental performance and Johan Rockström our social performance. In these workshops we engaged our internal experts Professor and Executive Director to identify the most important issues within these themes. Furthermore, we Stockholm Resilience Centre asked 23 external stakeholders to provide us with their in-depth views and opinions on how we work with sustainability. We interviewed these stakeholders about our sustainability performance, our communication about Employees sustainability, and about the issues they see as most relevant for us to work Good relations between managers and co-workers are fundamental to a with and report on. good corporate culture within the company. Regular development meetings between employees and their immediate superiors are used to develop Our stakeholders personal development plans. Every year, we conduct an extensive, We maintain relationships with various stakeholders that influence or are anonymous survey among all employees. The results are discussed with the influenced by our operations – from customers and employees to business employees’ immediate superiors, out in the organisation’s teams – a process partners, organisations and the communities in which we operate. Each of that includes developing action plans in areas requiring improvement. To these groups represents a special responsibility and our goal is to be, and to ensure good relations between the company and its employees, we hold be perceived as, a responsible partner in all of our relationships. regular discussions with organisations representing the workforce, at the Our approach to stakeholder engagement local and central level. The Board includes three employee representatives Knowing what our most important stakeholders think and expect of their whose role is to ensure that their members’ interests and experiences are relationships with Volvo Cars is the key to our progress as a company. We represented at the highest level. Engineering and economics undergraduates know we can’t find solutions in isolation, so we have to build and nurture from universities are surveyed annually to measure their perception of Volvo open partnerships with a wide range of stakeholders. Our aim is to establish Cars as a potential future employer. open channels and hold regular meetings with our major stakeholders. We Dealers believe in good relations and mutual understanding towards all stakeholders. The national sales companies (NSCs) represent the main interface between For this reason, we participate in various networks, seminars and conferences the dealer network and Volvo Cars. Dealers and sales companies exchange to hear the views of others and to inform them about our work. We also views and information on an on-going basis, providing us with valuable encourage interested parties to contact us, for example, through our website information on the dealers’ situation and the specific conditions of the or at citizen@volvocars.com local market. We participate in a syndicated study known as the Dealer Satisfaction Survey, which reports independent information on dealers’ opinions regarding manufacturers and the support they provide. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 6 Our way of engaging with stakeholders Government, Public authorities, Politicians Media Suppliers Consumer Investors, associations, Banks, Industrial Insurance associations companies Peers, Competitors volvo Local communities cars Private Academia, opinion Universities, leaders Schools Dealers NGOs, Customers Environmental associations, Human rights organisations Overview of our stakeholder groups Suppliers Local communities Volvo Cars was founded in 1927 and some companies have been supplying In communities where we are a major employer, we hold regular meetings us since then. We have approximately 450 suppliers delivering components with local representatives. We inform them of our plans and learn how the to our cars and we value long-standing relationships and prefer to have one community seeks to develop. We also assess opportunities for cooperation. main supplier for each component area. Much of our product development is carried out in cooperation with suppliers in joint projects. Daily liaison is I believe in continuous work on safety and progressive work essential if we are to understand our suppliers’ expectations of us and vice with the environment, especially with focus on emissions from versa. The negotiations preceding each new agreement with a supplier are the cars. It is really about a broader definition of safety; in a also a major opportunity to exchange information and feedback. Another long-term perspective it is about our planet and in the short important interface involves our supplier open days, at which all suppliers term safety concerns people. can exchange information and establish contacts. Anneli Hultén Owners Mayor of the City of Gothenburg Since August 2010, Volvo Cars has been an independent company under the ownership of the Zhejiang Geely Holding Group. Many interfaces exist between the parties in terms of overall strategic issues and joint projects. Non-profit organisations and authorities Zhejiang Geely Holding evaluates Volvo Cars’ performance in both financial We are represented in a large number of groups and organisations pursuing and non-financial terms through the Board of Volvo Car Group. or monitoring various issues at local, regional and national levels. We maintain on-going dialogue with authorities on various issues such as the environment and safety. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 7 Our way of engaging with stakeholders Issues and concerns raised by our stakeholders The table below presents an overview of the issues stakeholders raised in our stakeholder consultations in 2012. Stakeholder group Key issues identified How we are addressing these issues • T o ensure social and environmental sustainability throughout supply chain. See ‘Suppliers and partners as part of our Employees sustainability work’ and ‘Our way of engaging • To measure and follow up supplier performance. with stakeholders’ • To develop partnerships between business and society. • To develop technologies to reduce (CO2) emissions. See ‘Towards climate-neutral production’, ‘Suppliers • To ensure sustainability throughout the whole supply chain. Suppliers and partners as part of our sustainability work’ and • T o include environment, health, safety and social issues in ‘Marketing our products’ marketing strategies. • To work towards fuel efficiency. See ‘Reducing the CO2 emissions of our cars’, • To develop a new, circular and climate-smart business model. Academia ‘Mobility of the future’ and ‘Managing our • T o work with LCAs to get a picture of the environmental impact environmental impacts’ of all car models. Peers/competitors • To take a holistic approach to sustainability. See ‘Our impact on sustainability’ • T o take responsibility for the environment in production, use and Dealers See ‘Managing our environmental impacts’ recycling phase of a car. • To continuously develop safety and responsibility issues. See ‘Always one step ahead – Our product Authorities • T o see environmental issues in the long run as a safety issue responsibility’ and ‘Financial implications of as well. climate change’ • To maintain world-class safety performance. See ‘Always one step ahead – Our product Owner responsibility’ and ‘Our responsibility towards the • To make a great contribution to the environment. environment’ • T o keep up high environmental and safety standards and meet See ‘Always one step ahead – Our product Investors future consumers’ expectations. responsibility’ and ‘Health and Safety of our • To ensure a good working environment for all employees. employees’ • To develop a zero emission fleet. See ‘Reducing the CO2 emissions of our cars’ NGOs • T o have the same environmental performance standards for and ‘Suppliers and partners as part of our production sites and suppliers around the world. sustainability work’ Media • To retain image as a premium brand with a high safety track record. See ‘Leadership in safety’ Industry and consumer • To produce reliable products. See ‘Always one step ahead – Our product associations • To secure the good and trustworthy reputation of the brand. responsibility’ Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 8 Our impact on sustainability Our impact on sustainability Sustainable profitability is a key success factor for our company. We are aware that there is an enormous challenge ahead of us if we are However, our short-term challenges in the current business climate and to reach the expected EU goal of a maximum 95 gCO2/km by 2020. the demands on balancing costs and revenue remain. Global economic Efficiency and electrification are key to achieving this goal. The new Scalable uncertainty is likely to continue to affect consumer confidence and the tough Product Architecture (SPA) and the new engine range Volvo Engine competition in the car industry will continue. 2013 is expected to be a Architecture (VEA) are two examples of how we are approaching this in challenging year in terms of margins and growth. In the shortto mid-term, terms of investments for the future. Limiting CO2 emissions and curbing increasing investments in new products and markets will affect profitability. climate change also encompass the environmental effects of our production Additionally, continued volatility in raw materials and exchange rates may facilities and logistics flows. impact results. As a result of this, we had to adapt production capabilities especially in our factories. What we call Corporate Social Responsibility today, started at Volvo Cars with commitments towards safety and the In 2012, we continued to expand our Chinese operations. Our current environment. These commitments are assets that our owner full-fledged business operations in Shanghai include product development, design, purchasing and staff support functions. The expansion of our Geely Holding sees as valuable. The commitments now need Chinese retailer network and industrial system goes hand in hand with the to be fully embraced by our Chinese operations – especially in recruitment of talented people to add the competence needed. A new terms of the environment, social responsibility and development manufacturing plant in Chengdu is the next step and will be a milestone in of technology. Volvo Cars’ ambitious industrial strategy. This plant will be up and running in Hans-Olov Olsson the second half of 2013. Our expansion in China will have an impact on Vice Chairman of the sustainability. We are committed to have equal environmental, safety and Volvo Car Group Board labour standards in China compared with our current operations and our Chinese suppliers will face equal demands when it comes to sustainability. Where and when needed, we will invest in trainings and other supporting Road accidents are a serious problem; as many as 50 million people are activities for both our employees and our suppliers. injured in road accidents annually and approximately 1.3 million die as a result of such accidents. For this reason, we have a strong commitment to In the long term, we see that the demand for cars will be increasing as the continue strengthening our work with safety and product responsibility. world population is growing and urban, middle-class incomes are rising We want to offer cars that are safe for all people in all imaginable traffic rapidly – especially in countries like China. We are determined to contribute situations. The key to success in this respect is to design safety systems that to this development in a responsible and sustainable way, by helping are smart and that interact with one another. We base our research on a customers to make sustainable, conscious choices when it comes to mobility. variety of parameters, including data obtained from actual road accidents, Our objective is to create a car that is both sustainable and meets the with the vision of building cars that do not crash. In the shorter perspective, customer’s needs and expectations concerning design, safety, quality the aim is that by 2020 no one should be killed or injured in a new Volvo car. and comfort. Another important issue is the improvement of the in-car environment, We will also continue to develop our work on reducing our impact on such as the reduction of nickel and of allergens in the passenger cabin resource scarcity – an issue that we see as a high risk for our business. and improved air quality. There are no societal standards for in-car air, The foreseen shortages in raw materials such as aluminium, as well as so we have created our own in-car air quality requirements that are used energy shortages and increases in fuel prices, will seriously affect our when developing new Volvo models. Our systematic work in this area has business. Therefore, we are committed to contribute to the development of resulted in the Swedish Asthma and Allergy Association now recommending a circular economy. We have invested in reuse and recycling of raw materials several Volvo models. and energy in our operations and will increase our efforts in this field. The long-term strategy for reducing material intensity within the operations is to Violations of human rights entail a risk factor. We believe the best way to increase the amount of sustainable material; in other words renewable and generate long-lasting improvement and thereby reduce potential risks is by recycled content. combining a clear Code of Conduct with continuous dialogue, training and audits. During 2010, we started to update our Code of Conduct and in 2011 Motor vehicles and other forms of transport have a significant impact on the it was communicated to employees, suppliers and other business partners. environment, particularly due to the role of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions in During 2012, we conducted Supply Chain Responsibility training for climate change. We are committed to our vision of developing cars entirely suppliers. This supplier training raises awareness and promotes sound free from harmful exhaust emissions and environment-impacting CO2. Our working conditions, environmental responsibility and business ethics at customers can now choose between a range of models with CO2 emissions supplier facilities and in supply chains. We have also developed an audit plan below 120 g/km or even lower. The Volvo V40 is now available with CO2 covering both direct and indirect material suppliers that will be implemented emissions down to 88 g/km. in 2013. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 9 Responsible business Responsible business For us at Volvo Cars, sustainable development means seeking to establish a • Create employment balance between the needs of the company, our customers, the society and • Contribute to knowledge future generations. Our business objectives and sustainability commitments • B e honest, transparent and active within the communities in which we operate should complement one another; we believe in creating value in our business and society alike. • Create value for Volvo Cars as well as for the society Our customers and employees have high expectations of Volvo Cars in terms Our responsibility of environmental care and social responsibility. Competition is tough – not We see our responsibility towards sustainability in terms of three important only for customers, but also for skills. We know that having a good reputation roles – those of a car maker, a global company and a local player. strengthens our brand and correspondingly makes it easier to recruit and Responsibility as a car maker retain employees. We also know that an understanding of the long-term As a car manufacturer, we provide personal transport solutions that benefit challenges facing society is a force for innovation and generates business individual freedom and wellbeing, as well as contributing to socio-economic opportunities. Our decision to commit actively to sustainability is based on development. However, we acknowledge that cars also contribute to negative the conviction that this will reinforce our competitiveness in both the short mobility issues, such as congestion, noise and air pollution. It is our and long term. Ultimately, we realise that our stakeholders determine how responsibility to minimise the negative impact of our products through well we live up to our responsibility. They determine our success by buying sustainable product strategies. our products, working productively and doing business with us. Responsibility as a global company Our sustainability mission The reputation of the Volvo brand is one of our greatest assets. It helps us Sustainability is central to all our decisions and investments; it is the key to attract expertise from around the world and source the best components to successful and ethical business. As the responsibility of every manager and build the highest quality cars. Our supply chain and dealer network provide employee, sustainability is based on our mission and on company-wide us with global coverage. As a result, our global responsibility extends to guidelines. Above all, it is a mind-set whereby we as individuals consider the everything that we buy and sell. Through systematic efforts, we seek to social and environmental consequences of our day-to-day decisions. Our ensure that both we and our partners live up to high standards – regardless company mission requires us to act in an environmentally and socially of geographical location. Volvo Cars’ commitment to these issues can for responsible manner. Among other things, this means we must: example, be seen in the stringent policies in our supplier agreements with • Be a reliable employer and business partner regard to environmental controls, the treatment of staff and respect for human rights. • T ake environmental and social issues into account in product development, purchasing, production and distribution Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 10 Responsible business Responsibility as a local player Our commitments to sustainability Our employees, the communities in which we operate and local authorities In 1999, we were one of the first companies to heed former UN Secretary are our most important local stakeholders. As an employer, we have a General Kofi Annan’s appeal to become a signatory to the principles of the responsibility to provide a safe and healthy work environment. We achieve UN Global Compact. Having signed the UN Global Compact in 2000, we this through systematic efforts on health and safety, by sharing knowledge have since then supported the precautionary principle. Our decisions are and by carefully considering the social and environmental impact of made on the basis of the information available on each particular occasion. purchasing, production and distribution. Local environmental impact is an Nonetheless, inadequate or unreliable information is often a strong indication issue that we take very seriously. All of our production facilities are certified that caution is advisable, both from a business perspective and in a broader, according to the ISO 14001 environmental management system. Examples societal context. of environmental measures at our production plants include on-going work to enhance energy efficiency and switching to electricity produced from Internally and in cooperation with stakeholders, we are pursuing a wide range renewable resources. Some of the ways in which we identify key issues in of actions to help us understand and manage the way our products interact our role as a local player are through our employee attitude survey, dialogues with the environment. Our ‘Clean Compartment’ work is an example of efforts with the local community, and cooperation with local authorities. in line with the precautonary principle. This reduces health risks for passengers with asthma or allergies by replacing interior trim with materials Sustainability in our day-to-day business exceeding the requirements of current legislation. In operational terms, business planning forms the base on which we manage our sustainability activities. Our sustainability strategy is integrated in our The UN Global Compact is not our only commitment. Our Code of Conduct Business Strategy and most important business processes. Issues of stands as a general endorsement of the following human rights frameworks environment, personnel, safety, purchasing, diversity, etc., are planned and and charters: monitored according to the structures, policies and guidelines in our Business • T he eight core conventions of the UN agency the International Labour Management System. This means that sustainability results are Organisation: Child Labour (138 and 182), Forced Labour and Compulsory communicated to the employees concerned in the course of their ordinary Labour (29 and 105), Equal Remuneration and Discrimination (100 and work. The workforce as a whole is kept up to date on the company’s 111), Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining (87 and 98) programmes through our intranet, articles in our in-house magazine Agenda, newsletters, and direct email communication with managers; managers in • The 10 principles of the Global Compact turn are responsible for communicating with their teams. The overall situation • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is described annually in this report. • UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Our executive management team consists of experienced members • OECD guidelines for multinational companies representing all sections of the value chain and certain support functions. Our economic performance A number of councils have been established at the overall company level Full-year sales for Volvo Cars amounted to 421,951 cars in 2012, a to monitor and pursue issues related to sustainability. We have established deterioration of 6.1% versus 2011. Europe is the largest region in terms a Sustainability Steering Committee with members from the Executive of number of sold cars, while the US is the largest single market. Several Management team (Corporate Communications, Legal and Human markets reported significant improvements, particularly emerging and Resources) as well as the head of the Environmental Committee, the Chief overseas markets, while the economic situation in mature markets and Compliance & Ethics Officer and the Director of Sustainability Communication. regions adversely affected consumer demand for new cars. The phase-out of At the operational level, the appropriate officer or function (e.g. the Health the Volvo C30, S40 and V50 models impacted sales during the year as the and Safety Director or the Diversity Manager, etc.) is responsible for ensuring new Volvo V40 was launched towards the end of the year and therefore did that relevant issues are discussed at the level at which decisions on not reach full effect in affected markets. This factor, as well as the economic strategies, goals and actions can be taken. situation in Europe, is the main explanation behind the deterioration in full-year sales. Our decisions in the area of sustainability are supported by a number of company policies. Central among these are the policies on environment, Operating income for 2012 was MSEK 18, compared to MSEK 2,017 safety and quality. Several of our policies are undergoing updates, or have in 2011. Profitability was affected by a weaker sales situation, in particular in been updated during the past few years. Based on the principles of the UN the European markets, as well as increased costs to support the expansion Global Compact and our Code of Conduct, our vision is that good working plans of Volvo Cars. The long-term financial objective for Volvo Car Group is conditions shall prevail and that human rights shall be respected throughout to deliver top industry return on invested capital. To support this long-term our value chain. Our suppliers’ compliance with guidelines and principles objective of sustainable profitability, the Group is currently in a heavy represents part of our on-going collaboration. During 2011, we developed investment phase delivering new technology and new market opportunities our first Code of Conduct as a standalone company following the separation in China, for example. from Ford Motor Company in 2010. To read more about our financial performance, please see our The code is aimed at all company employees, all suppliers that Volvo Cars financial report 2012. www.volvocars.com/financials does business with, all dealers that sell the products of Volvo Cars and all other representatives that conduct business on behalf of the company. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 11 Responsible business Financial implications of climate change Limiting CO2 emissions and curbing climate change is a tough challenge. Climate change is one of the greatest threats to our planet. Currently, However, we are determined to meet this challenge and we also expect other some 24% of global anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions come from key players to contribute. Although our environmental improvements and transport. About half of these are from road transport (according to the IEA efforts to reduce climate impact focus mainly on vehicle development, they and the OECD). To be environmentally sustainable, the vehicles of the future also encompass the environmental effects of our production facilities and will have to be very efficient and capable of running on renewable fuels. logistics flows. Limiting climate change and making the best possible use Responding to the challenges of climate change is fundamental for us. The of the Earth’s resources will require innovative cooperation between all question is given highest priority and is addressed at our senior governance stakeholders – nationally and internationally. Climate change therefore poses level. Reducing energy consumption and the dependence on fossil fuels is a major challenge but also a great opportunity for technical development. We critical to our survival as a company. have a long tradition of developing systems and functions for our cars that have benefited society in general. The Lambda sensor (a three-way catalytic Potential economic risks to our business operations that affect profitability converter) and the three-point seat belt are Volvo Cars inventions that have include increased raw material prices, rising oil prices and currency exchange become standard in cars worldwide. fluctuations. Increased awareness and concern among consumers about human-induced climate change, combined with rising fuel prices, has led to greater consumer interest in more fuel-efficient vehicles. Increased demands are also being made by decision-makers, with the EU regulations limiting emissions from new cars to no more than 130 gCO2/km from 2015, with phase-in requirements already effected in the past year. TOTAL SALES, REVENUE AND OPERATING INCOME Wholesales Net revenue Operating income 500 150 2,000 400 1,500 100 Thousand BSEK MSEK 300 1,000 200 50 100 500 0 0 0 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Sales were affected by a challenging market Revenue fell to BSEK 124.5 with lower sales volumes Operating income decreased to MSEK 18 due to environment and fell by 6.1 per cent. Wholesales, partly offset by positive exchange rate developments lower revenues and sales and increased costs due to sales to dealers, fell to 432,950 units. expansion plans. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 12 Feature: The Volvo Adventure Feature: The Volvo Adventure Now in its 12th year, Volvo Adventure, an educational programme run in Just as significant as the chance to win are the lessons that the youngsters partnership with the United Nations Environment Programme, encourages learn on the way. There are plenty of reports of how participation in Volvo teenagers to identify a local environmental problem and come up with Adventure has been the start of something really big. Youth leader Wayne creative solutions. The global competition is aimed primarily at young people Talbot is responsible for the competition’s educational content: “Last year’s aged between 13 and 16 who take part in teams of 2 to 5 participants. winners came from Paraguay and ran a project that dealt with combating dengue fever. When the youngsters returned from the awards ceremony, there was an outbreak of dengue fever in Paraguay. The country’s president got in Volvo Adventure is an excellent example of our touch with the project leader and their project is being implemented throughout dedication to environmental issues outside our own Paraguay. It’s an absolutely fantastic development,” says Wayne Talbot. operation – we help make a difference. Erica Wikman Director Sustainability Communication For the organisers it is always a difficult challenge to select the year’s finalists. From among the hundreds of fantastic, innovative and exciting contributions, the 10 best are chosen and go on to the finals in Gothenburg. “When the contributions start coming in it’s a bit like Christmas Day – we receive fun drawings, beautiful books and project descriptions that move us to tears. It’s a very difficult, but at the same time, a very rewarding job to go through them,” says Kikki Hugestrand, Corporate Events at Volvo Cars with responsibility for Volvo Adventure. “‘We have seen many great examples of projects that have been started up and proven to work over time they have led to real change. Sustainable change. From the team from Macedonia whose project to save threatened water buffalo has resulted renewed efforts to safeguard the species, to one of our teams from the USA who are now working with their peers in Paraguay and Brazil to implement their programme from 2012. The young people who take part in the competition say they do not care about the prize money but that it is the recognition of their work that is most important,” says Wayne Talbot. We have seen many great examples of projects that have been started up and proven to work over time – they have led to real change. Sustainable change. Wayne Talbot The conditions for entry to the competition are high. A detailed account Educational Specialist of the project must be submitted, explaining how it fits in locally. Since the competition entries come from all parts of the world, where the prerequisites for the various participants can differ immensely, it is sometimes very difficult Volvo Adventure provides tomorrow’s decision-makers with an arena for to compare them. That is why considerable importance is attached to smart thoughts and ideas on how to create a better world. assessing the projects in their local contexts. For instance, if an entry is submitted from the USA or Sweden and it deals with recycling, the jury will take into account that these countries have already made considerable progress in this area. A similar project from Nairobi, on the other hand, where there are no recycling stations at all, may therefore be of greater interest. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 13 Our responsibility towards the environment Our responsibility towards the environment Managing our environmental impacts You can read our Environmental policy online. Our Environmental Strategy is not only an integrated part of the overall http://www.volvocars.com/intl/top/corporate/volvoBusiness Strategy – it is also included in all our projects and daily operations. sustainability/Documents/Environmental%20Policy%202013.pdf The Environmental Strategy is updated annually according to current business development and global challenges in order to achieve a competitive environmental performance. Specific focus areas, goals and Our environmental objectives key activities are defined for both products and operations. Goals for both areas, products and operations, have been defined. We shall work proactively to avoid environmental accidents and when it comes to water conservation, water emission performance, energy efficiency and Focus areas – Product: climate-neutral operations, we want to be among the industry’s leaders. We • Energy consumption and emissions have also developed local environmental targets for operations to encourage • Electrification and alternative fuels the whole company to work continuously with the Environmental Strategy. • Interior environment At Volvo Cars, we strive for continuous improvements in our environmental • Materials and recycling performance. We continually follow up environmental objectives and action plans of our operations. We also report continually on these objectives in the Focus areas – Operations: systematic target-setting process. There is a systematic connection between • Zero environmental accidents the management and shop-floor level, which stimulates a strong commitment • Water conservation and water emission performance (water footprint) from all employees. As part of the strengthened environmental target-setting process throughout our company, we report quarterly to the Executive • Energy efficiency and climate-neutral operations Management Team (including results of environmental accidents, energy • Emissions to air efficiency projects and water consumption). Furthermore, we have • Total waste management implemented a process that clearly incorporates the environment in the start-up phase of a project. In the very early phases of a project, standardised • Soil and ground water management tools are used to secure environmental performance and compliance • Sustainable transport throughout the project. Our responsibilities and compliance Environmental policy The Senior Vice President Manufacturing is the executive management Our environmental policy includes the following statements: representative for environmental issues within the Executive Management We shall endeavour to reduce the environmental impact from our Team. Volvo Cars Environmental Committee, a cross-functional committee, products by: manages the Environmental Strategy and environmental targets related to • Continually improving fuel efficiency of our vehicles operations. Common environmental issues covering product, operations and communication are handled within the Committee, such as environmental • Developing alternative solutions for vehicle propulsion strategy and targets, audits, educations and reports. Each quarter the • Reducing carbon footprint by use of sustainable materials Environmental Committee reports to the Executive Management Team. We shall endeavour to reduce the environmental impact from our Product-related issues are governed by the Product Board, headed by operations by: the Senior Vice President Product Strategy and Vehicle Line Management. • Constantly seeking energy-efficient processes The Attribute Managers at Research & Development have the operative • Decreasing our complete footprint concerning water responsibility. The Director of Environmental Protection monitors compliance • Minimising waste by Volvo Cars’ plants worldwide with applicable environmental legislation. We work proactively to meet upcoming legislation and also to shape it as a part • Working towards sustainable transport solutions of a review process from policy-makers. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 14 Our responsibility towards the environment We have a programme for internal audits concerning the environment, the Reducing the CO2 emissions of our cars operational management system and legal compliance as well as dangerous Our approach goods, to monitor our operations and thus find scope for improvement. We Limiting CO2 emissions of vehicles is a challenge for everyone in the work intensively to really improve our operations, as quality has a high impact automotive business. Different countries and regions set up different on the environmental performance. Remediation plans are created for all regulations on energy or fuel use and CO2 emissions. Planning our product audit findings. Major audit findings get highest priority. range therefore involves a careful analysis of the need to meet future legal regulations, in combination with a thorough analysis of foreseen customer Volvo Cars has been ISO 14001 certified since the early 1990s. As required expectations of our products. This is a demanding task as the automotive in the ISO 14001 standard, we have implemented a Business Management industry has very long lead-times, where many years pass between initial System (BMS) where a description of how Volvo Cars manages and runs the planning and the launch of a new product. We annually monitor and follow business is documented. The environmental focus areas (see above) are an up the progress in regard to CO2 emissions from our products. integral part of the ISO 14001 system. There is an annual review process to ensure the BMS is fully up to date. Every year an external auditor performs Reducing fuel consumption of diesel and audits at Volvo Cars to ensure that the standards are being met and petrol engines opportunities for improvement are being identified. We think that the most effective way to cut our product range’s total CO2 emissions in the short term is to reduce the fuel consumption of the diesel Training and awareness raising and petrol engines of our cars. This is because cutting the emissions of At Volvo Cars, we strive to make environmental issues a natural part of all many cars sold in large volumes will have a bigger total effect and bring relevant training and educational initiatives within the company. For example, favourable results more quickly than making huge cuts in a small number of a specific part of the competence development programme followed by all cars. We have introduced a range of high-efficiency diesel models with very employees who are training to become production team leaders, relates to low CO2 emissions. In addition, really efficient diesel engines featuring start/ environmental issues. The expert competence within specific environmental stop technology will be introduced across the entire product range in the issues is continuously kept up to date. coming years. During 2012, we also held training for our own employees on sustainability We offer a series of extremely fuel-efficient diesel models. The V40 is and responsibility in general, including information about the supply chain. currently the most efficient model with fuel consumption (EU combined) This training was mandatory for newly hired employees. For more information down to 3.4 l/100 km and CO2 emissions at 88 g/km. The Volvo S60 and on supply chain, please refer to the chapter titled ‘Suppliers and partners as V60 have CO2 emissions of just 103 g/km and 108 g/km respectively part of our sustainability work’, on page 38. – corresponding to fuel consumption of 3.9 and 4.1 l/100 km respectively. External communication These low fuel consumption and emission levels are the result of a number We communicate our work and our environmental performance from the of technological improvements, such as: product perspective continuously through press releases and other communication material available on our website. At our manufacturing site • Friction between gearbox components has been reduced at Torslanda, Sweden, we have an exhibition about our commitments to • The engine and gearbox software has been modified Environment & Safety that is open to the public. • T he start/stop system cuts off the diesel engine when the car is still rolling (below 5 km/h) Fuel efficiency is probably the number one sustainability topic • A ll electrical systems have been optimised to create lower energy for a vehicle manufacturer – including Volvo Cars. The industry consumption recognises its responsibility to deliver on-going environmental • T he grill shutter in V40, S60 and V60 reduces fuel consumption, due to improvements. In recent years, vehicle manufacturers have improved aerodynamic and faster warm up of engine plus transmission been investing huge resources in developing lower-emitting Our efficiency work also includes improvements to the petrol engines. By vehicles and technologies. In setting emission targets, a optimising the four-cylinder, 1.6-litre T3 engine (150 hp), which is available balanced approach is required that considers environmental, in the Volvo V40, S60 and V60, we have managed to bring fuel consumption economic and social factors. down to 5.3 l/100 km in the V40. This corresponds to CO2 emissions at 124 g/ km. Our new engine range, known as VEA – Volvo Engine Monika Bomba Architecture consists solely of four-cylinder engines which, in certain Technical Manager Environment, configurations, will benefit from enhanced performance through The Society of Motor Manufacturers electrification or other spearhead technology. The VEA engines will be and Traders Limited (SMMT), UK introduced later in 2013. We will furthermore develop four-cylinder engines with higher performance than today’s six-cylinder units, along with lower fuel consumption than the current generation of four-cylinder engines. We are also introducing a new 8-speed automatic gearbox, which gives the driver a refined drive and excellent fuel economy. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 15 Our responsibility towards the environment CO2 emissions of our cars The speed and intensity of electrification depends on legislation, the Under the EU Cars Regulation, the EU fleet average to be achieved by all technical development, the energy supply and customer demand. The new cars is 130 gCO2/km by 2015 and expected to be 95 g/km by 2020. environmental impact of electric-charged vehicles depends heavily on The 2015 target is being phased in from 2012. On a yearly basis, car makers the source of the electricity used for recharging by the car users. are given individual targets per brand, depending on the actual sales volume average mass of its fleet. If car makers do not meet the targets, they have to pay ‘excess emissions premiums’. The foreseen CO2 limit for Volvo Cars for 2015 is 146 g/km. We are well on track to meet the 2012-2015 EU target. The average CO2 emission in all new Volvo Cars’ vehicles sold in 2012 in all markets declined by 36% compared to 1995. Our fleet average (EU 15) of gCO2/km decreased from 151 in the previous year to 143 in 2012 (5.3%). Fuel efficiency Reduction achieved in average carbon dioxide emissions in Plug-in-hybrid all new Volvo Cars vehicles sold Fleet average during a year1 (%) (gCO2/km) 2012 36 143 Plug-in-hybrid cars 2011 33 151 Since 2012, customers have been able to buy the Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid, 2010 30 157 which can be recharged via a regular household electric socket. The Volvo 2009 23 173 V60 Plug-in Hybrid is the world’s first diesel-powered plug-in hybrid, giving 2008 19 185 owners an electric range of up to 50 km (30 miles) and fuel consumption of 1.8 l/100 km (120 miles per US gallon) in hybrid mode (European 2007 16 190 Certification driving cycle NEDC). It integrates the best properties from three 2006 14 193 different car types into an attractive sports wagon – by simply pressing a 1 EU 15. Monitored under the ACEA voluntary agreement to achieve a 25% reduction, industry wide, from 1995 level by 2008. button the driver can choose which car he or she wants to drive: an electric car with a range of up to 50 kilometres, a high-efficiency hybrid with carbon dioxide emissions averaging just 48 g/km, or a muscular performance car. Harmful emissions, other than CO2 Euro 5 is the EU classification regulating harmful emissions from the product, other than CO2 (for example NOx, SOx). The percentage of sold Volvo cars that complied with Euro 5/ULEV in 2012 increased by 4.2% compared to 2011, leading to a 98.2% compliance rate. Harmful emissions from products, other than co2 2012 2011 2010 Share of Volvo cars sold complying 98.2 94 54 with Euro 5/ULEV1 standards (%) 1 ULEV stands for ‘Ultra-Low Emission Vehicle’, and is an environmental classification in force in California that has set even higher demands for lower emissions than Euro 5 does. Volvo C30 – Electric Electrification Pure electric cars – C30 Electric Electrification represents an important and promising technological step on Electric cars are zero carbon emissions vehicles during use. Any emissions our way to create cars with reduced environmental impact. Our electrification created are indirect (coming from the original source of the electricity). Given strategy involves all levels – from hybrids to all-electric cars. that the batteries of electric cars are charged using the local power grid, electric cars are as clean as that grid. Further emissions are created during We have been demonstrating leadership in this area through the introduction production of the cars and during their end-of-life processes. of the world’s first diesel plug-in hybrid car and the development of all electric cars. We continue to focus on advanced green technology and are In 2011, we started low scale production of the Volvo C30 Electric. The fleet therefore investing heavily in new technology such as cars powered by of 250 cars is leased to customers in selected European countries and they electricity. are also currently operating in demonstration programmes in China, Sweden, Belgium, France, Holland and other European countries. The Volvo C30 Electric has a 24 kWh battery that is recharged from a regular household power socket. A full recharge takes 8 to 10 hours and the operating range is up to 150 kilometres per full charge. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 16 Our responsibility towards the environment Volvo Cars and Siemens have a strategic cooperation on electric cars and TOTAL MATERIAL BREAKDOWN during 2013 we will deliver a new demo fleet of another 100 improved pure electric C30 cars. These cars will have been upgraded with a new electric motor and a new inverter from Siemens and will have an extended range and S80 Polymers – 216kg Elastomer – 70kg better and faster charging capacity. In this project we introduce the world’s first fast-charger that operates on a three-phase supply and is small enough Glass – 42kg to be fitted in the car. A full charge takes 1.5 hours with a range of 164 km, while a 10-minute plug-in adds power for another 20 kilometres of driving. Others (incl. liquids, kg) This will support our aim to develop electric cars targeting no compromises. Metals* – 1,258kg – 75kg Siemens will be our supplier of electric engine technology in our coming car models on the SPA (Scalable Product Architecture) platform. S60 Polymers – 246kg Elastomer – 63kg Renewable fuels Alternative fuels, i.e. biofuels, are foreseen to be a necessary part of the global Glass – 48kg renewable energy strategy and an important means to reduce CO2 emissions. We believe that biofuels offer the opportunity to significantly reduce CO2 Others emissions in an efficient way; depending on how the fuels are produced. (incl. liquids, kg) Metals* – 1,178kg – 56kg We support clear and harmonised fuel quality standards in order to ensure car and engine compatibility with increase in low blending level of biofuels. We need to ensure affordability for consumers as well as feasibility for us as V40 CROSS COUNTRY Polymers – 253kg Elastomer – 66kg a manufacturer; the infrastructural capacity is also crucial in this regard. Glass – 37kg Europe’s bioethanol refuelling infrastructure is expanding, partly as a result of constructive cooperation between the car industry and several EU countries. Others Our track to increase the use of renewable fuels includes car models that are (incl. liquids, kg) tailored to run on multiple fuels. We offer models that are powered by petrol, Metals* – 1,087kg – 86kg diesel, ethanol and natural gas/biogas. Volvo Cars offers one of the car world’s broadest ranges of Flexifuel models. What is more, on several European markets there are aftermarket-converted gas models that can run V70 Polymers – 284kg Elastomer – 75kg on up to five fuels – natural gas, biogas, hythane (biomethane with low-blend hydrogen), E85 and petrol. Biogas in particular offers excellent environmental Glass – 50kg properties. Within the next few years, second-generation biofuels such as synthetic diesel will also be able to be used in Volvo’s cars. Filling up with Others (incl. liquids, kg) E85 instead of petrol can significantly reduce a car’s fossil carbon dioxide Metals* – 1,258kg – 111kg emissions. Materials and recycling XC60 Polymers – 293kg Elastomer – 82kg Our material usage is determined by the design requirements for each and every part in our cars. We use the global Restricted Substance Management Glass – 52kg Standard (RSMS) to prohibit substances toxic to human health or the environment. In addition, suppliers report the material content of all parts in detailed data sheets. Others (incl. liquids, kg) Metals* – 1,281kg – 104kg Amongst other goals, it was our aim to unify the material breakdowns of our car models in 2012 in order to allow for comparison within our portfolio. We partially achieved this goal. The following table shows the breakdown of 5 of *Metals breakdown S80 S60 V40 CROSS COUNTRY V70 XC60 12 car models. These figures refer to standardised vehicle models. The Ferrous metal (kg) 1,040 955 855 1,029 1,057 breakdowns can vary slightly depending upon customised features. Magnesium (kg) 7 11 3 7 7 Aluminium (kg 167 165 179 174 168 One of the overall goals in our work with product material is also to reduce Copper (kg) 27 23 25 24 24 the total vehicle weight, partly because this lowers fuel consumption and leads to a reduction of the overall CO2 emissions when the vehicle is used. Increased use of lightweight metals and composite materials is one approach to achieving this goal. The upcoming SPA (Scalable Product Architecture) models will be significantly lighter than current models of the same size. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 17 Our responsibility towards the environment Fresh water management 95% of the weight of a Volvo can be Based on the Water footprint calculations, we identified sites where water conservation has highest priority. Our ambition is to take the lead in water recovered and 85% can be recycled. conservation activities in areas with fresh water scarcity and to contribute with our competence and know-how in waste water treatment processes and closed loop systems. In such areas we work proactively to secure minimal Recycling environmental impact, for example when building the new engine plant in China. The long-term strategy for reducing material intensity within our operations is to increase the amount of sustainable material; in other words renewable Moreover, based on our environmental strategy we have established a structured and recycled content. Recycled input materials are divided into metallic and approach to reduce water consumption in each plant and to implement a Global non-metallic materials. The current Volvo models consist of 10 to 15 kg Corporate Water Protection Standard in all our operations. recycled non-metallic materials (such as post-industrial plastics in wheel arch liners, the engine cover and sound absorbers), depending on the specification WATER CONSUMPTION IN VOLVO MANUFACTURING PLANTS1 of the car. 2012 2011 2010 We have no direct influence on the reclaiming and scrapping process of cars in the end-of-use phase. The percentage of Volvo cars sold that are reclaimed 1.5 1.5 1.5 is currently not known. However, in compliance with EC Directive 2005/64, 549,000 metals, oils, fluids, rubber and certain plastics corresponding to at least 95% 631,000 662,000 of the weight of a Volvo can be recovered and 85% can be recycled. Volvo calculates the recyclability rate and the recoverability rate of its cars according to the ISO 22628:2002 method. Metallic materials are reused, but the exact Water consumption (m3) Water consumption (m3/vehicle2) amount is not measured due to the complexity of the process. 1 Manufacturing plants are Volvo Cars Torslanda, Volvo Cars Ghent and Malaysia. 2 KPI water consumption/vehicle is based on the number of produced cars in manufacturing plants. Zero environmental accidents in our production At Volvo Cars we have a zero tolerance policy towards environmental accidents. We therefore have advanced processes and technical installations Waste water management in place to prevent such accidents. Four examples illustrate this: In most of our operations we have an in-house waste water treatment process – so that we can close the water system and reuse it again. • T o prevent environmental spillage and incidents, we have developed a risk analysis process. Regular risk analyses are performed at all sites where Municipal waste water treatment facilities impose restrictions on the water environmentally hazardous activities are carried out (in line with the they will accept for treatment, what contaminants the water may contain and definition in the Swedish Environmental Code). their concentrations. We consciously cooperate with municipality and local • W e carry out accident drills on a regular basis in order to test procedures waste water treatment organisations. Our objective is to have as optimal and train staff. Environmental aspects are part of these exercises in order treatment of our waste water as possible. Our company’s discharges of water to ensure emergency preparedness. consist of internally pre-treated process water, and waste water discharged from catering and restroom facilities to the domestic water systems in our • A ll our plants must report serious environmental incidents and ‘near-misses’ plants. These discharges of water are not judged to be significant. to our Environmental Protection Department in Gothenburg, Sweden. • W e conduct internal environmental audits to monitor our operations In China too, we work very actively on the waste water issue in order to and find scope for improvement. The audit programme addresses the ensure that we fulfil our global standards, which are significantly stricter operational management system, compliance with environmental law, than the local legal requirements. and the handling of dangerous goods. Towards climate-neutral production In the past 18 years, we have not been notified or found culpable of any At Volvo Cars we have an overall target to continuously reduce our total breach of environmental standards or operating licences in any of our plants. energy consumption. Our aim is ultimately to be climate-neutral. At our All of our environmental activities are conducted in compliance with headquarters, we have dedicated employees working solely on our energy applicable legislation and permits. and climate change related issues. In addition, at each local site one person has been given responsibility for energy issues. Their task is to coordinate During 2012, no serious environmental accidents were reported. all activities relating to energy use. Minimising our water footprint We have performed an inventory of energy use in most of our buildings and At Volvo Cars, we work in a targeted manner to reduce our emissions to operational processes. This is an important step towards reducing energy water and we are endeavouring to be among the leaders in the automotive consumption. Remedial programmes have been performed at several sites industry in this respect. The Environmental Protection Department has and information campaigns have been held to educate employees on the calculated our water footprint based on the Global Water Footprint method, importance of energy saving and efficiency. Check lists are to be used at in order to gain a comprehensive overview of Volvo Cars’ impact on water. team level, clarifying when and how to turn the various pieces of equipment on and off. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 18 Our responsibility towards the environment Our total energy consumption Our indirect energy consumption During 2012, our total energy consumption from direct and indirect energy Our indirect energy consumption is through purchased electricity and district use decreased. heating for our facilities. There are various ways of describing the primary energy source of the electricity purchased in a given country during a certain Energy consumption in Volvo Cars’ wholly owned period. The European electricity grid is interconnected and all electric power plants (MWh)1 generated is delivered to the same network. Therefore, it is impossible to say Total energy where an individual kilowatt-hour is generated, but by demanding certified consumption renewable energy from electricity providers, we encourage the move towards (direct and Direct Indirect Year indirect) energy2 energy3 greater renewable energy production. All the electricity that we buy and use 2012 798,487 274,727 523,760 in Europe is certified hydro-powered electricity and wind power. In Malaysia, we assume that 100% of our electricity is generated from coal. These 2011 815,3014 359,614 4 455,687 assumptions provide a sufficiently (although not totally) accurate reflection of 2010 837,785 4 351,004 4 486,781 how the electricity we use is generated. 2009 713,079 283,875 429,204 2008 816,581 319,123 497,458 In 2012, our consumption of purchased electricity decreased. 2007 916,669 345,589 571,080 Indirect energy consumption: Electricity by 2006 949,850 388,369 561,481 primary energy source (MWh)1 2005 1,002,596 206,168 796,428 Electricity 2004 1,028,210 353,939 674,271 from: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2003 1,055,082 373,488 681,594 Nuclear 0 0 0 0 0 2002 974,368 334,022 640,346 power 2001 981,036 323,519 657,517 Hydropower 408,815 424,128 366,886 361,986 422,777 1 The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant Wind power 14,315 14,0492 (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Condensing Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo coal-fired 5,588 5,093 4,122 2,797 5,394 Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components plants (Olofström, Sweden). 2 Energy produced for own consumption. Total 428,718 443,270 370,988 364,783 428,171 3 Purchased electricity and heating. 1The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant 4 Restated. (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components Our direct energy consumption (Olofström, Sweden). 2 Restated. In our direct energy consumption, we use energy in the form of natural gas, LPG (liquefied petroleum gas), diesel oil and petrol for direct production purposes. This energy is used to power machines, such as machines for Via district heating, our indirect energy consumption for heating originates painting surfaces, computers, lighting, tools, ovens and other equipment. We from waste-to-energy, waste-heat-recovery and renewable bioenergy aim for a transition from LPG and natural gas to biogas to take place as soon sources. Our energy consumption of district heating increased by 9% in as possible, but at present there are no suppliers that can deliver the 2012 compared to 2011. This is mainly due to more extreme climate quantities we need. conditions. Direct energy consumption in Volvo Cars’ wholly Indirect energy consumption: District heating by owned plants by source (%)1 primary energy source (MWh)1 Energy source 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Primary Coal – – – – – energy source 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Natural gas/LPG 98 98 94 95 97 Waste heat 66,900 62,392 77,695 40,844 47,597 Oil/diesel/petrol 1 1 3 3 3 Biofuels 15,380 12,233 12,163 11,597 10,399 Renewables – -2 – – – Fossil fuels (biomass) 12,762 15,169 25,935 11,980 11,291 + electricity Renewables 1 12 1 – – Total 95,042 89,794 115,793 64,421 69,287 (non-biomass) Other/Unspecified – – 2 2 – 1 The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden) Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala 1 The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Olofström, Sweden). (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Olofström, Sweden). 2 Restated, as 2011 figure referred to biomass instead of non-biomass. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 19 Our responsibility towards the environment Managing our emissions to air During 2012, our total emissions of greenhouse gases decreased compared Our plants produce direct and indirect emissions of several types. We actively with the previous year. manage and reduce our VOC and CO2 emissions as well as other greenhouse Estimated direct and indirect emissions of CO2 in gas emissions. car production1,2 CO2 emissions: In order to reduce CO2 emissions from our operations we Indirect continue to manage our consumption of energy as described in the section Indirect emissions Direct emissions of CO2 from Total titled ‘Towards climate-neutral production’, on page 18/19. emissions of CO2 from district emissions of CO2 electricity heating of CO2 Year (tonne) (tonne)2 (tonne) (tonne) 2012 54,565 4,240 2,865 61,670 2011 55,958 3,8703 3,094 62,9223 2010 58,912 2,968 5,705 67,585 2009 53,169 1,870 3,941 58,980 2008 60,618 3,883 3,866 68,367 2007 62,568 59,780 4,387 126,735 2006 71,581 60,535 4,691 136,807 1 The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Olofström, Sweden). 2 Indirect emissions are estimated based on our assumptions for the primary energy sources for the countries in which we operate, as described under EN4. The primary energy source for electricity in Europe is hydropower, which is climate-neutral, while the primary energy source in Malaysia is assumed to be coal (720 kg CO2/MWh). Paint shop 3 Restated: incl. emissions from electricity production Malaysia. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC): VOC emissions are caused mainly In the EU, we do not use chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in any application, by painting operations. Since it was commissioned in 1991, the Torslanda although HCFCs are used to some extent in air conditioning systems. Since paint shop has proved to be one of the very best in the world in terms of 2002, no new systems have been filled with HCFCs in Sweden. The actual minimising the quantity of hydrocarbons emitted per unit of painted surface. quantities of HCFCs in stock, converted to CFC-11 equivalents, are shown in In 2007, the European Union imposed a limit of 60 g/m² of painted surface the table below. on hydrocarbon emissions from existing automotive paint shops. Our paint shop in Torslanda emits approximately 13 g of hydrocarbons per m² of Emissions of HFCs1 painted surface, and our Ghent paint shop approximately 18 g per m² of Year Emissions of HFCs (kg) CO2 equivalent (tonne) painted surface. We will continue our efforts to further reduce emissions. 2012 357 428 Our ambition is that our other paint shops will also become best in class. 2011 385 462 Other greenhouse gases: Other greenhouse gases include CH4, N2O, 2010 431 517 HFCs, PFCs and SF6. Of these, our operations only emit minor quantities of 2009 496 595 HFCs – the biggest source of HFCs being our cooling equipment. We are 2008 588 705 phasing these emissions out and we intend to successively introduce 2007 676 811 completely chlorine-free alternatives as systems are refilled. 1 Sweden only. SOx and NOx: Our plants produce emissions of sulphur oxides (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Emissions of sulphur oxides have been reduced Stocks of ozone-depleting substances in EU significantly over a long period, mainly as a result of our change from oil to district heating and gas. The improvement is also due to the use of cleaner Year HCFCs, kg CFC equivalent, kg fuel oils at those locations where oil is still used for heating purposes. 2012 432 21 Emissions of nitrogen oxides are mainly caused by combustion temperature. 2011 486 24 High combustion temperatures generally yield low emissions of CO and VOC, 2010 630 31 although the opposite is true of nitrogen oxides. This is the situation in the 2009 703 35 paint shop in order to reduce the level of CO and VOC. All other combustions 2008 718 36 are at boiler houses and they are low-NOx combustions. 2007 733 37 Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 20 Our responsibility towards the environment Emissions of SOx, NOx and VOC Emissions of Emissions of Emissions of Year SOx (tonne)1 NOx (tonne) 2 VOC (tonne)3 2012 <1 72 796 2011 <1 80 828 2010 <1 85 738 2009 <1 71 527 2008 <1 90 712 2007 1 101 740 1 SOx emissions are calculated on the basis of the sulphur content in the fuel. 2 The NOx emissions are calculated based on the quantity of fuel. Spot tests are also performed. 3 C alculations of VOC emissions are based mainly on the amount of solvents in materials used and on measurements of the degree of purification of the equipment. Waste materials by type1(%) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Reducing waste in our production Metals 89.1 88.7 94.5 94.7 94.4 At Volvo Cars, we work continuously to reduce our waste, applying the Hazardous waste2 5 5 3 3.1 3.2 following priorities: 1. Avoidance and prevention of waste, 2. Material Other 2.2 2.7 0.2 0.1 0.3 recycling, 3. Energy recovery from waste, 4. Landfill or destruction. In order Stone & cement 0.7 0.7 0.002 0.002 0.002 to do so we implemented a new waste management process at all sites, Paper & cardboard 0.7 0.7 0.4 0.3 0.3 including new initiatives to avoid waste. Sludge 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.3 We weigh and classify all waste in accordance with the European Waste Wood 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.7 0.7 Catalogue (EWC), which classifies waste materials and categorises them Plastics 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 according to what they are and how they were produced. Over 99% of Volvo Construction waste 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.1 0.1 Cars’ production waste originates in our plants in Sweden and Belgium. Domestic refuse 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.5 Compared to 2011, our total waste decreased. Electronics – – 0.02 0.02 0.02 Waste materials by type1 (tonne) 1 Sweden and Belgium. 2 Since 2011, electronics have been included in hazardous waste. Year Total waste Hazardous waste 2012 213,905 10,837 2011 230,167 11,439 Methods of processing waste1 2010 169,746 9,087 Materials Energy Landfill, % recovery, % recovery, % 2009 123,186 5,594 Incl. Metals 2012 94 5.5 0.5 2008 171,872 9,320 Incl. Metals 20112 94 5.5 0.5 2007 195,045 11,395 Incl. Metals 2010 94 5.5 0.5 2006 182,952 11,841 Incl. Metals 2009 93 6.5 0.5 1 Until 2011, the figure included Sweden and Belgium. The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data for 2012 are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant Incl. Metals 2008 94 5.5 0.5 (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Excl. Metals 2012 37 50 13 Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components Excl. Metals 20113 38 49 10 (Olofström, Sweden). Excl. Metals 2010 25 68 7 Excl. Metals 2009 24 68 8 Excl. Metals 2008 25 67 8 1 The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Olofström, Sweden). The figures are provided by Volvo Cars’ waste disposal contractor. 2 Restated. 3 E xcluding 0.8% and 3% of waste fluids treated in evaporator and other waste fractions respectively. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 21 Our responsibility towards the environment Hazardous waste from Volvo Cars production plants includes: waste water In 2012, we took over the commercial responsibility for inbound and sludge, oils, cutting fluids, paint sludge, adhesive residues and solvents. Our outbound transportation. This means we will be able to control, measure target is to reduce hazardous waste and we therefore remain focused on this. and improve the environmental impact of the transportation of our products in a better way. Our operations in protected areas We have manufacturing facilities in three countries on two continents. Volvo Business travel and staff mobility cars are also produced at Changan Ford Automobile Company Ltd., Ford At Volvo Cars, we have a policy of managing the environmental impact of Motor Company’s passenger-car joint venture in Chongqing, China. our business travels. Employees must always choose the most suitable route and choice of transport from the company’s point of view. Although costs and Conservation International, an environmental organisation based in time constraints must be considered, the impact on the environment must be Washington DC, has developed a list of global ‘biodiversity hotspots’. considered as well. Environmentally friendlier means of transportation (e.g. One of our plants is located in such an area: the Swedish Motor Assemblies train instead of flight for domestic travel) must be considered as far as SDN BHD in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (50,000 m2), which is located in the possible and if reasonable from a time perspective. Sundaland Hotspot. This hotspot is quite large, extending over 1.5 million square kilometres. It covers the western half of the Indo-Malayan archipelago. Politically, Sundaland covers a small portion of southern Thailand; nearly all of Malaysia; Singapore; all of Brunei Darussalam; and the entire western half of the megadiverse country of Indonesia. The Nicobar Islands, which are under Indian jurisdiction, are also included. As with all our other plants, the Malaysian operation is located at traditional industrial sites in or in close proximity to urban areas. All of our plants have implemented environmental management systems in accordance with ISO 14001. In this process, all of our operations have been inspected in terms of their impact on the environment. Based on this, we have concluded that there are no individual substances or material used in our processes or products that present a direct threat to any individual species or type of biota. Our other plants are located in the proximity of Natura 2000 areas. Sustainable transport Transport logistics At Volvo Cars, we are attaching ever-greater importance to Logistics and Transport processes. High-volume and long-distance transportation is particularly suitable for switching to alternative transport modes other than traditional trucks. Truck transportation has been optimised for many years, resulting in a high degree of full loads, a better loading factor (more parts per pallet/rack) and an increased proportion of balanced loads. We are continuously exploring better alternatives and means of cooperation, for example regarding train transport. Our goal is to use sustainable transport solutions not only to connect our stamping facilities with our car plants, but even more to connect operations in Asia and Europe. This effort encompasses both sea and land transport. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 22 Feature: Sustainable driving – What does it take? Feature: Sustainable driving – What does it take? Electric vehicles have many benefits to the local environment – blissfully silent and with no tailpipe exhausts. To make these benefits global, the power supplied to the car must be clean too. In many parts of the world, this means that coal-powered plants must be much cleaner than today. In addition, customers need a smart infrastructure for charging their cars. These are just a few examples that call for large-scale cooperation. In other words, sustainable mobility takes more than engineering genius. It demands cross-boundary cooperation between carmakers, customers and society alike. “We want to create value for all three. I’m not saying it’ll be easy, but we’ve managed to move mountains before. We’re a stubborn lot, and our world-first plug-in diesel hybrids and the unique solutions in the C30 Electric demo fleet are great examples of our efforts so far,” Levenstam says. The Volvo Cars electrification strategy involves all levels – from hybrids to all electric cars. In parallel with our focus on electrification, we continue to reduce emissions and fuel consumption in our conventional cars. Innovative trials also include safe road trains, where cars travel in convoys led by a lead vehicle. To us, everything starts with people. This includes making Much of today’s society is built for cars. Yet we have reached a point where it possible for you to drive a Volvo, feeling that you have conventional cars represent not only freedom, but also noise, emissions and made a good environmental choice without having to a growing bad conscience. At Volvo Cars, we are aware of this. And we are compromise on the car’s other characteristics. working hard to do something about it. Mårten Levenstam To us, everything starts with people. This includes making it possible for you Strategy Director to drive a Volvo, feeling that you have made a good environmental choice without having to compromise on the car’s other characteristics. “We want to be a visionary leader and a driving force. Time is ripe for change, “At Volvo we are constantly on the go, striving to make a positive difference in harmony with our customers and society,” says Mårten Levenstam, by improving our products in all possible ways. From the efficiency of a single Strategy Director at Volvo Cars. water pump to an expansion of our electrification offer. This shows our dedication to sustainability and our strong will to collaborate with others in As the world has solved many of humanity’s toughest challenges, the issue this needed transformation for the future.” of transporting people and goods without harming the planet is yet to be solved. “It takes cooperation; no one can do this alone. We are spearheading the development of new technologies and creative partnerships. And if all players involved do their utmost, working together, we can definitely succeed,” Levenstam says. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 23 Mobility of the future – Achievements in the past year Mobility of the future – Achievements in the past year Motor vehicles and other forms of transport have a significant impact on the Our vision for 2020 is that no one should be killed or severely injured in a environment and on society. Our overriding objective is therefore to develop new Volvo car. Achieving this will be challenging and the key to success in cars that are both safe and environmentally sound, but we cannot do this this respect is to design safety systems that are smart and that interact with alone. We will lead the debate and actively innovate so that sustainable one another. mobility is an attractive, scalable and tangible solution. This chapter outlines some of the achievements in 2012 of our research We are determined to persistently work towards sustainable mobility. projects in these areas. We are pursuing this by increasing fuel efficiency in our conventional cars, introducing electrification and making our manufacturing more efficient. At Volvo Cars, we also aim to offer cars that are safe for all people in all imaginable traffic situations. Autonomous driving technology We aim for leadership within autonomous driving technology. To achieve this goal, we are working on several different parallel projects. One of the autonomous driving projects is the new traffic jam assistance system, by which a car automatically follows the vehicle in front in slow-moving queues. Autonomous driving support helps the driver stay in their lane and follow the rhythm of the traffic if queues build up. Using data from a camera and radar sensors, the car can follow the vehicle in front. The engine, brakes and steering respond automatically. If the vehicle in front is forced to make a quick move because of an obstacle in the road, the driver is assisted by the steering system, which makes the car veer in the same direction. The traffic jam assistance technology will be introduced in 2014. Another project is the European road train project SARTRE (Safe Road Trains for the Environment), in which we are the first and only participating car manufacturer. The project began formally in September 2009 and was Road train test successfully completed in 2012. The SARTRE project focused on the possibility of taking the driver’s hands off the wheel and the eyes off the road geometry. The system will also enable road capacity to be utilised more on long motorway trips. A road train consists of a lead vehicle driven by a efficiently. Moreover, autonomous driving also serves as an important tool in professional driver followed by a number of vehicles. Building on Volvo Cars’ Volvo Cars ‘Vision 2020’ where the aim is that nobody should be killed or and Volvo Technology’s existing safety systems – including features such as suffer serious injuries in a new Volvo car by the year 2020. cameras, radar and laser sensors – the vehicles monitor the lead vehicle and also other vehicles in their immediate vicinity. By adding in wireless In 2012 Volvo Cars and the Embassy of Sweden hosted a seminar entitled communication, the vehicles in the platoon ‘mimic’ the lead vehicle using “Policy Implications of Autonomous Vehicles.” The seminar which was held in autonomous control; accelerating, braking and turning in exactly the same Washington, DC was a panel discussion format and focused on the policy way as the lead vehicle. The road train embodies both our safety and opportunities and challenges of autonomous vehicles. David Strickland, environmental commitments and offers the best of two worlds – enjoying all Administrator National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and the multi-tasking possibilities of public transportation behind the wheel of the Peter Mertens, Volvo Cars were the keynote note speakers and the panel customer’s own car, while also contributing to lower CO2 emissions and a discussion also included representatives from Google, Stanford University, safer driving environment. The environmental impact is reduced since cars USA today, and the Nevada department of Motor Vehicles. Attendees follow close behind each other and benefit from lower air drag. The energy included representatives from the Obama administration, Capitol Hill staffers, saving is expected to be as much as 20% depending on vehicle spacing and NGOs, industry, media and not for profits. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 24 Mobility of the future – Achievements in the past year Avoiding collision During 2012 and the first quarter of 2013, we have launched the following new technologies with the aim to avoid collisions: • Cyclist detection • Radar-based BLIS (Blind Spot Information system) • Cross Traffic Alert • Lane Keeping Aid One of the most recent of these technologies is the world-first Cyclist Detection. This functionality is an enhancement of the present detection and auto brake technology. All cars equipped with pedestrian detection will also incorporate cyclist detection. According to accident data, about 50% of all cyclists killed in European traffic have collided with a car – a number that will be counteracted by this new technology. New advanced software, including more rapid vision processing, has made it possible to extend the present detection and auto brake technology to cover certain cyclist situations. The advanced sensor system scans an area ahead. If a cyclist heading in the same direction as the car suddenly swerves out in front of the car as it approaches from behind and a collision is imminent, there is an instant Pedestrian and Cyclist detection warning and full braking power is applied. Another functionality is being developed for future cars and serves to avoid collisions with wild animals. Accidents involving wild animals are a major international traffic problem – out in the countryside and in more remote areas there are many serious collisions involving wild animals. We are therefore working on Animal Detection, a system that detects and automatically brakes for animals both in daylight and in the dark. Accidents with wild animals often take place at cruising speeds. The aim is to reduce the speed of impact from about 100–110 km/h to below 80 km/h. The system is trained to recognise the shapes of animals and their movement patterns via a vast amount of collected data. Since wild animals have in many respects mastered the art of staying out of sight, this is a complex process. Success in projects like this requires close cooperation with the relevant Animal detection public authorities, insurance companies and other car manufacturers in order to achieve the vision of an accident-free traffic environment. Strategic partnerships for future vehicle technologies Creating the sustainable mobility solutions of the future is not something we, In 2012, we also signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the members as a small player in the car market, can do on our own. We therefore believe of the CAR 2 CAR Communication Consortium regarding implementation of in partnerships and collaboration with other players in the market. In May shared technology for communication between cars in 2016. Further steps 2012, it was revealed that we had chosen electronic equipment supplier were also taken in the partnership with Siemens to continue the Mitsubishi Electric Corporation as partner for the next-generation development of electrification technologies with the intention to jointly infotainment system for future Volvo cars. Mitsubishi’s world-leading spearhead the development of electric cars. knowledge and experience will bring the infotainment system in future Volvo cars up to a world-class level. In the area of automotive internet services, we joined forces with Ericsson with the aim of advancing the technical development of industry-leading, cloud-based innovations. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 25 Volvo Cars – An attractive place to work Volvo Cars – An attractive place to work By the end of 2012, Volvo Cars employed about 22,700 people globally, TOTAL* NUMBER OF and as an employer we have a great responsibility for safeguarding and VOLVO EMPLOYEES developing our personnel. All employers are responsible for ensuring that the WORLDWIDE 2008 2012 work environment does not pose risks to health or accidents to employees. 22,732 22,715 At Volvo Cars, we translate this into protecting our employees’ health by preventing the risk of accidents, tackling work-related health issues, and * Volvo Cars products are also produced in Chongqing 2009 2011 improving employee engagement and diversity. Volvo Cars Senior Vice (China) and Uddevalla 19,650 President Human Resources is the most senior position responsible for (Sweden) and assembled 21,512 labour practices and decent working conditions. in Bangkok (Thailand). 2010 At these locations, only a few people are directly 19,494 Our Employees employed by Volvo Cars. At Volvo Cars, we view the different skills, experience, ages, gender, and nationalities of our people as an asset. By utilising these differences as TOTAL NUMBER OF VOLVO EMPLOYEES BY LOCATION opportunities we can cope with the constant changes within and outside our company. We represent reliability, safety, respect for the individual, and the Sweden world in which we live. With a secure work environment we can live up to 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 these standards. We have committed to comply with national legislation on working hours. Number of employees per employment type (Sweden 15,144 14,550 12,917 13,928 16,573 and Belgium only) White-collar1 Blue-collar2 Belgium (Ghent) 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Sweden 7,510 6,662 8,293 8,486 Torslanda plant 222 208 2,990 3,133 Gothenburg – Other 6,490 5,725 1,973 1,721 Skövde incl. Floby 415 363 1,776 1,894 4,146 3,981 4,484 3,685 3,791 Olofström 383 366 1,554 1,738 Malaysia Belgium (Ghent) 279 234 5,608 4,339 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Total 15,299 13,558 22,194 12,825 Full-time3 Part-time4 Sweden 15,203 14,892 600 166 Torslanda plant 3,133 3,303 79 38 361 341 282 187 228 Gothenburg – Other 8,065 7,400 398 46 Skövde incl. Floby 2,113 2,201 78 56 Volvo Cars China Olofström 1,892 2078 45 26 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Belgium (Ghent) 5339 4431 548 142 Total 35,745 19,413 1,748 308 Identification of contract type and full-time/part-time status of employees is based on the definitions applied in the national laws of the country where they 1,083 732 – 11 – are based. 1 White-collar employees are those whose employment is regulated by the Market companies TeknikavtaletUnionen/SverigesIngenjörer/Ledarna collective agreements, which are agreed between Teknikarbetsgivarna and Unionen/ 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 SverigesIngenjörer/Ledarna. 2 Blue-collar employees are those whose employment is regulated by the collective agreement Teknikavtalet IF Metall, which is agreed between Teknikarbetsgivarna and IF Metall. 3 A ‘full-time employee’ is defined according to national legislation and practices regarding working hours (e.g. in Sweden, national legislation 1,982 1,908 1,811 1,841 2,139 defines ‘full-time’ as a minimum of nine months per year and a minimum of 30 hours per week). 4 A ‘part-time employee’ is an employee whose weekly, monthly or annual working hours are less than ‘full-time’ as defined above. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 26 Volvo Cars – An attractive place to work Respecting labour rights With the new supplier we can measure how we perform in relation to other At Volvo Cars, we recognise the right of all employees to form or join companies and countries and to our Aspired Culture, which is characterised associations of their own choosing concerning the relationship between the by engagement. The results are shown in the table below. employer and the employees, and to bargain collectively. The company does not tolerate disciplinary or discriminatory actions from the employer against Percentage of employees with a high level of employees who choose to peacefully and lawfully organise or join an engagement association. We respect voluntary organisation by, for example, allowing the Volvo Cars 59% collection of union dues on company premises, the posting of trade union Automotive in Asia 54% notices, distribution of union documents, and provision of office space. Automotive in Europe 47% Approximately 80–85% of our employees with permanent contracts are China 55% covered by collective bargaining agreements. All employees in Sweden Belgium 48% and Belgium are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Sweden 48% Child labour is not accepted in any of our businesses. At Volvo Cars we do Top Global Companies 79% not accept the use of child labour by any supplier, dealer or subcontractor. In no event will we employ any person below the age of 15, unless this is part Attracting and retaining talent of a government-authorised job training or apprenticeship programme that To attract, engage and retain talent we choose to invest in employer would be clearly beneficial to those participating. Furthermore, forced labour branding. Employer branding is about communicating what makes us unique is not accepted in any of our businesses. We shall not engage in or support as an employer. This will help us create a strong internal identity that will the use of forced labour, nor shall any employee be required to deposit foster engagement and the retention of current employees. It will also help identity papers when commencing employment with the company. Volvo Cars us build our external reputation as an employer to enable us to attract even guarantees that all working conditions comply with all statutory requirements. more talented people. Our employer brand strategy is aligned and connected to the brand, people and product strategies at Volvo Cars. It has its base in the corporate strategy ‘Designed around you’ as well as in our Aspired Culture. Since 2009, we have seen an overall positive trend in terms of our internal employer brand attractiveness status, which is measured by the Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS). The eNPS tells us how many of our employees would recommend Volvo Cars as an employer. We obtain the eNPS by asking our employees, ‘How likely is it that you would recommend Volvo Cars to a friend as a place to work?’ The analysis that is conducted also reveals the drivers behind our eNPS so we know what to focus on to be able to increase the engagement in the organisation and the numbers of employees who promote Volvo Cars as an employer. Examples of key drivers behind the eNPS include the organisation’s capability to engage and motivate employees and provide opportunities for them to do their best work and Employee engagement achieve their goals. The ability to present an inspiring vision of the future and create optimism around its implementation is the most important behaviour to navigate a company culture through any market environment. Our top management is a role model for the company values and behaviours to achieve success. It is fundamental for all employees to believe in our top management. At Volvo Cars, our managers must hold regular development discussions with Volvo Cars employees and these discussions are used to draw up personal development plans, which are monitored and evaluated. Every year we conduct a survey called the Global People Survey (GPS). The purpose of the GPS is to determine the level of engagement among our employees. The level of engagement is measured by the percentage of employees who consistently speak positively about the company both inside and outside, desire to be a member of the company, and exert extra effort in behaviours that contribute to business success. We changed supplier and During 2012, we also saw a positive trend in terms of our external employer methodology for this survey in 2012. brand attractiveness status. For the first time ever, Volvo Cars made it onto the list of the world’s most attractive employers. The 2012 Universum survey During 2013, the work to develop employee input into actions will continue, reveals that Volvo Cars is ranked 43rd according to career seekers with an in order to improve and sustain the engagement and improve that engineering background from the world’s 12 greatest economies. engagement score. Engagement affects business results in a positive way. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 27 Volvo Cars – An attractive place to work For 2013, we have identified the following cascaded focus areas in our Employee turnover at Volvo Cars in Sweden (%) Diversity Plan: Type of employee 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 1. Improvement of our Diversity and Inclusion Communication – Clear global communication on our vision and mission with Culture, Diversity and Blue collar 2.2 1.7 3.7 13.2 11.0 7.6 Inclusion. male Blue collar 2. T he development of a Gender Diversity plan focusing on recruitment 3.1 1.9 6.2 22.1 14.7 9.5 female processes and tangible targets per business unit. Total blue collar 2.4 1.8 4.2 14.8 11.7 8.0 3. F ollowing up on results from the Global People Survey relating to Valuing People, Career, Working Climate and Inclusion. White collar 3.3 2.9 2.1 5.9 5.9 11.3 male 4. S trengthening our Zero tolerance Harassment policy: Communication and White collar training in terms of global legal requirements and processes will be made 3.0 2.9 2.2 8.9 7.3 8.5 female more readily accessible and clear for all employees. Total white 3.2 2.9 2.1 9.1 6.2 10.7 collar These cascaded areas will be reviewed and followed up at each Global Total Volvo Diversity Council meeting. 2.8 2.3 3.3 12.8 9.2 9.1 Cars The Global Diversity Council Our Global Diversity Council consists of 15 ‘Diversity Champions’ who meet Strengthening diversity and inclusion bi-monthly. A Diversity Champion has been appointed for each business area Diversity and inclusion are important for Volvo Cars. We will not tolerate any in the company with the aim of integrating diversity work into the company’s instance of abusive discrimination against anyone within the company. Our daily operations more effectively. The Global Diversity Council is chaired by policies on discrimination are covered by Volvo Cars’ Harassment at Work the Diversity Manager, and its role is to pursue diversity issues in the Directive. This Directive describes definitions of discrimination, company and support our diversity efforts, focusing on concrete actions. responsibilities and internal quality assurance audits, and guides managers Apart from the Council, we have also established a Diversity Steering and employees on procedures when an incident of harassment has occurred Committee with the aim of securing continuous improvement of diversity at the workplace. work. Members are the Diversity Manager, three representatives from the Executive management team, and two from the Global leadership team. As a company, we have a strong focus on becoming a diverse global corporation with diversity as a ‘red thread’ perspective in everything we do. Diversity in numbers In 2012, diversity within our Executive Management team increased. The Volvo Car Group Executive Management team consists of 14 people: 12 Furthermore, the proportion of women in leadership positions (managers with men and 2 women. The board of directors consists of 13 people: 11 men direct reporting responsibilities, programme managers, project leaders and and 2 women. At Volvo Cars, we face a challenge in that the ratio of women specialists in leading positions) increased from 12% in 2002 to 21% by the attaining senior positions is lower than that of men. However, there is a trend end of 2012. The number of people of foreign origin has increased from towards a better gender balance in leading positions. As part of Volvo Cars 17% to 24% during the past two years. Diversity Plan 2013–2015, we will focus on improving the ratio of women and men in senior positions. Our diversity index increased one step from 2011 to 2012 on an aggregated level. This index is a part of the Global People Survey (GPS, see page 27) Percentage of women in leading positions1,2 and measures every Volvo Cars team on composition by gender, age and foreign origin as well as manager and team inclusion. The diversity index 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 scores are followed up by our Executive Management Team and the Board of % 21.3 21.3 19.6 18.7 18.5 18.5 Directors. The new desired work culture and the new corporate strategy will 1 ‘Leading positions’ covers managers with direct reporting responsibilities, make us an even more diverse and inclusive corporation. programme managers, project leaders and specialists in leading positions. 2 Data for 2012 represent China, Belgium and Sweden, while previous years’ data represent global numbers. Our Diversity Plan Our Diversity Plan 2013–2015 includes a series of activities to accelerate progress towards increasing diversity and to utilise diversity within the company. Since 2010, we have provided an extensive diversity training programme for managers. This training continues during 2013 and early 2014 for all employees. A number of mentoring programmes will be initiated. Female candidates are also in focus within our succession planning process. Career development discussions are held within each People Board to enable each unit to identify resources and actions needed to reach their specific diversity targets. The People Boards are committees within each business unit, overseeing resources and identifying actions needed to ensure competence gaps are not overlooked. They are meeting and discussing all topics from competence needs and career development to recruitment. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 28 Volvo Cars – An attractive place to work Age distribution – white collar 2012 15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 Sweden male – 16 240 417 821 1,094 1,068 905 690 374 22 Sweden female – 7 108 229 350 396 395 201 126 49 1 Belgium male – – 2 1 13 34 55 69 29 36 – Belgium female – – – – 6 13 7 9 2 3 – China male 1 18 226 320 124 82 51 21 13 6 – China female – 33 151 137 40 17 7 6 – – – Age distribution – blue collar 2012 15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 Sweden male 25 400 464 537 723 1,159 1,273 926 741 348 10 Sweden female 4 107 104 164 229 312 374 170 155 68 – Belgium male 95 728 532 550 557 729 681 541 248 334 4 Belgium female 35 149 72 85 74 93 59 26 11 5 – China male 1 45 44 22 7 7 3 1 – 1 – China female – 7 4 2 – – – – – – – Fair and equal treatment AGE DISTRIBUTION 2012, WHITE COLLAR AND BLUE COLLAR To ensure fair treatment and respect of all employees, we have implemented Sweden a clear salary policy and a structured salary process. Wages and benefits 3,000 shall always be fully comparable with legal or industry standards. Information Belgium China on wages and benefits shall be available to employees in accordance with 2,500 applicable law. In connection with the annual salary revision, we conduct an analysis of salaries together with the trade unions represented at our facilities. The aim of this work is to identify and adjust any discrepancies 2,000 in the salary structure. Discriminatory salary inequalities between men and women are included among the follow-up parameters. 1,500 The salary comparisons in the tables on the next page show that there is a slight tendency towards lower salaries for women throughout all of the 1,000 categories for white-collar workers. The discrepancy is the highest in the most senior position category. We work continuously to eliminate salary 500 discrimination by gender. For example, we have a gender-neutral salary policy and in the annual salary revisions there is a requirement to allocate at least the same proportion of salary increase to women as to men. The differences 0 15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 that do exist can be explained by the fact that women have a lower average age within each salary group, and that women in general progress faster between different salary groups and have therefore participated in fewer revisions within each group. Within the group of blue-collar workers, salaries between women and men are levelled. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 29 Volvo Cars – An attractive place to work Basic salary ratio between women and men by employee category (white-collar workers)1 2012 D E F G H I J K Basic salary women (SEK per month) 29,132 31,150 35,281 39,218 46,040 51,289 62,459 73,083 Basic salary men (SEK per month) 29,497 31,697 35,226 40,636 46,790 52,537 64,909 80,848 Ratio salary2 0.98 0.98 1.00 0.96 0.98 0.97 0.96 0.90 Women’s age 46 45 42 42 44 45 45 45 Men’s age 48 44 44 46 47 47 49 50 Ratio age3 0.95 1.02 0.95 0.91 0.93 0.95 0.91 0.90 % of population4 57% 34% 24% 22% 22% 24% 23% 14% 1 SG D–SG K indicates salary grade according to increasing level of qualification. SG D–SG K mainly indicates managerial positions according to increasing level of qualification. 2 Salary ratio indicates women’s salary in relation to men’s in each SG group. 3 Age ratio indicates women’s age in relation to men’s in each SG group. 4 % of population indicates the proportion of women in relation to the total population in each SG group. Basic salary ratio between women and men by Category Definition employee category (blue-collar workers)1 SG D Administrative Service 43-44 45-46 47-48 49-50 SG E Administrative Assistant, Engineer entry position Basic salary SG F Engineer experienced women 26,951 27,379 27,995 31,117 (SEK per month) SG G Engineer senior, Supervisor production Basic salary men SG H Group Manager, Qualified professional 26,320 27,573 29,063 30,771 (SEK per month) SG I Group Manager, Appointed Specialist, Project Manager Salary ratio2 1.02 0.99 0.96 1.01 SG J Section Manager Women’s age 44 43 38 47 SG K Department Manager Men’s age 43 44 46 46 IPE International Position Evaluation Age ratio3 1.02 0.97 0.82 1.02 41-42 Assembly line worker % of population4 25.0% 16.7% 3.4% 8.2% 43-44 Administrative service, Logistics 1 ‘43-44’–‘49-50’ indicates salary grade according to increasing level of 45-46 Skilled Worker qualification. 2 Salary ratio indicates women’s salary in relation to men’s in each group. 47-48 Highly Skilled Worker 3 Age ratio indicates women’s age in relation to men’s in each group. 49-50 Highly Skilled Worker 4 % of population indicates the proportion of women in relation to the total population in each group. Combating discrimination In 2012, zero incidents of discrimination were reported in our operations in Sweden and China. In our Belgian operations, three cases of discrimination were reported to the organisation; one based on religion, one based on race/ belief and sexual preference and one based on sex. We have reviewed all three incidents. In the case based on religion, routines and dress code have been discussed with the unions and fine-tuned to be more efficient. We have also enhanced our communication regarding these types of issues. In the other two cases, company-specific processes have been followed. These include confrontation, mediation, case-specific action plans and follow-up after three months. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 30 Volvo Cars – An attractive place to work Health and safety of our employees Health and safety in numbers At Volvo Cars, we want to create a suitable, structured working environment Sick leave among our employees in Sweden and Belgium has been slowly jointly with our employees. Our employees participate in work environment but surely decreasing over the past few years as a result of our systematic matters by reporting risks, ill health, accidents and potential accidents. This health and safety efforts. We succeeded in our ambition and achieved an leads to remedial actions and provides feedback on measures. It is important all-time low sickness absenteeism level of 4.4% in 2011 and 2012. that we reach an agreement with our employees as to how joint action can be achieved on working environment measures. This could entail workplace Sick leave per available hours (%) meetings and joint assessment of the working environment. 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Sweden 3.5% 3.6% 3.7% 3.8% 4.3% 4.9% 5.6% Our safety officers function as representatives of our employees and must Volvo work to promote a satisfactory work environment. At Volvo Cars Sweden, our 4.4% 4.4% 4.5% 4.7% 5.0% 5.5% 5.9% Cars total safety officers and union representatives are involved in the planning and implementation of measures. This involves studying working conditions, planning remedial actions and conducting an annual follow-up. Volvo Cars’ Training and preventive measures safety officers are vital project resources and agents of change, and must At Volvo Cars, we conduct company-wide injury prevention programmes. take part in the initial stages of such measures. This means that we, as an employer, are responsible for organising and conducting our operations in a manner designed to prevent accidents and Corporate health and safety comprises a professional resource within our work-related illnesses. All employees are responsible for reporting injuries company to achieve legal compliance and meet our goals within this area. and serious incidents to their immediate superior. We compile an annual Relevant activities include investigations, risk assessments, proposals for report of all reported injuries and incidents, which provides a vital basis for remedial measures and personnel training. Each division is required to our preventive programmes. Our action plan for work environment activities employ a health and safety specialist to coordinate and manage health and places particular emphasis on reporting incidents which might have resulted safety efforts. In addition, we contract an external health service company in personal injury. with medical and technical professionals who assist us with surveys, assessments and advice. Our injury prevention programmes are conducted by working environment committees which, together, cover all units and operations in Sweden, as How we work with health and safety well as our production units in Belgium and Malaysia. The task of these To guarantee our commitment towards the safety and health of our committees is to survey and evaluate the risks present in the working employees, we have established the following structures and procedures: environment, and to propose action to minimise them. Over the years we have worked systematically to reduce occupational risks, with the focus on • T he Work Environment Committee: The committee’s mission is high-risk areas and personal behaviour. In the past 10 years, there has been to develop the company’s working environment policy and to ensure a downward trend in the risk of sustaining a work-related injury or illness. compliance. The committee also encourages the line organisations to A comprehensive training programme for managers and safety officers is develop goals and action plans relating to the work environment, and one of the means adopted to achieve this aim. works to enhance cooperation within the company and the industry. • T he Safety Review Board: The Safety Review Board (SRB) has full Number of accidents management authority to review and take decisions on all aspects of 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 health and safety within its purview. The intention is to standardise this Injuries1 0.55 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.9 1.5 1.9 forum as a management safety tool throughout Volvo Cars. Serious 9 15 6 6 8 4 2 • V olvo Cars Work Environment Directive: Our work should be injuries2 characterised by respect for human beings and by employee 1 Defined as number of injuries resulting in at least one day of sick leave per empowerment with the opportunity for constant development. Our policies 200,000 hours worked (equivalent to 100 man years). 2 Defined as total number of injuries leading to fractures, unconsciousness, etc. on labour practices and decent working conditions are covered by Volvo Cars Work Environment Directive. This Directive aims at improving the work environment, health and safety. It describes organisational responsibility, Our ambition is to implement a system which will allow us to monitor work environmental programmes, job adaptation and rehabilitation, near-misses, accidents and incidents in all our operation sites. company health care and future work environment. • V olvo Cars Work Place Management Systems: Our management system for systematic work with, and follow-up of, working environment issues. All workplaces are screened regularly by managers and safety officers and deviations are corrected. Risk assessments on different levels and topics are standard procedures and used throughout the company. • T he Green Cross: The Green Cross (GC) tool provides a visual means for following up workplace injuries. The overall purpose of the tool is to ensure that the risk of workplace injuries is minimised through investigations, preventive actions and reporting. The tool can be used by all units, levels and departments. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 31 Volvo Cars – An attractive place to work Employee development At Volvo Cars, we believe that investing in the continuous development of our employees will create value for our company. Our overall learning vision is to make employees more active in driving their own development, while the company moves from being a learning provider to being a learning enabler and promoter of knowledge sharing. Through public funding such as European Social Funding, we had the opportunity to allocate more resources to training and competence development in 2012. We hope to continue to work with public funding in the future, to devote more resources to competence development and improve collaboration and cooperation with other companies and suppliers in the same market. Training our managers Training and supplementary training on the work environment is offered to safety representatives and all first-line managers. Middle managers are offered two days of working environment training and senior managers a half-day introduction. During 2012, approximately 125 people participated in a training programme for new managers, which included courses on diversity, discrimination law and psychosocial work environment. In 2012, we launched a new leadership programme called Aspired Leadership Programme (ALP) with 134 participants. ALP received good reviews and provided participants with insight and concrete actions to cascade to their teams. The key take outs were courage, commitment and engagement, and that as Global Leadership Team members, they should not ‘wait for instructions’. Training our employees Every employee in our company has a personal development plan, developed in dialogue with his or her immediate superior. The purpose is to ensure the employee’s continuous development and that it is in accordance with the business needs. Development plans may lead to training or other forms of competence development. During 2012, we offered 592 different courses at 2,916 sessions, with a total of 56,347 participants. We conducted a total of 457,248 hours’ training, an average of 8 hours per employee. The areas were: product-related issues (engineering); IT, systems and tools; leadership and organisational development; process-related manufacturing; safety, health and environment. At Volvo Cars, we offer blended learning solutions, communication tools and resources that enable the employee’s self-directed learning. The statistics on training courses are related to traditional classroom training only. The above-mentioned statistics do not include other efforts, such as competence development activities like mentoring, project work, job rotation and literature studies. E-Learning During 2012, the use of our internally developed e-learning increased, with several new e-learning courses. During the year 5,327 e-learning courses were completed. The aim of e-learning is to increase the accessibility of education for employees and facilitate the rapid implementation of new working methods and systems. In November 2012, we launched a new portal with 100 generic e-based learning courses available for all employees anywhere. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 32 Feature: Our people in the spotlight Feature: Our people in the spotlight “I want to make a difference and here at Volvo, “To be there; inspiring, involving and challenging I’ve always been able to. To me, leadership is with highly set targets and allowing people to about understanding people. By listening to and grow. You don’t have to know everything, but you involving different co-workers and their knowledge, need to ask the right questions and be a good we bring out the full potential of the team and example in everything you do,” Anu says, and adds. find the best solutions together,” she says. “We’ve been very clear about our journey ahead Today, Volvo Cars is more global and diverse and that it starts with you! We talk about passion than ever before, and yet there is much left to now, which is incredibly inspiring. Whether you do. While Anu is a great example, we still need fasten a high voltage battery or head the factory, to increase the amount of female leaders, it’s about finding your own passion in what you Anu wants to make a difference knowing that diversity – in all aspects of the do”.challenges of tomorrow. For more than 80 years now, people have word – opens for broader understanding, new remained the true purpose and inspiration at perspectives and smarter solutions. Volvo Cars. In our mission to simplify people’s lives I want to make a difference and here with intuitive, safe and sustainable cars, we need In this needed transformation for the future, we at Volvo, I’ve always been able to. co-workers with passion and a drive to innovate. need to attract and retain co-workers that share our commitment to people and cars. This Anu Lipponen Anu Lipponen started building engines at the includes leaders that live the Volvo Cars’ values Logistics Manager & Deputy Plant Volvo Cars Engine plant. Two decades later, she and inspire others to do so as well. An Manager is logistics manager and acting deputy plant important part is role modeling – being a good Torslanda manager at the Torslanda factory in Gothenburg. example for others to follow. To Anu, leadership is all about presence. old,” he says with a laugh. Jimmy looks back on working hours. “I’ve always felt it’s enjoyable to a long and varied working life with the company. learn new things, to take on new challenges. Among much else, he has worked as department Volvo has always been good in that respect. manager at the prototype workshop and as There have been opportunities and I’ve taken pre-production engineer at Manufacturing them.” Jimmy particularly emphasises teamwork Engineering. Now he has been asked to stay as a source of inspiration and enjoyment. “You on as SQM for another year. “I accepted without cannot succeed on your own, you have to work hesitation. I’ve always liked my job. One of my together. That’s what delivers success – that the tasks is to coach new SQMs or purchasing members of a good team both complement and engineers in China. It’s fun to pass on one’s support one another.” knowhow,” he says. Jimmy enjoys his work Jimmy started working at Volvo in 1964. Back Jimmy Sjöö started as an 18-year-old, fitting He is an excellent example of the way then the Torslanda plant built the Amazon (Volvo front wings to the Volvo Amazon in the Torslanda knowledge is passed on and fine-honed in the 121), P1800 and Duett. plant. Now he is 67 years old and works as an company in many different ways – from in-house SQM, Supplier Quality Manager, with a strong training courses to further education during focus on China. Jimmy had just returned home when we met That’s what delivers success – that the members of a him at Purchasing in Gothenburg. He was due good team both complement and support one another. to return to China the following week to visit suppliers. “I’m fine with travelling as part of the Jimmy Sjöö job now. It’s worse having to do it when you’re Supplier Quality Manager Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 33 Feature: Our people in the spotlight It’s a bit like a large family – one that also Working with cars is enjoyable, and it’s great fun includes colleagues from Sweden. Everyone to work for a well-known car maker. Having said works together towards a common goal. Jing that, Jing does feel the brand’s image in China Fu’s specialist area is brakes in the field of active would benefit from being somewhat sharper. safety and chassis. She is part of a small team “There are things to improve. In my father’s totalling three people. They work closely generation, Volvo is well-known as a luxury together and learn a lot from one another. Last brand, but people of my generation often choose autumn she visited Volvo Cars in Gothenburg to among the competition.” learn more about the job and about the company in general. It has also been very Research & Development in Shanghai is a educational to work in the fast-growing China fast-growing organisation. “That boosts the Jing is part of a team organisation. “I’ve learned a whole lot on the job, dynamics and makes work more enjoyable,” says “I enjoy every single day.” Jing Fu, chassis I’ve gained a lot of new knowledge and learned Jing Fu. engineer, has worked at Volvo Cars China in how to be a professional in an organisation.” Shanghai for 18 months. This is her first job after graduating from university in Shanghai. From the very beginning her aim was to work for an international The environment here is dynamic and supportive. Many people here work company with a strong brand image – and Volvo really hard, and at the same time it’s really cool the way the leadership shares Cars fit the bill perfectly. “The environment here responsibility and the benefit of its experience. is dynamic and supportive. Many people here Jing Fu work really hard, and at the same time it’s really Chassis Engineer Shanghai cool the way the leadership shares responsibility and the benefit of its experience,” says Jing Fu. jobs in the plant’s quality organisation, from challenges. One thing leads to another. I’ve also analysis to inspection. He has also worked as worked a whole lot in Gothenburg; I was involved team leader and assistant to the production in the production launch of the S40, V50, C30 supervisor. “Right now this is the perfect job for and XC60.” me. This is how I maintain my level of motivation; it’s more fun if you don’t work too long at the Freddy has two beauties at home, an XC60 and same task.” Freddy emphasises the strength of an 850, but he cycles every day to work at the teamwork. Working together, it is possible to plant – a distance of about 45 km each way. solve most problems. “You have to use the skills of the operators. In In order to come up with a good Freddy likes the variation order to come up with a good solution you have solution you have to be prepared The motivation comes from his colleagues, the to be prepared to listen, to discuss. That’s how to listen, to discuss. job and, not least, the products. “I’m really proud you learn new things and grow, both as an of our cars, I always have been.” Freddy Strobbe individual and as a team.” When Freddy started Freddy Strobbe has worked at Volvo Car Ghent for 30 years. working at the Ghent plant in 1982, assembling Trim & Final “When I started the cars were solid, robust and doors to the 240 among his other tasks, he Ghent safe. Now they have good design, great thought he would stay at the company for a few drivability and are still safe.” He works with months. Now he would not consider working for improving processes and working methods in any other company. “The job’s really interesting, Trim & Final. Previously, he had several different every day’s a new day that brings with it new Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 34 Business Ethics: Integrity is never compromised Business ethics: integrity is never compromised At Volvo Cars, we strive to combine business advantages with social and reporting tool for unusual events which is owned and managed by the environmental responsibility. Our ethical values can be captured in one security office. We have a policy of non-retaliation, which implies that sentence: ‘Integrity is never compromised’. Our commitment to responsible retaliation is forbidden towards any employee who raises an issue in good business is described in our Code of Conduct. faith, or who cooperates in a company investigation of an issue. All employees have the right to report any non-compliance anonymously. Our Code of Conduct To reach our goals it is not only important what we do, but also how we do it. The most senior positions responsible for issues related to corruption, public Our reputation and in the end our growth and profitability is affected by the policy, anti-competitive behaviour and compliance are the General Counsel, way employees act within the company or in relation to external parties. It is Senior Vice President Group Legal and the Senior Vice President Corporate important that we always act with a high degree of ethics and integrity. The Communications. In 2012, a Corporate Compliance and Ethics Office was Volvo Car Group Code of Conduct sets out the compliance and ethics topics established with a Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer who reports to the which are relevant for business and makes reference to important policies General Counsel and also to the Board’s Audit Committee and the Global and instructions relating to, for example, anti-competitive behaviour, social Compliance Committee. The Compliance and Ethics Office is responsible for responsibility and corruption. The Code of Conduct rests on international implementing an effective Compliance & Ethics programme and, as part of conventions for human rights and labour rights. More specifically, the Code this programme, to investigate alleged breaches against the Code of of Conduct sets out to comply with the eight core conventions of the UN Conduct and suggests disciplinary actions for decision by the Global agency the International Labour Organisation, the ten principles of the Global Compliance Committee. Compact, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the OECD guidelines for multinational Training our employees in compliance and ethics companies. Training, education and communication are a large and important part of our Compliance and Ethics programme. We have developed web-based training The Code of Conduct is aimed at all our employees, all suppliers the on our Code of Conduct which is mandatory to all employees. This training company does business with, all dealers that sell the products of Volvo Cars will be rolled out globally in April 2013. and all other representatives that conduct business on behalf of the company. The Code of Conduct is decided by the board and communicated In addition to the mandatory e-learning training, we also have so-called to all employees and, together with requirements and expectations, to all classroom training on our Code of Conduct with targeted audiences such as suppliers. All employees must know and comply with all company policies new leaders, all our employees in China, new employees, management teams and instructions relevant to their work. A handbook with guidelines on and specific functions which are considered more exposed to risk. We have also how to behave when confronted with dilemmas such as gifts or favours, developed training on combating bribery, which is mandatory for all white-collar entertainment and social events, relations with suppliers, dealers and other employees. This training aims to give employees insight and practical examples customers as well as relations with governments and other policy-makers, regarding the prevention of corruption. We will continue to expand the portfolio was launched to all employees of the company in February 2012. The Code of training both in e-learning and in classroom settings. Our Compliance and of Conduct is available to all employees both on the intranet and at Ethics Office also uses ambassadors in the global organisation to more www.volvocars.com/sustainability effectively push trainings out to as large an audience as possible. In 2013, we are planning an update of the Code of Conduct since we regard In 2012, Volvo Cars Purchasing Department conducted training in corporate it as a living document that needs to be updated regularly, taking into social responsibility, sustainability, United Nations Global Compact and consideration new or changed legal and ethical requirements and business ethics. The purpose of this training is to raise awareness of social expectations from our stakeholders. responsibility and human rights in general and specifically in relation to our supply chain, as well as to increase employees’ risk awareness within the area. Grievance mechanisms All our employees have a responsibility and are expected to report any This training is mandatory for all newly employed employees. Training was non-compliance with the Code of Conduct to the appropriate representative held in Gothenburg, Sweden (5) and Shanghai, China (2), with a total of 293 within the company. hours and 32% (195 employees) of Volvo Cars Purchasing Department attending. Training materials have been distributed to all Volvo Cars During 2012, we introduced an external ‘whistle-blowing’ function for Purchasing Department employees. We will continue to train and inform suppliers, which is publicised on our public supplier portal site. On our Volvo Cars Purchasing Department employees on our work procedures on intranet we have reporting tools for internal reporting through an email, which human rights and supply chain in accordance with our set strategies. is read only by the Chief Compliance & Ethics officer, as well as an incident Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 35 Responsible business: Integrity is never compromised Ethical business and anti-corruption Public dialogue and leading change At Volvo Cars, it is our policy not to engage in any act that could possibly be As a company, we are affected by political decisions that are made in all of construed as giving or taking a bribe, or in any kind of corruption. Our Code the countries where we operate. Therefore, we work continuously to establish of Conduct includes the company’s policy regarding bribery and corruption access to politicians, authorities and institutions through dialogue in order to and details on conflict of interest, gifts and entertainment. Corrupt business obtain information regarding important legislation and regulations that impact practices is a global problem and Volvo Cars is present in many so called our strategic decisions and plans. Through this dialogue, we share high-risk countries. To address this risk we are reaching out in the different knowledge and experiences that we believe will drive societal developments regions with both general training on the Code of Conduct as well as specific in a favourable way. trainings on corrupt business practices. We have a compliance & ethics officer based in China who is conducting class room and face-to-face At Volvo Cars, we do not have a formal policy on public policy development or trainings with all employees in the purchasing and sales/marketing lobbying, but our Code of Conduct states that the name of the company shall departments and who is available to answer questions and address concerns. not be used in political campaigns or for the benefit of a specific political We are further establishing compliance and ethics ambassadors in relevant interest. In our dialogues with various stakeholders, we do not differentiate countries who will be supporting a local implementation on global trainings between authorities and other types of organisations, but act in the same and who can support in identifying local concerns. All matters that come to way to establish access to politicians, authorities and institutions. the attention of the Compliance and Ethics office are investigated and Our work to impact political decisions and processes can be summarised reported to the Global Compliance Committee and the Board’s Audit as memberships in trade associations, proactive dialogue with authorities, Committee. Disciplinary actions are proposed when relevant and decided communication with NGOs and other institutions, initiatives in public debates upon by the Global Compliance Committee. Out of the cases reported and public events held in 2012 focusing on autonomous drive, economic internally in 2012, only a few cases were found to be substantiated and incentives from the government to encourage a greater number of electrical appropriate actions have been taken. cars on the market, creation of a long-term regulation on greenhouse gas Fair competition emissions and insurance premium discounts for cars with advanced safety We are committed to comply with competition and anti-trust laws, and fair technologies. competition is vital to our company’s success. We want to compete vigorously, aggressively and fairly and without any anti-competitive understandings or agreements with our competitors. We are also committed to comply with competition laws that apply to dealers and other independent businesses that deal with company products. Such competition laws protect the distributors’ right to conduct their business independently. The Corporate directive ‘Compliance with Competition Laws’ is our guiding policy for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices. It summarises the principles that should guide employee conduct in relationships with competitors, customers and suppliers. The Code of Conduct also explains our policy on anti-trust, equal competition and integrity, especially with regard to relations with governments, suppliers, business relations and the use of company information and community involvement and overall non-compliance. No legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices were initiated against Volvo Cars in 2012. We have not identified any non-compliance with laws and regulations in 2012. External audits undergone In 2012, Volvo Cars went through an external audit regarding ethical trade. The audit was requested by a global company, as part of their fleet car procurement procedure. This audit was based on the Sedex SMETA four pillars model, which includes environment, labour standards, health and safety and business practice. The results raised 10 non-conformities, 4 observations for self-monitoring, and 10 good examples. We are proud to be the first approved car company meeting the Sedex SMETA 4-Pillar requirements for that global company as a result of this audit. Sedex is a not-for-profit membership organisation dedicated to driving improvements in ethical and responsible business practices in global supply chains. Sedex stands for Supplier Ethical Data Exchange and SMETA is Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 36 Feature: Business ethics beyond regulation Feature: Business ethics beyond regulation Responsible business throughout “We don’t want to speak of ‘zero tolerance’ or ‘doing the right thing’, and pretend it’s easy, when it actually is very hard and time consuming. It takes more than guidelines to understand and handle the consequences of ‘zero’ or ‘right’ in any legal or ethical dilemma,” says Ahlberg. Realising the need for continuous and evolving efforts, Volvo Cars runs comprehensive training programmes and follow-up meetings to ensure that the message is anchored. In the past year, we have also developed our whistle-blowing email function with direct access to the Compliance and Ethics office. More and more companies realise that the responsibility of a sustainable and ethical company stretches further than its customers and co-workers; it also includes suppliers, and in Volvo’s case passengers, pedestrians, bikers and everyone else who comes in contact with our products. “Only by acting with a high degree of ethics and integrity, can we earn and maintain the trust of our customers, our stakeholders and the communities in which we are operating,” Michaela Ahlberg says, adding that we should, however, not simplify the task. A sustainable business takes responsibility for people, the planet and the way it earns its profits. At Volvo Cars, we know that our reputation and future “Corruption, for example, is a big global challenge. A responsible company growth depend on our actions. Not only what we do, but also how we do it. may have to be willing to give up short-term profits by refusing to take part in Here, business ethics play an important part. corrupt business practices. The reward, however, is long-term profit and the knowledge of conducting the business honestly and fairly – in everything we do.” “Every company has an active choice: You can settle with abiding laws and regulations, or you can take the next step. To us at Volvo Cars, business ethics is a responsibility beyond regulation,” says Michaela Ahlberg, Chief Only by acting with a high degree of ethics and integrity, Compliance and Ethics Officer at Volvo Cars. can we earn and maintain the trust of our customers, Michaela manages a new function, initiated to strengthen the Compliance our stakeholders and the communities in which we are and Ethics programme at Volvo Cars. The overall aim is to support everybody operating. in the organisation in understanding the ethical norms and legislation that Michaela Ahlberg are relevant for our business. To help co-workers navigate in today’s complex Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer business environment, there must be clear written policies and guidelines available. Dialogue, training and tools are other key components to create awareness in the organisation, as well as following up misconduct and In 2013, the Compliance and Ethics programme will focus on promoting making sure it is not tolerated. human rights and reducing corruption, as we believe the ability to ‘do good’ creates significant business opportunities while creating a positive societal Our historic values of safety, quality and environmental care make for a solid impact. This work will, amongst other efforts, entail an update of the Code of foundation. The Code of Conduct further strengthens the message. Still, Conduct, to adapt it to changing expectations from stakeholders and to new there is always room for improvement, and we are presently strengthening or adapted legislation. An E-learning training programme for employees will our policies within social responsibility and data privacy – the latter a rapidly be launched to raise awareness of the Code of Conduct. developing area touching both legislative and ethical demands. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 37 Suppliers and partners as part of our sustainability work Suppliers and partners as part of our sustainability work At Volvo Cars, we realise that sustainable and responsible business practices The Senior Vice President Purchasing is responsible for supporting and are not created and implemented in isolation. To meet our sustainability goals managing social responsibility and environmental issues related to the we need to work together with our suppliers. Approximately 40% (by value) supply chain. of the materials needed for our cars are manufactured in our own facilities. The remaining 60% are purchased from external sources. We have Engaging our suppliers approximately 450 business partners producing components for our cars, We communicate our human rights and environmental demands on and a further 3,300 delivering other products and services. suppliers through Volvo Cars’ Supplier Portal. This portal aims to streamline communication with our suppliers. The portal supports acceleration of The total life cycle of our products and their environmental footprint as well information flow with our suppliers which improves transparency in our as respecting and honouring human rights are important to our company and collaboration. The portal contains information about our demands and operations. The provisions and guidelines on human rights, found in our expectations on suppliers as well as our work procedures and tools in a Code of Conduct guides our operations and are also expected to be followed range of areas, accessible for suppliers to download and use. Our Code by our suppliers and dealers, as well as all other representatives that conduct of Conduct, our Global Environmental Policy and the Environmental business on behalf of the company. Our demands and expectations are Self-Assessment form are other examples of information that is available incorporated in the different Terms & Conditions used in Volvo Cars, and at the supplier portal. One of the environmental requirements for suppliers cover topics such as: is that they must be third-party certified according to the ISO 14001 environmental management standard. An Environmental Self-Assessment • Diversity and equal opportunity must also be filled in by each supplier and sent to Volvo Cars upon request. • Health and Safety We also communicate and follow up our expectations through the Volvo Cars • Child labour Quality Award through Excellence (VQE), in which environmental management and performance are one aspect that is evaluated. • Forced labour • Freedom of association and collective bargaining In 2012, a total of 821 supplier visitors were registered on the supplier portal • Compensation Environmental and Social Responsibility sites. • Working hours • Environmental management Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 38 Suppliers and partners as part of our sustainability work Collaboration with partners Respecting human rights During 2012, we conducted Supply Chain Responsibility training for Our strategy is to integrate human rights related activities in our day-to-day suppliers. This supplier training raised awareness and promoted sound business tools. One example is the Volvo Cars manufacturing site working conditions, environmental responsibility and business ethics at assessments (see above). In 2012, our Purchasing Department also supplier facilities and in supply chains. We conducted this training in developed a company-specific strategy for our continued activities with our collaboration with other automotive OEMs (Original Equipment supply chain relating to human rights: the CSR Country risk segmentation Manufacturers) and the AIAG (Automotive Industry Action Group) in selected model. This model is developed from a Corporate Social Responsibility countries. The selection of countries for these trainings was based on a CSR perspective and is an initiative to mitigate human rights risk. The purpose of country risk assessment. During 2012, training was carried out in Mexico (8 the model is to identify the risk level in countries where our suppliers operate suppliers) and China (50 suppliers). During 2013, Volvo Cars plans to focus and to prioritise activities. The model is based on four indicators: on Chinese suppliers as a result of the newly established production site. We are also part of a collaboration with a group of European automotive • Conflict or extreme political instability manufacturers. The mission of the group is to work together to improve the • Lack of democracy and civil & political rights social and environmental performance of automotive supply chains, e.g. to • Living standards share experiences on sustainability issues in the automotive supply chain as • Corruption well as develop and apply common tools. MAIN SUPPLIER COUNTRIES 2012 Screening of suppliers In our supplier agreements, we reserve the right to conduct an audit upon advance written notice to all units producing goods or services for Volvo Cars, at any time. We also reserve the right to appoint an independent third party of our choice to conduct audits in order to evaluate compliance with Purchasing Terms & Conditions, the Company’s Social Responsibility and Environmental web guide and our Code of Conduct. The Supplier Quality Management within our Purchasing Department carried out a total of 641 Manufacturing Site assessments in 2012 (in which health and safety aspects were included). We are also currently investigating the possibilities of integrating working conditions into this assessment. By the end of 2012, a tool for evaluation of new suppliers was introduced. This tool contains sections related to: • W orking conditions and Business Ethics which addresses issues such as forced labour, child labour, discrimination, wages and compensations, work hours, anti-corruption and sub-supplier management. • E nvironment demands, which are aligned with appointed environmental strategic areas within Volvo Cars. In 2012, Volvo Cars went through an external audit regarding ethical trade (see also page 36). The results raised 10 non-conformities; one of them was that Volvo Cars does not perform checks on suppliers regarding fulfilment of Belgium 25.00% Poland 3.53% the demands stipulated in our Terms & Conditions. Our Purchasing Germany 21.00% Czech Republic 3.42% Department has taken this into consideration and has, as a result, extended Sweden 17.50% Spain 2.92% the developed audit plan for 2013 to cover both direct and indirect material United Kingdom 7.50% Turkey 2.53% suppliers. The implementation of the plan will inform the future development of our Purchasing Department’s strategic work with audits. France 3.80% Netherlands 1.83% Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 39 Always one step ahead – Our product responsibility Always one step ahead – Our product responsibility Crash testing At Volvo Cars we take responsibility for our products very seriously. Our as well as obtain further qualifications within safety research. Our employees, policies stipulate our responsibility to ensure adherence to our procedures, students, researchers and teachers meet to discuss safety issues at an with the aim of meeting our product-related goals. One example of such a academic level. goal, relating to product safety, is that in 2020 no one will be killed or injured in a new Volvo. Product responsibility is shared operationally between our Swedish Asthma and Allergy Association Research & Development and Quality departments. To ensure that the materials used inside the vehicles are not harmful to human health or the environment, as well as to avoid using asthma-inducing Research and collaboration and allergenic substances in our car interiors, we perform careful To fully understand what makes accidents happen in the first place, we measurements in the first few years of the vehicles’ life. We cooperate with conduct internal and external research projects together with other actors the Swedish Asthma and Allergy association (AAF) to continuously improve from the automotive industry. In the EuroFOT project, for example, Volvo V70 the interior of our vehicles. We measure our performance against the World and XC70 cars are equipped with cameras and computers to monitor the Health Organisation’s (WHO) recommended levels. We fulfil the AAF driver’s behaviour to gather knowledge on how we react in complex traffic demands by ensuring that incoming air fulfils the WHO Air Quality Guideline, situations. The DRIVE C2X research focuses on communication among and relating to NO2, particulate matter, CO, benzene, ozone and SO2. between vehicles and roadside and back-end infrastructure system. The China–Sweden Research Centre for Traffic Safety in Beijing External competence development campaigns are also directed towards our This research centre was inaugurated in December 2012. Apart from Volvo dealers. Furthermore, we organise seminars and lectures for journalists and Cars, the other research partners in the project are Volvo Group, Chalmers government authorities on how we work with safety issues. Some examples University of Technology in Gothenburg, the Chinese Ministry of Transport’s of our collaboration with partners on specific projects are listed below. Research Institute of Highway and Tongji University in Shanghai. The research centre focuses on a number of areas, such as improving traffic Chalmers University of Technology safety in Sweden and China and promoting the exchange of technology and Our cooperation with Chalmers University of Technology has the aim of knowledge between both countries. The Centre will also act as a platform for sharing our own knowledge about car safety issues and creating a forum research into traffic safety and supporting government decision-making in where we can gain knowledge ourselves. The SAFER project is a platform in matters on traffic safety. which different stakeholders can channel research issues relating to safety Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 40 Always one step ahead – Our product responsibility Marketing our products We monitor our customers’ feedback through surveys, media, feedback from Our in-house guidance states that all of our products and services shall be dealers, and, most importantly, by holding a dialogue with our customers. This marketed and sold in a fair and honest manner. Marketing of products and gives us as a company the best information to improve our products. Every services, dealer marketing included, should always comply with national year, Volvo Cars engages an external information service provider to conduct legislation and be conducted in an honest and fair manner in relation to the workshops and seminars on customer experiences, feedback and characteristics of the product or service. Our Corporate Marketing Instruction improvements. Since 2010, we have developed our own product quality provides guidance on the preparation and documentation of company survey measuring customer satisfaction on our products. advertising and PR material, such as, but not limited to, press releases and Our monitoring pays off. For example, the number of customers who are launch material. The instruction reaffirms the commitment of the company likely to recommend Volvo as a brand has increased since 2011. We are also that its advertising and PR material shall be accurate, truthful and in good noticing clear improvements when it comes to customer loyalty in terms of an taste. Our Corporate Marketing Instructions were produced in accordance increased Net promoter score (customer loyalty metric) where we currently with applicable laws and regulations, and in line with our own applicable are above target. Furthermore, the amount of warranty repairs for new guidelines. vehicles has decreased constantly since 2007. Reviewing our communication Globally, our quality is built on continuous improvements. In 2012, we further At Volvo Cars we continuously review our marketing communication. This developed our global approach for Customer Feedback with the purpose of responsibility lies within the Legal, Global Communications and Safety enhancing customer satisfaction. communication departments. Each market worldwide is responsible for its own marketing and for ensuring that the marketing initiatives are carried out Leadership in safety in accordance with our Marketing Instruction. There were no incidents of As many as 50 million people are injured every year in road accidents and non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing approximately 1.3 million die as a result of these accidents. For this reason, communications during 2012. safety is a core value to us and since the foundation of Volvo in 1927 we have worked continuously on enhancing safety, not only for the occupants Quality for a Scandinavian premium brand of our cars, but also for those in their vicinity. Quality is a focus area for our company. A new Quality Policy was decided in 2012. Adherence to this policy will ensure that we continuously strive to Our safety policy states that we should provide our customers with the provide our customers with premium products and services of the highest highest level of safety and maintain our leadership in safety in the car quality. industry. Safety is one of Volvo Cars’ core values. We work hard to stay at the forefront of the industry by taking an overall approach to safety, which Quality Transformation has proven effective to the customer in real traffic situations. We consider We are currently in the midst of a major change programme for Quality & numerous aspects of safety and develop them continuously. We created Customer Satisfaction. It is a company-wide initiative to raise the quality of intelligent and innovative solutions aimed at preventing accidents and the company’s products and processes, both internally and externally. reducing the consequences when they nonetheless occur. Our strategy The aim of ‘Quality Transformation’ is to reach Excellence in Customer includes a comprehensive dialogue with several stakeholder groups in Satisfaction by: society. We choose to cooperate with the best partners possible when it comes to academic institutions and we maintain a very close dialogue • Having customer satisfaction rooted in all decision-making processes with local authorities around the world. • Establishing effective and manageable Quality structures and processes Our strong commitment to safety has resulted in an extensive range of safe • Increasing customer satisfaction awareness in every co-worker’s everyday premium-class cars. All cars, accessories and relevant services must not only work meet, but exceed, our customers’ expectations when it comes to safety. Our The objective is both very simple and very difficult: Volvo Cars shall achieve broad in-depth knowledge is the foundation of our development efforts and top-level Customer Satisfaction in products and services. ‘Quality derives from real traffic situations. Our close collaboration with the Swedish Transformation’ is the biggest quality-improvement programme in our insurance company Volvia has helped provide detailed information about company’s history. incidents and the outcome of accidents with Volvo cars in Sweden. We strive to understand how and why the different situations occur. Our Traffic Designed Around You Accident Research team, established in 1970, collects accident data from Our success is built on satisfied customers. In our development of our more than 40,000 accidents involving Volvo cars in Sweden. We apply this products and services, we therefore carefully analyse different customers’ valuable information when designing new Volvo cars. Performing accident needs and desires by organising customer clinics and also by performing reconstructions in our state-of-the-art crash laboratory gives us unique tests to determine how the proposed solutions will be perceived by our knowledge for further development. customers. By combining these customer evaluations with our own tests, we continuously develop our products to be the best for our customers. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 41 Always one step ahead – Our product responsibility Safety highlights Volvo V60 Plug-In Hybrid achieved five stars in Euro NCAP with the highest ever score for an electrified car tested by Euro NCAP. Volvo Accident Database shows that the risk of being injured in recent Volvo models has decreased by two-thirds compared to the risk of being The new Active Safety Test facility is being built next to Volvo Cars’ injured in old car models. existing proving ground at Hällered, Sweden and operated by the company Active Safety Test Area AB (ASTA). The new facility will provide Volvo Cars Volvo Cars’ Safety Research works towards our vision to design cars with tools for the development of tomorrow’s intelligent safety and driver that do not crash. In the shorter perspective the aim is that no one should support systems and play an important role for Volvo Cars’ continued be killed or injured in a new Volvo. Examples of three important areas to leadership in the field of safety. focus on are staying safely in the current lane, avoiding accidents at crossroads and junctions, and avoiding collisions with wild animals. The Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao visited the Volvo Cars Safety Centre and witnessed a demonstration of a live crash test. The large-scale European Field Operational Test on Active Safety Systems (EuroFOT) final report confirms that Volvo Cars’ systems to help The China–Sweden Research Centre for Traffic Safety in Beijing, drivers avoid incidents and collisions deliver significant benefits. A car such China was inaugurated. Apart from Volvo Cars, other research partners as the Volvo V70 or XC70, with adaptive cruise control and collision warning, in the project are Volvo Group, Chalmers University of Technology in reduces the risk of colliding with the vehicle in front on a motorway by up Gothenburg, the Chinese Ministry of Transport’s Research Institute of to 42%. Highway and Tongji University in Shanghai. The research centre focuses on areas such as promoting the exchange of technology and knowledge Volvo S60 achieved top results in Insurance Institute for Highway Safety between both countries and improving traffic safety in Sweden and China. (IIHS) new small overlap frontal test. At the launch of the method the S60 The Centre will also act as a platform for research into traffic safety and was one of two cars to earn best rating in the test. supporting government decision-making in matters relating to traffic safety. Volvo V40 awarded the ‘Best Small Family Car 2012’ in Euro NCAPs ‘Best Hans Nyth, former Director of the Volvo Cars Safety Centre, will assume the in Class Cars 2012’. The Volvo V40 achieved the highest combined score of position of Director of the Research Centre starting Q1 2013. any car previously tested by Euro NCAP. It is the most IntelliSafe Volvo model ever designed featuring the world-first Pedestrian Airbag Technology. Our safety performance Our customers can monitor our cars’ safety performance through independent rating programmes. Crash performance tests are executed by rating institutes, and field ratings are based on real-life accident data provided by insurance companies. In 2012, Volvo Cars’ models were awarded highest ranking in 81 out of 85 independent car safety tests. Safety tests 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Share of independent tests where 95 89 88 80 70 69 Volvo Cars received the highest rank (%) Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 42 Always one step ahead – Our product responsibility Results of independent car safety tests 2012 Latest results of independent car safety tests on our models. The results are shown in the form of rankings, with ‘1’ denoting the highest ranking, ‘2’ the second highest, ‘3’ average rating and ‘n/t’ not tested. Test body Test method C30 C70 S40 S/V60 S80 V40 V50 V60 V70 XC60 XC70 XC90 Hybrid Euro NCAP Combined 1 n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 n/t 1 1 1 n/t n/t Combined n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t Frontal crash n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t US NCAP test Side crash test n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t Rollover test n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 2 n/t 2 Top Safety 1 n/t n/t 1 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 Pick Moderate overlap frontal 1 1 1 1 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 crash test Small overlap IIHS frontal crash n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 test Side impact 1 1 2 1 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 crash test Rear/Whiplash 1 1 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 Roof strength 1 n/t 2 1 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 China NCAP Combined n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t Australasian Combined 1 n/t 1 1 n/t 1 n/t n/t 1 1 n/t 1 NCAP Safe car choice 1 n/t 1 1 1 n/t 1 n/t 1 1 n/t 1 Injury and Folksam n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t fatality data Whiplash 1 1 1 1 1 n/t 1 n/t 1 1 1 1 Thatcham Whiplash 1 1 1 n/t 1 n/t 1 n/t 1 1 1 1 In 2012, there were no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services which resulted in a fine or penalty. Hence, there was no monetary value of significant fines incurred. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 43 Always one step ahead – Our product responsibility Holistic view of safety – five phases to improve vehicle safety At Volvo Cars, our work to improve vehicle safety is carried out in five phases from normal driving to after collision. These five phases shown in the diagram below are Normal driving, Conflict, Avoidance, Crash/Mitigation and After collision. 1 The driver is kept informed of his/her driver status and attention. 2 The driver can manage the situation. 3 The driver is less capable of managing the situation. The vehicle can manage the situation. 4 Driver and vehicle are incapable of avoiding the collision. Preparation for collision, reduction of impact damage. NORMAL DRIVING CONFLICT AVOIDANCE MITIGATION AFTER COLLISION FIVE PHASES OF AN ACCIDENT 5 Offer of help and rescue. The chain of events in a traffic accident can be divided into five phases – from a normal driving situation to after the accident has happened. Based on these five phases, Volvo Cars develops new and improves existing safety solutions. Normal driving Avoidance The driver is well informed and alert. Good lighting and visibility are important The car acts automatically to avoid a collision if the driver fails to react. to help him or her to detect danger and avoid an accident. Comfortable Examples of Volvo Technologies: City Safety, Collision Warning with Auto seating and ergonomic controls enable the driver to concentrate on driving. Brake, Pedestrian Detection and Lane Keeping Aid with Haptic Steering. Examples of Volvo Technologies: Driver Alert Control, IDIS, BLIS, Hill Descent Control, Alcoguard, Active Bi-Xenon, Active High Beam Control and Road Crash/Mitigation Sign Information. The car’s safety systems help to reduce the crash energy in order to minimise the effect on the occupants and other road users. Examples of Conflict Volvo Technologies: Patented Front Structure, SIPS, WHIPS, ROPS, Child Technology helps the driver to handle difficult situations. If the unexpected Safety and Pedestrian technology. happens, the car can help to warn the driver, be easy to manoeuvre and must have effective brakes. Examples of Volvo Technologies: DSTC, RSC, Trailer After collision Stability Assist, Collision warning with auto brake/Collision warning, The car automatically calls for assistance and facilitates the rescue work. Emergency Brake Lights, Lane Departure Warning and Cross Traffic Alert. Examples of Volvo Technologies: Volvo on Call. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 44 About Volvo Cars About Volvo Cars This report covers Volvo Car Group. Volvo Cars was owned by the Ford Volvo Cars employed a total of 22,715 people as of 31 December 2012. Motor Company until 2 August 2010, when it became an independent The company sold a total of 421,951 cars in 2012. company under the ownership of Zhejiang Geely Holding Group. The Volvo brand is owned jointly by Volvo Cars and AB Volvo through Volvo Trademark Our products Holding AB. At Volvo cars, we produce premium cars in the following body types: Sedans, Estates/Sportswagons, Cross Country vehicles and SUVs. Our cars are marketed and sold by regional market companies and national sales companies through approximately 2,300 local dealers in about 100 countries. Most of the dealerships are independent companies. S V XC S80 V70 XC90 S60 V60 XC70 V40 XC60 V40 CROSS COUNTRY Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 45 About Volvo Cars A global company Uddevalla plant Our cars are sold in more than 100 countries. In 2012, retail sales amounted In late December 2012, Volvo Cars took complete ownership of Pininfarina to 421,951 cars, a deterioration of 6.1% versus 2011. In 2012, the US was Sverige AB. Volvo cars have been built in Uddevalla since 2005, in a joint Volvo Cars’ largest market, accounting for approximately 16% of total retail venture with Pininfarina S.p.A., the latter being the majority shareholder. As deliveries; Sweden was second (approximately 12%), followed by China a result of the transaction, Pininfarina Sverige AB has been renamed Volvo (approximately 10%). Car Centre Uddevalla AB and has become a 100% subsidiary to Volvo Car Corporation. The ownership transfer follows from an earlier agreement Volvo Cars’ head office, product development, marketing and administration between the parties in March 2011. Due to low volumes, production of functions are mainly located in Gothenburg, Sweden. The Volvo Cars China the Volvo C70 Convertible at the Uddevalla plant will cease in July 2013. headquarters in Shanghai includes a Technology Centre and functions such as sales and marketing, manufacturing, purchasing, product development and China expansion all other supporting functions. In 2012, Volvo Cars continued to expand its Chinese operations. Volvo Cars’ full-fledged business operations in Shanghai include product development, Our cars are built in four countries, with the largest manufacturing plants, design, purchasing and staff support functions. The expansion of the retailer in terms of production volumes, located in Torslanda, Sweden and Ghent, network and the industrial system goes hand in hand with the recruitment of Belgium. Volvo cars are also manufactured under licence in Chongqing in talented people to add the competence needed. Around 700 people were China (CMA, Changan Ford Automobile). Volvo Cars has its own production recruited during 2012. The industrial footprint will consist of two car facilities for the manufacture of engines and engine components in Skövde manufacturing plants and an engine plant. and Floby, Sweden, a factory for body components in Olofström, Sweden and a smaller assembly plant in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Product development for next-generation Volvo cars Volvo Cars’ future as a strong, independent car maker was reinforced with We are building up our manufacturing footprint in China. The first manufacturing the intensive development work with SPA – Scalable Product Architecture plant is built in Chengdu. Start of production in planned for the second half and VEA – Volvo Engine Architecture. SPA is a flexible, scalable product of 2013. This plant will produce Volvo cars for the Chinese market. architecture that will cover most of Volvo’s future car models. With lower costs for development and parts designed to be shared by all models, there We also have manufacturing in Uddevalla, Sweden, through Pininfarina will be more capacity left for focusing on individual details that are important Sverige. Up until late December 2012 Pininfarina Sverige in Uddevalla was to customers. The new engine range, VEA – Volvo Engine Architecture, will owned jointly by Pininfarina S.p.A of Italy (60%) and Volvo Cars (40%). Volvo consist solely of four-cylinder engines. Combined with electrification and Cars has announced its intention to cease production in Uddevalla in 2013. other spearhead technology, the VEA range will deliver higher performance Significant events in 2012 than today’s six-cylinder units, along with lower fuel consumption than today’s four-cylinder engines. The first car model based on the new New President and CEO architecture is the next-generation Volvo XC90. On 18 October the Board of Directors appointed Håkan Samuelsson the new President and CEO of Volvo Cars, replacing Stefan Jacoby. Håkan Samuelsson had been a member of the Board for the preceeding two years and brings with him broad experience from the industry. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 46 About Volvo Cars Investments in the manufacturing system Cars since October 2012. He has 35 years of experience from leading As part of the significant investments in the new SPA and VEA projects, positions in the automotive industry, most recently as Chairman and CEO construction of the new body shop in the Torslanda vehicle plant in of MAN SE between 2005 and 2009. Since 2010, he has been an Gothenburg, Sweden, is ongoing and will be completed during the second independent member of the Board of Directors of Volvo Car Group. half of 2013. In addition, there will be significant investments in the body • D r Herbert Demel (1954) is a member of the Volvo Cars’ Board of components plant in Olofström, Sweden, as well as the engine plant in Directors and started his career with Bosch in 1984. He has experience Skövde, Sweden. from working with companies such as Audi, Volkswagen and Fiat. Since 2010, Demel has been the Managing Director for Magna in China, South Loan agreement with China Development Bank East Asia, India, Africa and South America. In late 2012, Volvo Cars and China Development Bank signed a loan agreement under the umbrella of a strategic partnership, as announced in • M s Lone Fønss Schrøder (1960) is a member of the Board of Directors the Memorandum of Understanding of 24 April 2012. The loan agreement is of Volvo Cars and was formerly employed at the Möller-Maersk shipping testament to China Development Bank’s belief in the strength and viability of company. Schrøder was Managing Director of Wallenius Lines from the Volvo Cars global business plan and corporate strategy. As a first step 2005–2010. She is currently also a Board member of Vattenfall and under the agreement, the parties have signed a EUR 922 million loan with Handelsbanken. maturity in 2020. • M s Winnie Kin Wah Fok (1956) is a member of the Volvo Cars’ Board of Directors and has extensive experience of the financial market. Fok is at Our governance structure present working as advisor to Investor and is also a Board member of SKF At the management level we have a Sustainability Steering Committee with and G4S. members from the Executive Management team (Corporate Communications, • D r Peter Zhang (1966) is a member of Volvo Cars’ Board of Directors, and Legal and Human Resources) as well as the head of the Environmental comes most recently from Geely Automotive Holdings, Ltd., where he was Committee, the Chief Compliance & Ethics officer and the Director the Vice President from 2007–2010. Zhang has extensive experience and Sustainability Communications. The purpose of this cross-functional committee over the past 10 plus years has worked for major multinational companies, is to establish strategies and guidelines relating to corporate sustainability and such as the BP Group and Shell. responsibility and follow up and communicate on progress and performance. The members of the committee have the mission to ensure that the • M r Daniel Li (1970) has been a member of the Volvo Cars’ Board of sustainability dimension is included in the overall business and that company Directors since April 2012. He is the CFO & Vice President of Zhejiang decisions are in line with the overall sustainability strategy. Geely Holding Group and has extensive experience within the automotive sector, both with OEMs and automotive suppliers. At the operational level, the appropriate officer or function (e.g. the Health • M r Carl-Peter Forster (1954) became a member of the Volvo Cars’ Board and Safety Director or the Diversity Manager, Director Environmental of Directors in January 2013. He has extensive experience within the Protection, etc.) is responsible for ensuring that relevant issues are discussed automotive sector. He has been Group CEO of Tata Motors and President at the level at which decisions on strategies, goals and actions can be taken. of GM Europe. The chair of our highest governance body, the Board of Directors, is not an executive officer within Volvo Cars. The relevant trade unions are represented in the Board. This is one way in which we ensure that employee interests are communicated to the highest Since 2 August 2010, Volvo Cars has been an independent company under governance body. Employee representatives in the Board are the following: the ownership of the Zhejiang Geely Holding Group. The company is managed by a Board of Directors comprising independent Board members, • M r Glenn Bergström is a union representative of Volvo Cars’ Board owner representatives, Volvo Cars and the employee organisations. Meetings (IF Metall), and has been working with Volvo since 1974. are held six times annually and the Board’s main task is to provide a forum • M r Sören Carlsson is a union representative of Volvo Cars’ Board for the company’s strategies, business orientation, product plan, major (Unionen). He has worked with Volvo since 1985. investment plans and budget. • Mr Marko Peltonen is a union representative of Volvo Cars’ Board Together, the members of the Board of Volvo Cars form a global board with (IF Metall). He has been with Volvo since 1984. vast experience from the car industry and business development: • M r Magnus Sundemo is an alternate union representative of the Board (Akademikerna). He has worked for Volvo since 1979. • M r Li Shufu (1963) is the Chairman of the Board of Volvo Cars and is the founder of Zhejiang Geely Holding. • M r Björn Ohlsson is an alternate union representative of the Board (IF Metall). He has worked for Volvo since 1981. • M r Hans-Olov Olsson (1941) is the Vice Chairman of the Board of Volvo Cars and started his career at Volvo in 1966. From 2000–2005 Olsson was CEO of Volvo Cars and was responsible for the Ford Motor Company’s global marketing between 2005 and 2006. • Mr Håkan Samuelsson (1951) has been the President and CEO of Volvo Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 47 About Volvo Cars As environment and safety are bound up with our company’s core values, these aspects of our products form part of our strategic direction and are discussed as such. Working conditions, health and safety and diversity issues are addressed at our daily operational meetings and considered on a case-by-case basis. Processes for reviewing working conditions, as well as environmental and product safety and legal compliance issues, are part of our business management system. There is no stated process for evaluating the highest governance body’s work with respect to environmental and social performance. However, managers are evaluated according to criteria including corporate governance and corporate citizenship. Executive remuneration Executive remuneration at Volvo Cars has four components: fixed salary, short-term incentive programme, long-term incentive programmes and other benefits (e.g. car, healthcare insurance and pension benefits). Volvo Cars applies a short-term global cash-based incentive programme for all employees. For senior managers and executives, the Volvo Short-Term Incentive is based on achievement of short-term financial performance, market development and quality as well as individual performance. For senior managers and executives, Volvo Cars also applies a long-term cash-based incentive programme based on long-term value creation of the company. Handling of conflicts of interest Volvo Cars regulates the handling of conflicts of interest. The Volvo Cars’ Corporate instruction ‘Report of financial or other interest’ stipulates that conflicts of interest must be reported to the Legal Department. Volvo Cars’ Code of Conduct includes guidelines on how to avoid conflicts of interests that potentially could occur in various situations. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 48 About our sustainability reporting About our sustainability reporting Volvo Cars has been reporting on environmental, health and safety aspects of research and development in Sweden, manufacturing in Sweden, Belgium, its products and production since 2000. In 2003, we produced our first and Malaysia, as well as sales companies worldwide. Definitions regarding Sustainability Report in line with the international reporting guidelines from boundaries for each performance indicator are given in respect to the the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). By applying and living up to the GRI’s indicator concerned. We report only direct environmental impacts, except in international guidelines for sustainability reporting, we aim to ensure the case of CO2 from energy production for which we also report indirect transparent reporting based on content which is relevant to our stakeholders. emissions from electricity generation and district heating. Definitions For 2012, we report at GRI level B (self-declared). regarding boundaries for each performance indicator are given in respect to the indicator concerned. Volvo Cars reports on an annual basis. This report’s sustainability data covers the period 1 January to 31 December 2012. The 2011 report was issued in The Volvo Cars’ GRI report 2012 has not been verified by a third party. May 2012 and is available at Volvo Cars’ website. However, we are considering this for the future as we regard third-party verification as another important step towards transparency. This report deals with Volvo Cars and all wholly-owned operations throughout 2012. These comprise offices mainly in Sweden, China and Belgium, Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement for OUTPUT 1.1 for Level C plus: Level B Disclosures 2.1 2.10 1.2 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Standard Disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not required Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each OUTPUT G3 Management Indicator Category Indicator Category Approach Disclosures Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of Report on each core G3 and G3 Performance 10 Performance Indicators, 20 Performance Indicators, Sector Supplement* Indicator OUTPUT Indicators & including at least one from at least one from each of with due regard to the Sector Supplement each of: Economic, Social Economic, Environmental, Materiality Principle by Performance and Environmental. Human rights, Labour, either: a) reporting on the Indicators Society, Product Indicator or b) explaining Reponsibility. the reason for its omission. *Sector supplement in final version Contact Erica Wikman Director Sustainability Communication Volvo Car Group Corporate Communications, PVH 50 SE-405 31 Gothenburg Telephone: +46 (0)31-59 29 52 Email: erica.wikman@volvocars.com www.volvocars.com/sustainability Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 49 GRI Index GRI Index Indicator completely covered (according to definitions given in the GRI guidelines) Indicator partially covered (according to definitions given in the GRI guidelines) 1. Strategy & Analysis 3. Report Parameters Indicator Description Coverage Page Indicator Description Coverage Page Statement from the most 3.1 Reporting period. 49 1.1 senior decision-maker of the 4 Date of most recent previous organisation 3.2 49 report Descriptions of impacts, risks 1.2 9 3.3 Reporting cycle 49 and opportunities. Contact point for questions 3.4 regarding the report or its 49 contents 2. Organisational profile Process for defining report Indicator Description Coverage Page 3.5 6 content 2.1 Name of the organisation 45 3.6 Boundary of the report 49 Primary brands, products Basis for reporting on joint 2.2 45 and/or services ventures, subsidiaries, leased 3.7 49 Operational structure of the facilities, outsourced 2.3 46 operations, and other entities organisation Location of organisation’s Data measurement 2.4 46 3.8 techniques and the bases of 49 headquarters calculations Number of countries where 2.5 46 Explanation of the effect of the organisation operates any re-statements of Nature of ownership and legal 3.9 49 2.6 47 information provided in form earlier reports 2.7 Markets served 46 Significant changes from 3.10 49 Scale of the reporting previous reporting periods. 2.8 45 organisation Policy and current practice Significant changes during with regard to seeking 2.9 46 3.11 49 the reporting period external assurance for the report Awards received in the 2.10 2 reporting period Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 50 GRI Index 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Indicator Description Coverage Page 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 47 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 47 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 47 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 4.4 47 governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 4.5 48 and the organisation’s performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 48 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for 4.7 11 guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 11 environmental, and social performance Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of 4.9 11 economic, environmental, and social performance Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.10 11 environmental, and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation 11 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 11 organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations 11 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 7 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 6 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 6 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has 4.17 8 responded to those key topics and concerns Management approach UNCG Category Description Coverage principle Page General Management Approach with reference to economic performance, market presence and Sustainability & 9 indirect economic impacts Economic Management Approach with reference to materials, energy, water, biodiversity, Environmental 7,8,9 14 emissions, effluents and waste, products and services, and compliance Management Approach with reference to employment, labour/management relations, Labour Practices & occupational health and safety, training and education, and diversity and equal 1,3,6 26 Decent Work opportunity Management Approach with reference to investment and procurement practices, non-discrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining, abolition of child Human Rights 1,2 35 labour, prevention of forced and compulsory labour, complaints and grievance practices, security practices and indigenous rights Management Approach with reference to community, corruption, public policy, antiSociety 10 36 competitive behaviour and compliance Product Management Approach with reference to customer health and safety, product and service 1,8 40 Responsibility labelling, marketing communications, customer privacy and compliance Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 51 GRI Index Performance indicators Economic Category Indicator Description Coverage Page 12 and EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed financial report Economic Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due EC2 12 Performance to climate change See EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations financial report Environment UNCG Category Indicator Description Coverage principle Page EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 8 17 Materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 8,9 18 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 8 19 Energy EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 8 19 EN6 Initiatives to energy-efficient or renewable energy based products 8,9 16 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 8 18 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Biodiversity EN11 8 22 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 8 20 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 8 20 Emissions, Effluents, EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 8 21 and Waste EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 8 18 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 8 21 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 8 21 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impact of products and services 7,8,9 16 Products and Services Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed EN27 8,9 18 by category Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Monetary Fines EN28 8 18 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting goods 8 22 Labour Practices and Decent Work UNCG Category Indicator Description Coverage principle Page LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 26 Employment LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 6 29 Labour relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 3,5 27 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total LA7 1 31 Occupational number of work-related fatalities by region Health and Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programmes in Safety LA8 place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members 1 34 regarding serious diseases Training LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 1 34 Diversity and LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 1,6 28 Equal Opportunity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 1,6 28 Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 52 GRI Index Human Rights Category Indicator Description Coverage UNCG Page principle Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2 1,2 39 screening on human rights and actions taken Human Rights Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning HR3 1,2 36 aspects of human rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 1,2 30 Society Category Indicator Description Coverage UNCG Page principle Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies SO3 10 36 and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 10 36 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development SO5 10 36 Anti-corruption and lobbying Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and SO7 10 36 monopoly practices and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SO8 10 36 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Category Indicator Description Coverage Page Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed PR1 41 Customer Health for improvement & Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 43 concerning health and safety impacts of products Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer PR5 41 satisfaction Product and Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 41 Service Labelling communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 41 concerning marketing communications Monetary values of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Compliance PR9 43 concerning the provision and use of products In addition to the above-mentioned indicators, there are a number of indicators we would like to report on (because we consider them material aspects) but were not able to do so in this reporting period due to difficulties in collecting the necessary data: EC5, EC6, EN9, EN10, LA6, HR1 and SO2. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 53 Glossary Glossary ACEA: The European Automobile Manufacturers Association, founded in LCA: Life Cycle Analysis or Life Cycle Assessment (eco balance, or 1991, represents the interests of the fifteen European car, truck and bus cradle-to-grave analysis) is a technique to assess environmental impacts manufacturers at EU level. associated with all the stages of a product’s life. Code of Conduct: Principles, values, standards, or rules of behaviour that Natura 2000 areas: The European Union has built up a vast network of guide the decisions, procedures and systems of an organisation in a way that 26,000 protected areas in all the Member States with a combined area of contributes to the welfare of its key stakeholders, and respects the rights of more than 750,000 square kilometres, which makes up 18% of the EU’s all constituents affected by its operations. land area. This network is called Natura 2000 and is the largest network of protected areas in the world. Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs): Gases formed of chlorine, fluorine and carbon. CFCs cause the breakdown of the ozone layer that protects the earth Nitrogen oxides (NOx): Nitrogen oxides refers to nitric oxide gas (NO) from the sun’s ultraviolet (UV) radiation. and nitrogen dioxide gas (NO2) and many other gaseous oxides containing nitrogen. The main sources of these gases in urban areas are motor vehicle CO2 emissions: Carbon dioxide emissions are those stemming from the exhaust and indoor gas stoves and kerosene heaters. These gases are also burning of fossil fuels and the manufacture of cement. They include carbon partly responsible for the generation of ozone, which is produced when dioxide produced during consumption of solid, liquid, and gas fuels and nitrogen oxides react with other chemicals in the presence of sunlight. gas flaring. OECD guidelines for multinational companies: The Organisation Electric cars: Automobiles that are propelled by one electric motor or more, for Economic Co-operation and Development’s far-reaching set of using electrical energy stored in batteries or another energy storage device. recommendations for responsible business conduct that 44 adhering EuroFOT: European Field Operational Test on Active Safety Systems. governments encourage their enterprises to observe wherever they operate. Flexifuel cars: Alternative fuel vehicles with an internal combustion engine Plug-in-hybrid cars: Vehicles that utilise rechargeable batteries, or another designed to run on more than one fuel, usually gasoline blended with either energy storage device, that can be restored to full charge by connecting a ethanol or methanol fuel, and both fuels are stored in the same common tank. plug to an external electric power source (usually a normal electric wall socket). Greenhouse gas emissions other than CO2: water vapour, methane, SARTRE (Safe Road Trains for the Environment) project: SARTRE, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and funded by the European Commission, aims to encourage a step change in sulphur hexafluoride (SF6). personal transport usage through the development of safe environmental road trains (platoons). Global Compact: The United Nations’ Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and Sulphur oxide (SOx): An oxide of sulphur, such as sulphur dioxide and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human sulphur trioxide. They are formed primarily from the combustion of fossil fuels rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. and are major air pollutants and cause of damage to the respiratory tract as well as vegetation. Global Reporting Initiative: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a non-profit organisation that promotes economic, environmental and social SPA (Scalable Product Architecture): SPA is Volvo’s new mother sustainability. GRI provides all companies and organisations with a platform, which will allow it to manufacture cars with different size, body style comprehensive sustainability reporting framework that is widely used around and specifications on the same production line. The largest benefit arising the world. from this set-up would be lower costs due to parts sharing across different models and lower production costs due to a common production line. Hazardous waste: Any waste or combination of wastes with the potential to damage human health, living organisms or the environment. Hazardous UN Global Compact: The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative waste usually requires special handling and disposal procedures which are for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies regulated by national and international laws. with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. HCFCs: Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) are a large group of compounds whose structure is very close to that of Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), but VEA (Volvo Engine Architecture): Volvo-developed engine family with including one or more hydrogen atoms. The most significant releases of four-cylinder petrol and diesel engines that reduce both carbon dioxide HCFCs occur as leakage from cooling appliances which contain them, both emissions and fuel consumption. The engine is approximately 40 kg lighter during their manufacture, use and disposal. HCFCs cause the breakdown of than today’s engine and improves fuel economy by 15–35%, depending on the ozone layer that protects the earth from the sun’s ultraviolet (UV) radiation. the model. The VEA engines combine high performance with lower emissions. International Energy Agency (IEA): The IEA is an autonomous organisation which works to ensure reliable, affordable and clean energy Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs): Organic chemicals that have a for its 28 member countries and beyond. high vapour pressure at ordinary, room-temperature conditions. Some VOCs are dangerous to human health or cause harm to the environment. ISO 14001 standard: International standard for an environmental management system that can be certified to. Volvo Car Group Sustainability Report 2012 54
