A nn u al R E VIEW and S u stainabilit y R ep o rt 2 O13 Contents 2 ABOUT US 6 ANNUAL REVIEW 9 DELIVERING ECONOMIC VALUE 10 What Sustainability Means to Us 16 Governance, Ethics and Respecting Rights 19 Business Operations and Finance 25 Workplace 32 Community 36 Environment 44 GRI and UNGC Index About this Report Scope and boundaries This is Pacific Hydro Pty Ltd’s fifth annual Sustainability Report, covering the period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013. This report covers the sustainability performance of Pacific Hydro Pty Ltd and its wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries, including the assets and offices in Australia, Brazil and Chile that we operate in. Tinguiririca Energía (TEJV) is a 50:50 joint venture between SN Power and Pacific Hydro in Chile. While not operated by Pacific Hydro, 50 per cent of TEJV performance is included except where stated. All TEJV information covers the period 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2012 in line with TEJV local reporting. This, and prior sustainability reports dating back to 2009, are available at pacifichydro.com All dollar amounts are in Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. All information included in this report is correct at the time of printing. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines and the Electric Utilities Sector Supplement have been applied to a B+ Level and checked by KPMG. This report has received limited assurance from KPMG on a number of key performance indicators (see p.43) and we aim to expand our assurance scope in future years as part of our Sustainability Strategy. MEASUREMENT CRITERIA Status Criteria ü On track or exceeding deliverables expectations o Some issues in achieving deliverables, but manageable û Major issues in achieving deliverables, requiring senior management attention for resolution Follow the links when you see this symbol to find out more A nn u al R E VIEW and S u stainabilit y R ep o rt 2 O13 A B OU T U S Pacific Hydro is a global Our values and behaviours clean energy solutions Action: provider. –G  etting things done Operating for over 20 years, – Working together we develop, build and Dedication: operate renewable energy –D  emonstrating a commitment projects and sell electricity to zero harm and carbon abatements –D  elivering a service culture products to customers –C  ommitted to respecting and protecting the interests in our chosen markets. of all our stakeholders Working collaboratively and sharing the benefits with our communities Energy: throughout the entire lifecycle of –S  upporting others and being our projects is consistent with the adaptable values and behaviours that guide us. –C  reating an energising place With hydro, wind, solar and geothermal to work and celebrating success power projects at varying stages of development, construction and Inclusion: operation in Australia, Brazil and Chile, –S  howing respect, compassion we are well positioned to achieve our and consideration for others purpose and vision. Leadership: OUR PURPOSE AND VISION –L  eading by example Our purpose –B  eing accountable Achieving investor returns –E  mpowering people by powering a cleaner world. – Encouraging innovation Our vision To create economic, social and environmental value by being our customers’ preferred clean energy solutions provider. A M essage fr o m O u r chairman The last two years presented great Renewable Energy Target review in challenges for Pacific Hydro, primarily Australia, which will help protect the due to a 20 month outage at one country from the rising cost of fossil of our joint venture assets in Chile, fuels over the long term. but also because of the worst drought in 60 years and the regulatory uncertainty Going forward, Pacific Hydro continues being driven by the political environment to be an important part of the IFM in Australia. Australian Infrastructure Fund, which has delivered net returns of 12.1 per cent Throughout this period, IFM remained per annum since its inception (to 30 June committed to the long term value of 2013) to more than five million Australian the business on behalf of its investors. members of industry superannuation funds. Garry Weaven As you can see in this report, we had Chairman a number of important achievements Whilst the drought in Chile is forecast across all parts of the group in the last to continue into the new financial year, financial year and the future is looking our future strategies, underpinned bright for Pacific Hydro. by our new Purpose, Vision, Values and Behaviours, will foster the We closed the year with 100 per cent development of exciting opportunities of our assets in operation, an outstanding for Pacific Hydro as a global clean Health and Safety performance result, energy solutions provider. and with a positive outcome of the 2012 Renewable Energy Generated Operating Assets 2.04 million megawatt hrs (MWh) 18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Abated Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 1.49 MILLION Tonnes 5.0 revenue* Employees* $224 million 294 COMMUNITY FUND COMMITMENTS* Employee Training & Development Spend* $319,000 $554,000 *excludes TEJV. 3 A M essage fr o m O u r c EO Welcome to our Annual Review More than 2.04 million megawatt and Sustainability Report 2013. hours (MWh) of clean, renewable energy were generated by our assets, Pacific Hydro celebrated 20 years leading to the abatement of over of clean energy and 10 years in 1.49 million tonnes of greenhouse South America during the 2012–13 gas emissions. Australian financial year. We also celebrated a successful ending to Throughout the year, we continued a challenging year, with operations to work and support our host resuming at our Tinguiririca Energía communities through our award-winning joint venture. community investment funds and a range of community relations activities. Following the conclusion of 20 months ROB GRANT CHIEF executive officer of works to repair a 20 metre collapse Our commitment to working in its 17 kilometre tunnel, the 155MW collaboratively and sharing the La Higuera run-of-river hydro plant benefits with our communities resumed operations in May 2013. throughout the entire lifecycle of our projects prompted a review We are now looking forward to a bright of our practices. As a result, we are future for Pacific Hydro as we embark assessing new approaches to improve on the next 20 years of the company’s the way we work with this important life. The launch of our new Purpose, stakeholder group to maintain our Vision, Values and Behaviours, which competitive advantage and meet underpin our future strategies, marked our communities’ expectations. the beginning of this journey. We continued to support and promote Through our new vision to create the ten principles of the United Nations economic, social and environmental Global Compact throughout our business, value by being our customers’ preferred further aligning our operations and clean energy solutions provider, Pacific strategies with these key areas. Hydro is well placed to live out its new purpose: achieving investor returns The United Nations Framework by powering a cleaner world. Convention on Climate Change approved the registration of our We were very proud of our Health Chacayes run-of-river hydro plant and Safety performance across in Chile under the Kyoto Protocol’s all our businesses, achieving a Total Clean Development Mechanism. Recordable Injury Frequency Rate This accreditation was an important of 5.0 against a target of 6.1 or less milestone for the asset, which was in the 12 months to 30 June 2013. also named “Best Hydro Project of the Year” at the Renewable Energy The Chilean National Safety Council Projects of the Year Awards 2012 awarded Pacific Hydro the Health in Orlando, USA. & Safety Excellence Award in the category “Public utilities companies” and we completed 1,886 days without an LTI in Brazil. 4 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 Operationally, our assets in Australia We remain committed to our three and Brazil, and our majority owned core markets – Australia, Brazil assets in Chile, performed well with and Chile. These economies have high levels of availability and efficiency. weathered the global financial The Chacayes hydro plant completed challenges well and continue to its first year of operations with demonstrate future opportunities and outstanding operational performance, demand for our clean energy solutions. despite continued dry hydrological conditions in the Cachapoal Valley. In Australia, we will advance with our retail strategy and progress with our The Codrington wind farm, one of wind and solar development projects. Australia’s first wind farms, passed We will progress the development of its midlife health check and, despite our first wind farm in Chile and increase the harsh coastal environment that our focus to optimise generation from it is located in, results showed that our run-of-river hydro plants, as dry the asset is performing in accordance hydrological conditions are forecast with our expectations. to persist. In Brazil, we will continue to pursue and develop relationships Despite our best efforts, the overall with new clients and partners to bring financial results for the group were our development assets to market materially impacted by the 20-month and explore acquisition opportunities long outage of La Higuera, its in parallel. remediation costs and insurance recovery delays. Finally, we were very proud to be named as the winner at the Corporate We are confident that the new financial Responsibility Reporting Awards 2013 year will be a turnaround year for Pacific in the “Openness & Honesty” category Hydro now that La Higuera has returned for our first combined Annual Review to service. Our future strategies will and Sustainability Report, a format require our people to become more we introduced in 2012. customer focused and to aim for even higher levels of operational excellence. I hope you enjoy reading about our business and sustainability performance Following a global executive search achievements over the reporting period. during the financial year, we appointed Joseph Keenan to the new role of Chief Operating Officer for the Pacific Hydro group. Mr Keenan joined us from Orica, where he has most recently held the position of President of Orica Latin America, and brings a wealth of experience to the company leading Hydro Wind Solar Geothermal our corporate business unit. OUR GLOBAL PROJECTS 5 Annual Review AUSTRALIA Expanding our existing business to include electricity retail was one of the major milestones for Pacific Hydro Australia during the reporting period. We now offer solutions for businesses looking for a reliable, flexible and cost-effective service to meet their electricity supply needs. We maintained high levels of operational availability across our renewable energy generation assets. Whilst we experienced the windiest August on record at a number of our Victorian wind farms, lower wind speeds throughout the year meant our overall generation was down on expectations, particularly in South Australia. Our Ord hydro plant in Western Australia underwent significant upgrades during the year, including replacing out dated equipment, which will improve its reliability. Throughout the year we remained focused on the ways that we work with communities. As part of the evolution of the Sustainable Communities Fund, we trialled community fund panels within all our wind farm host communities. The panels include community members, local council and Pacific Hydro staff who are not normally involved in this activity. All participants have given their time generously to ensure a very positive outcome. The panels will be an ongoing feature of the program. In line with our commitment to working collaboratively and sharing the benefits with our communities throughout the entire lifecycle of our projects, we reviewed our consultation and complaint handling processes. Sadly, we found that we are meeting neither community expectations nor our own. We have since commenced work to rectify this situation. Over the next two years, we will be implementing a range of initiatives including training and new procedures to better meet expectations in the community and to ensure our company’s values and behaviours are being demonstrated through our actions. The Climate Change Commission’s Renewable Energy Target (RET) review in 2012 confirmed that the RET had driven around 90 per cent of total greenhouse gas abatement in the electricity sector from 2001–12. Without this, Australia would have been unable to meet its Kyoto Protocol commitment for 2008–12. The review also found that the cost to consumers is around 4.5 per cent of their electricity bills (about 1.5 per cent of that is due to the large scale target) which will help protect Australians from the rising cost of fossil fuels over the long term. Over the coming year, we will continue to focus on the way that we work with communities, expand our retail strategy and progress with projects including the Moree Solar Farm, in New South Wales. This supports our vision to create economic, social and environmental value by being our customers’ preferred clean energy solutions provider. BRAZIL Maintaining an outstanding health and safety track record and achieving the highest levels of compliance and operational excellence were some of Pacific Hydro Brazil’s key achievements in the reporting period. We completed 1,886 days without health and safety incidents and achieved ISO 14001 recertification of our Environmental Management System. Operationally, our assets in the country’s northeast performed well and efficiently, meeting our 98 per cent availability target and delivering clean, renewable electricity to client Eletrobrás. A long-running operational performance review with wind turbine supplier Wobben was finalised towards the end of the reporting period, achieving positive outcomes. Throughout the year, we continued to work and support our host communities in Mataraca, Paraíba, through a range of community relations initiatives in the areas of health, environment, education, culture and community development. In line with our commitment to working collaboratively and sharing the benefits with our communities throughout the entire lifecycle of our projects, we commenced consultation with the community of Touros, Rio Grande do Norte, which will host our Galinhos wind farm project, currently under development. Following the appointment of Adriana Waltrick as General Manager, Brazil in June 2012, and the subsequent implementation of a new team of experienced professionals from the local energy sector, the business unit took on a new strategic direction. Two wind clusters were developed in the south and northeast of Brazil, while we continue to target the unregulated market and its large customers. New business development and finance teams were created in our São Paulo office and a new in-country wind engineering centre was implemented in Natal, working closely with our corporate engineering services team in Australia. A joint venture with mining company Vale, announced in 2012, has undergone a review during the year. Due to a strategic decision by Vale to focus on its core business, the company is expected to be a potential future energy client rather than an investment partner. For this reason, we decided to prepare the Paraíso Azul and Paraíso Farol wind projects for the Federal Government’s Energy Auctions scheduled for the second half of 2013. The year presented a number of new opportunities for commercial partnerships and mergers and acquisitions in the northeast and south of the country. Our focus in the new financial year will be on further developing these opportunities to enable the future growth of Pacific Hydro Brazil. 7 CHILE As we celebrated 20 years of clean energy, Pacific Hydro also celebrated 10 years in Chile. Completing an outstanding first year of operations at our Chacayes run-of-river hydro plant and resuming operations at our Tinguiririca Energía joint venture were two major milestones for Pacific Hydro Chile. Operationally, our majority-owned assets performed well with high levels of availability and efficiency. Electricity prices in Chile have helped us weather the impacts of continued dry hydrological conditions in the Cachapoal Valley. Safety remained a priority. The Chilean National Safety Council awarded Pacific Hydro with the Health and Safety Excellence Award for the lowest index of recorded incidents in that category. Chacayes was named ‘Best Hydro Project of the Year’ at the Renewable Energy Projects of the Year Awards and was successfully registered under the Clean Development Mechanism to issue and trade in carbon credits. We continued to support our host communities through our Creciendo Juntos community investment fund and a range of initiatives such as the Alto Cachapoal Scientific Investigation Fund. As active participants in the Water Users Organisations of both Tinguiririca and Cachapoal Valleys, we hold seats on the Board of both organisations, allowing us to coordinate the operation of our plants with other water rights holders. We received environmental approval to build Punta Sierra wind farm, our first wind farm in Chile. In line with our commitment to working collaboratively and sharing the benefits with our communities, we commenced consultation with Punta Sierra’s host community and facilitated the appointment of a local distribution company to secure energy supply for the Chacayes community. Both Tinguiririca Energía’s assets, La Higuera and La Confluencia hydro plants, were operating at the end of the reporting period, despite continued dry hydrological conditions in the Tinguiririca Valley. An arbitration with the main contractor for La Higuera has been in progress since 2011. We also completed our largest financial transaction with local banks, a US$340 million, 14-year loan to refinance Chacayes with a consortium including Itaú BBA (of Bank Itaú Chile), Bci and CorpBanca. In addition, we completed the refinancing of Coya and Pangal with DNB Bank ASA, Agencia Chile. These transactions are a testament to the quality and value of our operating assets, demonstrating the growing appetite of local financial institutions for renewable energy assets. A new Advisory Council for Pacific Hydro Chile was created to oversee the development and implementation of our future strategies. Jose Antonio Valdes, previously General Manager of Pacific Hydro Chile, was appointed as Executive Chairman of this Advisory Council. D elivering E c o n o mic Val u e Economic Performance Sales revenue was $AUD224 million for the generation and losses on energy derivatives reporting period, an increase of 14 per cent in Australia and lower prices in Brazil. on the previous year. This was primarily driven by higher spot prices in Chile and Australia, The economic impacts below exclude Pacific and higher generation in Chile. However, this Hydro’s equity accounted investments except increase was partially offset as a result of lower where otherwise stated. Direct Economic ImpactS* $AUD Aust Brazil Chile Corp FY12–13 FY11–12 FY10–11 FY 09–10 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Total Total Total Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Economic value generated FY 2012–2013 Revenue 107,320 22,365 94,596 – 224,281 196,560 151,904 114,836 Economic value distributed FY 2012–2013 Cost of Sales** 30,438 5,761 21,161 – 57,360 50,840 45,376 38,192 Employee wages 5,848 1,420 12,514 10,891 30,673 28,269 26,474 18,930 and benefits Earnings Before 122,274 112,024 81,179 86,759 Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortisation*** Other Cash (out)/in flows Interest payments 36,166 6,859 16,438 – 59,463 51,178 56,677 39,470 to providers of finance Payments of 4,477 4,477 20,502 8,144 3,224 income tax Community fund 240 6 73 319 377 353 339 commitments Capital Expenditure Project 4,507 2,716 4,150 – 11,373 13,545 10,725 7,621 development expenditure**** Construction 4,090 685 26,942 229 31,946 34,905 141,480 204,438 and minor capital Shareholders’ equity***** 913,433 858,210 896,384 1,029,537 Restatement: In the previous report, Shareholder's Equity was reported as $862,451,000. * Derived from our Annual Financial Statements which were prepared in accordance with IFRS (excludes Community fund, which is funds committed, not paid). ** Operating costs includes the portion of employee wages and benefits amounts charged to operating assets. *** Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA) is calculated by taking results from operating activities adjusted for depreciation, amortisation. EBITDA includes FX gains/losses and bank fees. **** Relates to pre-construction development expenditure in order to progress each project’s technical and commercial elements. ***** Includes shareholder loans and relates to mark to market revaluation movements on TEJV hedges. 9 W hat S u stainabilit y M eans t o Us Sustainability Strategy KEY AIMS FROM OUR SUSTAINABILITY POLICY During the reporting period Economic –A  chieve investor returns and create long term value we reviewed and enhanced for our shareholders our Purpose, Vision, Values and –S  ustainable business practices are used to maintain ethical Behaviours statements as well as conduct, a culture of accountability, responsible procurement our Business Planning framework. and overall governance A Sustainability Policy and Strategy –C  omply with and respect all laws, regulations, treaties were developed in line with these and conventions, including Pacific Hydro policies and changes, particularly around our our Code of Conduct Vision: “To create economic, social –C  ustomer needs are met or exceeded and environmental value by being our customers’ preferred clean energy Social –D  eliver long term benefits to our host communities, solutions provider”. including Indigenous groups, through direct and indirect economic investment, capability building and other The Sustainability Policy was launched development initiatives and programs to provide clarity and direction around –R  espect for our people in terms of health and safety, what sustainability means to us and to employee development and through fostering a diverse address our sustainability commitments and inclusive workplace at the highest level. Sustainability had –R  elationships with all stakeholders are ethical, responsive previously been captured in our Health and collaborative in an effort to Create Shared Value Safety and Sustainability Policy, but it Environment – Minimise our impact on the environment was identified that an individual policy – Use resources efficiently would support and enhance existing and future sustainability initiatives. –H  elp to reduce the global reliance on fossil fuels Some of the key aims of our Sustainability by developing more new renewable energy projects Policy are displayed in the table –H  elp our customers address their climate change to the right. and mitigation obligations – Play an active role in environmental advocacy in areas that affect A three-year Sustainability Strategy or which create and enhance positive environmental outcomes was developed to ensure effective implementation of the Policy. It is aligned with our new Business Planning framework and three-year planning cycle, outlining our long-term sustainability vision and supporting objectives, deliverables and KPIs. A number of strategic objectives are described under the “Looking Ahead” section on page 15. COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND PACIFIC HYDRO CHILE STAFF AT THE PRESENTATION CEREMONY FOR A LOCAL TRAINING PROGRAM 10 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 “ WE CONTINUOUSLY S E E K T O U N D E R S TA N D OUR S TA K EHOLDERS ’ EXPECTATIONS” Stakeholders engagement activities as appropriate. Through this tailored approach, we continuously seek We define our stakeholders as individuals to understand our stakeholders’ expectations and groups who are impacted by our activities, and demands and reflect these in our Sustainability or those who can have an impact on our future Strategy, report and overall business activities. development. Due to the diverse interests of each stakeholder group, which varies in The table below displays our key stakeholder each of our countries of operation, we adapt groups and illustrates some of the ways we our approach, communication channels and have engaged with them in the past year. KEY STAKEHOLDERS AND ENGAGEMENT METHODS StakeholderS How we engage Shareholders Monthly Board and periodic Committee meetings; periodic Industry (our owner) Funds Management investor briefings; annual three year Business Planning process; regular strategy reviews Banks and financiers Regular formal and informal meetings; ad-hoc reporting, written correspondence and phone calls; site visits; health, safety, sustainability and operational reporting as required; social media Communities Formal and informal community consultation sessions and work tables and landholders as required; one-on-one meetings as required; occasional site visits; ongoing interaction with community and landholder liaison officers; regular newsletters; regular community engagement and investment activities; employee visits to community; social media Employees Monthly online CEO update; monthly line manager communications; monthly lunchtime forums hosted by CEO, general managers or functional teams; six monthly and annual performance reviews; regular social functions and events; annual Organisational Alignment and Engagement Survey; regular intranet news updates; social media Contractors Expressions of Interest; execution of quotations and tender processes, and suppliers consideration of formal economical and technical evaluations; regular meetings; Sustainable Supplier Assessments as required; contracts across the project lifecycle – development, delivery and operations; social media Customers Regular meetings; ongoing written communications and phone conversations with existing customers; on-going relationship development with a range of prospective customers through meetings, attendance at market events and sponsorship of market-related seminars and conferences; social media; ad hoc screenings for free market clients and the regulated market Water rights holders Regular formal participation in the Board of the Water Users Organisations; (irrigators) and one-on-one meetings with landowners and negotiations as required; occasional landholders in Chile site visits; ongoing interaction with landholder liaison officers; social media Government Regular meetings; regular written submissions as required; occasional authorities – local, site visits; ongoing formal participation and representation on industry state and federal associations and other bodies; social media Opinion leaders Regular meetings; regular written information; occasional site visits; social media General Public Social media, including Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Google+ and YouTube 11 Materiality We undertake materiality assessments to help us identify the topics that are of most significance, or material, to our stakeholders. Once identified, the topics are considered in our Business Planning process, and are used to establish sustainability strategies and deliverables and to identify topics for inclusion in this report. Our process for determining materiality was developed in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidance on materiality and completeness. Firstly, we survey a broad range of stakeholders in each country to obtain anonymous feedback on topics or issues they feel are important for us to address. We then perform an internal analysis of company policies and business strategies, our risk framework and registers, other stakeholder feedback, our peers and business norms to determine internal issues to prioritise. Internal analyses are conducted annually and stakeholder surveys are conducted biennially. The most recent stakeholder survey was conducted in January 2012. We received 53 responses from stakeholders and allocated topics an ‘external ranking’ based on the number of times the topic was mentioned “ OU R P R O CES S by respondents. In order to adequately consider topics raised in consultation with stakeholders, the results of the 2012 and 2013 FOR DETERMINING Materiality Assessments have been consolidated to identify the topics M AT E R I A L I T Y WA S of greatest significance to the business for the past two years. D E V ELO P ED I N The table on page 13 shows the LINE W ITH THE GLOBA L REP ORTING topics of greatest internal and external significance as identified I N I T I AT I V E ” through our 2012 and 2013 Materiality Assessments, and how these have been addressed in our report. 12 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 TOPICS OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL SIGNIFICANCE Topic Location in Report Business Delivering value Delivering Economic Value, p.9 Operations Operational excellence Operational Excellence, p.21–22 and Finance (Responsible power generation) Governance and transparency Governance, Ethics and Respecting Rights, p.16–18 Procurement practices Procurement practices, p.23 Government lobbying Government lobbying and public policy, and public policy p.23–24 Workplace Internal communications Internal communications and employee and alignment alignment, p.27 Community Consultation and engagement Consultation and engagement with communities and with communities, p.32–33 Relationships with communities Support and development Support and development of communities, of communities p.33–35 Environment Climate change, Climate change, GHG and energy management, GHG and energy management p.36–39 Environmental compliance Environmental compliance and planning, p.39 and planning Environmental impacts Environmental impacts of Pacific Hydro of Pacific Hydro activities activities, p.39–42 13 Performance against Goals What we said WE WOULD do Status What we did Economic returns Achieve above benchmark economic û Did not achieve required returns due to overall reduction in forecast returns for shareholders bundled (green and black) prices and delay in La Higuera tunnel Business Operations and Finance rectification works Development Continue project development ü Our Punta Sierra wind farm in Chile moved closer to completion, to bring new clean energy supply receiving environmental approval and commencing engagement to each of our markets activities with local communities o In Australia, we progressed with a number of development opportunities, including the final stage of our Portland Wind Energy Project ü In Brazil, we signed a letter of intent to develop a 2MW pilot solar power plant as part of our technological diversification strategy Clean energy policy advocacy Influence legislation and market ü Worked with government and regulatory teams to influence changes mechanisms favourable to clean in renewable energy law energy investment Health and safety Build and sustain a strong health ü There were no fatalities and we achieved a Total Recordable Injury and safety culture within the Frequency Rate of 5.0, a 31 per cent reduction on the previous year company and have zero harm ü Implemented risk mitigation plans for high risk H&S areas in all to employees and others Business Units Workplace Employees Attract, recruit, develop and retain ü Developed a global sourcing strategy to source and target the right employees through the Human candidates at lower cost, and implemented over 80 per cent of initiatives Resources Framework to maximise resulting from our annual Alignment and Engagement Survey performance Promote an inclusive culture ü Diversity and Inclusion strategy was successfully rolled out across that embraces diversity all three Business Units, including workshops on cultural awareness, unconscious bias and communications Community relations Develop, implement and manage ü Successfully resolved water rights issues with local irrigators in Chile programs that positively engage o In Australia, we undertook a review of our complaint handling Community local communities and identified a significant number of improvement opportunities Community investment Promote and improve our community ü Continued our successful community investment programs investment programs in Australia and Chile ü In Brazil, we supported a number of initiatives to enhance and protect cultural and environmental heritage Environmental management Maintain environmental management ü All Business Units maintained Environmental Management Systems systems and meet compliance that are aligned with or certified to ISO 14001 Environment obligations ü We received no environmental fines Carbon and energy management Implement carbon strategies ü Reduction strategies implemented in all three Business Units, on track and management plans, including achieving a reduction in office electricity consumption over a two year period 14 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 Looking ahead What we want How we are going Focus areas to achieve to get there for next financial year Deliver value to our shareholders Achieve above benchmark economic returns for shareholders ü Operational excellence Deliver on committed availability, efficiency, maintenance ü Economic and investment programs Transparent governance structure Review current governance structures to reflect stakeholder ü and shareholders requirements Sustainable procurement Review the supply chain for major contracts ü practices Value chain / materiality mapping Year 2 Develop a global procurement strategy Years 2–3 Healthy and safe workplace* Driving down workplace injuries, improving our management systems, ü building a strong H&S culture and conducting assurance activities Improve employee alignment Embed values and behaviours into PH culture ü and engagement Investigate an employee volunteering program Year 2 Promote inclusion and diversity* Implement mentoring programs with an external organisation ü Ensure gender equality in development and remuneration ü Social Engage staff on cultural awareness through training and activities ü To be trusted by the community Early engagement and consultation with community ü and have positive relationships Where feasible, have a local representative / employee within Years 2–3 with a high level of integrity the community Community engagement plans developed and implemented at all sites Years 2–3 Develop a global community engagement strategy ü Develop a global community investment strategy ü Understand climate change and Conduct a study to identify and assess the impacts of climate change ü GHG impacts on the Company on PH’s business Implement changes to our business (if required) based Years 2–3 on the assessment of the impacts of climate change Improve process of data collection on greenhouse gas ü and energy consumption Assess requirements of Equator Principles III and update systems ü and reporting Environmental compliance Implement the global Health Safety Environmental Management ü Environment System (HSEMS) Standards at all sites Audit against the HSEMS Standards as per audit schedule ü Maintain ISO14001 at current sites and consider ISO14001 ü accreditation for all new sites Management of environmental Measure environmental impacts of construction projects throughout Years 2–3 impacts the construction lifecycle and implement reduction strategies Ensure that areas of land/habitat reinstated exceed the amount ü disturbed Improve understanding of water use, quality, flows and measure (year 1), Years 1–3 assess (year 2) and report (year 3) on the environmental impacts Implement greenhouse initiatives as per the Action Plans developed ü for each business unit Items with an ‘*’, whilst not significant topics in the Materiality Assessment, were identified as being important to us and have also been included in our Strategy. 15 G o vernance , E thics and R especting R ights Our Owner Our Board The Board has delegated responsibility for oversight of specific governance Pacific Hydro is a wholly-owned subsidiary Our Board of Directors is committed areas to three permanent Committees of the Industry Funds Management (IFM) to principles of sustainability and has (Health, Safety, People and Sustainability; Australian Infrastructure Fund. IFM overall responsibility for ensuring that Audit, Finance and Risk; and Projects is a world-leading investment manager, the company maintains an appropriate and Operations). While the Health, Safety, with over A$46 billion in portfolios across corporate governance structure. People and Sustainability Committee listed equities, private equity, infrastructure, has specific responsibilities for debt and private assets. It is wholly-owned, We have a diverse mix of Directors, incorporating different skill sets, sustainability issues and performance, through Industry Super Holdings Pty Ltd, the Board receives monthly economic, by a large number of Australian business and executive experience and qualifications. Having both social and environmental performance superannuation funds. reports from management. independent and owner’s representatives ifm.net.au operating under our governance standards For more information on our directors protects and enhances shareholder value, please refer to: provides appropriate internal controls and provides reporting integrity through pacifichydro.com/our-board continuous disclosure to our shareholders. BOARD MEMBERS Name Position Committee membership Date of Meeting appointment attendance Garry Weaven Chairman and Owner’s Board 29 July 2005 11 of 11 Representative (IFM) Audit, Finance and Risk 3 of 7 Projects and Operations 4 of 5 Brett Himbury Non-Executive Board 29 July 2010 8 of 11 Director and Owner’s Health, Safety, People and Sustainability 5 of 5 Representative (IFM) Kyle Mangini Non-Executive Board 9 Oct 2009 9 of 11 Director and Owner’s Audit, Finance and Risk 3 of 7 Representative (IFM) Projects and Operations 5 of 5 Geoff Coffey Independent Board 26 March 2004 11 of 11 Non-Executive Director Audit, Finance and Risk (Chair) 7 of 7 Projects and Operations 5 of 5 Roger Gill Independent Board 1 December 2010 11 of 11 Non-Executive Director Health, Safety, People and Sustainability 4 of 5 Projects and Operations (Chair) 5 of 5 Anita Roper Independent Board 27 March 2012 11 of 11 Non-Executive Director Health, Safety, People and Sustainability 5 of 5 (Chair) Audit, Finance and Risk 7 of 7 16 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 Our General Management The EWRMF incorporates strategic Ethical Behaviour Committee development and commercial sustainability, risk profile and review, governance, Pacific Hydro is established on Our General Management Committee controls and compliance and assurance a foundation of ethical behaviour, (GMC) works closely with the Board mechanisms. Internal and external operating with integrity and honesty to develop and implement long-term assurance processes are adopted to ensure our longevity and earn the strategy within agreed policy parameters. in some areas to ensure the effectiveness continual trust of our stakeholders. Members of the GMC are directly of these mechanisms. responsible for the performance Code of Conduct of our geographical and functional The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee Our Code of Conduct provides guidance Business Units, and are supported oversee the framework, while the CEO on ethical behaviour for our employees by a team of highly-skilled executive and GMC are responsible for implementing and Directors. All new employees receive managers. This year, our general appropriate risk management strategies training in the Code of Conduct as part management team was further in line with the EWRMF. Risk management of the HR Policies and Procedures strengthened with the addition processes and performance are supported induction and are required to sign the of Joseph Keenan as our Chief by our Risk Management Policy and Code. The Code outlines our approach, Operating Officer. management system. We will examine responsibilities to our stakeholders the EWRMF in 2014 to ensure its and guides employees and contractors Risk Management continued relevance to our business. on issues such as bribery and antiWe adopt an end-to-end approach competitive behaviour. to risk management, using our Enterprise Compliance Wide Risk Management Framework As a responsible clean energy company, Corruption and Anti-competitive (EWRMF) to identify, understand and we are committed to complying with all Behaviour manage risk. Integrating the framework relevant laws, regulations and standards. All employees who regularly deal with into business practices, processes Various compliance mechanisms are overseas counterparties receive periodic and functional responsibilities helps built into our Enterprise Wide Risk training on corruption, covering the us deliver corporate objectives and Management Framework to ensure this. policies and procedures relevant to provide greater certainty and confidence the jurisdictions in which we operate. to our shareholders. Management responsibility for compliance is reinforced by an Annual Compliance Our Whistleblowers Disclosure and Periodic risk reviews are conducted Report prepared by each general manager Investigation Procedure covers allegations for all development opportunities, addressing the state of compliance of improper or corrupt conduct, as well delivery and operations as well within the areas of their responsibility. as breaches of Company policy, the as at other critical decision points. Any non-compliances are subject to Code of Conduct and any relevant laws. a rectification plan and opportunities There were no reported incidents of for avoidance of similar non-compliance corruption or anti-competitive behaviour in the future are identified. We had no during the reported period. non-compliances in the reporting period. 17 “ WE RESPEC T THE RIGHTS OF OU R E M P L OY E E S , CONTR ACTORS A N D T H E B R OA D E R COMMUNIT Y ” Donations There were no identified incidents involving human rights or indigenous We participate in political fundraising rights during the reporting period. activities across the political spectrum to enhance accessibility and We have formal complaints procedures, communication with policy makers, which can be used by employees and however we do not make donations members of the community for concerns to political parties in accordance with relating to Pacific Hydro. our Code of Conduct. United Nations Global Compact Respecting Rights We continued to strengthen our We respect the rights of our employees, commitment to the principles of contractors and the broader community. the United Nations Global Compact Compliance mechanisms within our risk (UNGC). Considerations of environment, management framework allow us to anti-corruption, labour and human rights identify and comply with all relevant have been further integrated into our laws relating to human rights. Our human strategies and day-to-day business rights commitments are covered by the operations. More information about following high-level documents: our progress relating to these principles is included throughout this report. – Code of Conduct – Equal Opportunity Policy unglobalcompact.org – Whistleblowers Disclosure and Investigation Procedure – Health and Safety Policy – Sustainability Policy – Community Charter – Flexible Working Guidelines 18 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 B u siness Operati o ns A N D F inance Installed Capacity ASSET LOCATION PHASE OWNERSHIP TECHNOLOGY CAPACITY* (MW) The Drop Australia Operations 100% Hydro 2.5 Glenmaggie Australia Operations 100% Hydro 3.5 Eildon Pondage Australia Operations 100% Hydro 4.8 William-Hovell Australia Operations 100% Hydro 1.8 Ord Australia Operations 100% Hydro 30 Challicum Hills Australia Operations 100% Wind 52.5 Codrington Australia Operations 100% Wind 18.2 Portland Wind Australia Operations 100% Wind 30 Energy Project (PWEP I) – Yambuk PWEP II – Australia Operations 100% Wind 58 Cape Bridgewater PWEP III – Australia Operations 100% Wind 44 Cape Nelson South Clements Gap Australia Operations 100% Wind 56.7 Millennium Brazil Operations 100% Wind 10.2 Vale dos Ventos Brazil Operations 100% Wind 48 Coya & Pangal Chile Operations 100% Hydro 74 Chacayes Chile Operations 73% Hydro 110 La Higuera Chile Operations 50% Hydro 154.7 La Confluencia Chile Operations 50% Hydro 163.2 Colmito Chile Operations 50% Thermal 58 Back-up * Refers to nameplate capacity. 19 Our Products Retail We commenced our retail activities Australia during the reporting period, offering Wholesale solutions for medium and large organisations looking for a reliable, Electricity flexible and cost-effective service We are active in the wholesale (traded) to meet their electricity supply needs. electricity markets, hedging the price Our current retail offerings (as of received from selling generation into September 2013) include: the National Electricity Market (pool). – Energise by Pacific Hydro This is done in a number of ways, including Power Purchase Agreements – EnergiseGreen by Pacific Hydro (PPAs) with other electricity retailers – GreenPower by Pacific Hydro and large consumers, as well as selling electricity derivatives in the Over The For more information about each Counter (OTC) electricity markets. of these products visit: pacifichydro.com.au/retail Large-scale Generation Certificates All electricity retailers and some large electricity consumers are required to purchase a minimum amount of electricity from renewable sources under the Large-scale Renewable Energy Target (LRET). These companies meet the requirement by procuring Large-scale Generation Certificates (LGCs), formerly known as Renewable Energy Certificates, or RECs. All of Pacific Hydro’s Australian renewable energy projects commissioned after January 1997 are qualified to produce LGCs. 20 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 Brazil Wholesale Electricity Our strategy for achieving excellence is structured through a number of internal Our two wind farms located in the state Our operational renewable energy systems and frameworks designed to of Paraíba, in the northeast of the country assets supply energy to electricity complement national and international produce more than 140MW per year retailers and large mining clients in standards. Our integrated Health Safety of clean energy, supplying approximately the Chilean energy market through and Environmental Management System, 200,000 homes annually. We sell energy Power Purchase Agreements and including our HSE Standards, have been to Eletrobrás through an incentive program sales to the spot market rolled out across the business, acting for alternative energy sources (Programa as a framework to drive alignment of de Incentivo às Fontes Alternativas de Operational Excellence the business unit management systems. Energia Elétrica, or PROINFA). Lifecycle Excellence The first round of audits against the During the past year, we have been Standards was conducted in Chile and Our goal is to achieve excellence Brazil as part of our staged approach screening opportunities with industrial across the lifecycle of our business, to implementation. Australia will receive clients and will continue to participate focusing on the development, delivery their first audit against the Standards in government auctions and potential and operations of our assets. in 2013–14. mergers and acquisitions. We have also been looking for financial investors Our corporate functions in these three Our Asset Management Framework to partner in an investment fund areas align the entire portfolio of projects provides an evaluation and management structure (Fundo de Investimentos and assets to our Business Plan with system within which to operate. The em Participações, or FIP), and will the intention of maximising our three framework and associated management continue this search in the coming year. markets’ potential. systems ensure operational aspects are In actively looking for new development well managed, providing greater certainty We have over 2,000MW in our project opportunities, we signed a solar about operating costs, short and long-term development pipeline, including prospection and letter of intent with availability, reliability, and the safety technologies such as hydro, wind, a solar photovoltaic manufacturer of our generation assets. As part of solar and geothermal. Careful technology to develop a 2MW pilot solar power our continuous feedback cycle, these diversification in development helps plant near our Vale dos Ventos wind farm. elements are also considered during the us reduce revenue volatility across development and delivery phase, thereby our pool of operational assets and Chile AND Tinguiririca Energía ensuring lifecycle costs are optimised. ensures we are well positioned for Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) further transformation of country-level We conducted a number of asset energy matrices. management benchmarking exercises Our La Higuera, La Confluencia and and operations performance reviews Chacayes operating projects are all This year, we focused on three areas during the reporting period. These registered to produce Certified in our pursuit of development and delivery initiatives evaluate the effectiveness Emission Reductions (CERs). excellence: leveraging the combined of our systems and processes, and development and scheduling knowledge CERs are an international carbon based of asset performance and condition. within the group; capturing project instrument that can be utilised by countries The outcomes of these studies form lifecycle lessons to continuously improve that have committed to carbon emission the basis of our strategic decisions development capability; and exploring reduction targets through the Kyoto in relation to the use, maintenance technology shifts in our three markets. Protocol, or by companies required and expectations of the asset’s to reduce emissions under mandated lifetime performance. schemes such as the European Emissions Trading Scheme. 21 “ TO IDENTIF Y OPPORTUNITIES TO I M P R O V E A S S E T PERFORMANCE AND RELIABILIT Y” One of Australia’s first wind farms, the 18.2MW Codrington wind farm, passed its midlife health check in September 2012, clocking in over 12 years of generation. Since it commenced operations, Codrington has generated over 530,000MWh of electricity, equivalent to the annual energy needs of around 8,000 homes, and abated more than 624,000 tonnes of carbon emissions. The midlife health check includes a thorough checking of all turbine componentry and inspection for signs of aging or under-performance and is performed as part of our Asset Management Framework. We are already seeing the benefits of the improvements made as part of this check. Remote instrumental systems were installed at La Higuera, in Chile to monitor the tunnel’s structural behaviour and performance. They provide real-time Generation – Gigawatt Hours (GWh) information on various parameters and instruments and give advance warning GWh of certain events. The tunnel will have 2,100 a scheduled emptying and inspection 2,000 procedure at 14 months to assess 1,900 its performance. 1,800 1,700 The Engineering Services team also works 1,600 to identify opportunities to improve asset 1,500 performance and reliability. The team 1,400 conduct performance assessments 1,300 for some of our operating wind farms 1,200 to evaluate how efficiently the assets are performing after a five year period. 1,100 This provides us with the basis for 1,000 08–09 09–10 10–11 11–12 12–13 energy reporting assumptions. 22 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 Procurement Practices Chile We continued to seek improvement opportunities This year our Operations team developed an within our supply chain in the context of historical register of contractors used within globalisation. We aim to select our suppliers the team, to record contractor performance responsibly, maintain diversity and accountability against a standard set of evaluation criteria. and build capability within our suppliers while The register assists with decisions for future respecting human rights. This year we developed contractual commitments, and evaluates a set of Sustainable Procurement Principles contractor performance by looking at compliance which were rolled out to parts of the business against technical specifications, health and where major contracts are developed, refined safety record, administrative management and our sustainable supplier tool for large suppliers timing of the task completed. It is aligned with and developed a less intensive tool for use our Purchase and Contracts procedure, which in small to medium organisations. We assessed underwent a review during the reporting period. 12 suppliers against our sustainable supplier The procedure shall include an updated process tool this year and we will continue to refine to evaluate the economic element of the bidding our processes around supplier engagement process, and provides an allocation of additional and assessment in the coming years as part scores for local contractors, in order to make of our Sustainability Strategy. their offers more competitive to the whole evaluation process. Australia We implemented a number of measures during Government Lobbying the past year to improve relationships with our and Public Policy suppliers and contractors, including setting key Our public policy activities are unique to each performance indicators around invoice processing. Business Unit. For each public policy issue Since last July, we improved our performance impacting our business we have identified considerably, from 82 per cent of all invoices our position below. being processed within 30 days, to more than 91 per cent. Australia Public Policy Issue Our position Renewable Energy The Renewable Energy Target (RET) is a key pillar in Australia’s Target clean energy transition. The RET is low cost and high return in terms of regional investment, generation and future energy security. Maintaining the large scale target at 41,000GWh is important for investor confidence, energy market investment stability and delivery of clean energy and low-carbon outcomes. Wind farm planning Pacific Hydro supports the development of appropriate, regulations balanced and merit-based planning schemes. In relation to energy infrastructure of all types, we believe that the community needs confidence in the regulatory and planning authorities and the information provided by them about wind farms. Community engagement We support the development of enhanced standards across the industry and were actively involved in the June 2013 launch of the Clean Energy Council’s new community engagement guidelines for wind. We accept we can still do better with community engagement and are revising our strategy in line with a commitment to continual improvement and innovation. 23 Brazil Public Policy Issue Our position Transmission limitations We support the proposal of a prioritisation scheme for grid reinforcement for wind power in northeastern Brazil. The proposal is supplemented by a study generation undertaken by Pacific Hydro, and was presented to the National Operator of the System (Operador Nacional do Sistema Elétrico) and the National Planning Agency (Empresa de Pesquisa Energética, EPE). It addresses investor concerns relating to a systemic crisis in the energy sector, where energy not transmitted is idle, thus increasing energy costs and sector risk for investors. EPE has already taken action as only projects with available transmission lines will be awarded Power Purchase Agreements in the next wind auctions. Chile Public Policy Issue Our position Electrical concessions Meeting Chile’s growing energy needs requires strong supporting legislation. Current waiting periods for the concessions’ approvals process are listed at 150 business days, but can take over 700 business days. This generates speculation about the negotiation of easements, negatively impacting the market and Chile’s ability to develop necessary energy assets. We support a new electrical concessions bill intended to generate efficiency and effectiveness in the process. Non-Conventional The current Non-Conventional Renewable Energy Law precludes Renewable Energy Law large scale (>40MW) run of river hydro projects from being considered “renewable energy”. We have been strongly advocating for the review of this law to allow assets with an installed capacity of greater than 40MW, which produce renewable energy and in many cases registered under the United Nations Clean Development Mechanism, be recognised as renewable energy under this law. Removal of this limit would promote development of larger renewable energy projects, which are better placed to efficiently utilise Chile’s abundant water resources, stimulate further investment and achieve or possibly even exceed current targets for renewable energy. 24 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 w o rkplace Health and Safety Australia We aim for continual improvements in our An emergency simulation exercise was held health and safety performance with the at Cape Nelson South, involving our own ultimate goal of achieving zero incidents, staff, contractors and the local emergency injuries and illnesses. Significant resources service. We were very impressed with the are dedicated to ensuring a workplace safe quick response and level of professionalism from injury or harm, although responsibility displayed by all involved. for health and safety is also placed with We have also made improvements to our each employee. risk and hazard identification processes. Our Health Safety and Environment Policy As a result, all new service vans were fitted outlines our commitments to ensuring with cranes to improve general safety and a healthy and safe environment for our reduce manual handling. All turbines are employees, contractors and visitors. now fitted with climb assists to enable our Aggressive targets are set annually service technicians to safely climb the towers. at a corporate and business unit level Next year, our focus will shift to developing to identify, eliminate or minimise exposure detailed risk reduction programs for confined to hazards in the workplace, with the spaces, occupational noise and hazardous aim of decreasing injury rates, improving manual handling. management systems and increasing employee ownership for improving our Brazil health and safety performance. We have set a TRIFR target of 5.1 for 2014, which Our Emergency and Contingency Plan equates to a 15 per cent reduction on last requires annual simulations of chemical year’s target. spills, fires or explosions, insect bites and poisonous animals. The plan involves local Performance against these objectives emergency service providers, who often is directly linked to employees’ performance run training sessions about responding appraisals and bonus payments. to emergencies. Their training is valuable to both us and the local community members, We also increased our focus on HSE risk who learn important skills including how evaluation and mitigation during the reporting to respond to a simulated forest fire and period. Each Business Unit was required surf life-saving. This training has attributed to nominate, evaluate and mitigate their to Brazil’s 1,886 days without health and top three key risks to an acceptable level. safety incidents. While not all action items were completed within required timeframes, we were very successful overall. Effective measures were implemented to mitigate key risks, which also drove significant cultural change due to a large number of employees involved across the business. 25 Supporting health and wellbeing Overall Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR)* in the workplace Australia 12 TRIFR 10 8 6 4 2 0 08–09 09–10 10–11 11–12 12–13 13–14 ACTUAL TARGET TRIFR by Business Unit* 25 TRIFR 20 15 We ran an intensive Health and Wellbeing Program this year after receiving a $10,000 grant from the 10 Victorian Government. Supported by our new Health and Wellbeing Policy, some of the activities 5 undertaken as part of the Program included participating in the Global Corporate Challenge, 0 healthy cooking demonstrations, mental wellbeing 08–09 09–10 10–11 11–12 12–13 sessions, installation of adjustable ergonomic work areas and offering a Quit Smoking short course. AUSTRALIA BRAZIL CHILE TEJV Mental health is becoming more recognised as a workplace health and safety risk, also identified as a top priority for Pacific Hydro. Work to address Total number of incidents reported** mental health was tied in with an overall company objective of Business Unit Risk Mitigation, which 450 NO. OF INCIDENTS was directly linked to the performance appraisal 400 and bonus payment for all corporate employees. 350 We decided to take a preventative approach 300 to mitigating this risk, addressing mental health issues through training provided to managers 250 and staff on anxiety and depression awareness 200 and change management. Additional programs 150 implemented during the year included the establishment of a Working Mothers Support 100 Group and Retirement Transition Guidelines. Risk 50 mitigation activities already in place include training 0 for all staff on emotional resilience and occupational 08–09 09–10 10–11 11–12 12–13 stress, and ongoing programs including our Employee LOST TIME MEDICAL FIRST AID NEAR Assistance Program, Leave Purchase Program INJURY TREATMENT TREATMENT MISS INJURY INJURY and informal flexible working arrangements. Although our government funding will cease in 2013–14, we will continue to promote health * Includes 100% of TEJV. ** Excludes TEJV. and wellbeing initiatives and mental health risk We follow OHSA US Department of Labour standards in each of mitigation in the workplace. our countries of operations in classifying and responding to incidents. ‘Lost Time’ refers to number of scheduled work days or one shift STAFF IN MELBOURNE PARTICIPATING IN A HEALTHY or more lost during a specified period. COOKING DEMONSTRATION TRIFR in a given time period is calculated as such: (Number of Lost Time Injuries/Illnesses + Number of Medical Treatment Injuries/Illnesses) / Number of Hours Worked in that period x 1,000,000. Chile Following the flood, we assessed A Sports Committee was also our response against the Emergency established and has organised We produced positive health and safety Response Manual and determined activities such as boot camp results, implementing a number of new our actions were in alignment with and men’s and women’s soccer. programs and initiatives and winning the Standards. However, all Operations two awards in recognition of this. Our primary intention is to further embed staff and relevant contractors received Internal Communications a safety culture in Chile, and we are retraining in the Standards during March and Employee Alignment to further establish emergency response using a Safety Improvement Road Map In response to results from Pacific Hydro’s activities into our day to day operations. to move from compliance, to commitment, annual Alignment and Engagement to culture. As a result of increased reporting Survey (AES), four key areas were Tinguiririca Energía (TEJV) to identify and control hazards or identified as requiring particular risks in a timely manner, we achieved Management of the TEJV have the attention, leading to the campaign 408 days without a Lost Time Injury, highest concern for the welfare of ‘AES 2012: We’re Hearing You’. including contractors. its employees, shareholders and the The campaign implemented a number community, promoting health, safety of initiatives in the following areas: We finished the financial year with a and environmental responsibility. Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate – Global communications of 1.3, an 80 per cent reduction on the Individual training plans track employee –B usiness Plan communications previous year. Our performance aligns training requirements, with a focus on and KPIs with an increased focus on preventative health, safety and first aid. The TEJV safety through non-conformance reports – operate their health and safety program – Company Vision and Values over the previous two years, we received using principles of Health and Safety. – Career development an average of 133 reports per year, The principles work to establish compared to only 12 the year before. harmonious relationships between Almost 80 per cent of initiatives employees, foster a safe working were implemented within the required During the past year, we introduced environment that minimises risk timeframe and we will judge the success a ‘5 steps’ safety tool, used daily and ensures the welfare of each of the campaign based on results of the by all Operations and Project staff. staff member. 2013 survey. Results were unavailable The tool identifies hazards and risks at the time this report was finalised, prior to commencing works, or any The TEJV achieved an operational but will be reported next year. changing conditions. We also developed TRIFR of 4.0 against a target of <5.0 a Behaviour-Based Safety Observations and a project-related TRIFR of 4.8 Program at our operational sites to against a target of <3.0. They also encourage identification of unsafe achieved a 98 per cent compliance behaviours. It allows us to hold a continuous rate for safety audits in 2012. Other conversation about dangerous behaviours TEJV H&S performance results are and the need to align our behaviours included on page 26. with international safety standards. Finally, we implemented a global best-practice Employee Wellbeing induction program for our operational sites, which has been shared with other Looking after the health and wellbeing Business Units for potential adaption. of our employees improves productivity and engagement within our business. In early January, the Cachapoal and Pangal We have a broad range of strategies rivers which feed our Coya and Pangal within our health and wellbeing hydro plants flooded, causing a landslide program designed to prevent serious upstream which threatened our assets. conditions and illnesses in employees. Following our Emergency Response We established a formal Health and Manual as part of our Crisis Management Wellbeing Policy to raise awareness Standards, we leased a helicopter to about these issues and to promote rescue our employees who were isolated a positive and equitable workplace. at the Pangal intake. The National Emergency Office of the Interior Ministry Chile (ONEMI) requested we also use the A number of activities were developed helicopter to rescue stranded community around employee wellbeing and mental members and tourists, and we worked health. All employees completed annual closely with ONEMI, sharing information training in our Equal Opportunity (EO) and resources to ensure a timely, Policy, and we now have seven facilitators, appropriate response. of whom four were new and received training. A new Health and Wellbeing Policy was launched and is aligned with our corporate Health and Wellbeing Policy. 27 “ . . . D E V E L O P I N G E M P L OY E E S , S HARING S KILLS AND I M P R O V I N G C U LT U R A L AWA R EN ES S . . .” Training and Development Developing our staff to their full potential allows us to meet our business needs, fulfil employees’ personal aspirations and exceed shareholders expectations. We offer a broad spectrum of internal training courses to all office and site-based staff. Funding is available to employees to attend external training or to pursue further education opportunities. Our training and development spend for the reporting period was $554,000, which equates to over $1,800 per employee. Relevant health and safety training is provided to site and office-based employees and contractors to ensure our staff are equipped with the knowledge required to perform their job safely. This includes first aid education sessions, audiometric testing, heights medical Training and Development spend* testing and manual handling programs. All employees receive annual performance 100,0000 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT $ appraisals, in which performance 900,000 targets are set in line with our Business Plan. Six-monthly reviews assessing 800,000 performance against targets are also 700,000 conducted. Professional development opportunities are identified and discussed 600,000 during employee performance appraisals. 500,000 We also encourage movement between 400,000 Business Units as a way of developing employees, sharing skills and improving 300,000 08–09 09–10 10–11 11–12 12–13 cultural awareness between our countries of operation. * Excludes TEJV. Language classes are held in all business Restatement: In the previous report, employee training units to promote communication and and development spend was reported as $642,600. The correct amount was $593,800. cultural awareness. Staff in Australia can learn Spanish, while staff in Brazil and Chile can learn English. Our successful Education Sponsorship Program continued, helping employees to further develop their careers through vocational and further educational opportunities. We had seven participants in Australia, 2 in Brazil and 11 in Chile. 28 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 Australia In 2012, the TEJV launched a Working Brazil Environment Plan, which covered the We implemented a software package, Due to our small and relatively new office, following five areas: Training Manager, to help us track we had our first maternity leave taker employee training data. In conjunction – Internal and external communications during the reporting period. To ensure with Training Manager, an HSE training a smooth transition back to work for her, – Employee benefits and remuneration matrix was developed based on job we developed a new induction program, role and position description to identify – Identity and work environment supported by activities implemented in required training for each employee. – Training and development our corporate function. These tools will allow us to continue – Leadership to foster employee development and Chile the long-term success of our business. A broad range of initiatives have been A Parental Leave Policy was launched, developed and will continue to be including benefits such as coaching Leadership lunches were held, with implemented to drive performance for new mothers and five extra days prominent business leaders speaking improvements in these key areas. of leave for new fathers. We ranked 9th to staff about leadership and career management. As part of our Diversity out of 25 organisations in Chile Unido’s Diversity and Inclusion annual survey for “Best Companies for and Inclusion strategy, we developed Back-To-Work coaching for maternity The promotion of inclusion and diversity Working Parents”. and paternity leavers to assist with within our organisation allows us to their transition back into the workplace. embrace and leverage from our Respecting Rights at Work Managers and staff were also trained differences, enhancing our competitive We comply with all applicable laws, about unconscious bias and cultural advantage. We are proud of our inclusive regulations and other legal requirements awareness. Career resilience workshops and diverse culture and have taken with respect to the rights of our employees. were held for staff, to offer advice on steps to strengthen this through our We have not identified any risks at any managing their careers and identifying comprehensive Inclusion and Diversity of our operations relating to the employees’ growth and development opportunities. Strategy. Equal employment opportunity rights to freedom of association or We also offered Managing and Leading and anti-discrimination are specifically collective bargaining. Teams training and mentoring for addressed in our Code of Conduct and new managers. Equal Opportunity Policy. Employee grievances are covered by our Grievance Procedure, Whistleblower Chile Our workplace is family friendly and we Disclosure and Investigation Procedure, encourage employees to balance family Equal Opportunity Policy and Code of We welcomed 16 employees into new commitments with work responsibilities Conduct. These policies and procedures temporary and permanent roles. All through a host of initiatives including encourage employees to seek and use staff participated in refresher training part-time employment, job sharing, working appropriate mechanisms to address any of HR Policies during April 2013. from home and staggered start and finish grievances. Any issue not adequately times where appropriate. Our Parental addressed through these provisions can Tinguiririca Energía (TEJV) Leave Policy extends beyond statutory be taken to our Employee Assistance During the reporting period, training requirements relating to parental leave Program or relevant external organisations. was focused on safe work environments rights in Chile and Australia. and leadership, in response to an Employee Engagement and Work Environment Australia Survey conducted in 2011. The TEJV We implemented Retirement Transition will continue to strengthen its work Guidelines to enable eligible employees environment, conflict resolution, to plan for their transition. Similar policies relationships, reactions and are under development for Chile and Brazil. communication through a Manager Leadership Training Program. MEMBERS OF OUR FINANCE TEAM IN CHILE 29 Australia Where required, restructuring processes are managed through our Redundancy Policy. Our Retirement Transition Guidelines provide employees with the flexibility to plan for their retirement and ensures that the management of separation of employment due to retirement is appropriate, timely and fair, and conforms to all applicable contracts of employment. A total of 7.1 per cent of Australian employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our Enterprise Bargaining Agreement renegotiations were successfully completed during the reporting period. All employees complete annual training in our Equal Opportunity (EO) Policy. A complaint under the EO Policy was made and investigated during the period and appropriate disciplinary action was taken. Tinguiririca Energía (TEJV) An employee assistance service has been provided for employees and their immediate families since 2009. The service gives employees access to independent, confidential and autonomous advice in the areas of health, legal, finance and counselling, including three face-to-face sessions. The TEJV is committed to equal opportunity and non-discrimination Employees by gender and region of any kind. It is committed to strengthening diversity and valuing 160 NO. OF EMPLOYEES people of different backgrounds. 140 51 120 40 42 Remuneration and Bonuses 48 100 Our Remuneration Policy aims to attract, motivate and retain employees by aligning 80 82 87 87 77 team and individual rewards with business 60 performance to achieve value creation for shareholders. It ensures employees 40 20 are remunerated in a way that is both 20 13 market competitive and consistent with 13 12 0 best practice. Executive Manager level AUSTRALIA BRAZIL CHILE 11–12 12–13 11–12 12–13 11–12 12–13 roles upwards are sized and benchmarked externally to ensure executives are MALE FEMALE remunerated fairly. Global consistency of our remuneration structure and All graphs and tables on pages 30 & 31 exclude TEJV. rewarding both financial and non-financial performances are key aspects of the Policy. Our minimum wage levels across all regions meet or exceed the legal minimum. All benefits provided to full-time employees are granted to part-time employees on a pro-rata basis. 30 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 Employees by age and gender New Hires by gender and region 250 25 NO. OF EMPLOYEES NO. OF NEW HIRES 11 11 200 81 20 8 70 10 150 15 9 129 129 13 100 10 11 11 10 5 50 8 5 26 5 5 24 26 32 22 20 2 0 0 < 30YEARS 30–50 YEARS YEARS > 50 AUSTRALIA BRAZIL CHILE 11–12 12–13 11–12 12–13 11–13 12–13 11–12 12–13 11–12 12–13 11–12 12–13 MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Employees by Type and gender VOLUNTARY Turnover by gender and region 300 16 NO. OF EMPLOYEES NO. OF LEAVERS 270 99 14 10 86 2 240 12 210 12 10 7 180 176 180 2 150 8 120 6 7 90 4 5 3 4 2 60 2 30 15 14 2 2 1 1 0 0 AUSTRALIA BRAZIL CHILE FULL TIME PART TIME 11–12 12–13 11–12 12–13 9% 10.7% 19% 12.5% 11% 7% 11–12 12–13 11–12 12–13 11–12 12–13 MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Employees by level and age 2011–12 2012–13 2011–12 2012–13 2011–12 2012–13 <30 yrs 30–50 yrs >50 yrs Staff 47 43 130 141 10 22 Manager 0 1 43 43 14 10 Executive 1 0 19 18 5 5 Manager General Manager 0 0 7 8 2 3 Director 0 0 2 2 4 4 TOTAL 48 44 201 212 35 44 Employees by Level and Gender 2011–12 2012–13 2011–12 2012–13 Female Female Male Male Staff 78 93 109 113 Manager 16 13 41 41 Executive Manager 4 4 21 19 General Manager 3 3 6 8 Director 1 1 5 5 TOTAL 102 114 182 186 31 C o mm u nit y Consultation and Australia engagement with Our strategies for community engagement communities include community consultation, Forging sustainable relationships with community management plans, community our local communities is fundamental investment funds, donations, sponsorships to making a long-term, positive contribution and participation in local events. Our to society while engaging our people approach is tailored for each community and strengthening our business. Our we work in. consultation process is designed to During the year we commenced keep stakeholders well informed and a review of our community complaints provides community members with process, and have spent considerable the opportunity to participate in the time improving our processes to ensure development of proposed projects. we are achieving optimal outcomes Each community is different, with for all parties. varying needs, and we have consequently recognised the need to adapt our Undertaking this review will help us engagement and consultation styles be more responsive, achieve mutually to meet the needs of each local agreeable outcomes and foster community and other stakeholders. neighbourly and collaborative relationships within our local communities. We’re at Our Community Charter provides the start of a long, challenging journey, a framework to guide how we engage and are excited about the opportunity and work with communities in a consistent to engage on a deeper and more manner globally. transparent basis with those living Our proposed global community and working near our assets. engagement strategy for 2013–14 We have developed a Working Group will outline the overall principles to prepare our first Reconciliation of community engagement and Action Plan, which aims to strengthen consultation for our business and relationships and enhance respect be implemented between 2014–16. between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and other Australians. Indigenous heritage is protected under federal and state legislation in Australia as well as through our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy, which ensures that land and resources under our care are managed with sensitivity and that we have due care for cultural heritage, local conditions and concerns. Community FUND COMMITMENTS $300,000 $250,000 $200,000 $150,000 $100,000 $50,000 0 08–09 09–10 10–11 11–12 12–13 AUSTRALIA BRAZIL CHILE Visual and Other Amenity Irrigators in this area are represented by the Tinguiririca River Supervisory Board, Australia whose role is to manage and distribute Around nine residents located near the waters from natural sources while our Clements Gap wind farm noticed overseeing the water interests of its TV reception interference. We replaced members and water users in the basin. their regular analogue antennas with a Currently, the TEJV has three VAST satellite system and everyone has representatives on the Tinguiririca now reported improved reception quality. River Supervisory Board. This has been critical to maintaining the relationship Strategic alliance with between TEJV and the irrigators, with Tinguiririca River Supervisory constant, open communication between Board TEJV, the irrigators, authorities and Tinguiririca Energía (TEJV) other key players. TEJV has offices in San Fernando with employees After the La Higuera and La Confluencia exclusively dedicated to stakeholder hydro power plants completed construction, relations with local irrigators. commissioning for both plants ensured technical and operational reliability prior Support and Development to moving into commercial operations. of Communities However, the testing stage revealed operational impacts on other river users, Community investment particularly downstream irrigators. programs* The TEJV worked with local authorities As part of our commitment to encouraging and irrigators to identify solutions to social development and sustainability improve irrigation canals and assist initiatives, community investment funds with canal gate repairs. At the same time, operate in Australia, Chile and Brazil. engineering and operations solutions A portion of the profits generated from were introduced to the power plants, each project are invested back into easing natural variations in river flow local communities, supporting initiatives with a constant flow of water to ensure in the areas of education, community resource demand was met. development and tourism, health, safety and recreation, sport, the environment, A number of disagreements with the culture and the arts. This promotes irrigators prompted the TEJV to request innovative solutions to local issues, a roundtable discussion and invite encourages organisations to form irrigators to visit the power plants, in partnerships to deliver community line with their commitment to transparency services and ultimately work towards and collaboration. Unfortunately, no positive, long-term outcomes for understanding was reached, which broader community benefits. triggered a public demonstration in nearby San Fernando. Conflict mediators were engaged and talks resumed to * Community investments are reported in a point where a mutually beneficial line with the GRI definition of community agreement was reached. investment. 33 Quadrilha Mangue Australia Chile Uçá Dance Group Our Sustainable Communities Fund We celebrated the seventh year of continued into its eighth year, with our community investment program, Brazil the fund’s structure being reinvented Creciendo Juntos, and devised a new to allow community members to program scope called Participative participate in allocation of funds. Development. The new approach The allocation panels now consist encourages cross-stakeholder of our Wind Farm Manager, three initiatives, benefitting the communities other self-nominated employees, four of Coya, Chacayes, Perales and Termas self-nominated community members de Cauquenes. An evaluation committee and a member of council who works of Pacific Hydro employees assesses with community groups. This ensures each project against a set of criteria. that the entire process is transparent Projects meeting the criteria are eligible and more importantly, that communities for funding of up to 50 per cent of the have ownership of the Sustainable entire fund, which last year totalled Communities Fund. We supported over A$70,000. We supported The Barra do Camaratuba 80 projects during the year. 21 projects during the year. community near our Vale dos Ventos and Millennium Brazil Tinguiririca Energía (TEJV) wind farms had been experiencing some issues We invested in many areas within In 2007, TEJV created Tinguiririca with their local youth, the community through supporting Participa, a community investment disrupting the harmony socio-cultural activities and fund which provides resources for of the community. providing safety-related training social projects aimed at improving for local residents. the living conditions in the upper A dance teacher, who has Tinguiririca Valley. The program lived in the area for 13 We sponsored the Quadrilha Mangue years, proposed that we promotes the training of grassroots Uçá, a dance group from Barra do leaders, formulating social and create a cultural dance Camaratuba, the village near our community needs assessments group partnership with Vale dos Ventos and Millennium and included sourcing public and some local teenagers. wind farms. Sponsorship included private funding. The group meets three times a week with the purchase of materials for the volunteer teacher, costumes, and payment for a local During 2012–13, Tinguiririca Participa who coordinates training dressmaker. More on this sponsorship placed particular emphasis on providing and actively seeks and its impact on the community can training for local community associations opportunities for the be found in the case study to the left. and the development of various group to perform to other organised community activities. communities. In exchange We also supported ‘McHappy Day’, for Pacific Hydro providing which helps maintain the hospital’s Community Development the group with their dance Support Group for Children and costumes, the students Adolescents with Cancer (AACC). Australia agreed to return home Each year, the hospital accommodates Our Community Relations team provide directly after practice rather over 30,000 patients. in-kind support to many of our partner than congregating noisily The Aquatic Rescue and Prevention organisations. For example, the Portland in public places. They also signed a commitment to Minicourse trains residents in water Young Professionals Network aims work with the Barra do safety, due to the community’s close to address some of the challenges Camaratuba School and proximity to the ocean and the river. around attracting and retaining young other local groups to ensure We supported the training, which professionals in regional areas. the recovery of local culture was provided by the 3rd Battalion It offers social, personal and and improve the academic of Military Firefighter, one of the professional development opportunities performance of student most respected institutions in Brazil. for members as well as supporting participants. local events through volunteering. The initiative has directly In order to strategically tie this work We have supported the group by and indirectly involved together, we have been developing providing social media training, around 20 per cent of a formal community investment fund, administrative and communications the community’s 800 which we expect to implement during support and event facilitation. residents. We are proud 2013–14. that it has helped address social issues and provided local teenagers with a creative outlet while learning responsibility and accountability. Brazil Local Sourcing and Securing energy Employment Opportunities supply for Our ‘Open Doors’ program continues its success with students from several Although our policies and procedures the Chacayes schools in and around Mataraca City. do not specifically mandate using community During their visits to our wind farms, locally based contractors and suppliers, Chile students learn about the need to respect or directly employing locally, we health, safety and the environment, endeavour to support local communities as well as learning about wind energy wherever possible. Supporting local and renewable generation. workers and industry provides benefits for us and ensures sustainable We continue to maintain essential development of the region. We actively infrastructure such as the road seek and engage local suppliers and connecting the Barra do Camaratuba contractors who are competitive village with Mataraca City. A few times in price, quality and service. a year, we hire a local grader to seal the roads, which become damaged We also employ apprentice workers during the wet season, affecting the as part of our commitment to develop villagers’ ability to attend school, seek young workers in rural and regional medical treatment and access other areas. Again, the benefits are twofold. essential services. Road upgrades Apprenticeships recognise employees’ also improve tourists’ access to the existing skills, provide training, beach and village, providing a boost employment and experience and to their small tourism industry. lead to nationally recognised qualifications. In addition, offering Regular discussions with local local employment opportunities community leaders and other interested When we purchased can assist with the prevention of our Coya and Pangal parties are held to establish and identify population decline in regional areas. run-of-river hydro assets other improvement opportunities that from Codelco in 2004, can provide benefits to both the Australia there was no electricity community and to us. Sheltered workshops for people distribution company in the area, and Codelco Chile with disabilities provide maintenance had been supplying the services at our Ararat workshop We continued our involvement with small Chacayes community and also perform some uniform the local technical capacity-building with energy. embroidery work. We also support institution, OTIC (Organismo Técnico local manufacturing and engineering As part of our commitment Intermedio de Capacitación O’Higgins), firms, and have parts manufactured to social responsibility, providing 70 residents in the Alto in Australia and engineering we chose to continue Cachapoal Valley with certifications services provided by firms within this energy supply to in local handicrafts, tourism, food the community. Over time, local communities. handling and community development. however, the community The training program allows participants grew in size and many Brazil to develop and enhance skills and homes were using electrical knowledge, and acquire tools that We support local businesses wherever installations that were possible, and use local restaurants unsafe and required urgent provide them with new opportunities and catering services, carpentry regularisation. CGE also to work and contribute to their services, local accommodation and became the legal energy local community. training facilities, which all help to distribution company in the area, so we made We also participate in cultural and generate income for local residents, the decision to remove artistic activities with local communities, improving their living conditions. ourselves as energy providing financial assistance, in-kind distributors. support and attendance at concerts Chile and other events. One event we were In June 2012, we began We strongly believe that our presence working with CGE, the proud to sponsor was the inaugural in the Alto Cachapoal Valley, and Chacayes community Machalí Night Run. The Run was associated impact, is positive. We and regional and local organised in honour of 16 fans of actively promote local suppliers authorities to reach an the O’Higgins Soccer team who participation, and include them in agreement. The community were sadly killed in an accident every possible activity. Some of now has safe electrical while supporting their team. our local suppliers are now able facilities and we are moving to provide us a service due to having towards a satisfactory previously completed one of the outcome which is expected OTIC training courses we sponsor. to be achieved by late 2013. 35 E nvir o nment Climate Change, We sell a range of products associated Greenhouse Gas and with the operation of our wind farm and Energy Management hydro power assets. These products include electricity, electricity derivative Our Response to Climate Change products and energy-related environmental Our dedication to addressing climate products, such as European Union change reflects our commitment Certified Emission Reduction credits to achieving our purpose. We have (CERs), Large Generation Certificates consciously chosen to be in the (formerly known as Renewable Energy renewable energy sector and we Certificates) and GreenPower. We have are committed to reducing greenhouse also expanded our product offering, gas emissions while meeting growing entering the retail market to provide global energy needs. medium and large businesses with a reliable, flexible and cost-effective service. Our response to climate change is structured around four key activities: Our goal is to play a positive role in a carbon constrained world, and be mindful 1. Developing more renewable energy of our responsibilities as a leader in this projects to help reduce the global emerging field. We actively engage with reliance on fossil fuels; governments in order to understand policy 2. Helping our customers address their settings and participate in public policy climate change mitigation obligations discussions. As a leader in the clean and reach their voluntary targets energy industry, we work hard to engage by providing suitable products; policy makers, local communities and the general public on climate change 3. Advocating for government action issues while promoting the vital role to reduce carbon emissions; and renewable energy can, and must play, 4. Minimising our own carbon footprint. if we are to leave a safer world for generations to follow. Our development pipeline of renewable energy projects, including run-of-river We also contribute to public debate hydro plants, wind farms, conventional through written submissions on matters geothermal and large-scale solar projects, relating to the renewable energy industry will allow us to improve our products and and via media comments. services to meet the current and future needs of our customers. We have established various energy and resource efficiency initiatives which are described on pages 37–40. Climate change presents significant To maintain reporting consistency, scope opportunities as well as considerable risk 2 (indirect) stationary electricity emissions to our business. Changes to long-term climatic reporting is aligned with Australian NGER conditions such as extreme weather events legislation, which attributes a state-based have the potential to impact our revenue emissions factor to all electricity consumption. and operating costs. Additionally, uncertainty Therefore, the total does not recognise the around climate change legislation generates primary source of stationary electricity of uncertainty around our revenue streams. our assets is usually their own generation. Climate change risks are addressed using Considering the use of renewable energy our Risk Management Framework, knowledge and green power purchases, total scope gathered from weather forecasting services 1 and 2 emissions decrease from 4,022 and risk management practices. Regulatory to 641 tonnes of greenhouse gas. changes related to climate change in areas such as carbon, electricity and governance, The emissions intensity of our operations pose potential risks and opportunities. is significantly lower than conventional Our business model will allow us to act electricity generators due to use of zeroon opportunities to expand our geographic emission fuel sources such as wind and spread and diversify into other renewable water rather than combustion of fossil fuels. technologies. In addition, we are well placed Emissions from air travel have been to increase business and community reported for the first time and contribute awareness of climate change through almost 20 per cent of emissions, primarily our stakeholder relationships. attributable to the Corporate Head Office We continue to look for opportunities to in Melbourne, Australia. better understand and respond to climate Reducing emissions and other change issues. This coming year, we will energy use initiatives conduct research into the environmental impacts of short-term climate variability, A target was set to reduce office energy and long-term changes in the climate, consumption by five per cent over two on our operating assets and within our years. After one year, we achieved a three development pipeline. per cent decrease in the Santiago Office, but no significant change in the Melbourne Greenhouse Gas Emissions, and São Paulo offices. However, we expect Abatement and Energy Use more savings will be made over the next This year our assets1 generated more than year as reduction initiatives continue to be two million megawatt hours of renewable implemented. energy, leading to the abatement of During the year, we moved to new offices almost 1.5 million tonnes2 of greenhouse in Natal and Rancagua, therefore the gas emissions. baseline target is different to the actual. The operation of assets and office-based Energy consumption in Rancagua decreased activities generated 4,022 tonnes3 of scope by 72 per cent and increased by 11 per cent 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions and in Natal. Baseline targets will be updated consumed 24,899 gigajoules of energy. to reflect these changes. Scope 3 emissions reduction initiatives implemented during Emissions decreased nine per cent from the year included reducing air travel and the previous year, primarily due to Chacayes promoting the use of video conferencing. hydro plant transitioning to the less energy intensive operational phase. However, this Emissions intensity of operations* was offset by the addition of an indirect stationary electricity emission source at Country Emissions Intensity Coya-Pangal hydro. (tCO2 -e/MWh) Australia 0.00131 Brazil 0.00064 Chile 0.00222 1 All graphs and charts on pages 37–39 exclude TEJV. 2 * Operational sites only – assumes all stationary Abatement generated by projects is calculated: electricity-use is non-renewable, in line with asset abatement = generation of asset x state/ Australian NGER legislation. regional based electricity emissions factor or asset-specific emissions factor if registered under the Kyoto Protocol’s Clean Development Mechanism. For jointly owned assets, only Pacific Hydro’s portion of generation is considered. 3 Includes scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions of assets and offices over which Pacific Hydro has operational control (TEJV emissions have thus been excluded). 37 Understanding catchment Greenhouse Gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by country behaviour and the impacts of climate change in Chile 8,000 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (tCO2-e) 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,481 TOTAL 4,744 2,768 TOTAL 4,440 4,000 2,106 TOTAL 4,022 3,000 2,000 149 145 1,000 146 117 1,528 1,767 0 10–11 11–12 12–13 AUSTRALIA BRAZIL CHILE Greenhouse Gas emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) by sourcE* 8,000 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (tCO2-e) 7,000 6,000 5,000 127 977 TOTAL 4,705 TOTAL 4,884 3,292 2,155 TOTAL 4,358 4,000 3,497 We commenced monitoring catchment behaviour 3,000 in the Cachapoal Valley in order to improve our understanding of the impacts of climate variability 2,000 2,050 and long term climatic changes on our assets. 1,000 The works we have undertaken include quantifying 1,285 153 379 30 0 water resources (annual precipitation, air temperature 10–11 11–12 12–13 and river flow) to better understand catchment STATIONARY FUEL (SCOPE 1) influences on long-term river flows for our existing TRANSPORT FUEL (SCOPE 1) STATIONARY ELECTRICITY (SCOPE 2) and future hydro schemes. AIR TRAVEL (SCOPE 3) *measured for the first time in 2012–13 Our hydros feed off the largest glaciers in central Chile, and their glacier melt provides around 20–25 per cent of the mean annual runoff volume. Recent warming (estimated at +0.15 degrees centigrade direct energy consumption per decade over the last 30 years) in conjunction (Scope 1) by primary source with reduced annual precipitation means that we are experiencing more glacier melt, and if this 70,000 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GJ) trend continues can expect less glacier melt in 43,960 TOTAL 62,286 future decades. We conducted our first round of 60,000 glacier monitoring during the reporting period to 50,000 help estimate changes to the major ice masses and seasonal snow volumes in the Cachapoal Valley’s 40,000 upper catchments. 27,430 30,000 TOTAL 29,532 Another climatic implication is the shift in seasonality. The warming manifests as a change 20,000 TOTAL 5,659 in precipitation from solid to liquid in winter. That 10,000 means precipitation lands as rain, not snow, so 5,221 not only is there less snow to melt (during spring/ 18,326 2,102 438 0 10–11 11–12 12–13 summer), the warm rain can increase river flows above scheme capacities where the excess water STATIONARY FUEL (includes diesel, LPG, natural gas) cannot be utilised for hydro generation. Having TRANSPORT FUEL (includes diesel, petrol) a deeper understanding of the potential impacts will allow us to adjust forecasting and respond The methodology for calculating greenhouse gas emissions to changes that have the potential to significantly was developed in accordance with ISO 14064–1: 2006 impact our business. Part1: Specification with guidance at the organisation level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals. * Fugitive (2%) and wastewater (0.2%) emissions make up a small proportion of the total and have been excluded for graphing purposes. 38 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 indirect energy consumption Greenhouse Gas Abatement from pacific hydro’s (Scope 2) by primary source renewable energy projects 25,000 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GJ) 1,600,000 ABATEMENT (tCO2-e) 780 1,489,990 TOTAL 22,600 1,400,000 20,000 806 TOTAL 19,240 1,200,000 15,000 1,000,000 1,610 TOTAL 12,450 800,000 10,000 600,000 5,000 400,000 200,000 21,820 10,840 18,435 0 10–11 11–12 12–13 0 08–09 09–10 10–11 11–12 12–13 ELECTRICITY – RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY – NON-RENEWABLE Environmental Compliance Brazil Tinguiririca Energía (TEJV) and Planning Our EMS works to prevent, mitigate and Both La Higuera and La Confluencia remedy direct or indirect impacts arising were reviewed by environmental Environmental Management from our activities. We regularly monitor authorities and received the Environmental We aim to be an industry leader essential parameters in the areas of Qualification Resolution No 116/2004 in environmental management water, air, noise, energy, fuel use and and No 282/2007. From these, more through continuous improvement waste. The monitored data is compared than 120 environmental commitments in our environmental performance to our compliance obligations under were made. The environmental and practices. We conduct our business Brazilian environmental legislation and commitments during the operations in accordance with the spirit and letter any anomalies trigger the development phase are less than those required of all applicable environmental laws of an action plan. during construction, but are still constantly and regulations. monitored through the Environmental Both Vale dos Ventos and Millennium Management System, Community Our Health Safety and Environment (HSE) wind farms were recertified to ISO Relations activities and independent Policy includes our environmental aims 14001 during the reporting period. environmental audits. These commitments and the manner in which we seek We monitor black smoke emissions have provided the opportunity to generate to achieve those aims. The Policy in all diesel vehicles used by our valuable knowledge about the flora, fauna is applicable to all employees and employees through the Ringelmann and cultural resources of the area. Ongoing Directors, contractors and visitors scale and according to standards studies and monitoring are focused on to our sites or offices. Implementation accepted by Brazilian legislation. the basin’s biodiversity. of our HSE Policy occurs in part through our Environmental Management System (EMS). Every operational site operates Chile Environmental Impacts under an EMS, which is based upon All our sites have Environmental of Pacific Hydro Activities or certified to the international standard Management Systems based on Biodiversity and Native in environmental management systems, ISO14001. To improve our systems, Revegetation ISO 14001. Regular internal and external we conducted an internal environmental audits occur to ensure compliance audit and undertook an audit against We aim to realise wider goals of climate against ISO 14001, the responsibility Pacific Hydro’s Health Safety and change mitigation while protecting local of which lies with country-level Environment Management Standards. environmental qualities and avoiding environment managers. We also implemented initiatives resulting or significantly mitigating impacts. from an external audit in May 2012 It is widely recognised that renewable Australia as part of a gap analysis between energy sources such as wind have our EMS and ISO 14001. significantly less impact on wildlife We completed an ISO 14001 recertification than traditional fossil fuel sources. audit in August 2012, meaning all Nevertheless, all our projects are preceded of our operational sites are certified by an assessment of potential impacts to the international environmental on flora and fauna. These assessments management standard. inform and influence project design to predominantly avoid or minimise impacts. 39 Australia The works were done after an extensive Chile environmental impacts study, and will We continued to finalise offset agreements We implemented a ‘Four R’s’ recycling contribute to the development of the for our Portland wind farms, securing program, using the principles of Reduce, tourism industry in the Cachapoal Valley 25 mature native trees under the Reuse, Recycle and Recover. Several and to the reserve, which has significant Native Vegetation Register. Partnership other initiatives were developed to environmental and biodiversity value. opportunities are also actively sought. reduce our overall carbon footprint, We have been working with a landowner including running an energy efficiency Tinguiririca Energía (TEJV) at our Challicum Hills wind farm campaign, participating in Earth Hour, to investigate the most effective To revegetate forest impacted by promoting the use of video conference, stabilisation method for soil erosion. construction activities, TEJV committed reducing air travel, and installing bicycle While not occurring on our wind farm to a reforestation program with CONAF. racks in the Santiago building to or offset area, the soil erosion is impacting Approximately 112 hectares of local land encourage bicycle use. the local ecosystem and wider ecological will be revegetated using a local seed significance of the area. collection of more than 16 native species Wind farm noise monitoring of trees and shrubs. The seedlings were and health We also sponsored the Wind and Wildlife grown in a local nursery and replanted conference in late 2012, which promotes at a density of 1,250 plants per hectare. Australia continual improvement of environmental Drip irrigation systems and protection There has been significant debate and performance within the industry and fences were installed to protect the plants media coverage on the effects of wind demonstrates our commitment to from wild animals and the reforested farms on health, wildlife and amenity, supporting quality research and areas are monitored. Survival rates for with an emphasis on a spectrum of advances in science. the plants are currently around 70 per noise known as infrasound. cent, which should ensure future growth Brazil for the native forest. While wind farms do create some noise, Energy generation from wind sources wind farm operators must meet strict is considered a low environmental impact Resource Efficiency criteria in order to operate. Noise criteria in Brazilian environmental legislation. are intended to limit the impact of noise Brazil on local residents, especially overnight. Our potential impacts include noise and damage to biodiversity. We did not have We measure and have set targets Meeting noise criteria does not necessarily any negative impacts to biodiversity during for water, waste and energy usage mean that local residents will never hear the reporting period, and all our monitoring at operational sites. At Vale dos the wind farm and we continue to work data relating to noise and other indicators Ventos and Millennium, we have set with individual community members to was within legislative limits. water reduction targets of seven and understand and address their concerns. 17 per cent respectively from the Noise levels at dwellings near to our Chile previous year. For energy, there is wind farms are modelled, measured a 1.5 per cent reduction target for A number of improvements were made and ultimately restricted in accordance site. For waste, we have set an increase within the Reserva Nacional Río de Los with government regulations and of no more than eight per cent, which Cipreses in partnership with the National planning conditions. takes into account the increased amount Forestry Corporation, CONAF. Worth of scheduled maintenance required around $1.8 million, the works included in year five of a five-year maintenance improvements to 7.3km of an existing cycle. These targets were set for the road, construction of a suspension bridge calendar year, so we will be able to and 12km of two new tourist trails. report on progress in next year’s report. PACIFIC HYDRO STAFF IN THE RESERVA NACIONAL RÍO DE LOS CIPRESES, CHILE 40 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 We communicate with landholders, neighbours and communities about wind farm noise emissions from the design stage through to planning application, construction and operation. We commission independent acoustic consultants to provide noise impact assessments, including background noise monitoring, to demonstrate compliance with the government regulations and planning conditions. We recognise that how a person experiences noise can be subjective and influenced by their perception about the noise source. People may experience noise from natural and man-made sources differently and can find one more annoying than the other. Noise is also influenced by weather conditions including wind direction (such as being down or upwind of the turbines) and wind speed (higher wind speeds usually drown out any noise created by the turbines’ operation). Reputable health bodies such as the National Health and Medical Research Council, Environmental Protection Authority and Victorian Department of Health currently advise that there is no specific sound spectrum from wind farms that is not already produced in our environment and that they do not emit noise at levels which could have a direct impact on health. However they “THERE IS NO do recognise that some people may find audible noise from wind farms annoying. S P E C I F I C S OU N D We have undertaken testing at two SPECTRUM FROM of our wind farms to check infrasound levels. Data was gathered at very close W I N D FA R M S T H AT range to the turbines (about 200m) while the wind farms were operating I S N OT A L R E A DY and with the wind farms not operating. The results indicated that infrasound P R O D U C E D I N OU R ENVIRONMENT” naturally exists in our environment and that there was a negligible difference (1dBA) in infrasound when the wind farms were operating. This report is available on our website. We have called for a review of the health impact from all forms of power generation in order for policy makers and communities to make informed choices on the best technologies for the future. In addition, we have called for health impact assessments to be included in the planning decisions for all new power generation plants. 41 In general terms our six operating Dust We also provided funding support wind farms in Australia do not cause for the second year to a scientific fund annoyance to our neighbours living Chile in the O’Higgins Region, sponsoring nearby. At one of our operating sites We did not experience any university students to conduct research we have had multiple complaints from environmental or community-related on environmental issues within the three families who report that they issues concerning dust during the Cachapoal Valley. This research experience negative impacts. While reporting period. This is attributed contributes to the identification and complaints differ across the three to a reduction in activities associated understanding of the region’s rich flora families, they include concerns about with the creation of dust, as well as and fauna and other cultural characteristics. audible and inaudible noise, vibration, employee education and awareness and health. We are seeking to work This year, four projects received funding of dust avoidance strategies. collaboratively with the families to totalling almost $55,000, and will study: undertake further testing so that we Understanding Cumulative –V egetation of rocky material deposits; may better understand the conditions Impacts in the Alto under which they experience issues, –C omposition of river eco-systems Cachapoal Valley what is causing them and how we can in the valley; help mitigate them. All of Pacific Hydro’s Chile –S ocio-cultural shaping of communities wind farms have demonstrated compliance in the Alto Cachapoal Valley; and We have undertaken a comprehensive with the relevant noise standards. Cumulative Impacts study in the Alto –T he relationship between the puma Cachapoal Valley, gathering information and humans within the Reserva Water to develop an environmental territorial Nacional Rio de los Cipreses. Chile strategy and gain a deeper understanding of the valley in which we already operate Monitoring of water quality and aquatic and plan to develop more projects. After life presence in the Cachapoal and scanning, geo-referencing and organising Cipreses Rivers occurs seasonally, all the information, we identified where and no negative impacts were identified. our efforts are best focused to ensure that all environmental measures proposed Water Rights Holders engagement are designed to have the least negative We actively participated as members impact possible. We are also developing of Water Users Organisations in the an integrated management system of Tinguiririca and Cachapoal Valleys. water resources in the upper Cachapoal Holding seats on both boards has basin, based on the integration of available allowed us to coordinate the operation information on the watershed and the of our power plants with other water implementation of an environmental rights holders in the valleys. We have hydrology model, to more effectively also developed projects of common evaluate different scenarios for interest, generating benefits for current and potential future uses downstream water users and for our of water resources. own business such as water quality monitoring and cloud seeding programs. 42 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 K P M G A ss u rance S tatement Independent Limited Assurance Report to Pacific Hydro Pty Limited We have been engaged by Pacific Hydro Pty Limited (Pacific Limited assurance over the Assured Information Hydro) to provide limited assurance in respect of the Assured Our limited assurance engagement on the Assured Information Information identified below, which has been included in the consisted of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible Annual Review and Sustainability Report 2013 (the “2013 for the preparation of information presented in the 2013 Report”) for the year ended 30 June 2013. Report, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering In addition, we have been engaged to perform a check of procedures including: Pacific Hydro’s Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) application – Inquiries and walkthroughs with Management and relevant level as disclosed in the 2013 Report. staff to gain an understanding of the design and implementation of Pacific Hydro’s processes for developing, calculating, Pacific Hydro’s Responsibilities collecting, reporting, and aggregating the Assured Information The directors and management of Pacific Hydro are responsible – Interviews with management and relevant staff at corporate for the preparation and presentation of the 2013 Report in and selected business unit level concerning the Assured accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) Information aspects of Pacific Hydro’s Sustainability Strategy of the GRI and the disclosed basis of preparation as described and policies for material issues, and the implementation of these in the inside cover of the 2013 Report, and the information and across the business assertions contained within it; for determining Pacific Hydro’s objectives in respect of sustainable development performance –V  isits to Pacific Hydro’s head office, with site data being and reporting, including the identification of stakeholders and reviewed remotely material issues; and for establishing and maintaining appropriate – Agreeing the financial data to the audited financial statements performance management and internal control systems from of Pacific Hydro for the year ended 30 June 2013 which the reported Assured Information is derived. –P  erforming tests on a sample basis of evidence Directors and management are also responsible for the supporting Assured Information concerning completeness, determination of Pacific Hydro’s GRI application level in accuracy and existence accordance with the GRI Guidelines. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope The Assured Information than a reasonable assurance engagement or an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and The Assured Information covered by our limited assurance Assurance Engagements. engagement are: Assured Information 2013 Report Page GRI application level Our work in relation to the GRI application level check was Revenue 3, 9 limited to agreeing that the appropriate indicators have been Direct Economic Impact Table 9 reported on. We therefore do not provide any assurance on Renewable Energy Generated 3 the amounts or information presented. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Abated 3 Our Conclusion – Assured Information Community Fund Commitments 3 Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 3 has come to our attention that would lead us to believe that the Assured Information of Pacific Hydro for the year ended 30 June Our Responsibility 2013, is not, in all material respects, prepared and presented in accordance with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and the disclosed Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement basis of preparation. and to express a conclusion based on the work performed. We conducted our engagement in accordance with International Our Conclusion – GRI application Level Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 Assurance Based on the procedures performed, as described above, we Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial concur with the assessment made by Pacific Hydro, that the Information and ISAE 3410 Assurance Engagements on 2013 Report is consistent with the GRI G3.1 application level B+. Greenhouse Gas Statements, including all applicable ethical and independence requirements. This report has been prepared for Pacific Hydro. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report, or the 2013 Report to which it relates, to any persons other than Pacific Hydro, or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. KPMG Melbourne 29 October 2013 43 G R I and U N G C I ndex The index below provides page numbers for the GRI indicators and UNGC Principles contained within this report. A detailed index can be found at pacifichydro.com Disclosure/ Category Reported Report Section UNGC Page indicator Principle PROFILE 1.1–1.2 Strategy and analysis Full A Message from Our Chairman COP 3 A Message from Our CEO 4–5 Materiality 12–13 Performance against Goals 14 Looking Ahead 15 Governance, Ethics and Respecting Rights 16–18 Respecting Rights at Work 29–30 2.1–2.10, EU1 Organisational profile Full About this Report Inside cover About Us 2 Installed Capacity 19 Our Products 20–21 Contact Us Back page Our Owner 16 Key Statistics 3 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online 3.1–3.4 Report parameters Full About this Report Inside cover Report Scope 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online 3.5 and boundary Full Stakeholders 11 Materiality 12–13 3.6–3.8, 3.13 Full About this Report Inside cover 3.9–3.12 Full About this Report Inside cover 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online 4.1–4.10, Governance, commitments Full About Us 2 4.12–4.13 and engagement Governance, Ethics and Respecting Rights 16–18 Employee Profile 31–31 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online 4.11 Full Governance, Ethics and Respecting Rights 16–18 Environmental Impacts of Pacific Hydro Activities 39–42 Our Response to Climate Change 36–37 4.14–4.17 Full Stakeholders 11 Materiality 12–13 EC1 Economic performance Full Delivering Economic Value 7–9 9 EC2 Partial Operational Excellence 21–22 Our Response to Climate Change 36–37 EC6 Market presence Full Remuneration and Bonuses 6 30 EC5, EC7 Partial Employee Profile 30–31 Local Sourcing and Employment Opportunities 35 EC8 Indirect economic impacts Full Support and Development of Communities 1 33–35 EC9 Partial Support and Development of Communities 33–35 EN3, EN4 Energy Full Greenhouse Gas, Abatement and Energy Use 37–38 EN6, EN7 Partial Our Products 20–21 Greenhouse Gas, Abatement and Energy Use 37–38 44 Pacific Hydro Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2013 Disclosure/ Category Reported Report Section UNGC Page indicator Principle EN12, EN13 Biodiversity Partial Biodiversity and Native Revegetation 7, 8 39–40 Understanding Cumulative Impacts in the Alto 42 Cachapoal Valley EN14 Full Biodiversity and Native Revegetation 39–40 Understanding Cumulative Impacts in the Alto 42 Cachapoal Valley EN16 Emissions, effluents Full Greenhouse Gas, Abatement and Energy Use 37–38 EN18 and waste Partial Greenhouse Gas, Abatement and Energy Use 8 37–38 EN28 Compliance 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online LA1 Employment Full Employee Profile 30–31 LA2, LA3 Partial Employee Profile 30–31 Remuneration and Bonuses 30–31 LA4 Labour/management Full Respecting Rights at Work 3 29–30 relations LA7, LA8, Occupational health Partial Health and Safety 25–27 EU16 and safety Employee Wellbeing 26–27 LA10, LA11 Training and education Partial Training and Development 28–29 LA12 Full 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online LA13 Diversity and equal Partial Diversity and Inclusion 6 29 opportunity Employee Profile 30–31 HR3 Investment and Partial Code of Conduct 17 procurement practices HR4 Non-discrimination Full Respecting Rights at Work 6 29–30 HR5 Freedom of association Full Respecting Rights at Work 3 29–30 and collective bargaining HR9 Indigenous rights Full Respecting Rights 18 HR11 Remediation Full Respecting Rights 1–6 18 SO1 Local communities Full Consultation and Engagement with Communities 32–33 Community Investment Programs 33–34 EU19 Partial Consultation and Engagement with Communities 32–33 Strategic Alliance with Tinguiririca River 33 Supervisory Board Water 42 SO2, SO4 Corruption Full Corruption and Anti-competitive Behaviour 17 SO3 Partial Corruption and Anti-competitive Behaviour 1–6, 10 17 SO5, SO6 Public Policy Full Government Lobbying and Public Policy 7 23–24 Donations 18 SO7 Anti-competitive behaviour Full 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online SO8 Compliance Full 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online PR2 Customer health and safety Full 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online PR4 Product and service labelling Full 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online PR7 Marketing communications Full 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online PR8 Customer privacy Full 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online PR9 Compliance Full 2013 Full GRI and UNGC Index Online Contact Us Feedback on this report can be sent to sustainability@pacifichydro.com Australia Level 11, 474 Flinders Street Melbourne, Victoria 3000 Australia T +61 3 8621 6000 Brazil Alameda Santos, 700–Cj. 62 – Condomínio Edifício Trianon Corporate Cerqueira César – São Paulo – SP CEP 01418-100 – Brazil T +55 11 3149 4646 Rua Doutor Luiz Felipe Câmara, 55 Edifício Themis Tower, Salas 902 a 906 Lagoa Nova – Natal – RN CEP 59064-200 – Brazil T +55 84 4009 0100 Chile Av. Isidora Goyenechea 3520, Piso 9, Las Condes Santiago, Chile T +56 22 519 4200 pacifichydro.com FIND US ON
