Communication on Progress 2012 fotografía: el imaginario studio About EcoVadis aims at improving environmental and social practices of companies by leveraging the influence of global supply chains. EcoVadis operates the 1st collaborative network enabling companies to manage the Sustainability performance of their suppliers, across 150 sectors and 95 countries. EcoVadis reliable ratings and easy to use monitoring tools allow companies to manage risks and drive eco-innovations in their global supply chains. More than 60 Global Multinational companies have selected the EcoVadis solution, including Fortune 500 such as Alstom, Axa, Air Liquide, Alcatel-Lucent, Bayer, BASF, Coca Cola Enterprises, Heineken, Orange, Johnson & Johnson, Lafarge, Renault-Nissan, Schneider Electric, Shell and Vodafone. Table of contents 1. Message from the CEO 4 2. EcoVadis and its role in sustainable 5 procurement advocacy 2.1 Core business activities : 2.2 Sustainable Procurement Advocacy and Outreach 3. CSR at EcoVadis 7 3.1 Environment 3.2 Labor practices and Human Rights 3.3 Business Ethics 3.4 Community involvement 4. Concluding Remarks 14 Message from the CEO Paris, February 20th 2013 Sustainable supply chain management remains a key driver of value and success with tangible benefits for many organizations. It is becoming increasingly embedded as part of companies’ sustainability strategies. The development of new global standards, disclosure and regulatory frameworks over the past year reveals this continuous shift towards more ethical and transparent value chains. EcoVadis’ goal is to provide a lean response to mitigate complex global CSR risk that could potentially be disruptive, damage goodwill and be detrimental to the triple bottom line. It helps companies by offering a platform for supplier sustainability performance monitoring. In 2012, EcoVadis celebrated its 5th Anniversary, a five year success story that demonstrates our dedication to support continuous improvement in responsible business practices in global supply chains through ongoing supplier engagement and capacity building. Landmarks achieved this year have included our formal partnership with the Carbon Disclosure Project in a joint endeavor to streamline supply chain reporting efforts, as well as the contribution to the launch of major sector collaborations such as “Together for Sustainability (TfS)” in the chemical sector. Our advocacy efforts toward the dissemination of the principles of the Global Compact go above and beyond as they are integrated into our supplier surveys. We continue to align operations and strategies with the principles set forth in the United Nations Global Compact, including in our external sphere of influence. Some example milestones in 2012 include the redesign of our Human Resources Policy and achieving carbon neutrality for the first time. EcoVadis believes that global partnerships and cloud collaboration between businesses can play a major role in advancing sustainability efforts in a very rapidly changing global landscape. EcoVadis will keep its promise in 2013 and continue to offer a first class solution to help frontrunner companies better align their sustainable procurement practices with overall sustainability priorities. Pierre-François THALER Frederic TRINEL President Managing Director 2. EcoVadis and its role in sustainable procurement advocacy CSR Timeline 2012 Through its core operations, EcoVadis has an indirect positive impact on sustainable procurement , both through its supplier assessments and ongoing advocacy efforts. 2.1 Core Business Activities In 2012, the number of suppliers assessed via EcoVadis’ CSR risk monitoring and management solution increased significantly. On the supplier side, EcoVadis allows suppliers to self-assess their own performance, and devise corrective action plans monitored by an expert team. This approach invites them to follow a continuous improvement cycle through a twoway feedback and capacity building process. On the buyer side, we provide a sustainable decision making tool that helps purchasing organizations better integrate CSR criteria into supplier selection, raise procurement teams’ awareness on key sustainable development issues and master CSR risk. In 2012 we continued rolling out our buyer training programs worldwide. Among the new developments accomplished this year, the EcoVadis solution now assesses the management system implemented companies to manage conflict minerals issues (policies, actions and results). 5 2.2 Sustainable Procurement Advocacy and Outreach 2012 again was a fruitful year in terms of A research study published in July 2012, extended partnerships and new cooperation. conducted by the EcoVadis internal expert team illustrated the results of an external asIn February 2013, EcoVadis announced sessment of the CSR performance of more its collaboration with ITC, a joint organithan 500 Global Compact participants. zation of the United Nations and World Among its main conclusions, it highlighted Trade Organization, on the new Standa majority of companies do not live up to ards Map web platform, which provides minimum requirements for a satisfactory comparable information on sustainability sustainable supply chain management standards and audit protocols. system. The study was shared with the Global Compact Supply Chain Advisory EcoVadis organized its annual in-house group for comments. The study can be conference in January 2013 to bring downloaded here. the private sector together and share best practices on sustainable procurement innoEcoVadis also collaborated with the DJSI vation. More than 120 attendees from Euon the development of the new “Standards rope and the United States were convened for Suppliers” questionnaire used for the to this event dedicated to Sustainable SupDJSI 2012 ratings. ply Chain and Procurement topics. Last but not least, EcoVadis continues to In October 2012, EcoVadis and the Carbon actively promote and communicate about Disclosure Project announced a partnersustainability in supply chains using social ship to allow responding companies to media. For example it regularly maintains minimize their reporting requirements by aua blog entirely dedicated to sustaintomatically transferring their CDP responses able procurement, which covers news, to the EcoVadis’ system. Thus, information regulations, interviews or articles on CSR is from now on integrated in one single risks associated with supply management. scorecard to facilitate user-friendliness. Additionally, our analyst team maintains an online news hub, where relevant news During the year, EcoVadis participated in and developments about sustainable prothe GRI G4 Thematic Revisions and shared curement can be found. its expertise on sustainable procurement reporting. 6 3. CSR at EcoVadis As an integrated IT solution and service provider, EcoVadis’ overall CSR risk remain relatively low. This year we were not able to conduct a stakeholder consultation to assess our own key CSR risks. However, based on our self-assessment, we have identified the following material CSR issues: • Energy & GHG emissions • Waste management • Labor and human rights • Fair business practices and anti-corruption • Sustainable procurement 2012 introduced new challenges: our team has grown significantly both in Paris and Mauritius. we opened a new subsidiary in the United States and maintained presence in Mexico and United Kingdom. 3.1 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 7 Policy Actions Since 2011, EcoVadis has an environmental • As part of our EcoVadis University project, we have policy in place. The policy is endorsed by EcoVadis created and published internal e-learning modules, of which one is related to environmental topics. management team. All employees are responsible for It is accessible to all employees through an online its implementation and for taking reasonable care of platform. The module will be officially launched in the environment. It contains commitments on issues such March 2013. as reduction of office energy use and environmental • We purchased carbon credits from EarthEra to offset impacts from transportation, usage of chemicals (ecoour 2011 emissions and thus became carbon neufriendlier cleaning agents), water consumption, recytral. cling and promotion of sustainable consumption. The • Most of our client trainings were conducted via video Policy is be reviewed as necessary, at regular intervals, conferencing. not exceeding one year. • We put in place a waste management system at our In addition, a dedicated CSR manager is coorParis office, which allows all employees to recycle garbage, collect used batteries and compost food dinating the company’s efforts. residues. Results • 2012: • Electricity consumed was: 22,463 KWh at our Paris office and 22,285 at our Mauritius location • We provided 18 hours of environmental training hours company-wide as part of our induction training. • We composted 114 kg of coffee grounds (132 kg in 2011) • Quantity of detergent / m² (cleaning) / year: N/A in 2012 • In 2011, we consumed an average of 1800 grams of paper per employee • Kilometers traveled by air (all staff): we estimate 382,525 km were traveled by air, a 15% increase from the previous year due to increased internationalization of our business. • Our carbon footprint was 81.59 Tons of CO2, mainly from flights.1 • Supply Chain Results: • 100% of new laptop purchases during the reporting period had an Energy Star ecolabel • 100% of our coffee and more than 60% of our tea purchases had Fair Trade (Fair Trade Max Havelaar) and Organic Agriculture (Agriculture Biologique) labels • 100% of our printing paper purchases had an ecolabel (e.g. Blauer Engel, PEFC). 27 % of our printing paper was recycled. • 100% of toilet paper purchase was European Ecolabel certified 8 EcoVadis carbon offset project To balance our carbon emissions from day-to-day operations, EcoVadis has offset its Carbon footprint. We chose the EarthEra program, which provides companies and individuals an opportunity to reduce their carbon impact and participate in the development of future renewable projects. EcoVadis had to compensate 76 tons of CO2 Emissions for the year 2011. NextEra Energy Resources is a leading producer of wind and solar energy in North America and the founder of the EarthEra program. One hundred percent of revenues from EarthEra product purchases are directed to EarthEra Renewable Energy Trust and used to build new renewable energy facilities in North America. EcoVadis is planning to offset its carbon footprint for the years come, to remain a carbon neutral company. 9 3.2 Labor Practices and Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 10 Policy Action As mentioned in the previous Communication on • This year again, EcoVadis asked all employee to resProgress (COP) 2011, EcoVadis has been working pond to our internal satisfaction survey at the end of on a formalized Human Resource Policy beyond 2012. compliance with laws and regulations. The 5-page document, endorsed by the company Executive Ma• A company-wide HR project was developed with the nagement Team, reiterates a commitment to the 10 help of an external consultant in 2012 to address preGlobal Compact Principles. It covers all employees vious concerns regarding career management and of EcoVadis worldwide. It also includes consultants employee benefits. A formal semi-annual assessment and interns. This policy sets out the EcoVadis vision takes place between managers and employees. Comand values on employee health and safety, working pensation is indexed against a clearly defined salary conditions, dialogue with staff, human resources, regrid and personal objectives are discussed and set in cruitment, career management & development, diveradvance. Roles and positions were also redefined in a sity, non-discrimination and bullying & harassment. In transparent way to match a list of predefined skill set. February 2013, the EcoVadis Human Resource Policy was finalized and signed by the Executive Manage• In 2012, EcoVadis provided different skill trainings to ment Team. its employees. Employees were able to receive trainings from external consultants on issues such as language, IT, The policy is to be revised annually by the EcoVadis customer relationship management or communication. CSR Project Team and subsequent versions will be approved by the Executive Management Team. • EcoVadis provides an additional health insurance system for all long term employees in Paris and and an In addition, a dedicated CSR manager is coordinaequivalent for its employees in Mauritius. ting the company’s efforts with the help of an employee representative. • EcoVadis is involved in the EFQM scheme. The certification is carried out by the European Foundation for Quality management for two CSR projects (Code of Conduct and Assessment Methodology Quality). Results • Our third annual employee satisfaction survey took place early in 2012. With a 89% participation rate, the survey provided positive results: 85% of employee would recommend EcoVadis as a great place to work, 94% get along well with their colleagues and communication with the “Executive Management” is easy and based on mutual trust for 88% of the team. In addition, 80% of employees are satisfied with the actions EcoVadis is taking to implement its CSR strategy. The survey also highlighted areas for improvement, i.e. on working atmosphere, compensation, training and career opportunities, flexible working. Corrective actions are planned in 2013 to find the root causes and address those issues. • 96 hours of leadership development training with professional mentors were provided, and 192 hours of face-toface project management courses were given. • In 2012 all employees were trained on ergonomic issues at the Paris office, but none at the office in Mauritius. All employees are trained on safety aspects, new employees are briefed on security issues. • In 2012 all employees were covered by collective agreements. • No incidents were reported in 2012 • Male/ female ratio: there are 49% of women employee in total • There are more than 14 nationalities represented among the EcoVadis global team. 11 3.3 Business Ethics Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy Action • The EcoVadis Code of Ethics is a • The code was reviewed in 2012 but no updates were yet deemed 6-page document endorsed by the necessary. company Management Team. It states an ongoing commitment to • At EcoVadis, a whistleblower procedure is available. respect the 10 Global Compact Principles and applies to all EcoVa• During each individual bi-annual performance assessment meeting, dis employees. The code addresses the letter of the code is reminded to each employee and a discussion issues particularly relevant to our on business ethics follows. “Integrity & Respect” is a formal criteria core business activities, such as included as an objective in employee performance assessment. illegal payments and bribery, gifts and entertainment, fair competi• We provided ethics training on our code of conduct tion, conflict of interest, protection of confidential information and respect • We asked all new employees to carefully read the EcoVadis Code of intellectual property rights. A deof ethics and formally acknowledge their commitment to abide by tailed section on conflict of interest its principles. also provides concrete details on the EcoVadis team member roles. • As part of our EcoVadis University project, we have created and published 8 internal e-learning modules related to Business Ethics • An Ethics Officer can be reached issues accessible to all employees through an online platform. One anonymously or by email and is apof this module is 3-hour long and is directly related to Corruption pointed by the EcoVadis Advisory and Bribery issues. The module will be officially launched in March Board. 2013. Results • As of the end of January 2013, 100% of EcoVadis employees had signed our code of ethics acknowledgment form. • 10 employees were trained on anti-corruption policies and procedures as part of our induction training. • Number of reports through whistle blowing procedure: 0 reports in 2012. 12 3.4 Community involvement EcoVadis aims to make a positive, solid impact in the community where it operates, with a focus on sustainability in line with the company’s overall CSR strategy. In order to meet this objective, EcoVadis has set up an education project in Mauritius for the next three years. EcoVadis is working together with schools in education priority zone (‘ZEP’) in Mauritius. In the first year (2012-2013) EcoVadis has donated 64 different materials (mainly books) with a focus on environmental themes to ZEP schools. The 2nd and 3rd year will potentially involve the participation of employees whereby they go to a ZEP school and carry out training on environmental awareness to students. This will allow EcoVadis to combine the donations with employee volunteering and community support, with a focus on environmental awareness and wellbeing in the local community. Concluding Remarks EcoVadis promotes the dissemination of the 10 Global Compact Principles in its external sphere of influence during its daily interactions with businesses. It also strives to internalize the principles in its own operations. As demonstrated in this report, EcoVadis has responded to the most important issues of concerns for its activities. However, much progress remains to be done and will not be achieved without the involvement and contributions of all the EcoVadis staff. We hope this Communication on Progress will remain a basis for internal dialogue, employee motivation and showcase our sustainability work to external stakeholders. Your feedback on the report is greatly appreciated and can be sent to sgargonne@ecovadis.com 2013 Objectives: In 2013, EcoVadis plans to offset its carbon footprint for the year 2012 as we did for 2011, to stay carbon neutral. Our goal is also to roll out our Environmental policy and improve our environmental performance (e.g. energy consumption from renewable energy sources, waste emissions, sustainable purchases). We will continue to ensure that new and existing employees, interns and consultants are trained or receive refresher training on issues such as ergonomic working, emergency situation, fire drill exercise and general safety issues. Furthermore, EcoVadis will roll out an external training program to continue actions engaged in 2012 and cover additional training needs that have been detected during the appraisal process. Corrective actions are also planned in 2013 to find the root causes and address the challenges uncovered in the employee survey. Another objective is to set up and launch a “Charte de la Diversite” by end of 2013. Finally, EcoVadis is planning to take actions and recruit at least one person with disabilities. EcoVadis will continue to stay engaged with its community involvement project within the next two years. 14 EcoVadis 4 rue du Faubourg Montmartre 75009 PARIS France +33 1 82 28 88 88 Prepared by Simon Gargonne, Stephen Wils Design: El Imaginario Studio www.elimaginario.com.mx
