sustainable development report 30 June 2013 better together... we deliver 01 02 03 overview addressing our our performance data material sustainability challenges 3 About this report 22 Safety, health and wellbeing 58 Data and assurance 4 Our global presence 23 P romoting employee and 59 People contractor safety 6 Our business model and 60 Environment integrated value chain 25  ccupational health and O employee wellbeing 61 Society 8 Chief executive officer’s report 28 Investing in our people 62 Assurance statement 10 Our strategy 29  eveloping and empowering D 64 Key contacts 12 Our changing business context high-performing values-driven inside E nvironmental impact of Sasol’s back 14 Our governance framework for employees cover sustainable development report sustainable development 31 Embedding employee diversity 18 Identifying our material 32 Investing in society sustainability focus areas 33 Investing in our host countries 20 Our sustainability focus areas at a glance 35 Investing in our communities 38 Respecting human rights 42 Responding to environmental challenges 43 Air quality and waste management 46 Climate change and energy contents 50 W  ater stewardship – Sasol Water Sense 54 Providing safe, essential and quality products 55 P romoting effective product stewardship focus stories Engaging communities in Enabling significant GHG abatement Sasol’s water partnership with our US operations pg 40 through LED lighting pg 48 Emfuleni municipality pg 53 our sustainability performance at a glance how we delivered against our group-wide targets We improved our safety performance, setting a new annual record for the group in overview its 63-year history. We reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 3% and continue to manage our environmental impact. We further achieved level 3 broad-based black economic empowerment contributor status. safety product transportation incidents General improvement in our occupational safety Focus on product transportation safety delivers performance, characterised by our RCR reaching improvement in managing this key safety risk. a record low of 0,31* in 2013. Target: achieve a RCR** of less than 0,35 by 20131 Target: achieve a 30% reduction over five years, based on the 2009 actual transportation indicator of performance Recordable case rate (RCR) Product transportation incident rate (recordable cases per 200 000 hours) (incidents per 100 kt product transported) 3,0 0,4 60 addressing our material sustainability challenges 2,5 50 0,3 2,0 40 Incidents 1,5 0,2 30 Rate Rate 1,0 20 0,1 0,5 10 0 0 0 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 07 08 09 10 11 12 13  Until 2005 service providers and illnesses were not included  Number of incidents  2006 and later years included all service providers and illnesses  Target rate  2013 target  Actual rate * Excluding illnesses (further details on page 23). ** The recordable case rate (RCR) is a standard international measure for reporting work-related injuries and illnesses. The RCR is the number of fatalities, lost workday cases, restricted work cases, medical treatment cases and occupational illnesses for every 200 000 employee hours worked. 1 Further interim milestones to be set. energy efficiency greenhouse gas emissions intensity Continued to make changes to how we operate Higher GHG intensity due to lower production levels. our businesses to become more energy efficient. Target: improve the energy efficiency of our South African Target: reduce emissions intensity by 15% in all our utilities by 15% per unit of production by 2015, Sasol energy based on efficiency operations by 2020, based on the 2005 baselinegas Greenhouse emissions year1 intensity accord measurement (tons CO2 equivalent per ton production) the 2000 baseline year 1,2 3,5 Sasol energy efficiency Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 1,0 3,0 our performance data accord measurement (tons CO2 equivalent per ton production) GHG emissions intensity 2,5 Energy intensity index 1,2 0,8 3,5 2,0 1,0 0,6 3,0 1,5 GHG emissions intensity 2,5 Energy intensity index 0,8 0,4 1,0 2,0 0,6 0,2 0,5 1,5 0,4 0 0 1,0 08 09 10 11 12 13 0,2 0,5  Actual  Actual 0  Target 0  2020 target 08 09 10 11 12 13  Actual 1 Actual  Based on the restated absolute GHG emissions from 2000 to 2012.  Target  2020 target 1 Committed to excellence in all we do, Sasol is an international integrated energy and chemical company that leverages the talent and expertise of our more than 35 000 people working in 37 countries. We develop and commercialise technologies, and build and operate world-scale facilities to produce a range of product streams, including liquid fuels, high-value chemicals and low-carbon electricity. While remaining committed to our home-base of South Africa, Sasol is expanding internationally based on a unique value proposition. SD Sasol sustainable development report 2013 A more detailed review of Sasol’s primary brands, products and services, operational structure, the countries in which it operates, and the primary markets it serves is provided at www.sasol.com. 2 about this report Our sustainable development report covers the activities of all Sasol’s businesses. These activities include exploration, research and development, overview construction, production (mining, oil and gas, coal-to-liquids, gas-to-liquids, chemicals and power generation), and marketing and sales. The report covers the operating period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013. Data is included for the following joint ventures: National Petroleum Refiners of South Africa (Natref), Sasol Petroleum International in Mozambique, ORYX gas-to-liquids (GTL) in Qatar and Sasol Huntsman in Germany. Subsequent to 30 June 2013, Sasol disposed of its investment in Arya Sasol Polymer Company in Iran. Quantitative performance data is not included for those operations where we do not have operational control, joint control or do not exercise influence. However, issues of significant interest to stakeholders in these operations are covered in the commentary. Further details on the nature and location of our joint ventures, and on their principal sustainable development risks, can be found on our website at www.sasolsdr.com. This report focuses on issues that affect the long-term success of our business, and our impact on the economy, environment or communities in which we operate. It also focuses on issues that are important to our key stakeholders. While this report may be of interest to all our stakeholders, it deals with issues of particular interest to socially responsible investment (SRI) analysts and sustainable development professionals. In response to stakeholder feedback we shortened this printed report to encompass only our material sustainability focus areas. The process we followed in identifying these material focus areas is described on pages 18 to 19. Additional sustainability information, as well as a summary report, is available at www.sasolsdr.com. In addition to the suite of reports that form part of our annual integrated reporting process, we communicate with our key stakeholders through other channels. These include employee newsletters, investor reports and direct communication from management. Most of our larger operations also run separate sustainable developmentrelated communication processes, such as site-based reporting and community forums, aimed at engaging with neighbouring communities. Our sustainable development reporting has been developed in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) G4 Sustainability Reporting addressing our material sustainability challenges Guidelines (Core), including the GRI’s Mining & Metals sector supplements. We plan to meet the GRI’s “Comprehensive” reporting requirements next year. We have also applied the advanced level reporting criteria of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and meet the 21 advanced criteria. A detailed GRI table and a UNGC Communication on Progress are available at www.sasolsdr.com. The Sasol Limited audit committee approved the sustainable development report, following a review by the executive director: sustainability and business transformation, and the risk and safety, health and environment (SHE) committee. Our integrated reporting process Sasol’s annual integrated reporting process comprises four main publications, shown below. How to read our annual integrated report Our annual integrated report provides extensive cross-references to our other reporting publications, shown below: Sasol annual integrated report 30 June 2013 annual integrated report 30 June 2013 Annual integrated report  ur primary annual report to stakeholders. Contains succinct material information and conforms to local and international integrated O better together... we deliver IR IR reporting frameworks. 20mm 23mm Annual financial Sustainable statements Form 20-F development report C  ontains a full analysis Form 20-F, our annual O  ur annual AFS 20-F SD of the group’s financial report issued in accordance report covering Sasol annual financial statements 30 June 2013 Sasol sustainable development report 30 June 2013 Form 20-F 30 June 2013 results, with detailed with the Securities environmental, financial statements, Exchange Act of 1934, social and governance annual financial statements prepared in accordance Form 20-F 30 June 2013 which is filed with the sustainable development report 30 June 2013 matters. Prepared in 30 June 2013 with International United States Securities accordance with the our performance data better together... we deliver Financial Reporting and Exchange Commission www.sasol.com better together... we deliver AFS better together... we deliver 20-F GRI G4 framework. Standards, as well (SEC), in line with as full corporate the requirement of governance and our New York Stock remuneration reports. Exchange listing. Feedback Through our reporting process we seek to move beyond compliance and enter into an inclusive and meaningful dialogue with our stakeholders, with the aim of informing our strategy and building trust. We value feedback and welcome questions and comments on our reporting. To give feedback or request hard copies of our reports, please contact our corporate affairs division or use the feedback form on our website at www.sasolsdr.com. 3 our global presence where we operate Sasol has exploration, development, production, marketing and sales operations in 37 countries across the world. The Americas Canada  Sasol Synfuels International  Sasol Petroleum International United States  Sasol Synfuels International Sasol Polymers Sasol Solvents Sasol Olefins & Surfactants Sasol Wax Merisol Sasol Technology Brazil Sasol Olefins & Surfactants Operating profit after remeasurement items by region for 2013 Capital commitments by region for 2013 Our financial reporting reflects the broad regions in which we have a presence. SD Sasol sustainable development report 2013 4 United Kingdom Europe Sasol Petroleum International England  Sasol Solvents France  Sasol Olefins & Surfactants Sasol Wax overview Sasol Solvents Sasol Solvents Belgium  Sasol Olefins & Surfactants The Netherlands Sasol Synfuels International Sasol Technology Sasol Wax Merisol Slovakia Sasol Olefins & Surfactants Sasol New Energy Poland Sasol Olefins & Surfactants Sasol Wax Scotland Sasol Technology Sasol Solvents Germany  Sasol Olefins & Surfactants Sasol Wax Isle of Man  Sasol Oil Sasol Financing Norway Sasol New Energy Sasol Petroleum International Ireland Austria Sasol Wax Sasol Financing Ireland  Sasol Solvents Italy  Sasol Olefins & Surfactants Sasol Technology Spain Sasol Olefins & Surfactants Northern Asia Asia Sasol Olefins & Russia  India Sasol Synfuels International Surfactants Sasol Technology Uzbekistan  S asol Synfuels China Sasol Polymers Sasol Solvents International Sasol Olefins & Surfactants Sasol Technology Merisol addressing our material sustainability challenges Middle East Qatar  Sasol Synfuels International Southeast Asia Far East Sasol Technology Malaysia Sasol Polymers Japan  Sasol Solvents United Arab Singapore  Sasol Solvents Sasol Olefins Emirates  Sasol Solvents Sasol Wax & Surfactants Rest of Africa Nigeria  S asol Synfuels International Sasol Petroleum International Sasol Southern Africa Technology South Africa Sasol Mining Sasol Gas Sasol Oil Gabon Sasol Petroleum Sasol Synfuels Sasol Synfuels International International Sasol Petroleum International Australasia Egypt Sasol Wax Sasol Polymers Sasol Solvents Australia S asol Petroleum Sasol Olefins & Surfactants Sasol Wax International Sasol Nitro Sasol Infrachem Merisol Sasol New Energy Sasol Financing Sasol Technology Swaziland Sasol Oil Lesotho Sasol Oil Sasol Nitro our performance data Mozambique  Sasol Gas Sasol Oil Sasol Petroleum International Sasol Nitro Sasol New Energy Sasol Technology Botswana Sasol Petroleum International Sasol Nitro Namibia Sasol Nitro Zambia Sasol Nitro This map is a broad indication of Sasol’s global presence and of its existing operations, but is not location-specific. 5 our business model and integrated value chain what sets us apart Our value proposition aligns Lower-carbon electricity Gas Engine Allows us to cumulatively our diverse and interdependent Power generate up to 69% of our businesses. At the heart of Plant total internal electricity our integrated value chain, requirements in South Africa. which sets us apart from our competitors, is our ability to develop and commercialise ids (GTL) proce to-liqu ss technology at scale to produce gasbulk fuel, chemicals and A proprietary version of Sasol’s low-temperature Fischer-Tropsch electricity. (FT) process, used with an advanced iron or cobalt catalyst, to convert synthesis gas (syngas) into petrochemical streams and waxes for producing and marketing diesel and waxes. Sasol Through Sasol Petroleum Slurry Phase International (SPI) and Sasol Gas, natural gas reforming syngas Distillate syncrude (Sasol SPDTM exploration and production we obtain natural gas through wax process) the cross-border pipeline linking Low the Pande and Temane fields in temperature Mozambique to our South African Hydrocarbon operations. We use this natural gas as our sole hydrocarbon feedstock Syngas production at Sasolburg and as a supplementary Using steam and oxygen at high temperatures, coal is gasified and natural gas reformed feedstock feedstock to coal at Secunda. to produce synthesis gas (syngas is a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen). Sasol obtains its raw materials through its coal mining activities, oil and natural gas exploration, and purchases from the open Sasol Advanced market. Some raw materials are sold directly to external markets. coal gasification syngas Synthol™ Reactor syncrude (SASTM) Sasol Mining supplies most of the High feedstock coal required for the coaltemperature to-liquids process in Secunda. The proprietary SAS reactor at the heart of the high-temperature version of Sasol’s Fischer-Tropsch (FT) process used at Secunda, produces a synthetic form of crude oil and chemical feedstreams. coal ess -to-liqui ds (CTL) proc Crude oil, coal and natural gas are sold to the open market. crude oil SD Sustaining our integrated business model Sasol sustainable development report 2013 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Water Corporate governance Although we have decided not to pursue further Recognising that water is an essential feedstock Sound corporate governance structures and processes coal-to-liquids growth, coal remains an important for our business, we continue to manage water risks are applied throughout the organisation. These are feedstock for our Secunda complex in South Africa. within our control and act collectively on shared risks. considered by the board to be pivotal to delivering We are investing in reducing our carbon emissions We are also transparent and accountable about our sustainable growth in the interest of all stakeholders. by developing more efficient production processes, water usage and stewardship initiatives. Sasol is and producing our own lower-carbon electricity. partnering with three South African municipalities We also continue to investigate carbon capture to save water beyond our factory fence, to the and storage solutions. benefit of all users of the Vaal River catchment area in which we operate. 6 our products We produce bulk fuel and chemical commodities as well as high value-add or differentiated products. We mainly supply to industries, but also supply directly to consumers in South Africa through our fuel products retail business. We also export coal to international power generation customers. Our third product stream is low-carbon electricity, produced for our own consumption or sold into the Southern African grid. overview electricity Our GTL diesel is of ultra high purity and therefore is ideal as a low-emissions, premium grade fuel and as a blend stock for upgrading conventional diesels. fuel products: GTL Diesel fuel GTL Naphtha refine and blend GTL Kerosene (jet fuel) components LPG (liquid petroleum gas) de c ru syn Chemical intermediates from the FT process are separated, purified and, together with conventional chemical raw materials, converted chemical into a range of final products. products: Alcohols Olefins marketing of products chemical Polymers addressing our material sustainability challenges chemical processes components Solvents Surfactants Co-monomers Base oils In some of our markets, feedstock is purchased from the open market to produce, using our own and licensed technology, and market a range of chemical products. co-products: recovery and Ammonia Explosives co-products beneficiation Methanol Crude tar acids Fertilisers Sulphur Coal gasification and the FT process produce co-products for recovery and beneficiation. fuel products: Petrol Diesel fuel refine and blend LPG components Illuminating paraffin Bitumen In the liquid fuels business, Fuel oil Jet fuel synthetic fuels components are upgraded and marketed together with conventional fuels produced in a refinery from crude oil. our performance data Research and innovation We continue to build on our track record of some in partnership with technology suppliers. For more information on the inputs, outputs pioneering innovation. We have developed We continue to invest in liquid fuels research and outcomes of our business model several proprietary processes in downstream and development and testing through and integrated value chain, in relation chemical process technology. We have also our fuel research group, the Sasol Advanced to the six capitals model of value creation, developed and patented several base-metal Fuels Laboratory (in collaboration with the which is the model recommended by the catalysts for our FT synthesis processes. University of Cape Town, South Africa) and International Integrated Reporting Council’s In coal exploration and mining, we have the Sasol Fuels Application Centre. Consultation Draft published in April 2013, developed a number of cost-saving refer to the video on www.sasol.com. innovations to enhance production, 7 chief executive officer’s report gaining momentum... making a difference were the result of road accidents caused by third parties. On behalf of the company, I again extend our deepest condolences to the families, friends and colleagues of Ezette Castles, Ayanda Xolo, Moses Nyembe, Thomas Ramuthugi, and an O&S service provider in Germany who cannot be named for legal privacy reasons as determined by German law. The safety of our people and our service providers remains paramount at all times. The group’s new One Sasol safety, health and environment excellence approach will build on the vastly improved safety performance achieved in 2013. I am hopeful that it will accelerate our journey to zero harm, which we believe is indeed attainable. A significant development this year has been the establishment of the Sasol Global Foundation. This co-ordinating structure aims to direct, enable and govern a fully integrated approach to corporate social investment across the group. We also increased the level of investment in our people across a wide range of initiatives. We spent more than R1,7 billion on bursaries, artisan training and the socioeconomic upliftment of our communities. Key diversity interventions included the Sasol women’s network, part of our broader women’s empowerment strategy, and the Learn, Experience and Accelerate Potential (LEAP) programme, which aims to provide focused career development for our future leaders. Pleasingly, Sasol people are more engaged and inspired. Our integrated employee survey, Sasol Heartbeat, showed a high level of participation Dear stakeholder and affirmed our progress in implementing a high-performance, valuesdriven culture. It has also provided a good understanding of where we In 2013, we delivered an outstanding safety performance, and solid need to improve. operational and financial results. We also advanced our growth projects in a measured and responsible way. We made substantive progress in We continued to make significant progress in our transformation reviewing, developing and executing Sasol’s strategy, for the nearto activities in South Africa. In the year, we achieved level 3 broad-based medium-term and the longer-term. In tandem, we remained focused black economic empowerment (BBBEE) contributor status, improving on our contributions to the communities in which we live and work. from level 4. Our unwavering focus on equity ownership, enterprise The progress we made in the year is covered in detail in our annual and socioeconomic development, employment equity, skills development integrated report, with supporting information in this sustainable and preferential procurement are delivering exceptional results – well development report. I would, however, like to draw your attention beyond the stretch targets we had originally set ourselves. to some of the more notable features of the year. These facts indicate Looking more broadly at our contributions, we remain one of the how central sustainability considerations are in the way we lead largest corporate taxpayers in South Africa. We generated R30,8 billion and manage our business. in direct and indirect taxes for the national fiscus in 2013. In addition, notwithstanding our international growth aspirations, we continue to Delivering solid results across a number of fronts be the single largest private sector company investor of capital in South Our solid results in 2013 were achieved within the context of the Africa. In 2013, our in-country capital expenditure was R19,8 billion, lowest annual recordable case rate (RCR) in the group’s 63-year equating to 59% of the group spend. history. The RCR for employees and service providers stood at We made headway in our efforts to reduce our environmental 0,31 (excluding illnesses) at year-end, improving from 0,35. This is a footprint, with many noteworthy activities covered elsewhere in this SD remarkable achievement if one takes into account the challenging report. Based on an assessment of significant capital expenditure on environments so many of our people work in around the world. environmental projects over the past ten years, Sasol has invested Sasol sustainable development report 2013 Sasol Mining recorded zero fatalities in the year for the first time in approximately R20 billion, averaging almost R2 billion annually, in its six-decade history. Our flagship facility, ORYX gas-to-liquids (GTL), improving our environmental performance. was again the star safety performer. At the end of August 2013, ORYX GTL reached another significant milestone – achieving two Advancing our strategy to ensure growth years without a recordable injury. This performance included all In June 2011, we initiated an extensive evaluation of the group’s corporate strategy, which progressed in 2013. Our strategy review and employees and contractors, and equates to 15,9 million man development process has confirmed the robustness of our nearto hours worked. medium-term strategy. In scoping our strategic intent beyond 2020, Despite these remarkable safety achievements, it is with profound we have also clarified that GTL, chemicals and lower-carbon electricity regret that we have lost five of our colleagues who died in Sasol’s will continue to underpin the organisation’s ability to create value over service this past year. It should be noted that two of these tragedies the long-term. 8 overview More specifically, we refined our strategic agenda in the year. We made As part of our expand and deliver strategy in the United States, two key shifts in our thinking, both of which are framed by our response a notable development in the year was our decision to proceed to to the climate change challenge and the move towards lower-carbon front-end engineering and design on our growth projects in Louisiana. energy alternatives. The first shift was our decision not to pursue These projects will comprise a world-scale ethane cracker and derivative selective growth in coal-to-liquids (CTL) operations, but to focus units, and an integrated GTL and chemicals facility. Once commissioned, singularly on accelerated GTL growth – natural gas being a far cleaner our US projects will grow the group’s production volumes significantly hydrocarbon and a bridge to a lower-carbon economy. and cement our position in the US across several industry sectors. It is important to note here that we will be phasing in the GTL project Secondly, we narrowed Sasol New Energy’s scope to developing after demonstrating our execution capabilities on the new ethane and growing lower-carbon power generation, a new value proposition cracker. We have also put a governance structure in place to give and profitable source of revenue in the future. the group executive committee and the board clear oversight, and Technology underpins our competitive advantage. This is especially access to the required information to enable robust decision making the case in process innovations that drive production output and and control. efficiencies, and that mitigate environmental impacts. As such, Driving change to support strategic delivery we clarified the research and development mandate of Sasol Our strategy, both in relation to enhancing our existing asset base Technology to focus on driving improvements at our existing CTL and delivering our growth projects, is an ambitious one. To achieve facilities in South Africa, and on deepening our compelling GTL value our strategic goals, we carefully examined where we need to improve, proposition globally. and the level of organisational change required to secure our ongoing Given the magnitude of Sasol’s growth portfolio, we scrutinised our success. For Sasol to become a more effective, efficient and competitive addressing our material sustainability challenges portfolio of projects in relation to their human capital and financing organisation, which is fit for the future, substantive changes to our operating model and group structure, as well as our organisational requirements, as well as the material country risks and policy culture, are necessary. As we embark on the significant internal change considerations that impact on them. The overarching purpose of this required, I would ask all of our stakeholders to keep in mind that we review was to prioritise the projects that can unlock maximum value stand at the apex of a new age for Sasol. Collectively, we are responsible for our shareholders – thereby meeting the expectations of all our for shaping a global company with exceptional prospects, based on our stakeholders. From this basis, we took clear decisions regarding our people, assets and technologies. growth projects and their respective time frames. At the same time, we recognise that our real and informed commitment Driving our dual-focused strategy to sustainable development will remain integral to achieving our Our strategy development process confirmed that our strategic long-term strategic objectives. Doing business in a safe, sustainable ambitions require a dual regional approach. In Southern Africa, and and responsible way is embedded in both our strategic agenda and across our existing global operational footprint, we talk of “nurture and in our annual top priorities. Together, they focus us on the actions we grow”. The emphasis here is as much on maintaining and enhancing must take to enhance our strengths, and to develop skills in the areas our existing asset base as it is on growing in new areas. These are most we need to improve. notably in lower-carbon power generation both in South Africa and in Mozambique. Looking at North America, elsewhere in Africa and the Finally, I would like to thank my Sasol colleagues, our business partners, rest of the world, we speak of “expand and deliver”, as we seek to customers, shareholders, communities, and the governments of the advance on several fronts. countries we operate in, for their support this past year. Specifically, the hard work, commitment and dedication of our people continue to Our efforts to reduce the environmental footprint of our existing underpin our ability to deliver a consistently high level of performance. operations are an important aspect of our nurture and grow strategy. Our unwavering responsiveness in partnering with our stakeholders In this regard, we initiated several projects, including our R1,9 billion to not only address the pressing sustainability challenges we face, volatile organic compound abatement programme. but also to benefit from the strategic opportunities that come from Turning to our lower-carbon electricity business, our R1,9 billion working together, continues. Together, we can secure a bright future gas-fired power generation plant in Sasolburg, South Africa, which for Sasol and its diverse base of stakeholders. was commissioned in December 2012, is producing more than 140 megawatts (MW) of power. This project has been a resounding success due to the collective efforts of our Sasol New Energy team, our contractors and the national Department of Energy. It has enabled our performance data us to now generate up to 69% of our own electricity requirements in David E. Constable South Africa, reducing our carbon footprint and mitigating our chief executive officer exposure to rising energy costs. We have also advanced the 7 September 2013 development of our US$246 million 140 MW gas-fired power generation plant in Mozambique, in partnership with the country’s state-owned utility, Electricidade de Moçambique. IR Refer to the chairman’s and CEO’s statements in our annual Our external water conservation partnerships have started to yield integrated report. results. The Emfuleni water conservation project has already saved 2,1 million cubic metres of water by repairing leaks in 60 000 homes. AFS Refer to the full chief financial officer’s review in our annual This equates to about half of that municipality’s current water usage. financial statements. 9 our strategy where we are headed in the nearto medium-term We continued to evaluate our strategy in relation to significant changes in the global environment and shifting market dynamics. While the evaluation process has confirmed the robustness of our nearto medium-term strategy, we refined our strategic agenda to reflect key shifts in our thinking. Sustainable Definition Foundation growth of victory Operations Excellence Develop and empower Accelerate GTL growth high-performing, Group imperatives values-driven people Grow related Capital upstream business Excellence Continuously improve and Grow grow existing asset base shareholder Grow all value chains based value Business on feedstock, market and/ Deliver on the South African or technology advantage sustainably Excellence transformation agenda Develop and grow lowerValues-driven Maintain technological lead carbon power generation Organisation Sasol’s definition of victory is to grow shareholder value sustainably. We use key IR F or more details performance indicators (KPIs) to measure our performance against achieving on growth, this goal, some of which are included in the short-term incentive scheme. refer to pages 36 to 37. IR Refer to pages 32 to 35 for our KPIs. our foundation pillar This year we further refined both our strategic pillars. The objectives set out in our foundation pillar are executed through our nurture and grow strategy. Develop and empower high-performing, values-driven people This underscores the importance of a high-performance culture, adherence to our shared values and individual accountability. We invest significantly in skills development and training, focused leadership development and succession planning. In our quest to attract, develop and retain the right people, there has been a substantial shift in our performance management approach. Continuously improve and grow our existing asset base SD We continue to grow our existing assets, improving the efficiency and reliability of our facilities through our Operations Excellence programme, while also investing in new plants. Our drive to achieve a world-class safety record and moderate our environmental Sasol sustainable development report 2013 impact is dedicated and persistent, and driven by meaningful targets. Deliver on the South African transformation agenda As a proud South African company, we view broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) as a business imperative. Through our commitment to transformation, we have achieved level 3 BBBEE contributor status. At the end of 2012, Sasol Mining exceeded the targets for BBBEE equity ownership ahead of the 2014 deadline. We established the Sasol women’s network, as well as a women’s empowerment strategy for the group. Our skills development programme, which includes our Learn Experience and Accelerate Potential (LEAP) programme, seeks to build capacity both within Sasol and the broader community. Maintain a technological lead Through research and development, managing technology and constantly innovating, we maintain the growth and sustainability of our fuels and chemical businesses and grow our competitive advantage. 10 unpacking our group imperatives Group imperatives are strategic priorities that require group-wide focus. In 2013, we made tangible progress and our advancements are already yielding significant benefits. Operations Excellence Delivery in 2013 overview This programme aims to improve reliability, sustainability We developed and implemented 17 new best practice initiatives across the group. and maintainability across Sasol’s value chains by These initiatives, coupled with various other operational improvements realised developing standardised, world-class management efficiencies of approximately R400 million in the year. systems and by implementing best practice in our plants and businesses. It also seeks to develop competent and engaged people who adopt these practices and deliver targeted performance. Capital Excellence This programme aims to ensure the flexible and effective To ensure flexible and effective use of capital in the group, we optimised and use of capital in the group’s project value chain. It is prioritised our project portfolio and implemented a more streamlined approval path. focused on delivering projects that meet all quality We have also revamped the planning and quality review processes for projects requirements in the shortest possible time, at the bringing it in line with international best practice and driving improved project delivery. lowest possible cost, yielding the greatest possible From 2013, all of our people working in critical project roles will need certification return on investment. to ensure that their experience and skill sets are aligned with the challenges of a particular project. Business Excellence addressing our material sustainability challenges This imperative encompasses improving our marketing Various profit improvement opportunities were identified and realised by and sales function and places a broader emphasis on implementing marketing and sales best practices. An intensive price review and improving our approach to doing business. Through the margin management capability-building programme was completed in two business more effective management of financial levers such as units, resulting in further significant profit improvement opportunities. We designed sales, volumes, costs, inventories and margins in our a customer key account management and executive sponsorship programme, day-to-day business dealings, we aim to maximise which will be piloted in 2014. We are also launching a global business improvement financial impact. project aimed at streamlining the business and sustainably reducing costs. Values-driven Organisation Values define us and ultimately determine Sasol’s success. We have refined our values and rolled them out across the group. We have also It is not only our leaders that should be values-driven incorporated them into the group’s performance measurement system to ensure in everything they do – this imperative applies to all that our people understand our values and apply them in all their interactions. of our people. our sustainable growth pillar This year we also refined our sustainable growth pillar of our strategy, which ties to our expand and deliver strategy. In particular, we narrowed our focus to the growth of our gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. Our activities in coal-to-liquids (CTL) will be concentrated on ensuring the continued success and profitability of our CTL facility at Secunda, as part of our Southern Africa 2050 strategy. In addition, we refocused our New Energy business on developing lower-carbon electricity. Finally, we broadened our growth focus across all our value chains, not just in our chemical value chains as was previously the case. Accelerate GTL growth We are accelerating the application of our GTL offering, the economics of which are attractive based on the large price differential between gas and oil; and transportation fuel margins particularly in North America. our performance data Grow related upstream business We are pursuing growth by exploring for and developing targeted upstream resources to secure the feedstocks we need, and to capitalise on the benefits of integration with our downstream technologies. Grow all value chains based on feedstock, market and/or technology advantage In seeking new sources of growth, outside of our integrated GTL and CTL-based value chains, we will focus on building on areas of strong competitive advantage. In doing so, we have identified three pillars of competitive advantage (feedstock, technology and market). Develop and grow lower-carbon power generation Our aim is to develop lower-carbon power generation opportunities with a particular focus on Southern Africa. In this regard we are leveraging Sasol’s key competitive advantage in access to feedstock, specifically natural gas. 11 our changing business context building competitiveness by addressing societal challenges We are a rapidly growing international energy and chemical company. We recognise the strategic importance of anticipating and responding appropriately to societal challenges. The volatile global economy – coupled with issues such as energy security, climate change, socioeconomic inequality, unemployment and resource scarcity – presents business with significant risks, but also exciting opportunities. In ensuring Sasol’s longterm competitiveness, we need to reinforce the resilience we have shown in the past, while driving innovation in our processes, products and business practices. Globally, 2013 has been another challenging year. The effects of the A growth strategy that reflects the 2008 financial crisis continued to hamper the world economy, with societal context persistent levels of economic uncertainty, high volatility in commodity A sound appreciation of the changing market dynamics and societal markets and ongoing regional political instability. Although economic context has informed our longer-term strategic direction. Anchored activity has picked up in some of the more mature economies, in our core value proposition of monetising gas to produce liquid fuels, recovery has been slower in some emerging economies such as India high-value chemicals and lower-carbon electricity, our longer-term and China. Global economic challenges remain: the United States (US) strategic direction focuses on certain key areas, which are is grappling with its debt ceiling; the European Union faces persistent discussed below. financial difficulties; natural disasters have affected various Asian economies; and much of the Middle East and North Africa remains Providing cleaner, more efficient energy: given the strong growth mired in political conflict. Volatility in crude oil prices is likely to in energy demand from emerging markets, it is clear that we will need continue in the near-term due to slow demand growth, higher oil to utilise traditional energy sources more efficiently and effectively. supply and ongoing geopolitical uncertainty. Gas prices and exchange At the same time, alternative energy sources will need to be rates remain similarly volatile, with significant implications for our developed. We believe that hydrocarbons will remain an important product prices. component of the global energy mix for the foreseeable future; Despite the volatility, there is a consistent and increasing demand for however, we expect natural gas to grow in significance at the energy in emerging markets, a critical driver of much needed economic expense of coal and oil. Natural gas has the potential to provide many development. Underpinning the demand is a rapidly growing consumer countries with more cost-effective energy security and lower-carbon class in Asia, and continuing industrialisation and urbanisation across emissions than traditional fossil fuels. The US shale gas revolution, and the emerging economies. However, the global imperative to reduce the wide differential between oil and gas prices and the abundance of greenhouse gas emissions, and increasing stakeholder scrutiny on low-cost ethane, has created particularly attractive opportunities for business to demonstrate leadership in addressing societal challenges, Sasol’s growth and investment in the US. We have taken the strategic is providing a counter-balance to growing energy demand. These often decision not to pursue further growth in coal-to-liquids (CTL) conflicting demands present governments, business and civil society operations, but to focus instead on accelerating our gas-to liquids with profound dilemmas. Finding solutions will require vision, (GTL) growth ambitions. This, we believe, will serve as an important leadership and innovation across all sectors. bridge to a lower-carbon economy. We have also refocused our New Energy business on developing and growing lower-carbon power The difficult year in our home-base of South Africa mirrored the global generation as a significant value proposition. economic uncertainty. In South Africa social and labour unrest has impacted the mining, transport and agricultural sectors, and tarnished Both strategic shifts reflect our commitment to meet the twinned SD the country’s reputation and credit ratings. Uncertainty in the demands of climate change and energy security. regulatory and policy environment, for example in the potentially Sasol sustainable development report 2013 Committed to South Africa: we are a proud South African company, profound implications of a proposed carbon tax and/or carbon budget, and our commitment to the country and the region remains are creating further challenges. unequivocal. Our strategic focus and levels of capital investment will We recognise that only by working collaboratively and responsibly continue to be commensurate with the size of our employee and asset with government, labour and other key role-players, will growth and base, and the contribution to group profit of our operations in the prosperity be secured. A collaborative approach to finding solutions region. Similarly, our considerable investment in human capital that accelerate equitable and responsible economic growth and social and social upliftment as well as transformation, infrastructure and development, will enable us to realise our definition of victory – enterprise development, demonstrates our strong ties to our South to grow shareholder value sustainably. African home-base. To grow and sustain our in-country operations, 12 overview we have ambitious investment plans for the coming years in Southern driven region is not without its challenges: growth is coming off a low Africa. To ensure the long-term sustainability of our local assets, we base, markets are small and fragmented and infrastructure is limited. have adopted a “nurture and grow” strategy that seeks to extend the We believe, however, that with high projected economic growth rates lifespan of our business operations and integrated value chain to and yet-to-be-discovered oil and natural gas reserves, Africa provides 2050 in Southern Africa. As part of this plan we will be investing in numerous opportunities. Despite persistent turbulence, both globally skills development, in building good relationships with all our and in South Africa, the group’s ability to improve on its past stakeholders, especially our labour force, and in measures to manage performance demonstrates the resilience that has become Sasol’s the environmental impact of extending our operations to 2050, trademark. We are committed to working together with our business, particularly in terms of atmospheric emissions and water. government and social partners to navigate the complexities of often-competing sustainability drivers. Our effectiveness will depend Expanding into other parts of Africa: the sustainable growth pillar on mutual cooperation and understanding at a global level, and on of our strategic agenda is not only about our plans in shale-gas-rich our ability to work as one team – One Sasol. North America. Nor is it only about nurturing and growing our foundation businesses in South Africa. While our US mega-projects Sasol has demonstrated its ability to match and in many instances and South African foundation businesses are both fundamental to better our past performance, despite an often-challenging external our growth aspirations, our strategy also addresses our broader, environment. Furthermore, our track record for innovation and longer-term international ambitions, including our plans in Africa. excellence over the last six decades positions us well to find workable addressing our material sustainability challenges The continent’s improving political stability and governance is driving solutions that maximise commercial opportunities and address a more robust economic performance. However, the commoditypressing societal challenges. Sustainable development: a strategic imperative Our strategic agenda recognises that our growth drivers cannot be achieved without a committed focus on sustainable development and socially responsible behaviour. •• Being seen as a responsible company is critical in securing authorisation to expand or build new facilities. It also plays a significant role in our ability to attract and retain the best employees, reduce the cost of capital, and grow our client base. •• Contributing actively in meeting the social and economic priorities of government – through job creation, investment in infrastructure, supporting enterprise development, paying taxes and investing in skills development – helps to foster a more stable political environment, which is good for business. •• On the operational side, a commitment to sustainable development encourages us to identify and manage our risks more effectively. This helps us to prevent incidents and reduce potential legal liabilities, insurance premiums and clean-up costs, as well as the significant intangible costs associated with an impaired reputation. •• A critical asset in growing the company is access to skilled and motivated managers and employees; this requires that we provide an attractive work environment – with opportunities for personal development, appropriate rewards for employees’ efforts and the promotion of their health and safety. It also means that we actively develop the skills of our current and prospective employees. •• Through our resource efficiency initiatives, we have achieved material financial savings from reduced energy and material use, and from lower waste disposal and pollution management costs. The importance of enhancing operational stability and driving production efficiencies, particularly in our chemicals business, cannot be overstated. •• Looking to the future, we anticipate that the competition for access to natural resources will only increase; this gives us an added our performance data incentive to improve efficiencies within our processes, and to be innovative in re-thinking some of our processes so they are more appropriate for a resource-constrained future. •• Finally, we believe that there are significant commercial opportunities in meeting the societal challenges associated with energy security and economic development, while at the same time addressing climate change and resource depletion. The strategic growth opportunities associated with developing our competencies of innovation and commercialising technologies at scale are equally exciting. 13 our governance framework for sustainable development We apply sound corporate governance structures and processes which are pivotal to delivering sustainable growth. Our values-driven culture and code of ethics underpin our governance structures and processes, committing ourselves to high standards of business integrity and ethics in all our activities. Leadership structures The chief executive officer (CEO) is accountable to the board for the successful implementation of the group strategy and overall management of the group. The chief executive officer chairs the group executive committee (GEC), which comprises the chief financial officer (CFO) and other executives who support him in fulfilling this responsibility. The CEO executes his mandate to the group in terms of safety, health and environment (SHE) in accordance with the Sasol SHE policy information which is available on our website at www.sasolsdr.com. The executive director: sustainability Group executive: mining and business and business transformation is responsible for strategy enablement is also responsible for safety, and sustainability, public policy and regulatory trends, human health and environmental (SHE) performance. resources, shared services and group public affairs. Group public affairs includes the Sasol Global Foundation, stakeholder relations as well as enterprise and supplier development under Sasol ChemCity and the Siyakha Development Trust respectively. At Sasol Limited board level, the following committees are primarily responsible for overseeing sustainability issues: The risk and SHE committee The nomination, The audit committee ensures comprises three executive directors governance, social and greater integration between the work and four non-executive directors. ethics committee performs the of the audit committee and the risk The committee considers our top risks functions of both a nomination and and SHE committee, particularly for and monitors progress on mitigation governance committee, and a social purposes of integrated reporting and actions. Its responsibilities include and ethics committee as required by the application of the combined reviewing and assessing the integrity the South African Companies Act, 71 of assurance model. of the company’s risk management 2008 as amended. The committee processes, including all SHE and comprises five non-executive directors, sustainability-related risks. The four of whom are independent. committee shares its findings and The committee monitors the recommendations on risk assessments company’s social impact in five areas: and management policies, material social and economic development, risks and sustainability matters with good corporate citizenship, health and the audit committee, which is public safety, stakeholder relationships SD responsible for overseeing the and labour and employment. It also integrated reporting process. oversees legal compliance and ensures Sasol sustainable development report 2013 the ethical environment is sound. IR The composition, mandate and activities of these and other board committees are outlined in more detail in the corporate governance section of our annual integrated report. 14 overview The following sub-committees support the GEC on sustainability-related issues: •• the group executive SHE committee, chaired by the CEO, •• the Sasol business transformation process committee, addresses SHE governance issues; it meets quarterly and is chaired by the executive director: sustainability and business attended by GEC members, functional heads and business transformation, manages business transformation in such a way unit managing directors; that we meet South African legislative requirements and deliver •• the issues alignment and integration committee, chaired by on our long-term business goals; and the executive director: sustainability and business transformation, •• various project mandating committees, each chaired by a aligns and integrates the group’s response to those issues that GEC member, addresses public policy issues relating to climate have a significant impact on the group and/or are important to change, air quality, waste management and land risk management. our key stakeholders; Functional structures • p roviding management systems, business processes, technology standards, procedures and toolkits to enable operations to meet Various group functions co-ordinate Sasol’s strategic approach to SHE performance requirements, consistent with applicable legal sustainable development. These functions are briefly reviewed below. requirements, on a regional basis; The SHE function: providing direction and governance addressing our material sustainability challenges • b uilding capacity through learning, skills and competency towards SHE excellence development, and behaviour-based safety programmes; Experts in the SHE Centre, Professional and Specialised Services (PSS) • e nabling a high-performance culture that drives the desired and business units constitute the SHE function. The CEO, GEC, and the behaviours to achieve our strategic objectives; and risk and SHE committee mandates the function to design systems and processes, and to ensure and assure adherence to group SHE • m  onitoring, reporting, auditing and disclosure of SHE performance, requirements. A key requirement is quarterly reporting to the risk and which includes International Organisation for Standardisation SHE committee on managing SHE risks. Each business unit is required (ISO 14001) for environment and Occupational Health and Safety to track their SHE performance and report quarterly to their respective Assessment Series (OHSAS 18001) certification. Regulatory boards. The reporting focuses on major risks and liabilities, progress compliance and third party Responsible Care® verification audits against group targets, and any major incidents and occurrences of nonare also undertaken. compliance. The SHE Centre reports on consolidated SHE performance, Group human resources: developing and empowering compliance and risk management to the relevant corporate high-performance, values-driven people governance structures. The group human resources (HR) function is responsible for developing The SHE function applies a risk-based management approach, which and monitoring Sasol’s HR strategy, and its supporting policies and is aligned with the enterprise risk management programme explained standards. The HR strategy has three key objectives: on page 18. The primary focus is on identifying undesirable events, • e nsuring the right talent is in the right place at the right time to associated hazards, direct and indirect causes, and potential deliver our strategy; consequences of SHE risks. This informs preventative and corrective • d elivering the Sasol employee value proposition to encourage controls aimed at minimising the consequences of SHE incidents employee engagement and a high-performance, values-driven on people and the environment. culture; and SHE risk areas include process safety, product transportation, • b uilding HR capability to drive effective and integrated service environmental pollution and degradation, occupational safety and delivery. illnesses, incidents caused by third parties, and security. SHE risk The group HR function encompasses talent management, learning, categories include: rewards, employee relations, diversity and transformation, and human • m  ajor inventory loss of containment of hazardous material resources operations. HR teams in each business unit implement HR and associated chemical energy; strategy and policies, with the assistance of the PSS function. • incidents involving the release of product and/or injury or fatality To deliver on its strategic objectives, the HR function has identified our performance data during the transportation of products; the following focus areas: • serious contamination of the environment; • appropriate staffing of our growth initiatives; • long-term exposure to occupational stressors; and • improving cross-business and international mobility of employees; • incidents involving the travelling of personnel. • d elivering on our learning strategy, with a particular emphasis We are implementing the One Sasol SHE Excellence approach, aimed on the development of high-potential employees; at accelerating our journey towards zero harm and sustainability. • a chieving a step change in the delivery of our diversity agenda, and The approach entails: driving cultural transformation; and • p roviding strategic direction through an integrated SHE policy, • launching the Sasol HR academy. functional charter, fundamentals, targets and objectives, and performance requirements for all existing operations, growth projects and joint ventures under our control; 15 our governance framework for sustainable development continued Group public affairs: building, nurturing and protecting Group ethics office: promoting an ethical culture our reputation Ethics management is a separate function within Sasol, with a Group public affairs manages various sustainability-related functions. dedicated general manager and support staff. The group ethics office, These include group stakeholder relations and community affairs, group forensic services and internal audit manage the implementation group communication, the Sasol Global Foundation and Sasol Inzalo of the Sasol code of ethics. Internal audit provides the board with Foundation, and Sasol ChemCity. assurance that ethics compliance processes are working as designed. Ethics officers and champions are appointed for each business unit Group public affairs also provides leadership in enterprise and and function, with various group functions also serving as focal economic development solutions, supplier development and points for dealing with ethics issues. community investment. A significant development this year was the establishment of the Sasol Global Foundation, which aims to direct, The Sasol code of ethics, which addresses issues such as corruption, enable and govern a fully integrated approach to corporate social bribery, conflicts of interest, human rights and related subjects, governs investment throughout the group. Our social investment and our approach to ethical behaviour and fair business practice. The code enterprise development activities are reviewed on pages 36 to 37. and its accompanying guidelines, in place since 2004, describe the principles that should inform the decisions of all employees in their In collaboration with business units, group stakeholder relations and day-to-day business activities. The guide to applying the code of community affairs manages Sasol’s relationships with our key ethics was reviewed and amended in 2013. The definition of conflicts stakeholders. They include governments, communities, media, of interest was broadened and the policy on gifts and entertainment organised business, civil society, environmental non-governmental was changed from being rules-based to being values-based. organisations (NGOs) and other societal influencers. We have developed a global stakeholder management strategy and stakeholder A separate economic crime prevention and response plan has been engagement charter for all our operations. The strategy is relevant in force since December 2006. We proactively manage our adherence to all jurisdictions and stakeholder categories, and sets priorities for to anti-bribery laws through regular employee training, a policy on managing reputation, stakeholder relations and brand as three critical gifts and entertainment, and a whistleblower line. During the year, SD intangible assets. The strategy also provides a high-level dashboard we reviewed and improved our group-wide anti-bribery controls. of performance targets, measurement indicators and measurement As part of this initiative we are looking at ways to improve our Sasol sustainable development report 2013 methods. A blueprint for a stakeholder engagement programme was third-party due diligence process. piloted in relation to the South African government, and has since The code of ethics covers the interactions of all of our directors, been rolled out to other countries and stakeholder categories. employees, contractors, suppliers and service providers, as well as all subsidiaries and joint ventures under our operational control. It is communicated to all our employees and to the employees of our subsidiaries, and reinforced through awareness and training initiatives. Each year senior and middle management, and employees identified as being in “high risk” positions, are required to formally certify that they know and understand the code of ethics and the guidelines to the code. Regular training is provided to ethics officers in all aspects of ethics management. 16 overview addressing our material sustainability challenges Employees and other stakeholders are able to report any breach of the code of ethics via our independently managed anonymous reporting Ethical principle Substantiated allegations facility or directly to forensic services. All cases are investigated and a formal process is in place to track, report and close out calls. Responsibility 113 (45,4%) The group ethics system, a custom-designed technology solution, Respect 67 (26,9%) provides strictly controlled access to ethics investigations. The system also enables the group ethics office to identify trends relating to Fairness 47 (18,9%) Ethicsline activity and investigations. Direct disclosures made to the group chief executive’s office or any other group executive are also Honesty 22 (8,8%) channelled through the system. Total 249 In 2013, 699 calls were made to the Ethicsline, with a total of 2 403 allegations of unethical behaviour. This represents a 35% Actions taken as a result of investigations and enquiries include increase on the 519 calls received in the previous year. A total of termination of employment, or cancellation of contracts in the case 628 calls were resolved and 179 calls are still under investigation. of suppliers and contractors. Relevant cases and trends are reported Investigations are often impeded due to the lack of information to governance committees quarterly. Potentially high-risk and sensitive anonymous callers provide. We are working to enhance the matters are reported to the audit committee and nomination, quality of reports by raising awareness of how to report an ethics governance, social and ethics committee. our performance data issue effectively. The majority of the 249 substantiated allegations (45%) pertained to the ethical principle of responsibility, which relates to the application of resources, stakeholder interests, legal compliance, corporate governance and safety. The substantiated allegations relating to the ethical principle of honesty reduced to 8,8% from 22,3% in the previous year. The substantiated allegations relating to the principle of respect rose to 26,9% from 22,3% in the previous year. The distribution of substantiated allegations is shown in the table alongside. 17 identifying our material sustainability focus areas Each year we follow a structured process to identify our most material sustainable development issues. The outcomes of our internal risk assessment process and the priority interests of our key stakeholders are considered in identifying these issues. These were clustered into five sustainability focus areas, which we cover in this report. The GEC and the risk and SHE committee reviewed the outcomes of this process. Our internal risk assessment process We identify group-wide risks through our structured enterprise risk management programme (ERMP). The ERMP seeks to integrate risk management in all our decision-making processes, including planning, projects, business operations, investments, disposals and closure. More specifically, it enables the Sasol board and group executive committee to make decisions that balance risk and reward, according to the group’s agreed risk tolerance and appetite levels. Sasol board The board governs the risk management process through a sub-committee and the group risk function. Risk and SHE committee Group risk function •• Oversees the ERMP. The chief risk officer manages this function, which is •• Monitors the management of top sustainability risks. responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring integrated risk management processes across the group. •• Ensures risk management processes work effectively Its activities include: and comply with relevant standards. •• reviewing business risk reports; and •• compiling aggregated top group risk reports for the group executive committee and the risk and SHE committee of the Sasol Limited board. Internal risk and governance Business unit boards Executive committees committees Oversee risk management at business unit and functional level. SD Our top group risks: Sasol sustainable development report 2013 •• Competitors introducing viable superior or alternative •• A major safety, health or environmental incident or liability. technologies. •• Non-availability of sufficient management and technical skills. •• Failure to address transformation, localisation, diversity and •• Major unplanned production interruptions along Sasol’s cultural requirements in South Africa and other countries in integrated value chain. which we operate. •• Climate change and related policies impacting Sasol’s •• Not delivering effectively on our gas-to-liquids (GTL) strategic growth objectives. operations, growth strategy and earnings. •• Not consistently achieving competitive capital project •• Macroeconomic factors impacting on our ability to sustain performance. the business and execute our growth strategy. •• Non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. •• Increasing utility and infrastructure risk. 18 overview Identifying the priority interests of our stakeholders Our key stakeholders are those who can influence our ability to deliver on our strategic objectives over the short-, mediumor long-term. We identify their interests through engagements that take place as part of our regular business activities. Feedback on our annual integrated and sustainable development reports are also taken into account. The following priority issues were identified in relation to our South African operations: •• the risk of nationalisation and the possibility of resource royalty taxes; •• reputational concerns regarding anti-competitive behaviour; •• the impact of emerging air quality and waste regulations; •• the carbon tax; and •• the impact of amendments to broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) and mineral and petroleum resources development legislation. IR An overview of our key stakeholders, how we engage with them, and their priority interests, is provided in our annual integrated report. 20-F For comprehensive disclosure on our material risks, please refer to Sasol’s annual report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC. addressing our material sustainability challenges Our material sustainability focus areas Our material sustainability issues have been categorised into five focus areas as shown in the diagram below: ing Inve ellbe stin dw gi no h an ur lt pe h ea Sa ople fet y, • Promoting safety • Developing and empowering • Occupational health high-performing, values-driven and employee wellbeing employees • Embedding employee diversity Providi ng safe, essen • Promoting effective our focus • Investing in our host product stewardship areas countries • Maintaining positive • Investing in our ciety consumer relationships communities • Respecting human rights in so tial in g an d Inv qu e st al i • Air quality and waste management our performance data ty prod • Climate change and energy uc ts • Water stewardship Res p o nd ges in g to h al len environm e n t al c 19 our sustainability focus areas at a glance In the table below, we describe our management approach, review our 2013 sustainability performance and outline our future commitments and activities for each of the material sustainability focus areas. Material sustainability Performance in 2013 Commitment going forward focus area Safety, health and •• Five of our employees died during 2013; two •• Continuously strive for zero harm. wellbeing fatalities were related to road accidents caused by •• Implement critical mitigation controls for identified third parties. top SHE risks. •• Group recordable case rate (RCR) including illnesses •• Implement group-wide and business-specific improved to 0,34 from 0,39, and the RCR excluding process safety improvement plans. illnesses improved from 0,35 to 0,31. •• Strengthen the group’s incident investigation •• Lost workday case rate improved to 0,13 from 0,14. capability. •• 420 recordable injuries, comprising five fatalities, •• Implement our noise reduction plan and embed 160 lost workday cases, 211 medical treatment leading practices in the industry. cases and 44 illnesses. •• Strive for a zero pneumoconiosis rate for all new •• Significant fires, explosions and releases increased employees with no previous exposure to to 43 from 42. occupational stressors. •• Significant transportation-related incidents reduced to 29 from 36. •• 15 new cases of noise induced hearing loss and 21 new cases of pneumoconiosis. •• HIV prevalence rate of 9%; drug utilisation compliance level of 87% among HIV-positive employees. Investing in our people •• Employee turnover rate of 6% in our South African •• Continue to develop and empower employees, operations and 3,3% in our other operations. specifically by up-skilling and empowering local •• Lost only 35 person-days of production due to talent in all the regions in which we operate. strike action. •• Sharpen focus on developing effective leaders •• Achieved a high level of participation (67%) in an to deliver on our strategic agenda. integrated employee survey (Sasol Heartbeat) •• Achieve diversity at every management level, on organisational culture. including people with disabilities, and embed •• Trained 1 730 employees, allocated 719 bursaries, inclusiveness in our culture. and managed 5 732 individual senior development •• Continue to build a high-performance culture programmes. across all our operations, with interventions •• Engaged 327 technical personnel in our Global such as the Sasol Women’s Network, and the Venture Support (GVS) unit. Learn, Experience and Accelerate Potential (LEAP) programme, a CEO-led diversity intervention •• Coached and mentored 257 workplace and initiative. leadership coaches. •• Established 10 mentorship circles as part of our Women’s Empowerment programme. •• Made good progress in implementing the 2017 SD employment equity plan and women empowerment strategy. Sasol sustainable development report 2013 Investing in society •• Total financial value of R78 850 million distributed •• Demonstrate industry leadership in delivering to stakeholders. relevant in-country enterprise and economic •• Spent R627,3 million on socioeconomic development solutions. development initiatives globally, most of it •• Develop a corporate social investment network to (R593,2 million) in South Africa. The global spend leverage initiatives for maximum benefit to Sasol included R117,4 million on skills development and and our communities. invested R135 million of R800 million committed •• Finalise development and implementation of the through our Ikusasa public/private partnership. Sasol Business Human Rights policy, including a •• Established the Sasol Global Foundation. code of conduct for suppliers and service providers. •• Achieved level 3 BBBEE contributor status. •• Completed an independent external review of our approach to human rights. 20 overview Material sustainability Performance in 2013 Commitment going forward focus area Responding to •• Extensive regulatory and policy liaison with •• Ensure ambient air quality improvements in line environmental challenges government, focused on regulatory developments with our commitments under the respective air relating to climate change, air quality, water quality improvement plans of the Vaal Triangle and and waste. Highveld priority areas in South Africa. •• Significant investments in reducing atmospheric •• Work with the governments in the countries emissions and improving ambient air quality in where we operate, to find practical and sustainable Secunda and Sasolburg, South Africa. solutions to address the climate change challenge, •• Total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of in balance with economic development and 70,7 million tons carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalents growth drivers. down from 72,2 million tons. •• Continue to work towards reducing GHG emissions •• GHG emission intensity up to 2,98 from 2,83; intensity of all operations by 15% by 2020 from addressing our material sustainability challenges increase primarily due to lower production as a a 2005 baseline. result of major shutdowns at Natref and Oryx GTL. •• Meet our commitments to the Energy Efficiency •• Total water consumption down to 147,2 million m3 Leadership Network Pledge. from 148,3 million m3; total water intensity •• Continue to support the UN Global Compact CEO increased to 6,21 m3 water per ton of production Water Mandate and make progress in all six key from 5,86 m3, mainly as a result of lower focus areas. production. •• Made significant progress in our water conservation partnerships with three municipalities in the Vaal River System, South Africa. •• Received Mail and Guardian Greening the Future: Water Management award. •• Progress was made in developing an internal water off-setting framework in anticipation of a new legislative framework. Providing safe, essential •• Launched Sasol turbo10™ diesel in South Africa, •• Provide safe, essential and quality products at and quality products a unique high-performance, low-emissions competitive prices. diesel product. •• Be customer focused and responsive to customer •• Reviewed our product stewardship strategy, needs. identifying priority focus areas aligned to our •• Develop innovative products and services that meet international commitments. customer requirements. •• Responsible Care® Practice-in-Place for product •• Continuously raise public awareness of risks stewardship increased slightly to 83% from 82%; associated with our products. Responsible Care® Practice-in-Place remained •• Manage the risks of our products and improve consistent at 89%. their SHE impact throughout their entire lifecycle. •• Three product stewardship incidents occurred; •• Ensure all our products continue to comply with corrective procedures have been put in place. our performance data international chemical control legislation. •• Commissioned an independent review of the gate-to-gate carbon footprint of a selection of Sasol’s products. •• Provided targeted training to relevant employees on the implications of the South African Consumer Protection Act. 21 safety, health and wellbeing We aim to create a safe workplace in which we mitigate and prevent exposure to SD the hazards associated with our operations and activities. Our SHE Policy informs our Sasol sustainable development report 2013 long-term aspiration of zero harm. The group priorities set each year, and associated targets, drive our progress towards this aspiration. Safety improvement, particularly in relation to process safety, is one of the group’s top priorities. 22 overview promoting employee and contractor safety addressing our material sustainability challenges Our safety performance in 2013 There was a general improvement in the group’s safety performance while we have achieved a record-low RCR, we must remain diligent in the year. We achieved the lowest annual RCR in Sasol’s 63-year in striving to achieve zero harm. history, of 0,31 (excluding illnesses) and 0,34 (including illnesses). •• Process safety: there was a slight increase in the number of Three of our business units achieved a RCR of zero (including illnesses). significant fires, explosions and releases (FERs), with 43 incidents in the year compared to 42 in 2012. Tragically, five of our people died during 2013. The circumstances that led to each of these fatalities are reviewed in the sidebar on the next •• Product transportation incidents: there were 29 significant page. We believe that zero fatalities at our facilities is indeed possible, product transportation-related incidents in South Africa, compared and we continue to strive to achieve zero harm. to 36 last year. These incidents resulted in nine fatalities, four fires, two community evacuations and three extended road closures. Our key safety performance indicators for 2013 are reviewed below. Of the nine fatalities, five were drivers or occupants of other Additional data on our safety performance over the past four years vehicles in road accidents, two were pedestrians and two were is provided on page 59. tanker drivers of third-party hauliers transporting Sasol products. •• Recordable case rate (RCR)1: included in the reported rate Our product transportation safety indicator of performance of 0,34 were 420 recordable cases, comprising five fatalities, 160 (measured as the number of significant incidents per 100 kilotons lost workday cases, 211 medical treatment cases, and 44 illnesses. of product transported) improved to 0,094 from 0,12 in 2012. •• Injury severity index: the 12-month moving average in our The number and nature of significant process safety incidents and incident severity index was 6,15, compared to 5,58 in 2012. product transportation incidents continues to be a concern. These This reflects an increase in the severity of injuries, despite the fewer areas are being addressed through specific improvement strategies. recordable injuries and lost workday cases. This demonstrates that Recordable case rate (RCR) Number of significant Product transportation incident rate (recordable cases per 200 000 hours) and major FERs (incidents per 100 kt product transported) 3,0 70 0,4 60 2,5 60 50 our performance data 0,3 50 2,0 40 Number of FERs 40 Incidents 1,5 0,2 30 Rate 30 Rate 1,0 20 20 0,1 0,5 10 10 0 0 0 0 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 07 08 09 10 11 12 13  Until 2005 service providers and illnesses were not included  Significant FERs  Number of incidents  2006 and later years included all service providers and illnesses  Target  Target rate  2013 target  Actual rate 1 Further interim milestones to be set. 23 safety, health and wellbeing continued Our strategic approach to safety Fatalities in 2013 Our safety strategy is founded on leadership commitment and It is with profound regret that we report that five people competency, and reinforced by clear performance expectations. tragically died in Sasol’s service during the year. In 2012, we adapted our group short-term incentive scheme to •• A service provider, who cannot be named for legal focus on leading safety indicators. privacy reasons as determined by German law, fell approximately eight metres through an opening in Migrating to a global standardised approach to safety a roof at Sasol O&S in Brunsbüttel, Germany, on Our safety improvement approach across the group has shifted to 23 August 2012. one that is more standardised and systematic, and which focuses on our top safety risks. In line with this approach we focused on two •• Mrs Ezette Castles, an employee from Sasol ChemCity, main areas of concern in the year – improving process safety (PS), was involved in a fatal motor vehicle accident on the and managing the risks associated with transporting our products. R57 en-route to a meeting in Johannesburg from Sasolburg, South Africa, on 29 August 2012. •• We commissioned a leading process safety consultancy to review our PS systems, processes and resources. Their recommendations •• Ms Ayanda Xolo, an employee from group corporate informed the priority focus areas for business units and the SHE affairs, was involved in a fatal motor vehicle accident function. We conducted an executive coaching session for senior when returning home on company business in South executives, managing directors and functional leaders to Africa, on 4 November 2012. communicate the key recommendations and the level of support •• A service provider, Mr Moses Nyembe, was electrocuted needed to improve PS management. while replacing an electrical connection box on a light •• We are reviewing our product transportation safety strategy with circuit at Sasol Synfuels, on 9 January 2013. representatives from the supply chain, SHE safety and product •• Mr Thomas Ramuthugi, a service provider, was fatally stewardship sub-functions, and business units. Although the strategy injured during off-loading operations at our Secunda provides for all forms of transportation (road, rail, marine and complex, on 26 June 2013. pipeline), our focus has been on addressing South African road transport, where the vast majority of incidents are recorded.  ur online report includes comparative industry benchmarks O of Sasol’s RCR performance and a case study on promoting behavioural safety processes in our US operations. SD Sasol sustainable development report 2013 24 occupational health and employee wellbeing overview Ensuring a healthy workforce forms part of our commitment to zero harm. Managing occupational health supports productivity and efficiency, and is essential to minimising incidents and illnesses. Our occupational health performance in 2013 Any compensation claims and payments for disabilities are managed Our top occupational health risks relate to noise induced hearing loss according to relevant statutory requirements. Occupational health (NIHL) and coal-worker pneumoconiosis. Exposure to these risks is services are provided centrally through the group PSS function. greatest in our mining operations. We recorded 15 new cases of We revised our group health strategy, working with business unit NIHL compared to 23 in 2012, and 21 new cases of coal-worker SHE managers to ensure that critical health and wellness risks are pneumoconiosis compared to 20 in 2012. These are primarily legacy addressed. We also consolidated our health assessment procedures cases related to past exposure. and revised the group standards in the year. We will be developing We have again benchmarked Sasol Mining’s performance in this detailed plans, scorecards and health-related targets in the year ahead. regard with other mining companies in South Africa, using the latest The Sasol health risk ranking metric has been approved and will contribute towards a simple, standard and shared integrated risk addressing our material sustainability challenges data from the Chamber of Mines and Department of Mineral Resources. Not all hearing loss cases are directly noise induced and management framework. in many instances are due to chronic medication for illnesses such The appropriate use of personal protective equipment (PPE) remained as tuberculosis. However, managing NIHL in Sasol Mining remains a focus, with a revised PPE forum addressing approvals, standardisation a priority. and enforcement. We also emphasised community health and An audiologist was appointed to the team working on noise exposure. communication issues. Engagement with government departments, We have implemented measures to decrease the number of high-noise particularly the South African Department of Health, on proposed band areas and the employees exposed to them. We continue to changes to the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases purchase low noise jet fans to replace older equipment. We also (COID) Act is ongoing. continue to focus on coal-worker pneumoconiosis related to historic Promoting employee wellness exposure, the symptoms of which often manifest long after exposure. Our wellness programme aims to provide a working environment Coal dust exposure in Sasol Mining has decreased in the past decade that enables our employees to operate in a healthy, energised and due to improved dust control. engaged manner that contributes to their personal development Professional and specialised services (PSS) specialists continue to work and to the success and growth of the company. We seek to reduce closely with ventilation engineering specialists to reduce workplace lifestyle diseases (such as hypertension, diabetes and cholesterol), exposure to dust and noise. HIV/Aids and to improve mental health, which are our most material wellness risks. In terms of other relevant trends, the latest HIV/Aids prevalence studies for Sasol suggest an overall prevalence rate of 9%. Regarding Sasol’s wellness strategy focuses on: occupational tuberculosis (TB), there has been a decline in cases due •• reducing health risks by providing access to healthcare; to a better understanding of the definition and risk associated with •• educating and empowering employees to take responsibility this epidemic. Sasol’s TB rate is well below the South African national for their own health and wellness; and TB rate. More information on our TB rate can be found on •• promoting a healthy work-life balance. our website, at www.sasolsdr.com. Our employee assistance programme (EAP) focuses on the A more detailed review of our performance on managing the top psychosocial health of our employees and their dependants. occupational health risks across the group over the past five years is Face-to-face solution-focused counselling is well utilised, reflecting provided on page 59. confidence in the EAP services. We also provide a range of awareness and capacity building interventions on wellness to employees, line Our strategic approach to occupational health managers and HR practitioners. During the year, 43 awareness events our performance data Our occupational health programme seeks to prevent and mitigate reached more than 2 597 employees. all of our occupational health risks. We analyse, monitor and manage exposure, and provide preventative measures, for all relevant permanent employees and the employees of service providers. We also provide a rehabilitation and return-to-work programme. 25 safety, health and wellbeing continued Reducing the incidence of HIV/Aids in the workplace Addressing future challenges Reducing new HIV infections remains an important focus of our The implications of the proposed National Health Insurance (NHI) employee wellness programme. The 2013 Knowledge, Attitude and in South Africa on providing health services to employees, including Practice (KAP) survey indicated an HIV prevalence of 9% among our occupational health services, remain uncertain. We will continue to South African employees, a 2% increase on 2005. The South African contribute to the development of the NHI, sharing our experience national average is 10%. in relevant service delivery models. Other challenges relate to the compensation system for occupational lung diseases and, to a lesser Our comprehensive disease management programme educates extent, the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases employees, provides screening for diseases and ensures the appropriate (COID) Act compensation system. Administrative challenges relating care is supplied to affected employees. The drug utilisation compliance to the Occupational Diseases in Mines and Works Act present a level is 87% among our HIV-positive employees. major potential reputational and public relations risk. Our ongoing Communication on prevention, support and care is available in tandem participation in industry initiatives such as the Chamber of Mines with our HIV/Aids testing and treatment initiatives. Training of peer programmes is crucial in managing these developments. educators and HIV/Aids co-ordinators on the implementation of our HIV/Aids programme has been conducted across all businesses. O  ur online report includes a comparative industry benchmark Awareness sessions are held during induction training, safety briefing of mining-related illnesses in South Africa. sessions and wellness days. Sasol Wellness has screened 24 006 employees for lifestyle diseases. Of these employees, 6 478 opted to be re-tested for HIV/Aids as part of the screening provided, with 265 employees testing positive. Registration on wellness programme1 2013 2012 2011 2010 2 844 2 410 2 205 1 805 SD Sasol sustainable development report 2013 Patients on Highly Active Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ARV) (HAART)2 2013 2012 2011 2010 2 466 2 000 1 796 1 418 1 Employees who tested positive but who are monitored without supplying of Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ARVs). 2 Employees receiving ARVs. 26 27 our performance data addressing our material sustainability challenges overview investing in our people Delivering on our strategic objectives is dependent on our ability to attract, SD develop and empower high-performing, values-driven employees with the right Sasol sustainable development report 2013 skills and experience. As we grow, this will be of increasing strategic significance given the global shortage of sufficiently skilled workers. 28 overview addressing our material sustainability challenges developing and empowering high-performing, values-driven employees Our ability to attract, retain and develop high-performing, valuesDeveloping and retaining talent driven employees depends on providing a safe and stimulating work We implemented an international talent attraction and sourcing environment that reflects the diversity of the communities in which framework to support our North American operations, and to we operate. strengthen Sasol’s position as an employer of choice. This is starting At 30 June 2013, Sasol had 34 629 employees*. This included to yield results, with 145 employees recruited in North America in the 30 258 permanent and non-permanent employees in South Africa. last year. We recorded a reduction of 173 jobs (mainly due to the sale of the Our structured employee development and training programmes aim Tosas business) in the year. Our employee turnover rate in our to raise competence levels, encourage engagement and productivity, South African operations was 6%, with 3,4% voluntary turnover and retain talent. Our leadership development programmes develop and 2,6% involuntary turnover. In our international operations the skills and competence in specific areas. These include business acumen, employee turnover rate was 3,3%, with 1,8% voluntary turnover developing a global perspective, leveraging diversity for high and 1,5% involuntary turnover. During the year, we lost a total performance, and nurturing and developing talent. of 232 733 person-days due to absenteeism, which is below the industry average. Securing talent for the future To develop a pipeline of future talent, Sasol runs one of the largest Embedding a high-performance culture bursary schemes in South Africa. We invested R54,7 million this year, with the focus primarily on science, technology and engineering. We continue to make progress in embedding an organisational We currently have 719 undergraduate and postgraduate bursars. culture that is values-driven and focused on high performance. Graduates from our bursary scheme are placed on a structured Besides supporting the delivery of our strategic agenda, this will professional development programme for a specified period of up differentiate Sasol as an employer of choice. During the year, to three years. At present, 402 students are being trained through we launched an integrated employee survey (Sasol Heartbeat) to this initiative. assess employee perceptions of the current organisational culture. We recorded a high level of participation, with an overall response The recent boom in the hydrocarbon resources industry in our performance data rate of 67% at all levels across our global operations. The results Mozambique has resulted in increasing numbers of multinationals indicate that Sasol is performing in line with global norms in entering the country. Talent shortages and competition for competent, engaging and enabling employees. trained employees are likely over the next decade. Over the past year, we recorded a relatively high turnover rate in learners, production, SHE and maintenance staff at our central processing facility (CPF) in the country. We therefore developed a proactive retention approach to support succession planning and staffing needs. We have also established a learnership programme, together with our partners, to grow the pool of available skills. * This does not include proportionate numbers from our joint venture operations. 29 investing in our people continued Our Global Venture Support (GVS) unit aims to provide a sustainable Maintaining positive employee relations supply of skilled and experienced people to meet Sasol’s growth We maintain fair, open and constructive relations with all employees ambitions. Specifically, the individuals developed through the GVS unit within the legal frameworks of the countries in which we operate. provide shutdown and commissioning support to Sasol’s international We regularly review and update our employee relations policies, in line projects. Currently, we have 327 technical personnel in the support with business and legislative requirements. Formal contracts are in unit, ranging from project and commissioning engineers, to technicians place with all employees, according to local legal requirements and receiving experiential exposure to our operations and the Sasol culture. the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Developing diverse high-potential talent We recognise the right of employees to collective bargaining and The LEAP (learning, experiencing, accelerating potential) programme freedom of association. We maintain constructive relationships with was launched during the year. Nine employees were nominated, with all representative unions and works councils, who enjoy consultative or 67% being diversity candidates. The LEAP programme is a twoto fivenegotiating powers on issues of mutual interest. More than 60% of our year career development programme focusing on holistic accelerated employees in South Africa (our largest area of operation) are members skills development that aims to ensure a pipeline of diverse senior of trade unions. Trade union representatives are present in our formal leadership talent. The development process is based on experiential joint management-worker health and safety committees. They also learning (rotation into different roles across our operations) and serve on the board of our medical scheme and on the boards of formal learning. retirement funds. Providing competitive remuneration Our remuneration approach aims to ensure we remain competitive O  ur online report includes further information on our workforce in global, complex and rapidly evolving markets. It supports the profile (including turnover and retrenchments) internal skills attraction, retention and motivation of the right calibre of employees. development initiatives, as well as an overview of the Sasol Annual budget increases are determined in relation to market Heartbeat survey. movements, inflation indicators and company performance. This influences individual increases, taking into account the nature of the role, market benchmarks, and the employee’s performance. As a significant player in South African industry forums, we partner with other relevant role-players to conclude multi-year wage agreements. SD We have a structured performance management and appraisal process Sasol sustainable development report 2013 in place, in line with our performance management policy. While the specifics differ between business units and geographical locations, financial results, safety performance and employment equity (in our South African operations) are included as a minimum in every employee’s incentive contract. We also have performance indicators related to environmental and social factors. The group targets and design principles for all incentive schemes are reviewed annually and approved by the remuneration committee. 30 embedding employee diversity A diverse and representative workforce is critical to maintaining high performance overview and competitiveness in the global marketplace. Employee diversity and a culture of inclusion remains important to us. Across all our entities globally we ensure compliance to all local regulatory employment equity requirements. Our strategic approach to employee diversity Empowering women Diversity, in our organisation, signifies all aspects of peoples’ We launched the women empowerment strategy and Sasol Women’s differences including race, religion, gender, disability, culture, sexual Network in August 2012. These interventions aim to accelerate the orientation, nationality, thinking and skills. Sasol’s diversity agenda and representation and inclusion of women at all levels of the organisation. the 2017 employment equity plan (applicable to our South African The women empowerment strategy provides networking, learning operations) have five main goals: and career growth opportunities for Sasol’s female employees. •• enhancing and sustaining leadership commitment; During the year, we held a series of regional personal development •• unleashing talent by integrating diversity into our people seminars. A number of mentorship circles have been created as part management processes; of the Sasol Women’s Network, in which Sasol leaders mentor groups •• building our competence and knowledge base; of women over a 12-month period. While this process is at an early stage, the concept is being replicated in different business units. addressing our material sustainability challenges •• ensuring a high-performing organisation; and In addition, three voluntary teams are working to embed Sasol’s •• realising diversity as a competitive advantage. flexible working arrangements and piloting the provision of career Specific measures have been put in place to support the delivery of development opportunities for female employees, as well as making these goals. Our Diversity 10 Point Plan provides a set of qualitative a positive impact on school girls in the communities in which measures focusing on various elements of diversity. These include the we operate. recruitment, development and retention of candidates from underOur employee diversity performance in 2013 represented groups, and measures to enhance gender equity. Our progress in meeting our employment equity plan for the period Sasol’s journey towards a high-performance culture (reviewed on 2012 to 2017 is summarised in the table below. Retention is still page 29) includes a strong diversity focus, based on the principle proving to be a challenge and women are under-represented at senior that diverse teams perform better than homogenous teams. We have management levels. introduced key performance indicators on diversity into line managers’ performance agreements. We have also revised the employment equity  ur online report includes additional information on our O incentive scheme to drive the recruitment and promotion of underBBBEE scorecard, our women empowerment strategy and the represented groups. The feedback on cultural diversity and inclusion Sasol Women’s Network, as well as our people with disabilities from the Sasol Heartbeat survey will be used to ascertain the focus (PWD) strategy. areas going forward. Workforce diversity profile for our South African operations (as at 30 June 2013) Male Female Foreign national Total As at 30 June 2013 A C I W A C I W Male Female Top management 8 3 4 66 4 1 2 4 3 0 95 Senior management 37 8 31 202 12 2 8 33 10 1 344 Middle management 993 126 425 2 349 393 72 250 827 104 22 5 561 Junior management 4 236 265 325 4 158 1 084 173 198 1 454 67 19 11 979 Semi-skilled 7 332 72 69 995 1 133 64 52 539 339 6 10 601 our performance data Defined decision 1 002 10 2 175 373 7 0 28 32 2 1 631 Total permanent 13 608 484 856 7 945 2 999 319 510 2 885 555 50 30 211 Non-permanent employees 27 1 1 7 7 0 0 4 0 0 47 Grand total 13 635 485 857 7 952 3 006 319 510 2 889 555 50 30 258 Workforce diversity profile as per the Department of Labour Guidelines 1 NPEs longer than three months are counted as permanent employees. 2 Expats are counted in our numbers as foreign nationals only if they are paid via the South African payroll. 31 investing in society Driving positive development in the countries in which we have a presence SD is essential to securing and maintaining our licence to operate and thrive. Sasol sustainable development report 2013 Our community investment and enterprise development initiatives enhance the economic and social value we deliver through our core business activities. 32 overview addressing our material sustainability challenges investing in our host countries Delivering social value through our Promoting black economic empowerment business activities in South Africa We make a significant contribution to economic development in We continue to make significant progress in our transformation efforts the countries in which we operate through the following activities: and achieved level 3 broad-based black economic empowerment •• we provide employment, skills and training to our employees (BBBEE) contributor status subsequent to 30 June 2013, well ahead and to the broader community; of our already stretched targets. •• we purchase goods and services from local businesses; •• Equity ownership: through the Ixia Coal transaction, and the involvement of Sasol Mining employees in the Sasol Inzalo share •• we invest in the development of infrastructure and other social transaction, combined BBBEE ownership in Sasol Mining is over services in our communities; and 40%. This exceeds the Mining Charter target of 26% by 2014. •• we pay taxes and royalties to governments, which are invested In support of the Liquid Fuels Charter, BBBEE group Tshwarisano in addressing societal issues. LFB Investment (Pty) Ltd owns 25% of our liquid fuels production, During the reporting period, the financial value distributed directly distribution and marketing operations, housed in Sasol Oil (Pty) Ltd. by Sasol amounted to R78 850 million. This figure includes the •• Employment equity: our performance and progress in meeting following contributions to our various stakeholders: our employment equity plan for the period 2012 to 2017 is •• R11 425 million in direct taxes to government; reviewed on page 31. •• R25 038 million to our employees through wages and benefits; •• Preferential procurement: during 2013, preferential •• R11 691 million to our providers of equity capital; procurement was R28,6 billion and represented 77% of our total measured procurement spend of R37 billion. We have significantly •• R2 304 million to our providers of loan capital; and improved our procurement from emerging medium enterprises, •• R28 392 million re-invested in the group to sustain value creation qualifying small enterprises, and black and women owned for stakeholders. enterprises. To improve our procurement further, we are working A further R627,3 million was invested in socioeconomic development with industry bodies, stakeholders and suppliers to ensure we initiatives in our communities, which included R117,4 million invested receive valid BBBEE certificates. our performance data in skills and training. •• Enterprise development: Sasol ChemCity hosts the BBBEE centre of excellence office and manages the Siyakha Development Through the multiplier effect, the positive developmental contribution Trust, Sasol’s supplier development funding vehicle. Our activities of our activities and investments extends significantly beyond the in promoting enterprise development are reviewed on page 36. direct forms of value distribution reflected above. •• Skills development: during the year we invested R837 million A review of the total economic value contributed over the past five in skills development, both of Sasol employees and the communities years is provided on page 61, with additional details provided in our in which we operate (page 34). annual financial statements. •• Socioeconomic development: in 2013 we committed R627,3 million to socioeconomic development initiatives (see page 36). 33 investing in society continued The following table sets out the scores achieved in attaining level 3 BBBEE contributor status. Achieved Target Element score 2012 2013 Notes Ownership 20 16,10 14,56 Reduction due to higher net value for Sasol Inzalo Foundation. Management and control 10 8,83 9,81 Improvement in senior to top management and independent directors. Employment equity 15 3,42 3,69 Sub-minimum for black senior management not met. No black disabled representation. Skills development 15 8,84 9,51 Improved black staff skills spend and learnerships. No points for black disabled training. Preferential procurement 20 14,48 17,85 Significant improvement in all aspects. Opportunities still exist with women and small enterprises. Enterprise development 15 15 15 Exceeded target due to funding of Sasol Inzalo share transaction. Socioeconomic development 5 5 5 Exceeded target of 1% with 3,8% of net profit after tax due to our Ikusasa public/private partnership. Overall 100 71,67 75,42 Investing in skills and research and development been awarded over the past three years, to increase the pipeline of In addition to developing the skills of our employees (see page 29), African, Indian and Coloured students at postgraduate level. Of the we make significant investments in broadening the skills base in the 60 students being supported by this initiative, 39 are from previously regions in which we operate, with a principal focus on South Africa. disadvantaged groupings. We aim to develop skills at all levels – from basic literacy to advanced Through the Sasol Inzalo Foundation, we are supporting 50 postgraduate scientific and technical competencies. We also invest in enhancing chemistry fellows (24 at masters level and 26 at honours level) at specialised research and development capacity. previously disadvantaged universities in South Africa. In addition, more To address the urgent need for qualified artisans in South Africa, the than R73,2 million has been invested in upgrading facilities in chemistry Sasol Global Learning Skills Academy trains artisans over and above and chemical engineering departments. This programme has yielded its Sasol’s immediate needs. Learnerships are offered in various first masters graduate, who obtained his degree cum laude in 2012 disciplines including welding, process operation and instrumentation. from the University of North West and is now a junior lecturer at the The contribution to the national skills pool has grown to 238 artisans, University of Limpopo. with another 292 currently in the system. This is in addition to meeting We also assist in addressing the need for financial and accounting skills our own need of 644 maintenance and electro-mechanic learners. in the country. Sasol is registered as an Approved Training Organisation With the aim of empowering local communities and deepening the (ATO) by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants. As an pool of civil construction skills, we have collaborated with the South ATO, we are able to offer graduates the opportunity to train as African Department of Labour to train 1 200 candidates in basic chartered accountants. Training is provided at our businesses in construction skills. A further 2 400 candidates will be trained in 2014. Secunda, Sasolburg and Johannesburg, and supported by a formal mentorship programme. Since the first intake in 1998, 74 individuals To ensure the availability of world-class scientists and engineers, Sasol have qualified as chartered accountants; 42 are still in Sasol’s employ, Technology collaborates with eleven South African universities in an while 32 have left the company. There are currently 19 graduates SD initiative now in its eighth year. We will invest R250 million in this in training. initiative over the full period. In an effort to retain academics at Sasol sustainable development report 2013 universities, we provide salary subventions and grants for overseas travel to expand their scientific experience. Financial support to the O  ur online report includes additional information on: Sasol’s value of R13,6 million has been provided to academics over the past BBBEE scorecard, our progress in terms of meeting the eight years. In addition, we have awarded research grants of over Petroleum and Liquid Fuels Charter and the Mining Charter. R43,5 million. Non-binding grants to the value of R12,75 million have 34 overview addressing our material sustainability challenges investing in our communities Our community investment and enterprise development initiatives seek to promote people-centred, needs-driven sustainable development of the communities in which we operate. Through these initiatives we strive to develop economically and socially thriving individuals and enterprises. Our approach to community investment Delivering community benefit through We established the Sasol Global Foundation to direct, enable and focused investments govern a fully integrated approach to corporate social investment The approved investment strategy for the Sasol Global Foundation throughout the group. The foundation has the following objectives: identifies the following focus areas: •• consolidating and prioritising our investments across the group, •• developing technical skills and capacity; and focusing on a more selectively identified set of priority issues •• protecting the environment, with an initial focus on Sasol Water to promote a long-term approach to addressing societal challenges; Sense projects (see page 50); •• moving from responding to ad hoc requests to proposals that are •• investing in the communities in which we operate; and more clearly linked to our competencies, business needs, community •• supporting employees through regional programmes. and regulatory priorities, and are in support of our strategy; We expect implementation of the investment strategy to commence •• ensuring more effective group-wide co-ordination of initiatives, in January 2014. supported by clear monitoring and evaluation of the results and impacts of our investments; and •• encouraging more appropriate levels of employee engagement. our performance data The chief executive officer chairs the foundation’s board of governors. The board determines the investment strategy, oversees governance, allocates resources, and decides the focus areas. The management team is responsible for establishing governance procedures, policies and systems, managing the investment portfolio, monitoring and measuring all programmes, and managing reputation and brand awareness. The foundation does not engage directly in any of the investment activities, but provides the framework for making, governing and measuring investments. 35 investing in society continued Our social investment performance in 2013 Promoting enterprise development During 2013, the group committed R627,3 million to socioeconomic Sasol ChemCity, our enterprise development vehicle, focuses on development globally, with most of this (R593,2 million) invested developing and supporting independent, small and medium enterprises in South Africa. Traditionally, our corporate social investments have (SMEs) in the energy, chemical and related industries. It establishes focused on the following areas: and develops new and existing enterprises in the Sasol value chain and also drives local content in the various countries in which we operate. •• education, with the emphasis on improving school-based education This not only contributes to economic development and sustainable in science, technology and literacy, facilitating access to higher job creation, but also enhances the competitiveness of our supply education, enabling quality higher education, and developing chain and local suppliers. critical and scarce work skills; •• job creation, focusing on the sustainable creation of employment – The ChemCity Eco Industrial Park (CEIP), launched in October 2011, particularly for unskilled or marginalised groups; is a multi-million rand facility under development in the industrial hub of Sasolburg, close to Sasol’s operations. Sasol has earmarked the •• health and welfare, with an emphasis on addressing key challenges 172 hectare area for micro industries that will contribute to the such as HIV/Aids, tuberculosis and malaria; economic development of the region. The CEIP is being developed in •• the environment, by proactively engaging communities in two phases and aims to achieve a low-carbon footprint through environmental management projects; and environmentally sustainable infrastructure and operating principles. •• arts, culture and sport development, with a focus on developing Phase 1 of the park comprises 110 stands and is ready for occupation, local talent. with 20 stands sold to date. Sasol Mining invested R17,8 million as part of its social and labour Through the Siyakha Development Trust, our supplier-funding vehicle, plans in accordance with the Mining Charter. At the end of last year, Sasol ChemCity has disbursed R54 million in loans. The total combined we announced our R800 million commitment to the Ikusasa public/ turnover of the suppliers we support is in excess of R750 million. private partnership. We spent R24 million on disaster management and During the year, Sasol ChemCity supported more than 50 SMEs, safety and crime prevention programmes, including prevention of child thereby creating or saving 895 direct jobs. Since 2005, Sasol ChemCity and gender violence. has supported over 700 SMEs and created some 10 000 direct jobs. CSI spend per focus area – South Africa and international Total spend 2013, R623,7 million South Africa International Percentage spend per focus area SD Environment Sasol sustainable development report 2013 2011 2012 2013 2013 Health and welfare Arts and culture Job creation and capacity building Education Other R293,4 m R345,9 m R593,2 m R30,5 m Total %0 25 50 75 100  Education  Health and  Job creation and  Environment  Arts and culture  Other  South Africa  International welfare capacity building 36 overview A few further highlights Investing in infrastructure in our communities •• Mozambique: our principal focus areas have involved Our Ikusasa public/private partnership seeks to create a more providing access to clean water, education and conducive environment for talent, strengthen internal and external healthcare. Key initiatives have included drilling boreholes, partnerships, and build capacity in our host municipalities in the building and upgrading schools and health centres, skills addressing our material sustainability challenges Secunda and Sasolburg regions. The programme focuses on education, development initiatives including bursaries, developing health and wellbeing, infrastructure, and safety and security. We have local businesses and infrastructure development. invested R72 million and R63 million in Secunda and Sasolburg, •• Qatar: most of our social investments in Qatar have respectively, over and above our existing corporate social investments. been undertaken through the ORYX GTL joint venture. We are also exploring partnerships with development finance More recently, we started our own social investment institutions to ensure the long-term sustainability of these investments. initiatives. Principal focus areas include job creation, Driving economic growth through education enterprise development and the establishment of and skills development eco-industrial parks. We have implemented various Science, technology, engineering and mathematics capability has been initiatives to create awareness of the abilities of people identified as a critical enabler of economic growth. The Sasol Inzalo living with disabilities, and this year we also focused on Foundation has been mandated to develop programmes in this area the environment through the development of a Qatar in South Africa. Most notable has been the development of natural e-Nature application. science and technology workbooks, and accompanying teacher guides, •• Uzbekistan: we continued our bursary programme in for grades four, five and six. All three million learners in these grades partnership with the Westminster University in Tashkent are now using the workbooks. Following the success of this initiative and nine students received scholarship funding. Sasol we are developing workbooks for grades seven, eight and nine. These will be distributed to learners across the country from the beginning also partnered with the United Nations Development of the 2014 academic year. Fund (UNDP) to implement various projects across the country, ranging from waste collection facilities to the In partnership with the Mozambique Ministry of Mineral Resources, establishment of various social enterprise initiatives. we established a bursary programme for Mozambican students in the •• United States: our social investments in the US year. The programme will disburse US$412 366 annually for the next include a strong community-based focus in South West five years. It will benefit 30 beneficiaries each year, 20 of whom will Louisiana; education partnerships with McNeese State be studying in Mozambican universities and ten in South African University and United Way of Southwest Louisiana; universities. The bursary programme will play an important role in promoting employee volunteer programmes; sponsoring developing the pool of professional and skilled Mozambicans needed to sustain the oil and gas industry in the country. educational videos to support ecology, electronics and physics studies; and sponsoring the American Beekeepers Association to support and manage bee  ur online report includes additional information on: the O populations in the Lake Charles Chemical Complex. activities of the Sasol Global Foundation and Sasol Inzalo our performance data •• Germany: we have invested in a laboratory for school Foundation, as well as details on our investment projects children in Brunsbüttel, and provided education and in Mozambique and Qatar. bursary support for communities close to our Sasol O&S operations. We maintain relationships with schools and universities to promote the sciences among children and students. Increased financial support for employee engagement programmes is being investigated and a bursary programme for former apprentices to study at university will be implemented in Germany in 2014. 37 investing in society continued respecting human rights As we expand our operations globally, it becomes increasingly important to retain a strong focus on human rights. We are committed to respect human rights in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our strategic approach to human rights The policy will include details on security, supply chain and land Our approach to human rights forms part of our code of ethics and management, and will provide clarity on human rights roles and has been in place since 2004. Our internal due diligence process responsibilities within the organisation. The guideline to the code requires that country risk assessments are performed before entering of ethics will be amended according to the new BHR policy. a country. These assessments include screening for potential human We are liaising with a multi-stakeholder initiative (Voluntary rights non-compliance or violations. We evaluate all of our investment Principles on Security and Human Rights) to address human rights decisions against the Sasol code of ethics, and, as a signatory of the issues in relation to security. The development of a code of conduct UN Global Compact, we endeavour to comply with domestic and incorporating human rights standards, which suppliers and service international human rights regulations and principles. providers will have to adhere to, will receive attention in 2014. Undertaking human rights due diligence An online training module on the BHR policy will be rolled out in late In 2012, we completed a comprehensive desktop study with the 2014 or 2015. Once we have implemented these initiatives, we plan assistance of external human rights specialists to assess our existing to conduct further detailed assessments on human rights practice approach to human rights. No indications were found of any direct and compliance in specific areas. complicity in human rights abuses. Nevertheless, this remains an area we continue to carefully monitor. The main findings of the report were presented to the group executive committee (GEC) and to the nomination, governance, social and ethics committee. Both committees endorsed and supported the development of a Sasol Business Human Rights (BHR) policy in line SD with international best practice. Our group ethics office is developing the BHR policy and will oversee its implementation in 2014. Sasol sustainable development report 2013 38 39 our performance data addressing our material sustainability challenges overview 40 Sasol sustainable development report 2013 SD overview Engaging communities in our United States operations “Sasol has been a member of the US community for more than a decade. We’re proud to be embarking on a new phase of significant growth and investment that will foster job creation and economic development in the region, while advancing focus story sustainable development.” Mike Thomas, Sasol vice president for US operations addressing our material sustainability challenges In December 2012, we announced the commencement of front-end engineering and design work for a world-scale ethane cracker and gas-to-liquids (GTL) facility to be co-located at our existing site in Westlake, Louisiana. The projects represent the largest single manufacturing investment in the history of Louisiana and one of the largest foreign direct investment manufacturing projects in US history. Together, the two projects are expected to create over 1 200 permanent jobs, up to 7 000 jobs at peak construction, and thousands of indirect jobs in Louisiana and across the US. These mega-projects will result in the expansion of our facilities towards our neighbours to the northwest and west of our existing facility. This includes the town of Mossville, a community with a strong history of activism on environmental health and environmental justice issues. Although the final investment decisions on the two growth projects have not yet been made, we are already taking steps to address the concerns of neighbouring communities. We introduced a voluntary property purchase programme for residents close to our Westlake facility. This will give eligible property owners the option to sell their property to Sasol, and relocate to an alternative neighbourhood, if they so choose. We have retained an experienced, third-party contractor, Community Interaction Consulting, Inc. (CIC), to administer the programme. Sasol and CIC are currently finalising the programme guidelines. CIC opened an office in the community in early August 2013 and launched a website to provide specifics, timelines and contact information. CIC hosted information sessions for prospective participants in mid-August. These proposed activities build on our community engagement our performance data activities at our Lake Charles operation. Through the Sasol community advisory panel (CAP), Sasol management meets monthly with community members from the area. For the past six months, CAP meetings have focused on topics related to our proposed projects in the area. In March 2013, the group discussed communication plans and offered numerous suggestions to management to enhance our outreach efforts. Community meetings have been scheduled for our neighbours in the Mossville and Westlake communities. 41 responding to environmental challenges SD Sasol sustainable development report 2013 One of the most material challenges facing Sasol relates to our ability to anticipate and respond to the changing regulatory and policy context, particularly in relation to environmental legislation. In South Africa we are faced with potentially profound regulatory challenges relating to air quality, climate change and waste management. We are committed to working with government to find appropriate solutions that contribute to the desired environmental outcomes, while also providing for the country’s socioeconomic development priorities. 42 overview addressing our material sustainability challenges air quality and waste management Our strategic approach to air quality and waste Sasol continues to participate actively in the law reform processes management related to air quality management, individually and through Business Unity South Africa (BUSA), the Chemical and Allied Industries’ We remain committed to delivering reasonable and sustainable Association (CAIA), and the South African Petroleum Industry improvements in waste and air quality management across our Association (SAPIA). We are proposing a regulatory regime that operations. To ensure consistent and co-ordinated engagement with is reasonable and practicable, and which also achieves tangible and government on these issues, we have established a cross-functional sustainable improvements in ambient air quality. We are currently project team. The project team operates through a mandated applying for longer timeframes in which to comply and exemption sub-committee of the group executive committee (GEC). from some of the minimum emissions standards. Responding to changes in air quality legislation An independently administered external stakeholder engagement In 2004, the South African National Environmental Management: process is being conducted as part of this application process. Public Air Quality Act was promulgated. The legislation takes a fundamentally meetings with interested and affected parties on our applications for new approach to air quality management. In December 2009, national postponement or exemption will be held. Background information, ambient (ground-level) air quality standards were published. This was explaining this process and the reasons for our applications, is being followed, in April 2010, by the publication of minimum emissions distributed to stakeholders and is available on our website. The standards. These include provision for stringent point source emissions feedback from stakeholders, and an Atmospheric Impact Report, will standards. The standards for existing plants have to be met by 2015. be included in our applications to the authorities. From 2020, the standards for new plants have to be met from the date of commissioning. These standards and timeframes have Importantly, we are working with government and other stakeholders profound implications, particularly for our existing plants, in terms to explore alternative avenues for achieving ambient air quality of technical and financial feasibility. improvements. This includes investigating the feasibility of offset projects that would contribute to meaningful reductions in ambient air pollution levels, while, at the same time delivering social benefits such as job creation and poverty eradication. our performance data 43 responding to environmental challenges continued Responding to a new regulatory environment for Five-year trends indicate that NOx emissions have remained relatively waste management stable, whereas SOx emissions have increased over the past year A key regulatory development for the year has been the but not at the levels measured three to four years ago. Particulate implementation of the National Waste Information Regulation. emissions have remained constant, except for the significant increase This requires hazardous waste generators and all waste managers to reported over the past year. Volatile organic compound (VOC) register and report into the South African Waste Information System emissions have also remained fairly constant. We have prioritised (SAWIS). In response, we are revising the Sasol waste standard and further reduction of VOC emissions, with a target of at least 80% procedure for our South African operations, and have introduced reduction in emissions of defined VOCs (benzene, toluene, xylene, changes to our internal waste reporting systems. All hazardous waste ethyl benzene, 1,3-butadiene and acetaldehyde) on our 2009 baseline generating activities have been registered and quarterly reporting into by the end of June 2020. The project schedule of the R2 billion VOC SAWIS has commenced. reduction project is considered under pressure; however, the 2020 target is expected to be met. During the year, the Department of Environmental Affairs gazetted, for public comment, a draft waste management regulation and two We sponsored the pioneering Basa Magogo community initiative in supporting landfill standards. The potential costs associated with South Africa, which encourages better fuel-burning practices in local meeting the requirements of the new waste regulation are being communities. This initiative has made a meaningful contribution to quantified but are likely to be material. We continue to engage the government’s objectives on ambient air quality improvement. constructively with government, both directly and indirectly, through our business associations, to ensure sound implementation of these Our waste management performance Sasol operations generated 303 kt of hazardous waste and 242 kt new and in many cases untested technical requirements. of non-hazardous waste, compared to 116 kt and 264 kt, respectively, in 2012. This increase is due to the first-time reporting of hazardous Our performance in 2013 waste treated at the Sasol Synfuels incinerators (140 kt) and the sharp Atmospheric emissions increase in hazardous waste generated at the Sasol Synfuels sulphur We emitted 158,4 kilotons (kt) of nitrogen oxides (NOx), compared plant due to operational issues. The inclusion of recycled waste in the to 155 kilotons in 2012. Total emissions of sulphur oxides (SOx) hazardous and non-hazardous waste performance indicators was also amounted to 214,6 kt, up from 202 kt in 2012, while total particulate a factor. There has been a decrease in the amount of waste that has (fly ash) emissions were 11,7 kt, compared to 7,47 kt in 2012. been recycled and reused, to 546 kt in 2013 from 937 kt in 2012. Further details on group emissions over the past five years are This is due to lower amounts of ash required for remediation and mine provided on page 60. backfilling to address subsidence. The increase in particulate (fly ash) emissions was due to the temporary instability of our boilers during 2013. The use of an  ur online report includes additional details on: legislative O alternative monitoring protocol, while the current monitoring systems developments on air pollution and waste management; are under review, also contributed to the increase. SOx emissions and the Sasol Synfuels waste roadmap project. increased due to a slightly higher sulphur content in the coal used. Atmospheric pollutants Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste 450 26 350 26 1 200 26 400 300 25 25 1 000 25 350 Production – million tons Production – million tons Production – million tons 250 300 24 24 800 24 250 200 Kilotons Kilotons Kilotons SD 23 23 600 23 200 150 Sasol sustainable development report 2013 150 22 22 400 22 100 100 21 50 21 200 21 50 0 20 0 20 0 20 08 09 10 11 12 13 08 09 10 11 12 13 08 09 10 11 12 13  Nitrogen oxide (NOx)  Sasol  Sasol  Sulphur oxide (SOx)  Total production  Total production  Particulates  Total production 44 overview Significant investments in environmental improvement projects In response to requests from stakeholders, we have reported our annual environmental expenditure since 2011. During 2013, our financial systems were further improved to consolidate environmental expenses. Sasol’s total accrued environmental obligation at 30 June 2013 was R9,8 billion. Based on an assessment of significant capital expenditure on environmental projects over the past ten years (see table), we have spent up to R20 billion, averaging almost R2 billion a year. Major capital expenditure over the last ten years resulting in significant environmental improvements Year Rand Project with environment-related benefit Environmental improvement in subsequent years million 2003 500 Waste recycling facility in Secunda Recycle waste streams and reduce waste dumping 2004 100 Rehabilitation of Secunda waste disposal site Improved air and water quality 12 000 Natural gas feedstock conversion project Significant reductions in Sasolburg of H2S (100%) addressing our material sustainability challenges 2005 greenhouse gas (GHG) (50%), SOx (42%) and NOx (37%) 400 Hydrogen sulphide reduction in Secunda Reduced H2S emissions (odour) 2008 1 000 Wet sulphuric acid plant in Secunda Reduced H2S emissions (odour) 300 Investment in CO2 Technology Centre Mongstad, Norway Demonstrating technology for carbon capture 2009 100 Energy efficiency projects in Secunda Reduced GHG emissions 2010 2 300 280 MW combined cycle gas turbines in Secunda Reduced GHG emissions and improved air quality 500 Upgrade boiler 9 in Secunda Reduced particulate matter emissions 2011 1 400 140 MW gas engines in Sasolburg Reduced GHG emissions and improved air quality 2012 2 000 Regenerative thermal oxidisers in Secunda Reducing VOC emissions Note: These are rounded figures relating to projects over R100 million each. Actual expenditure may have occurred over more than one year. Numerous smaller projects – such as rehabilitation projects, water treatment plants, conversion from elevated flares to ground flares, and other emissions reduction projects each individually to the value of less than R100 million per annum – are excluded. The Sasolburg Gas Engine Power Plant started up in December 2012, generating electricity three months ahead of schedule and almost 20% below budget. The plant, using natural gas as feedstock, has an operating capacity of 140 megawatt (MW) and is the largest power plant running exclusively on gas engines our performance data on the African continent, and the first of its kind in South Africa. 45 responding to environmental challenges continued climate change and energy Climate change poses a significant risk for our business, both in meeting anticipated legislative and policy requirements and in adapting to its potential physical impacts. Identifying appropriate responses that balance the needs for economic development, job creation, energy security and emissions reductions represent one of the greatest challenges of our generation. Our strategic approach to climate change to factor the cost of carbon into overall project costs. Where The chief executive officer and the group executive committee (GEC) operations are not under our management control, influence is exerted are accountable for our climate change strategy. In this regard, they through representation on joint venture boards to ensure the highest receive advice and assistance from various GEC sub-committees and level of environmental compliance and performance. specialist committees (see page 14). A dedicated project team steered During the year, for our South African operations, we participated in by a mandating committee, under the leadership of a GEC member, is a number of DEA task teams in a study to determine the mitigation responsible for executing the climate change strategy. The committee potential of key sectors of the economy. This represents an initial step ensures our response to climate change is integrated with our core in the implementation of the National Climate Change Response strategy, and co-ordinates our engagement with government and other White Paper. We also provided extensive input to the development stakeholders on regulatory and related climate change developments. of the National Treasury’s carbon tax proposal for South Africa. The Sasol SHE Centre is accountable for GHG data management, setting targets and reporting performance against targets. We support the development of a proactive policy response to climate change based on clear and accurate information, and that is We have been voluntarily reporting our GHG emissions since 1996. appropriate to the unique circumstances of South Africa. We believe Since 2002, we have reported in accordance with the GHG reporting that government policy should recognise the inherently energyprotocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development intensive and coal-based nature of the South African economy, in and the World Resources Institute (www.ghgprotocol.org) and, since balance with the country’s developmental and energy security needs. 2008, through our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project. During 2013, in preparation for engagements with the South African Greenhouse gas emissions intensity1 Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) regarding our inventories, (tons CO2 equivalent per ton production) we rigorously reviewed our GHG data. We improved methodologies 3,5 for calculating our GHG emissions and included smaller sources of emissions that were previously omitted. We also developed a 3,0 GHG emissions intensity measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) standard for the group. 2,5 This comprehensive data review concluded that our GHG emissions 2,0 were lower than reported since 2000. As a result, Sasol’s global 1,5 emissions for the past decade were approximately five million tons per annum less than previously reported. This decrease is primarily due 1,0 to a restatement of the methane emissions at our Secunda facility. 0,5  Actual Setting ambitious emissions reduction targets 0  2020 target We have voluntarily committed to reducing the GHG emissions 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 intensity of all our existing operations by 15% by 2020 from a 2005 1 Based on the restated absolute GHG emissions from 2000 to 2012. SD baseline. The group’s approach to reducing its GHG emissions is based on the following areas: increased use of lower-carbon energy; Sasol energy efficiency Sasol sustainable development report 2013 utilisation of environmental offsets; and improved energy efficiency at accord measurement our operations. Delivery against our climate change commitments 1,2 forms part of the key performance indicators, personal appraisals and incentive schemes of relevant employees. Following our review of 1,0 GHG data, we will also be reviewing the group’s GHG targets in line Energy intensity index 0,8 with international developments and our gas-to-liquids (GTL) growth aspirations. 0,6 Reducing GHG emissions forms part of the risk profile of all new 0,4 projects exceeding R150 million and influences final investment 0,2 decisions. For the past three years, we have used a carbon calculator  Actual to assess the GHG footprint of all new projects, enabling project teams 0  Target 08 09 10 11 12 13 46 overview Our climate change performance in 2013 In Mozambique, Central Térmica de Ressano Garcia, jointly owned by Sasol New Energy (49%) and state-owned Electricidade de Using our recently revised reporting methodology, our total GHG Moçambique (51%), started the construction of a similar gas-fired emissions globally (measured in CO2 equivalents) were 70,7 million electricity generation facility. The first electricity is expected to be tons (Mt) for 2013. This figure includes the direct emissions associated generated by mid-2014. Currently, only around a third of Mozambicans with our processes and our own tanker fleets (Scope 1 emissions), addressing our material sustainability challenges have access to electricity, so the new plant will not only create jobs as well as the indirect emissions associated with our electricity but also help to drive socioeconomic development. imports (Scope 2). Our GHG emissions intensity (tons CO2 equivalents per ton production) has increased (see graph on page 46) to 2,98, up We intensified our efforts to improve energy efficiency management from 2,83 in 2012. This increase in intensity is primarily a result of a and operating practices. The increased production volumes and reduction in the overall group production levels due to major operational stability at Secunda and Sasolburg will allow energy shutdowns at Natref and ORYX GTL. efficiency improvements implemented over a number of years to be fully recognised in the intensity index. The commissioning of the In our GHG measurements, we have included 100% of the emissions Sasolburg gas engine power plant also contributed to the 6% overall for the following joint ventures (JVs): National Petroleum Refiners of improvement in energy efficiency compared to 2012. Additional South Africa (Natref) in South Africa, Sasol Petroleum International energy efficiency improvement plans have been developed for Mozambique, ORYX GTL in Qatar, Arya Sasol Polymer Company in Iran implementation in the next two years. The outcomes of an and Sasol Huntsman in Germany. Data for those JVs where we do not independent energy efficiency monitoring audit, initiated to improve have a significant influence or operational control are excluded. current practices and align with internationally accepted best practices, An external assurance provider has independently verified our direct may impact future reporting. and indirect emissions levels (page 62). Quantitative data on the GHG emissions is provided in our annual integrated report. We continue to consider carbon capture and storage (CCS) as part of our long-term mitigation plans. As a shareholder in the CO2 Our commitment to reduce emissions Technology Centre Mongstad in Norway, we are supporting the We recognise that without achieving substantial reductions in GHG development of technology for the large-scale capture of CO2 from emissions, our coal-to-liquids (CTL) technology is unlikely to be dilute flue gas streams. We also contribute to the South African Centre socially and financially acceptable in the mediumto long-term. for CCS and are developing in-house knowledge on applying various We have taken a decision not to pursue selective growth in CTL cleaner coal technologies. operations but to rather focus primarily on accelerated GTL growth. Managing the risks associated with adaptation During the year, we commissioned an adaptation study to assess the IR R  efer to the focus story in our annual integrated report impact of historic weather events on our operations. The study found on page 48. evidence that extreme weather events have had a significant negative financial impact. These include costs of more than R500 million in lost production due to weather-related incidents in Secunda from 2004 to Investing in the transition from coal to natural gas as a feedstock 2010, numerous losses due to lightning at Sasolburg, and weatherforms a key element of our climate response strategy. As a result related delays to projects in Mozambique costing up to R6,4 million our performance data of introducing natural gas from Mozambique in 2004/2005 and a day. We have subsequently commissioned a broader study on how transforming the Sasolburg complex at a cost of R12 billion, we have to manage the risks associated with extreme weather events. achieved an approximate 50% reduction in GHG emissions based on our recalculated profile. The 140 megawatt (MW) Sasolburg gas engine  ur online report includes a detailed review of the risks O power plant commenced generation during the year, further reducing and opportunities that climate change presents for Sasol, our GHG emissions. This has enabled us to exceed our target for a review of our legislative and policy engagement activities self-generated power capacity, achieving 69% by year-end. Besides on climate change, a review of various energy efficiency easing our reliance on the national grid, the project will eventually initiatives, and a case study on our contribution to GHG allow us to reduce CO2 emissions by a further one million tons a year. abatement by assisting in the switch to light-emitting It will also improve local air quality through reductions in NOx, SOx diode (LED) lighting. and particulate emissions. 47 responding to environmental challenges continued SD Sasol sustainable development report 2013 48 Enabling significant GHG abatement overview through light-emitting diode (LED) lighting Our technical and managerial expertise, intellectual property and financial resources, can make an important contribution to the development and implementation of technologies that facilitate the transition to a lower-carbon economy. An example is the supply of Ultra High Purity Alumina (UHPA), used in light-emitting diodes (LEDs), as a replacement for incandescent bulbs and compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs). LEDs offer considerable advantages over conventional solutions: they provide the focus story addressing our material sustainability challenges same lighting levels with much lower electricity consumption; they offer superior colour performance and greater flexibility in design options; and their useful lifetime is significantly longer, resulting in reduced maintenance and disposal costs. We are increasing our capacity to produce UHPA, one of the components used in the manufacturing of synthetic sapphire, a critical input for the production of LEDs. Sales into the sapphire market are expected to increase from the first quarter of 2014. Recognising the opportunity for significant potential growth in the LED market, and informed by our commitments to sound environmental management and product stewardship, we have undertaken our own lifecycle analysis (LCA) to understand the potential climate change impact of Sasol-manufactured UHPA on the global lighting market. These studies build upon earlier studies conducted by the US Department of Energy and McKinsey & Company. The aim of an LCA study is to evaluate the environmental impacts – including energy and raw material use, emissions, and other wastes – related to a product or system’s entire lifecycle. It seeks to characterise and quantify the inputs, outputs, and environmental impacts of a specific product or system at each stage in its lifecycle, from raw material extraction, manufacture and use, through to final disposal. Our detailed LCA study sought to quantify the GHG emissions reductions associated with replacing conventional lighting technologies with LED. We considered general lighting on a global level, and we made certain externally tested assumptions regarding the GHG effects associated with the raw materials, manufacture and disposal of each of the lighting technologies. Using this information – and making informed assumptions about the growth of the global LED market, our market penetration of UHPA, and the changing GHG-intensities of global electricity production – we calculated how much our product could contribute to the abatement of GHGs. We estimate that from 2012 to 2020, the total cumulative abatement associated our performance data with the increased uptake of LED lighting could amount up to one billion tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2 equivalents) over this period. The annual GHG reduction effect potentially enabled by Sasol’s product could proportionally grow up to 23 million tons (Mt) CO2 equivalents in 2020 taking the LCA assumptions into account. To give this some perspective, 23 Mt CO2 equivalents is equivalent to almost 40% of Sasol’s direct GHG emissions in 2011, even though we are only one of a few major producers of the feedstock component for synthetic sapphire required for the manufacturing of LED lighting. Further studies and market assessments will be done to validate these assertions. 49 responding to environmental challenges continued water stewardship – Sasol Water Sense Water is a critical feedstock for our business, with several of our current or planned facilities located in water-stressed areas. Our activities in coal mining, upstream oil and gas development, chemicals and fuels production, and supply chain logistics, all have the potential to impact on water resources and ecosystems. Ensuring responsible water stewardship throughout our value chain remains essential. Our strategic approach to water stewardship a 15% water-use intensity improvement (m3/ton production), and the target for Sasol Synfuels is a 5% intensity improvement, both by We have adopted a holistic approach to water security and 2015 from a 2010 baseline. stewardship. In addition to minimising our direct impacts, we work with stakeholders in the water catchment areas in which we operate. The group executive SHE committee approved the introduction of a water-intensity metric to institutionalise reporting on water use Management of onsite water-related issues is co-ordinated by the at an operational level. We believe that mandatory reporting on water various SHE structures. In addition, a dedicated sustainable water intensity will drive further internal improvements. function was established in 2010 within Sasol New Energy. A water stewardship steering committee was established in the year, bringing Sasol Technology has a portfolio of water research and technology together senior functional and business unit representatives to govern development projects that support our operations in Sasolburg and group-wide actions in respect of water stewardship. Secunda, as well as our new GTL ventures. The main research activities at our South African operations focus on the reduction and In 2012, we initiated Sasol Water Sense, a group-wide initiative management of wastewater-borne salts. This employs an innovative to align water stewardship practices. Sasol Water Sense has created process developed for sustainable salt disposal using waste fly ash. a common identity for our water response strategy, coupled with Sasol Synfuels in Secunda is in the final construction stages of a a focused communication plan. Sasol Water Sense won the water large anaerobic wastewater treatment plant based on technology management category in this year’s Mail and Guardian Greening developed by Sasol Technology. The new technology will treat the Future awards in South Africa. approximately 3,4 million m3 per annum of wastewater or about 7% of the total wastewater recycled by Sasol Synfuels. It further provides Our performance in 2013 a much needed way to reduce both the organic and hydraulic load on The UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate is a public/private the existing biological wastewater treatment works and provides initiative launched in July 2007 to assist companies in the capacity to accommodate growth. development, implementation and disclosure of water-related policies Sasol Technology has developed a sophisticated membrane-based and practices. We use this framework to assess our performance, and biological treatment process for GTL wastewater. This process is now our chief executive officer has reaffirmed our endorsement of the part of Sasol Technology’s GTL single point licensing offering. Further CEO Water Mandate. innovative technology developments for GTL wastewater treatment Minimising impacts in our direct operations are being scaled up at Sasol Technology’s research and development SD Promoting water-use efficiency in our operations continues to be facilities in Sasolburg. We expect these to be available for Sasol sustainable development report 2013 a priority. Our largest operations in South Africa are dependent on commercialisation from 2015 onwards. the water-stressed Vaal River System, which supplies approximately With our international joint venture partners we continue to 80% of our total water requirement. Water demand continues to proactively respond to water challenges. ORYX GTL, Sasol’s joint exceed the system’s sustainable supply capability. While no venture with Qatar Petroleum is supporting the Qatar government’s compulsory water-use efficiency targets have been set for industrial priority focus to conserve water. Located in the Ras Laffan Industrial water users, the Department of Water Affairs (DWA) have been City the ORYX GTL facility is working collectively to implement water engaging with industry on determining and regulating water-use re-use solutions which support ambitious water targets that have been efficiency targets. set for the complex. A highlight has been achieving a significant In 2011, we set voluntary water-use efficiency targets for our two increase in the re-use of final effluent for landscaping, whereby 80% most water-intensive business units, Sasol Infrachem in Sasolburg of ORYX GTL’s treated final effluent is currently being beneficially and Sasol Synfuels in Secunda. The target for Sasol Infrachem is utilised. For the natural gas assets acquired in the Montney shale basin 50 overview in British Columbia, Canada, we continue to support our operating An important recent development in South Africa has been the partner, Talisman Energy to ensure the hydraulic fracturing process is gazetting, for comment, of the revised National Water Resource conducted within country-specific laws and requirements. Strategy (NWRS2). We have provided substantial input to the NWRS2, addressing our material sustainability challenges which seeks to provide strategic direction to the water sector for the Our total water use for 2013 decreased to 147,2 million m3 from next 20 years. We are a member of the DWA Water Sector Leadership 148,3 million m3. The total quantity of water recycled was Group, as well as the DWA Vaal River Strategy Steering Committee. 145,4 million m3, compared to 142,7 million m3 in 2012. Both groups provide a high-level platform for engagement between Supply chain, catchment management, collective the water sector and the DWA. action and community engagement During the year, Sasol New Energy initiated and funded an Recognising the strategic significance of the Vaal River System in investigation into the development of a South African national South Africa, we are working with other water users to identify the water-offsetting model, with the aim of incorporating the concept into most cost-effective opportunities for improved water usage. Although the water law review process. This was done in collaboration with the our total water demand from the system is high (almost 4% of total DWA and presented to the parliamentary portfolio committee on supply), it is small compared to that of the other main users, notably water. Water offsetting has subsequently been included as an emerging urban homes and agriculture. policy issue in the revised NWRS2. We believe this initiative has the Water losses from municipal water supply infrastructure in the Vaal potential to realise significant benefits for water conservation and catchment area are as high as 45%. To address this, we entered into socioeconomic development. three water conservation partnerships with local municipalities. Transparency We have invested R8 million, with committed leveraged partner We report annually on water-related issues in our sustainable funding of R9 million. The focus is on fixing leaks beyond the factory development report and participated in the Water Disclosure Project fence to enhance water security for all users reliant on the Vaal again this year. Our business units have also continued to engage with catchment area. Through these investments, the funding of water external bodies, including non-governmental organisations, on their conservation and demand management projects by the municipality water activities. will be enabled beyond the scope of the initial three-year partnership. (See focus story on page 53.)  ur online report includes additional details on our O We have also launched a comprehensive water education and Water Sense initiative, and on GTL water systems. awareness-raising campaign in partnership with the schools in Metsimaholo in the greater Sasolburg region. We funded the production and rollout of curriculum support material, developed Total water use by the DWA. More than 19 000 learner and teacher “Water is Life” booklets have been provided to the participating schools, with 156 000 26 our performance data accompanying educator training. Following a successful rollout 154 000 25 in Sasolburg, the intention is to also focus on the Govan Mbeki Production – million tons 152 000 24 and Emfuleni Municipalities. 150 000 1 000 m3 23 Public policy 148 000 As part of our commitment to informing the development of sound 22 146 000 public policy, we participate in various government-led policy 144 000 21 initiatives on water resources management. We have made progress, working with government, to address the delays in finalising water 142 000 20 licence applications for some of our South African operations. We are 08 09 10 11 12 13 also supporting a proposal for the introduction of regulations that will  Total water use harmonise the approach to licensing.  Total production 51 responding to environmental challenges continued SD Sasol sustainable development report 2013 52 overview Sasol’s water partnership with Emfuleni municipality in Sasolburg, South Africa focus story Our water conservation partnerships with municipalities in the Vaal River catchment area seek to drive municipal water conservation initiatives, increase public awareness of water conservation, stimulate job creation and realise cost savings for the municipality. Our flagship partnership is with Emfuleni municipality and the German development agency Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale addressing our material sustainability challenges Zusammenarbeit (GIZ). Through this partnership, we committed R5 million, and leveraged an additional R5 million, for the Boloka Metsi project. The project seeks to achieve a 15% water saving in the Emfuleni municipality, one of the four larger municipalities in Gauteng. Currently between 44% and 50% of water used in the municipal area cannot be accounted for. If successful, this project will help Emfuleni reduce its annual water expenses by approximately R62 million, a portion of which will be re-invested in sustaining the project. By the end of phase 1 of the project (June 2013), water leaks have been repaired in approximately 60 000 households. Measured water savings in the project area have amounted to approximately 2,1 million m3 (the equivalent of 1 000 Olympic sized swimming pools) to the value of R10,5 million, as well as creating some 75 local employment opportunities. In addition to achieving vital water savings in this critical catchment area, the initiative is saving public funds, and is stimulating skills development and job creation opportunities. At a municipal level, our aim is to build technical, project management and procurement skills. At a community level, local people are being trained in plumbing and other skills. We believe this project model can be replicated in other municipalities nationwide. The water savings achieved to date with the Emfuleni water conservation partnership equates to offsetting approximately 10% of the annual water use of our Sasolburg facility or 2% of our performance data our total annual water use from the Vaal River system. 53 providing safe, essential and quality products SD Sasol sustainable development report 2013 Our fuels, chemicals and related products benefit the lives of millions of people around the world. We aim to manage the impact of our products throughout their lifecycles. We consider the compliance of our products with different requirements related to export, exposure and impact on our reputation. Maintaining positive relationships with all stakeholders in the product value chain is a critical aspect of managing the impact of our products. 54 promoting effective product stewardship overview As a signatory to the global chemical industry’s Responsible Care® We are planning to undertake streamlined lifecycle assessments (LCA) initiative, we are committed to managing the risks of our products and on those chemical products likely to have high-carbon footprints. This improving their SHE performance throughout the product lifecycle. To is in addition to the previous LCA studies on greenhouse gas (GHG) implement these commitments, we introduced a comprehensive emissions on our fuel products, to compare the fuels produced by our chemical information management system in October 2011. The system GTL and CTL technologies. captures the total inventory of our products, from source to waste, We supply customers with natural gas (NG) and methane-rich gas including procured chemicals such as cleaning products. The system (MRG), enabling them to reduce their direct emissions. As we increased also provides for the Globally Harmonised System of Classification our intake of NG, we are able to increase our supply of NG and and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS). MRG to the consumer market. This year our total NG supplies to We reviewed our product stewardship strategy in the year, identifying customers amounted to 51,2 Petajoules, while total MRG sales were priority focus areas aligned to our international commitments, 21,6 Petajoules. As a result of the substitution from coal to gas, we and have been rolling out the revised product stewardship strategy estimate that our customers reduced their total direct emissions of throughout the group. Workshops are being held in all our businesses GHG by 2,7 million tons during the period. to raise awareness and facilitate regulatory compliance. With airline emissions under increasing scrutiny, our GTL kerosene addressing our material sustainability challenges offers airline operators a cost-effective means of improving their Our product stewardship performance in 2013 emissions profile. Synthetic fuels used in South African aviation have Our product stewardship performance, measured in terms of the had a positive effect, in terms of performance and reduced emissions. Responsible Care® Practice-in-Place (PiP), remained constant at 89%. GTL kerosene has now been cleared for use as a 50% blendstock, The product stewardship indicator increased slightly to 83% in 2013 unlocking another high-value global market for our GTL products. from 82% in 2012. Three incidents occurred during the year relating to compliance with Maintaining positive consumer relations chemical control legislation governing the international distribution We supply products primarily to businesses, with limited supply of certain products and materials. Following a review of each of these directly to consumers. Sasol Oil supplies directly to consumers, incidents, the product stewardship team has developed appropriate contributing the highest percentage of customer revenue for the remedial procedures in collaboration with the relevant business units. group. Sasol Oil’s direct sales to retail convenience centres in South Africa is the most visible manifestation of the Sasol brand to We became a member of the Chemical Distributors Institute for consumers. We manage our relationships with our franchisees, Terminals in the year. Accredited auditors at terminals assist in and instil Sasol’s values, through regional and national councils. managing the storage and distribution risks in relation to our products. In South Africa, ensuring full compliance with the Consumer Protection Contributing to global product stewardship initiatives Act 68 of 2008 is a potential risk. To address this, we have provided Through our involvement in the International Council of Chemical training to relevant employees to understand the implications of the Associations’ Chemicals Policy and Health Leadership Group, we act on business operations, and to identify and implement optimised continue to play a leadership role in the safe use of chemicals business processes. We have also engaged an external law firm to worldwide. This helps us to build relationships throughout the value develop a comprehensive compliance solution in this regard. Tailored chain and encourage our partners to improve chemical management. compliance training will be rolled out to all affected stakeholders. For the past six years we have been advising the South African Monitoring and managing our market reputation government on the implementation of the Globally Harmonised We monitor our reputation among consumers in South Africa through System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS), through the Reputation Institute of South Africa’s annual Reptrak survey. our membership to the Chemical and Allied Industries’ Association. The latest results, released at the end of April 2013, showed an We also participate in the United Nations (UN) sub-committee of improvement to 69,05 from 61,97. We do not currently participate Experts on the GHS as vice-chair of the sub-committee, representing in similar rating initiatives in other countries, but will be looking to the South African Department of Trade and Industry. All relevant do so as our presence increases in the US. products exported to the European Union (EU) have been registered our performance data in compliance with EU regulations concerning registration, evaluation, and authorisation of chemicals (REACH). O  ur online report includes additional information on creating value through speciality ethoxylate. Integrating climate considerations within our product chain We currently calculate the gate-to-gate carbon footprint of several of our chemical products. We report these to customers when requested. We have commissioned an external third party to independently review the gate-to-gate carbon footprint of some of our products, and to benchmark them against competitor products. 55 providing safe, essential and quality products continued SD Sasol sustainable development report 2013 56 overview addressing our material sustainability challenges Launching Sasol clean diesel In April 2013, Sasol Oil launched Sasol turbo10™ diesel, demonstrating our commitment to bringing to the market the latest product innovation for the benefit of the consumer. With almost zero sulphur, this our performance data GTL diesel is a high-performance, low-emissions product. It can be used in existing diesel engines either in neat form or as a premium blendstock. GTL diesel can achieve particulate emissions reductions of up to 40%, as well as reductions in NOx and VOCs. Its high cetane number (70 compared to a diesel standard of approximately 55) ensures cleaner and more complete combustion, improves cold start properties and reduces noise. As well as enhancing performance, high cetane also means less build-up of deposits in the engine, thereby reducing engine wear and extending engine life. On a full lifecycle analysis basis, GTL diesel’s overall GHG emissions profile is at least as good as that of diesel produced in a modern refinery and possibly slightly better. Following the launch of this product, which is unique in South Africa, we have been focusing on marketing it to larger industrial customers. We will be looking to launch it soon through our retail operations. 57 data and assurance This section provides a consolidated review of our quantitative Although every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the performance data over the past five years relating to our material data, we recognise that some data may be subject to uncertainty – sustainability challenges. The basis for identifying these material relating, for example, to different interpretations of the internal challenges is provided on pages 18 to 19. reporting guidelines, and possible human error in recording and submitting the data. The improvement of data quality and accuracy The quantitative performance data covers our performance on issues is receiving ongoing attention in accordance with the recommendation pertaining to: of our external assurance provider. A number of data corrections have •• people: focusing on safety, occupational illnesses and skills been made this year based on the review process, particularly to our development; GHG reporting data following our work on measurement, reporting •• society: focusing on our economic value added and our BBBEE and verification (MRV) (see page 46). We will continue to rely on the procurement expenditure; and use of spreadsheets for data collection and management until the SHE •• the environment: greenhouse gas (GHG) and atmospheric Integrated Management System (IMS) is in place. During the year, our emissions, solid waste, energy and material use, water, land and sustainable development reporting guidelines and definitions were biodiversity, and legal compliance. reviewed and revised; these guidelines will inform the reporting process from 1 July 2013. Our reporting boundary All our business units have achieved ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 The performance data reported in these tables has been aggregated certification while most of our German operations are Eco from our construction, exploration, production, research and Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) validated. development, marketing and sales activities that are under our operational control in all of the countries in which we operate. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) We have included all of the data for the following joint ventures: A detailed GRI table, providing responses to each of the GRI G4 National Petroleum Refiners of South Africa (Natref), Sasol Petroleum criteria, is provided on our website (www.sasolsar.com). Our online International Mozambique, ORYX GTL, Arya Sasol Polymer Company report also includes a review of our performance in terms of the in Iran, and Sasol Huntsman in Germany. Further details on the UN Global Compact’s Communication on Progress, as well as the nature and location of our joint ventures, and on their principal Millennium Development Goals. sustainable development-related risks, are provided on our website at www.sasolsdr.com.  ur online report also includes a review of our performance in O All data is collected by the individual operations and reported terms of the UN Global Compact’s Communication on Progress, on a quarterly basis to the SHE Centre using a common database, as well as the Millennium Development Goals. and in accordance with the group sustainable development reporting guidelines and definitions. Data is collected and processed by the business units using the best available methodologies and techniques for measurement, calculation and analysis. The years referred to relate to our financial reporting period (i.e. 2013 relates to the period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013). SD Sasol sustainable development report 2013 58 people overview Level of 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 assurance Employee numbers1 34 629 34 916 33 708 33 054 33 164 Employee turnover 1 807 1 136 1 738 1 374 1 391 Moderate Total number of person-hours worked (million) (including service providers) 247,2 235,7 202,3 193,4 182,2 High Safety Recordable case rate2 (including illnesses) 0,34 0,39 0,42 0,51 0,54 High Recordable case rate (excluding illnesses) 0,31 0,35 0,37 0,45 0,49 Employee and service provider fatalities 5 4 15 9 4 High Employee and service provider fatal injury frequency rate 0,005 0,003 0,015 0,009 0,004 Fires, explosions and releases3 43 42 51 63 36 High Logistics incidents4 29 36 47 37 27 Total number of first aid cases 926 961 NR NR NR Occupational illness5 Hearing loss 15 23 32 27 13 Lung illnesses 28 29 26 25 30 Asbestosis 1 1 1 4 1 addressing our material sustainability challenges Tuberculosis6 0 0 0 7 4 Mesothelioma 0 0 0 1 0 Pneumoconiosis 21 20 23 9 20 Other lung illness 6 8 3 3 5 Other 1 1 0 3 1 Skills development Investment in employee learning7 (R million) 898 819 673 421 386 Investment in learning as a % of payroll 6,4% 6,7% 6,5% 4,3% 4,3% Investment in black employees8 (R million) 625 537 432 261 267 Development interventions 230 871 137 703 126 847 64 019 65 526 Investment in bursary scheme (R million) 54,7 38,2 38,5 51 45 Undergraduate and postgraduate bursars 719 585 654 769 761 Employees currently on chartered accountant training programme 19 20 22 26 28 Moderate Employees in Sasol’s maintenance artisan learner pools 644 581 883 778 993 Moderate Learner artisans that Sasol trained for petroleum industry as part of oil, gas and electrical manufacturing project since 2007 0 947 947 417 1,050 Learners in external technical skills partnerships 238 231 131 271 193 Moderate Additional positions created in global venture support programme 700 700 700 700 700 Investment in South African universities (R million) 25 25 25 25 25 Technical personnel in global venture support programme 327 466 484 700 700 Number of employees receiving leadership training 5 732 5 281 4 077 9 253 9 785 * Assurance refers to the 2013 parameters independently verified by the external assurance provider in 2013, in accordance with the statement on page 62. NR Not reported. 1 Employees are persons working for Sasol on a full-time or part-time basis, who 4 Figures refer to all logistics-related events that result in any one of the following: are paid individually via our payroll system, including service providers working under (i) a recordable injury (including fatality) to any Sasol employee, or an injury to any other our supervision (i.e. persons from labour brokers or fixed-term service providers). person that requires overnight hospitalisation; (ii) measurable or visible damage to These numbers include some non-permanent employees. These have been included livestock, vegetation, crops, fish or water systems, or a release of more than 1 000 litres our performance data for the purpose of safety reporting requirements. The totals are thus higher than of a chemical; (iii) property, product and/or transportation equipment loss (to Sasol) of those reported on in the section on employee demographics, in which reference more than US$25 000, except in Europe, where it is greater than 25 000 Euros, or any is made only to permanent employees. fines or penalties involving Sasol; (iv) fire, explosion or reactive chemical incident involving a Sasol product; (v) any community evacuation of sheltering or any community 2 The recordable case rate (RCR) is a standard international measure for reporting alert given as a result of the incident, or any road closure lasting more than six hours; or work-related injuries and illnesses and other safety incidents resulting in injury. The RCR (vi) the involvement of the international, national or local media. is the number of fatalities, lost workday cases, restricted work cases, medical treatments beyond first-aid cases and occupational illnesses for every 200 000 employee-hours 5 Illnesses are recorded as work-related as a precautionary measure. The various worked. From 2006 onwards, our RCR includes both employees and service providers, evaluation authorities may subsequently classify them as not work-related, in and recordable injuries, as well as occupational illnesses for employees. which instance they are removed from the records. 3 A fire, explosion or release (FER) incident is registered as “significant” when it 6 Tuberculosis is by and large not work-related, for mineworkers it is reportable to the meets any of the following criteria: (i) it involves a fatality or lost workday case; authorities as a “medical monitoring illness”. HIV/Aids increases the risk of contracting (ii) it results in damage of more than US$25 000; or (iii) it causes a release in excess TB and the majority of TB patients are HIV-positive. of the relevant threshold quantity for that chemical as defined by the Centre for Chemical and Process Safety (CCPS). New leading and lagging indicators of process 7 Investment in employee learning excludes the compulsory 1% or R140,8 million safety performance. skills levy. 8 Black employees refer to African, Coloured and Indian people – for the purposes of South African employment equity considerations. 59 data and assurance continued environment Level of*† 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 assurance Production performance Total production (kilotons) 23 696 25 302 25 228 24 548 22 039 High 1 Greenhouse gases (GHG) (kilotons)* Direct methane (CH4) 118 114 114 114 110 High Nitrous oxide (N2O) 0,611 0,813 0,542 0,955 1,016 High Direct carbon dioxide (CO2) Scope 1 58 593 59 126 57 203 56 505 54 263 High Indirect carbon dioxide (CO2) Scope 2 9 012 9 777 9 013 10 086 9 491 High Indirect carbon dioxide (CO2) Scope 3 412 719 540 384 300 High Total greenhouse gas (CO2 equivalent) 70 716 72 278 69 322 69 671 66 682 High GHG intensity (CO2 equiv/ton product) 2,98 2,83 2,75 2,88 2,92 Atmospheric emissions (kilotons) Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 158 155 155 164 160 High Sulphur oxides (SOx) 215 202 208 240 233 High VOC indicator of performance 47,5 47,2 46,5 47,7 47,0 Particulates (fly ash) 11,71 7,47 9,15 11,38 9,39 High 2 Waste (kilotons) Hazardous waste 303 116 84 69 111 Moderate Non-hazardous waste 242 264 409 454 697 Moderate Recycled waste 546 937 1 208 1 617 1 583 Total waste 1 032 1 318 1 701 2 140 2 391 Energy use (thousand gigajoules) Electricity (purchased) 31 423 34 441 33 834 37 162 34 457 Feedstock to electricity (self-generated) 38 691 30 944 29 864 25 405 17 189 Feedstock to steam 281 309 276 426 266 185 278 247 272 847 Transportation fuel 859 736 683 718 NR Fuel gas 68 828 69 017 63 596 54 972 48 410 Other energy use 6 691 7 739 16 137 9 785 4 670 Total energy use 427 801 419 294 410 299 406 289 377 573 High Material use (kiloton) Coal (dry ash-free basis) 17 896 17 040 17 019 17 315 16 994 Crude oil processed 3 392 5 492 4 890 4 331 4 493 Nitrogen from air 3 527 2 451 2 220 2 574 2 388 Oxygen from air 15 017 14 064 13 983 14 737 12 567 Gas 3 616 4 031 NR NR NR Other (e.g. chemicals, feedstock) 6 892 7 673 6 778 22 062 20 680 Total material use 50 340 50 751 44 890 61 019 57 123 Moderate Water Total water use (1 000 m3) 147 209 148 372 152 526 151 391 152 318 Moderate Liquid effluent (1 000 m3) 33 307 34 122 36 770 64 808 45 722 Water recycled (1 000 m3) 145 466 142 754 128 719 139 308 130 562 Moderate 3 Land and biodiversity (hectare) Area affected by operations 2 528 2 671 3 679 3 779 3 744 SD Area dedicated to conservation 2 324 3 046 3 456 3 869 4 553 Sasol sustainable development report 2013 Land use and mining (hectare) Surface mining area 1 284 1 284 1 284 1 284 1 284 Underground mining area 43 421 46 004 44 856 43 941 42 837 Total area disturbed4 47 786 50 373 46 140 45 225 44 121 Total area rehabilitated 129 542 1 689 1 689 1 689 Legal compliance5 Fines, penalties and settlements (number) 7 3 9 46 20 Fines, penalties and settlements (US$m) 0,40 0,06 4,00 2,00 0,41 * Assurance refers to the 2013 parameters independently verified by the external assurance provider in 2013, in accordance with the statement on page 62. * GHG data restated for the years 2000 to 2012. NR Not reported 60 overview Notes 1 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have been calculated and reported 3 Managing land use and biodiversity: we do not have operations in areas that in accordance with the GHG Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org). On the basis of have been declared biodiversity hotspots (areas identified as being critical or the outcome of our GHG data review undertaken this year (see page 46), some endangered eco-regions). However, we do have interests in areas of potential of the previously reported data in our sustainable development reports (SDR) sensitivity, particularly as part of some of our upstream exploration and extraction has had to be revised. This is mainly due to a restatement of methane emissions activities. In accordance with our environmental management practices, the at our Secunda facility. protection of biodiversity issues is addressed formally in new projects through environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and in existing projects through 2 Waste: the definitions of “waste” vary widely around the world. For reporting environmental management plans and/or programmes (EMPs). We are also working purposes, we use the applicable definitions of regulatory authorities. In situations to assess the biodiversity of the habitats in land currently owned, leased or with insufficient guidance from legislation, the definitions of hazardous waste are managed throughout the group. reported if it is (i) removed from the premises for disposal and/or treatment, or (ii) disposed of onsite (e.g. by landfill). These figures exclude coarse ash from 4 Total area disturbed: a subsidence risk of previously undermined areas has been gasification and fly ash from boilers. Non-hazardous waste is waste which requires identified at Sasol Mining; we have started engaging with affected landowners on disposal on a general waste landfill site. Recycled waste is materials left over from this issue. manufacturing or consumption, which may be re-used or recycled. Hazardous 5 Legal compliance: the figure includes fines and penalties for non-compliance with waste is waste which needs to be disposed of in a licensed hazardous waste landfill all applicable international, regional, national and local laws and regulations site, or incinerated or transported to a hazardous waste treatment, storage, associated with safety, health and environmental issues. Payments include fines disposal or recycling facility. In 2013, hazardous and non-hazardous waste figures due to non-compliance with laws, regulations and permits, compensation include recycled waste figures, however, was not included in prior years. The data payments and regular proactive payments made as a result of non-compliance will be corrected historically using the revised calculation in the next year. with regulations where there is a potential for any enforcement action. The payments do not include levies, or costs for lawyers and product liabilities. addressing our material sustainability challenges society 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Rm Rm Rm Rm Rm Turnover 181 269 169 446 142 436 122 256 137 836 Less purchased materials and services (103 572) (102 517) (86 179) (74 061) (89 393) Value added 77 697 66 929 56 257 48 195 48 443 Finance income 1 153 1 275 1 283 1 549 2 060 Wealth created 78 850 68 204 57 540 49 744 50 503 % % % % % Employees1 31,8 25 038 30,1 20 520 32,9 18 907 35,3 17 546 34,7 17 532 Providers of equity capital 14,8 11 691 15,1 10 274 12,3 7 040 11,6 5 806 14,4 7 260 Providers of debt 2,9 2 304 2,3 1 565 2,4 1 392 3,6 1 799 4,3 2 191 Governments – direct taxes 14,5 11 425 15,0 10 267 12,5 7 198 11,3 5 602 18,7 9 413 Reinvested in the group 36,0 28 392 37,5 25 578 39,9 23 003 38,2 18 991 27,9 14 107 Wealth distribution 100,0 78 850 100,0 68 204 100,0 57 540 100,0 49 744 100,0 50 503 Broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2 BBBEE verification certificate Level 4 Level 4 Level 4 Level 4 Level 5 our performance data 3 Preferential procurement (score out of 20) 17,85 14,5 15,8 14,36 10,9 Preferential procurement (R’billion) from all suppliers R28,6 R20,5 R13,4 R11,8 R7,4 1 Due to the change in the presentation of the Income Statement from a classification based on function to a classification based on nature, the employees amount has been restated in 2011 and 2012. 2 Subsequent to 30 June 2013, we achieved level 3 BBBEE contributor status. 3 Restatement of 2012 preferential procurement score out of 20. 61 data and assurance continued assurance statement Introduction Summary of work performed We have been appointed by Sasol Limited (Sasol) to conduct an Standards and criteria used independent assurance engagement in Accordance with AA1000AS on We performed our work in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance selected information related to Sasol’s sustainable development report Standard (AS) 2008 Type 2 requirements and used the following (SDR) 2013 for the financial year ended June 2013. assessment criteria when undertaking our work: •• AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS) 2008; Assurance scope and subject matter •• the Sasol Standard for Sustainable Development Reporting The identified subject matter in the assurance scope and levels of Requirements and Definitions; assurance as agreed with Sasol are as follows: •• the United Nations 24 Global Compact Advanced Criteria, and •• Sasol’s adherence to the AA1000APS AccountAbility Principles of •• the GRI (G4) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines – Reporting Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness for an expression of Principles and Standard Disclosures. moderate assurance. •• Selected key non-financial performance indicators as listed below Level of Assurance and engagement limitations and referenced in the GRI table on www.sasolsdr.com. We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our High assurance assurance conclusions as to whether the reported information set out a) Total production (kilotons) in the scope was free from material misstatement at either a b) Recordable case rate (RCR), including employees and service moderate or high level of assurance as indicated. providers The evidence gathering procedures for moderate assurance are more c) Total number of fatalities restricted than for high assurance and therefore less assurance is d) Number of reportable fires, explosions and releases obtained with moderate assurance than for high assurance as per (number of events) AA1000AS 2008. e) Total energy use (thousand gigajoules) The reliability of the reported sustainability information and data is f) Particulates (fly ash) (kilotons) subject to inherent uncertainty, given the available methods for g) Sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions (kilotons) determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. h) Nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions (kilotons) i) Carbon dioxide (CO2) – direct (Scope 1) (kilotons) Our work A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance practitioners j) Carbon dioxide (CO2) – indirect (Scope 2 and 3) (kilotons) with experience in Sasol’s industry sector performed work at corporate k) Direct methane emissions (kilotons) level and at a sample of its operating locations. Our work consisted of: l) Total greenhouse gases (CO2 equivalent) (kilotons) •• face-to-face interviews to understand and test the processes in m) Nitrious oxide (N2O) (kilotons) place for reporting on the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and the key performance indicators (KPIs); Moderate assurance •• obtaining an understanding of the systems used to generate, a) Total material use (kilotons) aggregate and report the data at the operations sampled; b) Total water use (1 000 m3) •• site visits to operations, which involved applying the assurance c) Total amount of water recycled (1 000 m3) criteria, testing key controls on a sample basis, testing collection, d) Hazardous waste (kilotons) aggregation and reporting processes in place; e) Non-hazardous waste (kilotons) •• reviewing the consolidation of data at business unit level and at f) Total waste (kilotons) the Sasol SHE Centre; g) Number of product transportation incidents •• reviewing Sasol’s disclosure against the United Nations Global Compact principles Advanced Criteria; SD h) Employee turnover number •• reporting our assurance findings to management as they arose to i) Learnerships offered Sasol sustainable development report 2013 provide them with the opportunity to correct them prior to •• Sasol’s self-declared United Nations Global Compact principles finalisation of our work; disclosure presented at www.sasolsdr.com for an expression of •• reviewing the presentation of the KPI’s assured for consistency with moderate assurance. our work performed; and •• reviewing the presentation of the report against the “in accordance” – core GRI-G4 disclosure requirements. 62 overview Respective responsibilities and ERM’s independence In relation to the Responsiveness Principle Sasol’s responses to stakeholder issues reviewed are considered to Sasol is responsible for preparing the report and for the collection and be appropriate. Approved stakeholder communication processes presentation of information within it. ERM’s responsibility is to express are in place and the SDR content has been influenced by assurance conclusions in terms of the agreed brief. stakeholder comments. ERM maintains strict policies related to conflict of interest and we have confirmed our impartiality to Sasol in delivering our assurance Selected performance indicators It is ERM’s view that, although Sasol’s sustainability reporting process engagement. is mature, the effective implementation of the planned electronic sustainable development reporting platform will reduce human error Our assurance conclusions along the reporting chain during the full reporting period to a large 1. In our opinion, based on the work undertaken for moderate degree going forward. assurance as indicated in the scope of work above, Sasol has adhered to the AA1000 Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Comprehensive management reports detailing specific findings and Responsiveness in all material respects. recommendations for sustainability data reporting have been submitted to the management of the respective business units visited 2. In our opinion, and based on the work undertaken for high assurance as well as to Sasol’s group management. as indicated in the scope of work above, the KPIs as referenced in the data table on pages 59 and 60 have been prepared in accordance with the defined reporting criteria in all material respects. addressing our material sustainability challenges 3. In our opinion, and based on the work undertaken for moderate assurance as indicated in the scope of work above, the KPIs as referenced in the data table on pages 59 and 60 have been prepared in accordance with the defined reporting criteria in all material respects. 4. In our opinion, based on the work undertaken for moderate Massimo Bettanin assurance, the self-declared United Nations Global Compact Environmental Resources Management SA (Pty) Ltd (ERM) Principles Advanced Criteria disclosure on www.sasolsdr.com, has Johannesburg, 17 October 2013 been prepared in accordance with the defined reporting criteria in all material respects. Our key observations and recommendations Based on our work set out above, and without affecting our assurance conclusions above, our key observations and recommendations for improvement are: AA1000 AccountAbility Principles ERM is an independent global provider of environmental, social and In relation to the Inclusivity Principle corporate responsibility consulting and assurance services. Sasol has a formal stakeholder engagement function that is applied across the organisation and governed through a subcommittee of the Our assurance statement provides no assurance on the maintenance and board. A global stakeholder management strategy, scorecard and integrity of the website, including controls used to maintain this, and in engagement charter is in place that are in the process of particular whether any changes may have occurred to the information implementation to cover all identified stakeholder groups. since it was first published. These matters are the responsibility of Sasol and no control procedures can provide assurance in this area. In relation to the Materiality Principle Sasol has applied due process in determining and reporting on its material issues in a transparent and balanced manner. An annual group-wide materiality process is followed that encompasses an assessment of Sasol’s group-wide risks, as identified through an our performance data internal risk assessment process, as well as careful consideration of the interests and expectations of both internal and external stakeholders. 63 key contacts Office of the chief executive officer Stakeholder relations Corporate governance Fay Hoosain Haiko Alfeld Vuyo Kahla Telephone: +27 11 441 3868 Telephone: +27 11 344 2635 Telephone: +27 11 441 3413 ceo.office@sasol.com haiko.alfeld@sasol.com vuyo.kahla@sasol.com Sasol SHE Centre Human resources Michelle du Toit Hermann Wenhold S’ne Mkhize Telephone: +27 11 441 3359 Telephone: +27 11 344 0147 Telephone: +27 11 441 4646 michelle.dutoit@sasol.com hermann.wenhold@sasol.com sinenhlanhla@sasol.com Sasol Limited Investor relations Black economic empowerment 1 Sturdee Avenue, Rosebank, 2196, Johannesburg Sam Barnfather Bheki Masondo PO Box 5486, Johannesburg, 2000, South Africa Telephone: +27 11 441 3113 Telephone: +27 11 441 3277 Telephone: +27 11 441 3111 investor.relations@sasol.com bheki.masondo@sasol.com Telefax: +27 11 788 5092 Website: www.sasol.com Corporate communications Corporate social investment Jacqui O’Sullivan Mpho Letlape Telephone: +27 11 441 3252 Telephone: +27 11 344 2874 jacqui.osullivan@sasol.com mpho.letlape@sasol.com Credits: Sasol’s 2013 sustainable development report has been produced and published by the Sasol SHE Centre in partnership with the corporate communications department of Sasol Limited. The report forms part of an ongoing commitment to keep Sasol stakeholders informed on key group aspirations, viewpoints, achievements and challenges in the field of sustainable development. Forward-looking statements: Contingent resources are defined as those quantities of petroleum estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable from a known accumulation by application of development projects, but which are not currently considered to be commercially recoverable due to one or more contingencies. There is therefore uncertainty as to the portion of the volumes identified as contingent resources that will be commercially producible. Sasol may, in this document, make certain statements that are not historical facts and relate to analyses and other information which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements may also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding exchange rate fluctuations, volume growth, increases in market share, total shareholder return and cost reductions. Words such as “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “intend”, “seek”, “will”, “plan”, “could”, “may”, “endeavour” and “project” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific, and there are risks that the predictions, forecasts, projections and other forward-looking statements will not be achieved. If one or more of these risks materialise, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated. You should understand that a number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in such forward-looking statements. These factors are discussed more fully in our most recent annual report under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on Form 20-F filed on 9 October 2013 and in other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The list of factors discussed therein is not exhaustive; when relying on forward-looking statements to make investment decisions, you should carefully consider both these factors and other uncertainties and events. Forward-looking statements apply only as of the date on which they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of them, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Please note: A billion is defined as one thousand million. All references to years refer to the financial year ended 30 June. Any reference to a calendar year is prefaced by the word “calendar”. Note on measurement: besides applying barrels (b) and cubic feet (cf) for reporting on oil and gas reserves and production, we apply Système International (SI) metric measures for all global operations. A ton (also spelt as tonne) denotes one metric ton equivalent to 1 000 kilograms (kg) or about SD 2 200 imperial pounds. Our reference to a metric ton should not be confused with an imperial ton equivalent to 2 240 pounds (or about 1 016 kg). Sasol sustainable development report 2013 In addition, in line with a particular South African distinction under the auspices of the South African Bureau of Standards (SABS), all Sasol global reporting emanating from South Africa uses the decimal comma (e.g. 3,5) instead of the more familiar decimal point (e.g. 3.5) used in the UK, USA and elsewhere. Similarly, a hard space is used to distinguish thousands in numeric figures (e.g. 2 500) instead of a comma (e.g. 2,500). A billion is defined as 1 000 million. Production Project management: Stiaan Wandrag and Elvina Hercules Strategic advice and editorial: Incite (www.incite.co.za) Design and reprographics: Studio 5 (www.studio5.co.za) Independent assurers: ERM (www.erm.com) 64 Supporting global initiatives related to sustainable development We participate in various international voluntary initiatives relating to sustainable development: •• We play an active role in the global chemical industry’s Responsible Care® initiatives, and participate in working groups of the European Chemical Industries’ Council (CEFIC) and the South African Chemical and Allied Industries’ Association (CAIA). •• We have been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2001, and in March 2008 we endorsed the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate. •• We participate in the Global Product Strategy (GPS) initiative of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). •• We support the principles of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). •• We participate in the annual Carbon and Water Disclosure Projects. •• We are corporate members of numerous local and international businesses, engineering, scientific and other organisations. •• We are members of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the National Business Initiative (NBI). In 2013 we qualified for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) in the Oil and Gas Producers’ sector with an overall score of 70%. This is the seventh successive year we have been included in the DJSI. We were also included in the JSE SRI universe during 2012. Sasol DJSI Score Environmental impact of Sasol’s sustainable development report 80 We calculated the CO2 emissions associated 70 with the business travel of the consultants who assisted Oil and Gas Producers’ sector (%) 60 Sasol in compiling this report and auditing the data. 50 Using the World Resources Institute’s SafeClimate carbon footprint calculator, this amounted to 11,9 tons 40 of CO2 equivalent. A more comprehensive overview 30 is provided on our website, www.sasol.com. 20 10 0 09 10 11 12 13 For further information, please contact: Stiaan Wandrag Group Safety, Health and Environment Centre Sasol Group Services (Pty) Ltd PO Box 5486 Johannesburg 2000 Republic of South Africa Telephone: +27(0)11 344 0308 Facsimile: +27(0)11 522 8748 E-mail: stiaan.wandrag@sasol.com Printed on Sappi Triple Green Matt The primary source of pulp in the Triple Green product range is bagasse (post agricultural sugar cane waste). The wood fibre is obtained from sustainable forests and the bleaching process is elemental chlorine free. www.sasol.com
