30 January 2013 Communication on Progress Team United Nations Global Compact Two United Nations Plaza New York, NY 10017 Dear Communication on Progress Team, We are delighted for submitting our annual COP consisting of: A. Statement B. Description of actions C. Measurements of outcomes A. Statement With this letter we declare our commitment to continuing support of the initiative and its principles of Global Compact, with respect of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. B. Description of actions Company strategy and goals, have included specific actions for 2012 for the following areas: Market Place, Human Resources and Environment Society Environment: We aim to have positive impact in the environment by minimizing the negative impact and raise awareness of citizens by recycling electrical and electronic devices, batteries, ink cartridges, paper, etc. and by reducing petrol consumption through the use of hybrid corporate cars. Society: We apply a business model which combines our company’s growth with the prosperity of those who are affected by our operation, through various actions, including products and services for children and people of 3rd age. Human Resources: We respect human rights, provide equal opportunities among employees, avoid discriminations, encourage freedom of association and ensure meritocracy in developing our employees. For example, employees are trained every year, we achieve zero fatal accidents, we offer additional employee benefits etc Marketplace: Based on the principles of transparency and ethics we facilitate responsible operation within the marketplace by sending Newsletter, organizing workshops for professional groups, by inspiring customer satisfaction, participating in Public Researches etc C. Measurements of outcomes The degree of targets/ performance is very near to the optimum expected level. i.e. between 85% 95% ! We remain at your disposal. Sincerely yours, George D. Zafiriou CEO Comergon S.A. Risk Managers – Insurance Brokers 9 Brahamiou, Marousi 151 24, Athens, Greece Broker License: 227848 Switchboard:(+30)210.61.96.525, FAX:(+30)210.61.98.479 www.comergon.gr, e-mail: info@comergon.gr
