UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT (COP) 2012 BİLDİRİMİ 28.08.2013 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 1 / 32 2012 CONTENT 1. Global Compact 3 2. About MARTUR Co. 4 2.1. Company Histor 4 2.2. Vision, Mission, Values 4 2.3. Awards and Certifications 5 3. CEO ’s Message 8 4. Human Rights & Working Conditions 9 5. Environment 19 6. Anti-Corruption 28 7. Corporate Social Responsibility Projects 29 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 2 / 32 2012 1. Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Working Conditions Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Technologies. Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 3 / 32 2012 2. About MARTUR Co. Integrity and focus on people assure that Martur’s excellence spans across every level of our business. Our long history of positive and effective employee practices provide us with a set of beliefs, approaches and tools that we apply in every detail of our business. In pace with our core values, we nurture a deep commitment to our employees. Developing and motivating people as innovators and leaders is a cornerstone in our management process. An integral part of our DNA is creating long-lasting customer relationships and working closely with them to identify their need and provide solutions that support their success. The concept of providing solutions specific to our customers' challenges has been with Martur Group since the very beginning. Martur is a member of group of companies supplying high quality products. With R&D and design offices in multiple locations in Europe, Martur continues to set the standards for the industry. 2.1.Company History Founded in 1983 to produce molded foam, Martur is now one of the leading suppliers for production of automotive seats worldwide. Operating now in Bursa in three factories employing more than 1450 people, the company has initiated new investments in Kütahya Organized Industrial Zone. The company designs and manufactures seats for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. In addition the company also designs and manufactures automotive fabrics and seat structures. The company produces for renowned local and international OEMs. 2.2.Vision, Mission, Values Martur is the member of group of companies supplying high quality components for car interiors to the automotive industry. Product design & development and innovative solutions are key factors of our group. Our Vision ; • To bring our company up to a global scale • To fulfill customer demands worldwide • To make innovations on product design, process & materials MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 4 / 32 2012 Our Mission ; • To increase our customers' competition strength by offering high quality and innovative products, services and solutions • To achieve and maintain profitability that will finance our investments and continuous growth • To fulfill our responsibilities towards our country • To fulfill our responsibilities towards our employees • To protect our environment and natüre Our Values: • Transparency • Independency • Leadership • Reliability • Sustainability • Customer-focused solutions • Environmental Management • Innovation 2.3.Awards and Certifications Ministry of Environment and Urbanization – BURSA The Cleanest Industrial Plant 2013 BUSİAD 2012 Environment Award 2013 ISO 50001 Energy Management System Certificate 2013 ISO TS 14064 : 1 Specification with Guidance at the Organization Level for Quantification and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Removals – 2012 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 5 / 32 2012 FIAT WCM The Most Successful Professional Maintenance Application – 2012 FIAT WCM The Most Successful Major Kaizen Applications – 2012 FIAT WCM The Most Successful Managerial Pillar Applications – 2012 ISO/TS 16949 : 2009 – Quality Management System Certificate BS OHSAS 18001 : 2007 – Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems Certificate ISO 14001 : 2004 Environmental Management Systems Certificate MINISTRY OF SCIENCE INDUSTRY AND TECHNOLOGY R&D Center Award – 2010 FIAT Strategic Partnership Award – 2010 FIAT Best Supplier Proposal Performance Award – 2010 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 6 / 32 2012 TOYOTA Value Analysis Award 2009 FIAT Most Successful Supplier Award in Technical Cost Improvement TOFAŞ Yan Sanayi Kalite Ödülü 2005 MAN Best Supplier Award – 2005 TOFAŞ Supplier Quality Award 2005 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 7 / 32 2012 3. CEO ‘s Message We adopt to act with a sense of social responsibility towards our employees, the community and the environment of all our activities as a building stone. We believe that our core value is human resources in order to enhance the competitiveness of our customers by providing high-quality and innovative products, solutions and services. Global warming and climate change are among the most important problems of recent times and leads to excessive consumption of natural resources. In order to leave a clean and livable world to the next generation we act with an environmental awareness in all of our activities and adopt to be the leader in this respect as a principle. We conduct effective projects to increase the energy efficiency, decrease the waste and the consumption of natural resources. By signing the UN Global Compact Martur A.Ş. undertakes; to share his works related to ten main areas which are located under main topics human rights, labor, environment and prevention of corruption with the whole world and to take the lead for his employees, suppliers and stakeholders in order to adopt Global Compact. Martur A.Ş. will continue to support ten principles of the UN Global Compact in a big loyalty. Yours Sincerely, ÖMER ALTUN MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 8 / 32 2012 4. Human Rights & Working Conditions We believe that our biggest strength for achieving our strategic targets and managing growth in continuously changing competition conditions is our human resources. We believe that the PEACE AT WORK ensured by respect, tolerance and environment of Confidence in business relations has a significant impact on the engagement of our employees and business success, and we show maximum effort to this end. With our Human Resources Processes, we target to employ human resources who are open to novelty and change, dynamic, target continuous self-development and care ethical values, and to keep satisfaction and motivation of employees high. We are aware of our social responsibility and we RECRUIT people by pursuing the principle of equal opportunity, without discriminating between religion, language, race, gender, civil status, physical obstacle, region, etc. while choosing the human resources that our company needs among the candidates who; • Have knowledge and skills with competences satisfying requirements of the position, • Have a high development potential, • Will adopt and maintain values of our company and care ethical values, • are older than 18 years old. Our priority is our internal resources, that is, our employees in order to meet human resources needs at different countries, locations and positions in accordance with the globalization vision of our continuously grooving and developing firm. We conduct effective Career Management with vertical and horizontal position changes by means of training and competence management systems which increase personal and professional competence of employees. We manage the Performance Assessment process with fair, transparent, concrete and measureable criteria in order to provide resource for the career plans of our employees and reveal development opportunities. We determine our price Policy in line with employee competences, performance, economic data and sectoral trends. We implement Introduction & Appreciation Systems in order to share and award the successes of our employees in every activity providing added value. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 9 / 32 2012 4.1 Employee Profile Age Chart Educational Chart 4.2 Recruitment And Orientation Current locations of religion, language, race, gender, marital status, region, and so on. Without distinction, the selection of human resources in our company's needs, knowledge and skill competencies to meet the requirements of the position with a high potential for development, the company will offer to adopt the values and ethical values with care, taking into consideration the principle of equal opportunity among candidates older than 18 years have been making recruitment. The internal resources of the Company's priority is to close the open positions. Candidates have basic, technical and behavioral competencies according to the position and suitable to the company title structure criteria can evaluate at different positions. The hired candidate, the general orientation training is included in the orientation process, then the appropriate job description. General orientation trainings are as follows: • General Information about company • Basic Occupational Health and Safety Information • Environmental Standards and Emergency Plan • IT System Information After the general orientation training, other training programs in accordance with their job description, then the process is followed. All trainings are saved into the system. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 10 / 32 2012 On the Job Trainings for new personnel 4.3 Compensation and Benefits All employees have social benefits such as food, cleaning, private insurance, clothing, birth, death, marriage and trainings except of SSK, transportation, food benefits. Internship and Scholarship Opportunities For children of employees in the company are provided that have certain conditions, able to benefit from internships and scholarship opportunities. Health Care Opportunities As giving importance to our employees’ health, high-quality services are offered to our employees with high-qualified health care team and well-equipped infirmary. Annually periodic examinations, blood tests, eye control, lung control, and so on. Services are also available Except for emergency response at the time of accident or illness. Martur A.Ş. Medical Examination and Health Care Analysis MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 11 / 32 2012 4.4 Training and Development By ensuring the continuous development of our employees, to provide the recruitment in all locations that are need Educational Management System is applied the technical and personal competencies to follow-up systematically, developed and to provide sustainability. All training records are saved on the system on an individually. All training materials are prepared in a standard format given in our company, PD Development portal, shared and up to date information available. 4.5 Competencies And Career Management Compatible with the objectives of the company, we aim to increase employees 'personal and professional competence through training and competency management systems. Also, employees' career development is supposed with task changes the vertical and horizontal directions. In addition, foreign language courses such as Italian, French, English are organized for developing our employees individual competencies each year. Managers Development Appropriate training according to positions are determined by creating a matrix. After training, competency program and matrix are updated. (NOTE: “*” symbolized required training for the position). 4.6 White Collar and Specialist Development Competencies of the employees on the basis of departments and positions are monitored through the portal. Compatible with the competence requirements defined in the job descriptions. Then, required training and practices are realized and their competencies are updated and followed the portal. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 12 / 32 2012 4.7 Blue Collar Development Mavi Yaka Yetkinlik Yönetim Süreci MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 13 / 32 2012 Appreciation Award for Occupational Martur A.Ş. has been selected for year 2010 Competencies Development Projects by and 2011 as the best company that invests in BUIKAD people by OyakRenault. EDUCATION PROGRAM (Technical & Personel Education Program) Year Total Education Total Participant (person / day) 2012 342 7861 THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS RECEIVING SCHOLARSHIPS Year Student 2011 2012 86 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 14 / 32 2012 4.8 Recognition And Rewarding System Martur involved in on-site employees, value added, the performance of every activity or sharing of proven track record of success Recognition & Reward System was created to ensure that all our employees to reward and encourage the continued development of our employees. Powered by the creativity of employees, the owners of creative ideas by motivating all employees through recognition and rewarding of the creative and innovative self-thinking and creative ideas to increase participation in the activities of the company receiving the application provide the most effective way. Personnel that are retirement after worked at Martur A.Ş. at least 10 years Martur A.Ş. are rewarded with Retirement Plaque. Retirement Awards Performance Evaluation Awards MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 15 / 32 2012 Suggestions are classified as measurable and immeasurable according to their yields and they are evaluated different calculations. Suggestions that yield able to measure are rewarded monthly and the others are rewarded once 4 months. Suggestion Awards Martur A.Ş. as a company that values employees provides the opportunity by participating in Suggestion System for improving their working area and participating in management. For this reason, some of various activities are carried out in order to encourage employees not participating. Some of these are as follows: Employees are provided to participate “Suggestion System” via KIOSKs. “Suggestion Days” is organized for employees by determining some topics to “Suggestion Boards”. Information Trainings are organized for “Suggestion System”. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 16 / 32 2012 4.9 Employees Satisfaction And Motivation The main social events were organized to increase employees satisfaction and motivation as follows; Martur Football Tournament Summer Schools for Children Summer Kids Festival 4.10 Social Responsibility Projects a) Support For Education Projects Book Donation Campaign Laboratory of Ali Osman Sönmez High School MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 17 / 32 2012 b) Healthy Life Campaigns QUIT SMOKING CAMPAIGN Appreciation Award by Onko-Day Some of Social Responsibility Projects are carried out together with Onko-Day Society that is struggled with cancer. Informative Seminars were organized to our employees about Breast Cancer on 8th of The World Women’s Day by specialist doctors. Blood Donation Campaign carried out annually together with Kızılay Society. c) Nursing Home Visits Nursing Home visits are carried out by employees of the Company at certain times. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 18 / 32 2012 5. Environment Common aim of the MARTUR Board Of Management and all employees is performing the requirements of Occupational Health Safety Management System and Environmental Management System and improving continuous efficiency of system, all along the line of product and proces’ design, production and service activities. In order to achieve this aim, following principles were determined: • Sustaining an Occupational Health Safety Management System and Environmental Management System that is sponsored by steering commitee, assimilated and performed by all employees, controlled, reviewed, suitable for, inspection and continously improved. • Relative to occupational health – safety and environment; principally performing legal requirements and the other requirements of all customers and the other related companies. • With the awareness of occupational health and safety importance, creation of accidentfree work places and development of new systems to minimize our losses in case of emergency. • To comply with the objectives of occupational safety and ergonomy for product and process design , process or significant changes in the production processes • To protect the human resources from injuries and health deteriorations caused: by work accidents, within the boundaries of the plant. • Realizing the risk assessments in an effective way to reduce the risk levels. • Keeping under control and minimizing all wastes and environmental impacts. • Encouraging and supporting the activities of recycling, effective usage, reusing and minimizing energy and natural resources consumptions. • Improving the awareness of environmental facilities and culture of occupational health and safety of our employees and suppliers’. • Using more recyclable raw materials that have less environmental effects and tecnology at all product and process design and production processes as much as possible. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 19 / 32 2012 Martur A.Ş. for protect Environmental ; Reducing of natural resource consumption, reducing the use of chemicals and reducing of wastes issues related to compliance with environmental legislation are carried out. All the legal requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety and environmental issues are analyzed, providing 100% compliance. Increasing consciousness level and awareness of Employees aimed about Environment & Energy. Employees are expected to opportunities for improving the environmental and energy issues. In order to ensure participation in suggestion system; we are provided single point lesson about environment&energy, environment club and energy saving school training, classroom training periodicly. ENERGY INFORMATION Basic Trainings ; ISO 14001 Environment Management Systems Environmental Accidents &Emergency Management Waste Management ISO 50001 Energy Management System Training Environment Club & Energy Saving School MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 20 / 32 2012 ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY PORTAL Annual Environmental Report, ISO 50001 information presentation and annual greenhouse gas report are shared with employees in the Environmental & Energy Portal. MARTUR A.Ş. acts in awareness of global warming, climate change and gradually decrease of natural resources. Martur A.Ş. constantly reviews production and service activities in order to minimize the environmental impact and energy consumption, uses more recycling raw material and advanced technology at all stage of product & process design by considering the energy efficiency and environmental issues. Visual Training are given to all employees in Environment Club & Energy Saving School which opened on the 2011 Environment Week. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 21 / 32 2012 Visual Training corners in the Environment Club and Energy Saving School ; RENEWABLE ENERGY AIR PRESSURE WATER SAVING SAVING EQUIPMENT INSULATION LIBRARY Hands-on trainings are provided to our employees in the Environment Club & Energy Saving School. Increasing the level of awareness of employees, the proposal also increased the number. Every year on the Environmental Week, proposal campaign about improving of Environment Management System and reducing of the energy losses are organized. Coming proposals are realized. Proposal Campaign is organized about Environment & Energy on the Environment Week. Gifts are given to all employees participating in our event. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 22 / 32 2012 Climate change is determined as one of the biggest problems of countries, humans, business world shortly of all world for the next century. A number of initiatives are being developed in order to reduce greenhouse gases in international, regional, national and local levels. Those initiatives are based on calculation of green house gases removals, monitoring, reporting and verification. Martur A.Ş. has been completed its works about calculation and reporting of 14064 Green House Gases Emissions at organizational level. Martur has got the first 14064 -1 certification in Turkey among automotive suppliers which produce complete components. ISO 14064 – 1 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 23 / 32 2012 Milkrun application was realized to reduce environmental impacts with Lojistic and Environment Departments. At the result of this Project, we reduced 20 tons CO2 . ISO 50001 Energy Management System is a system that can be integrated with other management systems. ISO 50001 wants to define important energy consumption points of organization Energy Management Working Group was established by the Energy Management Representative. In October of 2012, continue to work on ISO 50001 Energy Management System certification. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 24 / 32 2012 Realized energy improvements for reducing of Energy Consumption and increasing of Energy Efficiency ; • Obtaining from compressor oil heat of cataphoresis hot water need The elimination of the use of natural gas • Improvement of lighting systems for saving • Standardization Of Machine Status At The Nonproduction Time By Classification Of Machine And Aparatus • Prevention of Excessive Energy Consumption by adding soft starter of the frame assembly robot unit. • Integrating of simulation program for reducing energy consumption on Frame Assembly Robot Unıt. • Back robot welding system with the addition of valve manufacturing non stopping times punta cooling water circulation • Preventation of heat lacking with double door systems and ventilation automation. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 25 / 32 2012 • Compressed air works against loss detected by ultrasonic detector Realized improvements for reducing of natural sources consumption ; • Consumption Second Quality Water instead of First Quality Water On Cataphoresis Process • Consumption Second Quality Water instead of First Quality Water On Cataphoresis Process Approximate %100 By Adding Sand Filter • Providing Water Needs Of Cataphoresis Rinse Tanks With Conductometry Which Works According To Maximum Conductivity Realized improvements for reducing of waste ; • Elimination of the Spray Paınt Boxes by making the Cataphoresis rework cabin • Amount Of The Waste Resin is reduced by Adding Sand Filter • Membrane Fılter Waste Reductıon wıth the provision of the optımum operatıng conditions in the Cataphoresis Membrane Filtres ECO-FRIENDLY PRODUCTS R & D projects, which is obtained from the recovery of waste PET bottles Car Seat Fabric project Used PET bottles PET bottle bales Recycled recycled parts Recycled PET chips MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 26 / 32 2012 ENVIRONMENT PROJECTS We planted 748 young trees for our employee’s children are between 6 and 14. through the medium of TEMA. YEAR TEMA TREE PLANTING ACTIVITY 2011 748 numbers 2012 1008 numbers Art Competition about Environment, Energy and Safety was realized with 140 employees’ childs on the Environment Week. “TÜRKİYE’NİN CANI” CAMPAIGN SUPPORT MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 27 / 32 2012 Martur Co. was joined “TÜRKİYENİN CANI” campaign for support projects for conservating our country's unique natural heritage and biological diversity in 2012. 6. Anti-Corruption Business Ethics Policy and Rules Busıness Ethıcs Policy was created by Martur Co. (www.martur.com.tr / intranetmartur) Ethical committee, which reports to the Chairman of the Board is responsible for investigating and resolving the complaints and notifications regarding the violation of business ethics rules. We adopt an eternal commitment to the principles of Business Ethics Policy and act accordingly in all our activities. The main principles of business ethics policy; • Establıshıng And Maintaining Fair Work Environment • Confidentiality • Giving And Accepting Gifts • Conflict of Interest Management • Utilization of Resources MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 28 / 32 2012 7. Corporate Social Responsibility Projects 7.1 Social Responsibility Policy SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Our management approach is built upon our values, which constitute the cornerstone of our corporate culture, and social responsibility understanding against our Employees, the Society and the Environment during all our activities. We believe that human resources is our real asset to increase the competitive power of our customers by serving high quality and creative products, solutions and services with Sustainable Growth. We conduct all our business dealings in accordance with the human rights and global principles, and give all personal benefits of our employees in compliance with the applicable laws of all countries. In order to create a safe and healthy work environment, we conduct and modify all our activities based on our Policy of Health and Safety at Work. Thanks to our Humanitarian, Friendly and Modest approach, we also encourage our employees to act accordingly. We support team work and collaboration, and encourage hard-working, self-discipline, rigor and patience. During all our corporate activities, we adopt a fair and honest attitude against our employees, and never tolerate discrimination because of language, race, color, sexual orientation, religion, sect, political orientation, age, physical disability or of other similar reasons. We take all required measures to Protect the Health of our employees, and organize Health Life Programs and ensure participation thereto. We meet all Environmental Requirements during our activities in accordance with Environmental Policy. We conduct our activities by showing due diligence to the protection of the environment, well beyond the legal requirements. We accept the Minimization of Environmental Effects, the Conservation of Energy and Natural Resources as our top priority in our Product and Process designs and one of our most important duties for a sustainable world. Under the scope of our Social Responsibility, full adherence to, and the implementation of, our above principles is our primary business goal, which is also one of expectations from our Employees, Suppliers and all entities we cooperate. We also work to raise the awareness with respect to social subjects by means of the training programs we organize. We are proud to fulfill our responsibilities towards society in all locations we operate, in close collaboration with our employees, public, non-governmental organizations and other stakeholders. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 29 / 32 2012 Education & Training; Kütahya Student Dormitory: We built a dormitory in Kütahya with a capacity of 300 students. Internship and Scholarship: In order to maintain our lead in the manufacturing techniques, we are constantly in liaison with nearby education facilities of our plants so that our know-how is always under scrutiny and ever-sharpened to achieve the most upto-date level. We establish internships and scholarships with such educational facilities in order to follow and apply new developments. Therefore, we support our employees’ successful children by scholarships. Support to Vocational High-Schools: Building a laboratory and library are the examples of our support to vocational highschools. Reconstruction of Schools: We are aware of the importance of education. Therefore we take this responsibility and we support construction modifications of village schools in coordination with local education authorities. Road Safety in Traffic: The consciousness and training of traffic safety should start at earlier stages of children. That is why, we organized a training seminar in 2011 for pre-school children, presenting the importance of seat belt usage via car seat simulations. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 30 / 32 2012 Environmental Sensitivity TEMA Project for Annual 23rd April World Childrens’ Day: (Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, For Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats). Our children are our future. It is our duty to make them conscious of environment as well as protect our natural richness. Each year, during the time of World Childrens’ Day on 23rd April, we plant trees in the name of our employees’ primary school children in cooperation with TEMA and we send certificates with a “Thank You” letter to their families. Environment Club: We established WCM Environment Club and Energy Saving School within our company in an effort to increase our employees’ consciousness and as a social reponsibility project. Drawing Competition: The children of our group companies’ employees drew wonderful pictures about environmental responsibility. These pictures are presented in different areas in our production plants. Environment Week: We organize Environment Week in early June each year. During the activities, we train our employees about environment and energy saving methods by different competitions, giving them pine saplings, energy saving bulbs or other home supplies, etc. Occupational Health and Safety ; Occupational Safety Week: Each year between 4th and 10th May, we celebrate the 'Occupational Safety Week'. During these celebrations, we organize trainings, panels and prize competitions, in order to develop our employee's consciousness of 'Occupational Health and Safety'. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 31 / 32 2012 Drawing Competition With An 'Occupational Health and Safety' Theme: Our employee's kids have shown us their point of view about the 'Occupational Health and Safety' with their drawings. These drawings are displayed in various places within the production facilities. Sports ; Summer Sports Schools: For the last 10 years, we organize summer sports activities for all group company employees’ children between 7 – 12 ages. These activities are all in our own sports facilities and totally free of charge (including sports wear, school bus, etc.). The activities consist of football, basketball and tennis during June & July. We are proud to announce that some of our students are now playing in the professional football and basketball leagues. Group Companies’ Tournaments: We organize our own sports tournaments of football, basketball and volleyball. In addition, we take part in local games and play with other companies’ sports teams. Blood Donation ; Each year, we organize our own blood donation campaign in coordination with Kızılay (Red Crescent Association) Other We also organize other social responsibility activities such as second hand book collection campaign, visiting old people in nursing homes, occupational safety related drawing competition for children of group companies’ employees, etc. Our company is also a member of AKUT (Search & Rescue Association). MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 32 / 32 2012
