COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2012 Dear reader IFU’s and IØ’s (the Funds) overall mission is to enhance sustainable economic growth, development and more equitable income distribution by financing private sector investments in developing countries and reforming economies. Our corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy is ambitious and is based upon international UN, ILO and OECD conventions, declarations and agreements. We hereby seek to contribute to the global achievement of the UN Millennium Development Goals. It is our objective that our investments contribute to a lasting economic, environmental and social sustainable development through the creation of healthy and safe workplaces and the transfer of knowhow and cleaner technologies. We wish to contribute to the social and economic development of the local community – and we also encourage the project companies to engage themselves locally. We are committed to securing high CSR standards as a fundamental aspect of sound business management of our investments and business practice. The Funds’ board of directors, management, employees and advisers must conduct all their business operations in accordance with the values and the spirit laid down in the CSR policy. We signed up to the 10 UN Global Compact principles in 2008, because they are a set of universal principles that help us underline our CSR policy, wherever in the world we create business, and we are committed to implementing and advancing these principles together with the project companies and within IFU’s sphere of influence. Copenhagen, April 2013 Finn Jønck Managing Director IFU as a partner IFU – Investment fund for developing countries was established in 1967, and for more than four decades our work has proven that it very often means good business for all parties if investment and development go hand in hand. IFU’s activities are based on the following: • We invest risk capital on market terms in the form of share capital, loans and guarantees in private sector companies that are established or will be established in developing countries or emerging markets. We call them project companies. • We provide professional advice regarding the business environment, investment terms and CSR issues as well as cultural and political barriers, etc., with assistance from our regional offices in developing countries and emerging markets and through our global network of advisers. • We provide continual knowhow and active support to the project companies. The Investment Fund for Central and Eastern Europe (IØ) IFU is fund manager for IØ, the Investment Fund for Central and Eastern Europe. IØ was founded in 1989. The Danish government decided in 2010 that IØ’s activities should be phased out, and IØ cannot enter into new commitments. | 2 | Communication on Progress (COP) CSR reporting Compliance and international standards are the baseline This COP, required annually of all signatories to the UN It is IFU’s policy that project companies must at all times Global Compact, includes both IFU and IØ (the Funds) be in compliance with all host country regulatory requireand constitutes the mandatory reporting as required by ments. In addition, international standards must be used the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99 a (7). as a baseline for significant CSR issues, and if these standards are not met, the project company must draw up and CSR plays an increasing role implement a CSR Action Plan to address the issues. CSR plays an increasing role in business. Company investors, customers, clients and other stakeholders have beProactive approach beyond compliance come less tolerant of irregularities in relation to issues IFU’s goal is for a project company’s CSR objectives to be such as the environment, labour rights, health and safety, anchored in its business strategy and be fully adapted to human rights and corruption. and integrated in company procedures and operations, so that CSR remains a strategic driver after IFU has exited. Companies that are not taking these issues seriously risk getting their reputation tarnished and losing customers, IFU encourages each project company to adopt its own thereby jeopardising their business. The risk is particularly CSR policy with a view to clearly defining and describing high when investing in developing countries, because forthe company’s vision, strategy and operational guidelines eign companies are expected to implement high standand e.g. sign up to the UN Global Compact. IFU sees this ards and are often under more intense public scrutiny. as a signal of strong commitment to CSR by the company, but companies may also apply other means to ensure high IFU is well aware of these risks and has for several years standards. been assisting Danish companies in complying with international standards and local regulations. This is done by Reporting on CSR Key Performance Indicators applying IFU’s CSR policy and offering advice to project Over the last couple of years, IFU has supported compacompanies on how to implement it. nies and their boards in standardising their CSR reporting. In that process, IFU has moved closer to identifying a Signed the UN Global Compact number of key performance indicators (KPI) on CSR reIFU is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, and our CSR ported on by the project companies. policy is based on its 10 principles covering four areas: human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption plus areas such as animal welfare and community. IFU’s CSR work is in line with the Danish government’s rights-based approach to development. According to the CSR policy, IFU investments must, on an on-going basis, contribute to creating jobs and income, improving corporate governance, sound environmental and social performance and development in the local communities involved. Implementing these objectives in a company’s business strategy helps reduce the risk to the business, but it can also make a company more profitable and produce business opportunities. A fair salary can minimize costly job turnover, saving energy can reduce expenses and high health and safety standards can limit loss of working days. A good reputation may also create new business. Niebuhr China, production of gearwheels. | 3 | Communication on Progress (COP) One KPI has been to measure the number of companies rated on the extent to which they have implemented adewhich have their own written CSR policy or were covered quate procedures to fight corruption. by a CSR policy defined by their parent company. In 2012, the number was 41 per cent, up from 30 per cent in 2011 Corruption is recognised as one of the greatest barriers to and 27 per cent in 2010. sustainable development, and combating corruption is a key element in poverty alleviation. The Funds have a zero Assessment of CSR performance tolerance policy on corruption and help project companies Each year IFU carries out an internal assessment of its to take a clear stand against corruption. The Funds enportfolio on compliance with its CSR policy. The CSR clascourage project companies to identify and assess the risk sification is a combination of four separate classifications: of becoming involved in corruption in all parts of their op1) environment, 2) occupational health and safety (OHS), erations and business relations and urge them to initiate 3) human rights and labour practices and 4) anti-corrupthe necessary preventive measures to counter the risks tion. Each project is scored on one of five categories as identified. The results of the classification are satisfactory follows: Excellent, Good, Fair, Poor and Critical. to the Funds, but we will continue to have focus on this issue to obtain further improvements. In 2012, compliance assessments were carried out for 169 IFU projects. The exercise did not include 21 projects that CSR Advisory Board were in the process of being established, 20 projects with IFU participates in several forums in order to remain no physical activities, and 13 projects being exited. Simiaware of stakeholder expectations and keep up-to-date larly for IØ, assessments were carried out for 33 projects. with developments in standards for good ethical behavThe exercise did not include two projects that were in the iour, dilemmas and risks. process of being established, seven with no physical activities, and three being exited. One initiative is our CSR Advisory Board, which has four members, each representing important IFU stakeholder isThe result showed that 83 per cent of the IFU projects and sues: human rights, environment, development and cor80 per cent of the IØ projects classified were classified as porate policy. The advisory board meets regularly to disgood or excellent in their CSR compliance (see chart below). cuss key issues such as media communication, due diligence tools, supply chain dilemmas and anti-corrupProjects with the classification Good are in compliance tion and facilitation payments. with local legislation and international standards, e.g. IFC/ World Bank EHS guidelines on significant CSR issues. ProThe members are: jects with the classification Excellent go beyond that. Pro• Poul Engberg-Pedersen, Deputy Director General jects with the classification Fair, Poor or Critical are given in IUCN, The International Union for Conservation extra attention, and the Funds will engage in discussions of Nature. with the partners on how the project can improve its CSR • John Nordbo, Conservation Director, performance. Head of Climate Programme, WWF • Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, Senior Partner, Global CSR The scores in 2012 are very similar to those of previous • Malene Østergaard, CSR & Environment Director, years, but as a new feature, project companies are also Danfoss Total score Environment Human rights and CSR OHS (%) Anti-corruption (%) (%) labour practices (%) classification IFU IØ IFU IØ IFU IØ IFU IØ IFU IØ Excellent 28 25 31 21 29 21 31 30 19 27 Good 55 55 55 61 51 61 55 55 61 43 Fair 16 20 14 18 19 18 14 15 18 30 Poor 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 Critical 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 | 4 | Communication on Progress (COP) Updated CSR handbook One lesson to be learned, however, is that some compaIn 2012, IFU re-published its CSR handbook, which serves nies, in many cases SMEs, work with CSR on an ad hoc as a tool for project companies operating in difficult envibasis rather than with a systematic and structured apronments in developing countries. The handbook contains proach. This is not a unique conclusion to IFU-financed relevant information that will help project companies SME projects, but it points out an area where IFU will focomply with IFU’s CSR policy and conduct business in a cus its advice in the future. sustainable and responsible manner. Danida CSR Training Fund The handbook can be used both as a manual and a referIFU manages the Danida CSR Training Fund, which can ence book. It contains examples on how to deal with comprovide training grants to IFU’s project companies. In plex challenges and handle specific problems. 2012, IFU made grant commitments for 11 CSR training programmes. The project companies have shown considA key issue in the 2012 edition is the strategic and proacerable interest in applying for these grants. The total antive approach to CSR. Responsibilities towards suppliers nual budget is DKK 3m. and other business relations are also emphasised in light of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human The Funds’ CSR performance Rights. The Funds’ have their head office in Copenhagen and small regional offices in Beijing, New Delhi, Cairo, Accra, Portfolio review in West Africa Nairobi and Johannesburg. Three of the African offices are In 2012, IFU’s project portfolio in western Africa was subin the same building as the Danish embassy. In 2012, an ject to an independent, external CSR review. The review average of 67 people were employed at the Funds, includwas carried out by SGS, and ten project companies in ing 56 at the head office. Looking at the significant CSR iswestern Africa were included in the review located in Besues for an organisation doing office work and visiting nin (2), Cameroon (1), Gambia (1), Ghana (3), Liberia (1) project companies around the world, the Funds pay speand Nigeria (2). cial attention to building performance including heating and electricity, health issues, transportation and compliThe aim of the review was to assess compliance with naance with staff ethics. tional legal requirements as well as conformance to IFU’s CSR policy. Key issues reviewed were how CSR is integraThe Funds have a comprehensive set of guidelines on staff ted in the business operations, human rights, labour pracethics formalising the ethical standards and policies applitices, health and safety, environment and anti-corruption. cable for all IFU employees. IFU employees deal with a wide array of cultures and therefore need to understand The review generally follows the practices of previous CSR not only political, social and economic features of a counreviews carried out in eastern and southern Africa, China, try, but also be sensitive to local cultures and appreciate India and Vietnam. the impact of these aspects in a business and social context, including anti-corruption, which requires strict staff SGS found that, overall, the companies had a very good loethics. cal compliance level. No critical issues such as child labour or forced labour were raised at any of the companies, The Funds’ investment managers participate in board and no serious health and safety issues were reported. meetings and visit the project companies, which means that the Funds have many travel kilometres every year. It is IFU’s administration is very pleased with the results of the also often necessary to be present on site to be able to CSR review, mainly because of the good compliance level. monitor all aspects of a company’s performance. The It is also encouraging that several companies have policies Funds try to find the right level of travel and keep it to a in place, have appointed a person responsible for CSR and minimum using e.g. new communication tools. But often have established health and safety committees that meet the Funds’ investments are in areas where these commuregularly. nication tools are not yet available or reliable. | 5 | Communication on Progress (COP) Participants in IFU FOCUS West Africa. IFU FOCUS Participants are mainly management-level staff from the IFU FOCUS ran for the third straight year in 2012 and project companies, Danish partners, local partners and, has now covered six regions in Asia and Africa. Based on depending on the size of the company, CSR and HR manthe positive experience from the past two years, an IFU agers. By the end of 2012, 209 people had participated in FOCUS event was held in Accra, Ghana. IFU FOCUS. IFU FOCUS consists of interactive seminars on CSR and CSR Awards 2012 HR facilitated by IFU and delivered in cooperation with inFor the second time, CSR Fonden, the Danish CSR Founternational and local experts. dation, organised a national CSR event – CSR Awards 2012 which served as an overarching award ceremony CSR and HR are important elements in building strong and for granting 14 CSR-related awards to people, organisasustainable companies. This often poses a challenge in tions and companies in recognition of their contributions developing countries, and in that sense IFU FOCUS proto excellent CSR initiatives. IFU is part of this initiative and vides an important framework for training, new insight has established a special award, the CSR Investment and sharing of best practice. The seminars also deliver adaward, for sustainable investment in developing countries. ditionality and offer inspiration to sound business development within four key areas: CSR, corporate governance, The CSR Investment award is given to a company that has anti-corruption and people strategy. made a special effort towards sustainability, has a proven sustainable business model and high environmental, soThe topics covered at the seminars vary according to cial and governance standards. need. For the seminar in Accra the main topics were: • CSR strategies and tools that work for business The jury was IFU’s CSR Advisory Board, and the winner • People strategy in an African context was Protea Farm (FynBloem), a flower producer based in • How to avoid bribes and facilitation payment South Africa, see case below. | 6 | Communication on Progress (COP) Facts about the COMPANY Winner of IFU’s CSR Investment award 2012 Project name: Protea Farm Protea Farm (FynBloem) making Danish partner: LML Holding South African community blossom Start: 2010 Country: South Africa Protea Farm (FynBloem) grows, picks and packs South Status: In operation Africa’s national flower, the Protea. The flowers are sold IFU’s loan: DKK 7.4m locally in South Africa and exported overseas. Expected total investment: DKK 26.4m Actual direct employment: 73 The principles of the UN Global Compact are a cornerstone in Protea Farm’s business, and the company is GlobalGAP certified. The CSR effort is solidly anchored in the organisation. The 73 employees all take an active part in the CSR work and share the company’s vision to create a sustainable international business. Ambitious CSR goals Protea Farm has ambitious goals for its CSR work and has comprehensive programmes to follow up on goal fulfilment. The targeted effort and the communication of progress and results show the employees what the company strives for and the possible rewards for society, the company and the employees themselves. “It creates commitment and more openness to change when the employees know and understand the goals. We also tell our customers about our CSR goals, and they get Significant reduction of carbon emissions excited about it and follow our progress,” says Beyers A good example of Protea Farm’s ambitious approach is Venter, CEO of Protea Farm. the goal to change the overseas shipping of the flowers from air to sea. Today all flowers are shipped by air, but the goal is to ship 80 to 90 per cent by sea by 2014-15 and thus reduce carbon emissions by 98 per cent. A new packing facility also has a positive effect on the environment, reducing carbon emissions by 1.5 tonne per day. Supporting equal rights and opportunities Protea Farm is located in a rural area near Cape Town where few jobs are available. That has made the company very important to the local community, not only in terms of education, jobs and income in a poor area, but also as a role model for environmental and socially sustainable business operations. “We have proved that it is possible to run a business in a way that creates equal rights and opportunities for all. In that way we contribute to eliminating prejudice and bringing people together in a community without discriminaProtea Farm, South Africa. tion,” said Noah Chinyanga, CSR assistant at Protea Farm. | 7 | Communication on Progress (COP) Annex 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR Policy) Scope ination and encourage the project companies to promote IFU’s overall mission is to enhance sustainable economic gender equality. growth, development and more equitable income distribution by financing private sector investments in developing Labour rights: IFU requires that all employees in the procountries and reforming economies. ject companies have as a minimum the right to rest, reasonable limitation of working hours, periodic holiday, and IFU’s investments in project companies shall on an ongoreasonable remuneration. All employees must be allowed ing basis contribute to the creation of jobs and income, imfreedom of assembly and participation in workers’ organiprovement of corporate governance, sound environmental sations. and social performance, and to development of the local communities. We seek to ensure that our investments will Occupational health and safety (OHS): Sound OHS procontribute continually to sustainable development. cedures include application of principles of industrial hygiene, substitution of hazardous substances, establishIFU is committed to securing high standards of CSR as a ment of work procedures and material safety data sheets fundamental aspect of sound business management of and ensuring personal protective equipment. IFU requires IFU’s investments and business practice. IFU’s Supervisory that project companies establish joint labour-manageBoard, manage­ment, employees and advisers must conment health and safety committees. duct all their business operations in full accordance with the values and the spirit laid down in the CSR policy. Environment: IFU requires that the project companies actively manage their environ­men­tal im­pact, and that they IFU has signed up to the 10 UN Global Compact princitake actions to improve their environmental performance ples, and we are committed to implement­ing and advancas appropriate. The project companies must support a ing these together with the project companies and within preventive and precautionary approach to environmental IFU’s sphere of influence. IFU’s policy is based upon interchallenges. national UN, ILO and OECD conventions, declarations and agreements, and we hereby seek to contribute to the Climate change: IFU encourages the project companies to global achievement of the UN Millennium Development contribute to climate change mitiga­tion and adaptation in Goals. accordance with the spirit of the Kyoto Protocol on Climate Change. The project companies should give attenIssues of concern tion to major contributions to climate change and conThe main issues of concern covered by IFU’s policy are the sider appropriate meas­ures to minimise the effect. following: Anti-corruption: IFU does not accept corruption and bribHuman rights: It is a fundamental value of IFU to respect ery. The project companies or their repre­sentatives should the basic human rights, and we cannot accept forced or not accept bribes in any form and should not provide imcompulsory labour and the use of child labour in activities, proper benefits to customers, agents, contractors, suppliwhich are dangerous to the moral or physical well-being ers, employers or to government officials. IFU is member and development of the child. IFU advocates non-discrimof Trans­parency International. | 8 | Communication on Progress (COP) Excluded product areas: IFU does not finance projects, Legal framework and norms which produce goods and services that are prohibited in Project companies must at all times be in compliance with Denmark for any environmental, human rights or other host country legislation regarding CSR issues. Good CSR CSR reasons. performance is defined by the norms of ethical behaviour in the various countries and is thereby under constant deCommunity development and society aspects: IFU envelopment. Therefore, IFU and the project compa­nies shall courages the project companies to con­tribute to the debe in continuous dialogue with their stakeholders to be velopment of the local community within their ability and able to act proactively in accordance with their expectathe scope of their core business and business concept. In tions and demands. countries seriously affected by the hiv/aids epidemic, IFU requires that an hiv/aids policy be adopted by the project Whenever significant CSR issues are identified in a procompanies. ject, relevant international standards must be used as a baseline. In case of deviations, the project company must Animal welfare: IFU requires that animals used in food draw up and implement a CSR action plan to mitigate the production, for other commercial purpos­es or for testing issues within a reasonable timeframe. The CSR action plan are treated properly. IFU requires that veterinarians and must be approved by the project partners, including IFU. agriculture technicians do efficient controls and inspecIn case of breach of the CSR policy IFU is entitled to take tions. the neces­sary measures including exiting the project company. Responsibilities and approach IFU’s CSR objectives and activities must be anchored in Transparency and stakeholder dialogue the business strategies of the project compa­nies and must IFU will provide transparent and accountable information be fully adapted to and integrated into their procedures about their own activities and achievements and conand operations. IFU will induce each project company to stantly strive to improve the quality and extent hereof. adopt a written CSR policy, which clearly defines and describes its vision, strategy and operational guidelines. The We encourage our investment partners and project comproject companies must strive to constantly improve their panies to be transparent and informative about their busiown CSR policies, standards and performance and pronesses and CSR performance in order to create the best mote these towards their suppliers where relevant. possible platform for a continuous and proac­tive stakeholder dialogue. IFU will enhance and support the project companies directly and in cooperation with other invest­ment partners IFU is committed to the principles of stakeholder engageand relevant stakeholders in identifying areas of improvement and will, where appropriate, engage in policy diament, determining action plans and strengthening their logue with their partners and with governments on issues environmental and social management capacity. For this related to CSR. purpose, IFU will make its experience and tools available and seek to mobilise support to development of compeThe above CSR Policy was approved by IFU’s Supervisory tence in the project companies. Board on CSR objectives and activities of the project companies 23 October 2008 must be based on a thorough assessment and broad unSigned Finn Jønck derstanding of the interrelationship between the project company and the local community, taking into account the economic, political, cultural and social contexts and diversity in which they operate. IFU has prepared a set of CSR appraisal and monitoring guidelines to assist in the implementation of the CSR policy. | 9 | Communication on Progress (COP)
