Growing our future APRIL Indonesia Sustainability Report 2012 2 The theme of this 2012 sustainability report is “Growing our Future”. This reflects our belief that responsible development can build a better future for Indonesia, by helping local people to break the poverty cycle and improve their lives. The 2012 APRIL Indonesia Sustainability Report is produced using plantation fibre grown and harvested from APRIL’s plantations in Riau Province Sumatra. The paper used in this report was manufactured at APRIL’s Kerinci Mill. The photos used in this report were taken on location in and around our operations in Indonesia. 4 President Director’s Message President The theme of our 2011-2012 sustainability report is Growing our Future. Director’s We felt this theme expressed APRIL’s journey toward best practice, sustainable forestry in Indonesia. It also reflects our message belief that responsible development can build a better future for Indonesia, by helping local people break the poverty cycle and improve their lives. Our vision is to become one of Operating in a country that is changing at the largest and best-managed almost every level brings many challenges for APRIL. Meanwhile, we are supplying sustainable pulp and paper a world where sustainability is now a key companies in the world and criterion against which businesses are the preferred supplier to our evaluated. customers. Operating sustainably is an essential part of this vision. In this complex, ever-changing context, our vision, created almost two decades ago, is as relevant as ever. We aim to become one of the largest and best-managed sustainable pulp and paper companies in the world. And we are proud to do this from our home base in Indonesia, in a way that best meets this country’s needs. Indonesia has a strong imperative to find the right development path. In this country of 238 million people, almost 30 million still live below the poverty line. Poverty is particularly widespread in rural areas. Indonesia is rightly using its abundant natural resources to bring prosperity to its people and overcome many challenges in employment, health, education and infrastructure. The key question is: how to best use these natural resources to generate enduring economic growth and long-term social benefits, while protecting sensitive environments? Sustainability Report 2011–2012 5 At APRIL, we believe the principles of this area. Accordingly, this Sustainability In the past five years, forest-based Sustainable Forest Management (SFM) are Report follows GRI 3.1 guidelines. industries including pulp and paper an important part of the solution and we represented around 3.5% of Indonesia’s have pioneered the introduction of SFM to We provide comprehensive information on economy, or around USD21 billion. Indonesia. each aspect of our operations in Indonesia The industry also contributed 8.3% of and the relationships between our manufacturing value-add and provided Our plantations are designed as renewable activities and key stakeholders. The Report employment for around 3.76 million sources of economic growth and social covers our directly owned operations and people. development, while our world-class mill how we work with and seek to influence operations add significant value and create for the better our diverse wood supply APRIL Indonesia is a significant player economies of scale and opportunities that partners. It provides facts, statistics and in the pulp and paper industry. We benefit our local, rural area. perspectives resulting from our 19 years of directly employ 5,400 people and create operations and experience in Indonesia. consequential employment opportunities In contrast, other approaches are often for around 90,000 people. driven by the immediate realities of life in As a privately owned, non-listed company, Indonesia at this stage of its development. we do not disclose commercially Importantly, as our operations are based Important forests, which can include confidential information, but we have in Riau Province, Sumatra, the benefits are ecologically sensitive areas, are frequently endeavored in this report to continue our flowing to the local rural economy, where decimated by people operating illegally, policy of enhancing relevant disclosures they are often needed most. Riau is home or without regard to the balance between on our operations and sustainability to 5.5 million people and is Indonesia’s environmental, social and economic practices. We have increased the number third largest provincial economy. A study sustainability. of GRI Indicators reported against referenced in this Report has shown (compared to our previous Sustainability that between 1999 and 2010, APRIL In terms of meeting Indonesia’s long-term Report) from 35 to 45. All data used in contributed 6.1% of Riau’s GDP. needs, there is little doubt which approach this report has been validated by APRIL is preferable. and in many aspects, by third parties. Unlocking the benefits of this positive economic contribution depends Indonesia is a young democracy facing Indonesia is in the midst of change at upon productivity and we have been some big challenges. In time, it will cement almost every level and it is an exciting progressively optimising production from its place as a world-leading economy. time of growth and opportunity for our Kerinci mill. As the chart below shows, Responsible, sustainable development is Indonesians, with GDP up by 6.2% in in 2012, APRIL produced and sold 2.67 fundamental to this journey. 2012. million tonnes of pulp. APRIL is proud to be playing a part in growing Indonesia’s future. Figure 1: APRIL Pulp Production This sustainability report marks 10 years of full and transparent formal sustainability reporting by APRIL. In fact APRIL was the first major Indonesian company to publish Million Tonnes a sustainability report back in 2002 and we have maintained and enhanced our reporting biannually ever since. In every sector of business, sustainability has become increasingly important and we work hard to meet expectations in 6 President Director’s Message A proportion of our pulp production is Deforestation in Indonesia is a real and the economic benefits generated are converted to paper after downstream concern, both here and around the world. shared with local communities. We do processing at the Kerinci site. In 2012 A common criticism leveled at companies not however take anything for granted. 0.822 million tonnes of paper were like ours is that by establishing plantations, We work hard through a detailed process produced and sold. we are contributing to deforestation. of engagement to understand and to meet the needs and wishes of local Our commercial viability and our ongoing However, we strongly believe that, rather communities. contribution to Indonesia’s economy than being part of the problem, we are are predicated on our concession areas part of the solution to the challenges As in any community setting that features being managed in a sustainable way that Indonesia is facing in striking the right diverse backgrounds, cultures and ensures long-term productivity. Sustainable balance between economic development ambitions for the future, such community development can be defined as using and environmental management. By engagement is complex, particularly given resources to meet human needs while practicing responsible forestry, we are that Indonesia’s land tenure system is ensuring the sustainability of natural making productive use of land that has sometimes confusing and contradictory. systems and the environment, so that these been degraded in the past and would be needs can be met in the present, but also likely to be further degraded were it not Ensuring positive relationships with local for generations to come. for our presence. communities and the objective, transparent resolution of disputes through dialogue Our operations must be sustainable, in the Our plantations are managed in line with is important to our business and to our true sense of the word. They must endure world best practices, while the significant reputation. and continue to contribute. Responsible conservation zones within our concessions forestry is the key. are well protected. We take pride in the The development and growth of APRIL’s fact that the conservation outcomes being business has taken place in stages. APRIL’s We recognize that through practicing achieved in APRIL conservation zones first plantation development commenced responsible forest management in our own are having a lasting positive impact in Riau Province in Sumatra, Indonesia operations, and encouraging it among and compare favourably with outcomes in 1993. In Kerinci, Riau, we began our supply partners, APRIL can be an in forests protected under different commercial pulp production in 1995 and important pillar in the ongoing growth and arrangements; and demonstrably better commercial paper production in 1998. development of a world-class Indonesian than in unmanaged land. forest industry. As such, we strive for world APRIL’s pulp and paper mill is one of the best practice in sustainable forestry. Equally, forestry in Indonesia has a world’s largest and most modern. It is decidedly human face. The jobs created export competitive, low cost, and highly efficient, with a designed capacity of 2.8 million tonnes per annum. Kerinci is Figure 2: april paper production home to one of the largest single pulp production lines and fastest fine paper machines in the world. We believe our Kerinci mill serves as an example of the true potential and Million Tonnes capability of Indonesian manufacturing. (You can read about this mill and its environmental performance in section 3 of this Report). Over the past two years we have made important progress towards our objective Sustainability Report 2011–2012 7 of completing the program of plantation with assurance from Bureau Veritas for It is vital that we demonstrate to our establishment on new concession areas our entire forestry and manufacturing employees, contractors and their families licensed to us in 2009. operations. We were also recertified for that APRIL’s operations will become safer. Sustainable Plantation Forest Management We are determined to present a very As at 30 June 2013, APRIL had less than (SPFM) certification by the Lembaga different picture in our next Sustainability 20,000 hectares still to be established Ekolabel Indonesia (LEI), for 2011-2016. Report. as plantations within our concessions, primarily on the island of Pulau Padang. In 2012, we received Sustainable The work being done in this critical area is Production Forest Management (PHPL) outlined in section 6.4 of this Report. This is balanced by nearly 90,000 and Timber Legality Verification (SVLK) hectares identified and protected as Certification from the Indonesian While this Sustainability Report covers a conservation forest and indigenous Ministry of Forestry, covering our entire specific two-year period, it also covers a tree species areas within those same manufacturing operations. range of new and enhanced commitments concessions. When the conservation and being made to enhance our triple bottom indigenous tree species areas set aside by This report details many things of which line of people, planet and profit. both APRIL and long-term supply partners we are proud: the opportunities we offer are combined, they account for more than our employees; the positive impact we We are resolved to boost safety for 220,000 hectares. have on poverty alleviation in Riau; the our workers and others through such improved living standards we create in measures as improved contractor safety Today, APRIL is one of the world’s largest our communities; the world-class nature of management systems and increased pulp and paper companies and a leading our operations and the quality of our end mechanisation of harvesting activities, fibre plantation company. Key markets products. reducing the levels of manual clearance. are served across Asia Pacific and further afield in Europe. Our operations Nonetheless, a major issue that I must We are continuing to develop major, longare among the most efficient of their address in this President Director’s Report term eco-restoration programmes in Riau kind. As a leading producer of pulp is that of employee and contractor safety. Province and on the Kampar Peninsula. and paper, APRIL Indonesia engages with customers across the globe that Over the 2011 and 2012 years, 22 And as world demand for pulp and paper demand of us the highest standards of people lost their lives while working for products grows, we will take further governance, compliance and commitment APRIL and its contracted suppliers. The steps to showcase our commitment to to responsible forestry practices. majority of these incidents involved valued sustainable development. contractors to our company. This situation APRIL’s practices are guided by the cannot continue. In a rapidly changing country, with a principles of the United Nations Global great need for the benefits of economic Compact and ISO26000 Social Consequently, APRIL is overhauling its growth, we believe responsible forestry Responsibility Guidance. We have occupational health and safety systems, has much to contribute to Indonesia’s stringent chain of custody policies and particularly those related to contractor future. procedures controlling fibre supply, while safety management. This is a major our mill operation is engineered to meet project. Although our work in this area European Best Available Technology (BAT) must recognize that the inherently and is certified under ISO 9001, ISO hazardous nature of forestry is being 14001 and OHSAS 18001 for quality, exacerbated by the remoteness of our environment, and health and safety plantations and relatively low education Kusnan Rahmin management systems respectively. levels, particularly among contractors, we simply must meet the challenge of President Director In 2011, APRIL achieved Origins and achieving a safe work environment. APRIL Indonesia Legality of Timber (OLB) certification, 30 August 2013 8 Contents Contents President Director’s Statement 4 1.0 Corporate Management 10 1.1 Corporate Profile 12 1.2 Corporate Governance 13 1.3 Certifications and Awards 15 2.0 Sustainability Management 16 2.1 Sustainable Development and APRIL’s Economic Contribution 18 2.2 Products and Markets 20 2.3 Sustainability Approach and Governance 21 2.4 Sustainability Management Systems 22 2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 24 2.6 Sustainability Priorities 27 3.0 Kerinci Mill 28 3.1 Overview 30 3.2 Environmental Achievements 34 3.3 Materials 38 3.4 Energy Consumption 41 3.5 Water 43 3.6 Emissions 46 3.7 Waste Management 52 3.8 Carbon 54 3.9 Fibre Sourcing 58 Sustainability Report 2011–2012 9 4.0 Plantations 60 4.1 Overview 62 4.2 APRIL’s Land Use Management 64 4.3 Forest Fire Management 66 4.4 Conservation 67 4.5 New Eco-Restoration Activities 71 4.6 Best Practice Plantation Management 72 4.7 Peatland Management 74 4.8 Community Partnerships & Engagement 76 4.9 Monitoring, Reporting and Verification 80 4.10 Forest Certification and Legality 82 5.0 Communities 84 5.1 Overview 86 5.2 Community Development Programs 87 5.3 Highlights 88 5.4 Community Program Outcomes 89 6.0 Employees 94 6.1 About our Employees 96 6.2 Employee Rights and Benefits 97 6.3 Training and Development 102 6.4 Health and Safety 104 7.0 Appendices 114 7.1 Ernst & Young Assurance Letter 116 7.2 GRI Standard Disclosures Table indexed to this Report 120 7.3 Glossary of Terms 126 The figures and statements reflecting GRI indicators assured by Ernst & Young LLP are marked with an “*” in the report. 10 1.0 Corporate Management 1.0 corporate Management Sustainability Sustainability Report Report 2011–2012 2011–2012 1111 12 1.1 Corporate Management Corporate Profile 1.1 Corporate profile Asia Pacific Resources International As a pioneer of sustainable forestry in Name of the organization Limited (APRIL) is one of the world’s largest Indonesia, APRIL has applied a no-burn Asia Pacific Resources International Limited producers of bleached hardwood kraft policy since operations began in 1993. (APRIL) (BHK) pulp, with manufacturing operations In 2005, APRIL enacted a voluntary High in Riau Province, Indonesia. Established in Conservation Value (HCV) policy for land Primary brands, products and/or 1993, APRIL manages a fully integrated use planning. This policy provides practical services pulp and paper mill, as well as about and responsible solutions to the challenges Products: Bleached hardwood kraft (BHK) 344,000 hectares of government-licensed of deforestation and degradation. pulp, Paper products in cutsize, folio and production land concessions, together As of 31 December 2012, APRIL and rolls with supply partners and community forest supply partners had set aside and partners. Flagship Brand: PaperOne™ protected more than 220,000 hectares of APRIL’s operations in Pangkalan Kerinci forest and indigenous tree species areas as Operational structure of APRIL comprise a 1750-hectare complex that conservation in Riau. Indonesia holds our pulp and paper mills, offices and APRIL invests significantly in science and • PT Riau Andalan Pulp & Paper employee housing facilities. technology to cultivate high quality plants. • PT. Intiguna Primatama Commercial pulp and paper production These plants are more disease resistant and commenced in 1994 and 1998 demonstrate superior growth rates. APRIL • PT Riau Andalan Kertas respectively. As of of 2012, the mill’s nurseries in Indonesia can produce about • PT. Anugrah Kertas Utama annual designed production capacity was 200 million cuttings and seedlings annually 2.8 million tonnes for pulp and 820,000 to supply trees for our year-round plantation • PT Riau Prima Energi tonnes for paper. programme. In 2012, APRIL enabled the • PT. Asia Prima Kimiaraya planting of more than 130 million trees on Large scale plantation establishment for its own plantations and the land of supply APRIL began in 1993, with Acacia as the Locations partners. key genus (Acacia mangium and Acacia crassicarpa), grown in five to six year APRIL sells pulp and paper products to key Corporate offices: Singapore; Jakarta, rotations. markets across the Asia Pacific and Middle Indonesia East, North America, the EU and Africa. Operational base: Pangkalan Kerinci, Riau APRIL aims to balance business growth with Our pulp segment recorded positive growth Province, Indonesia the social and environmental considerations in 2012, with sales growing 8% over the relevant to Indonesia’s progress as a Countries in which the previous year. Paper sales increased by developing country. APRIL, its affiliate organisation’s operations are about 1% in 2012 over the previous year. companies and supply partners have located collectively created employment for almost APRIL’s flagship office paper brand Indonesia 25,000 people in Riau Province, through PaperOne™ is made from renewable both direct and indirect opportunities. APRIL plantation fibre and is sold in over 70 Nature of ownership and legal directly employs about 5,400 permanent countries worldwide. form employees in its mill and forestry operations Privately held in Riau. Markets served Asia Pacific, Middle East, North America, Europe, Africa Scale of reporting organisation Annual designed production capacity of 2.8 million tonnes for pulp and 820,000 tonnes for paper Around 5,400 permanent employees Sustainability Report 2011–2012 13 1.2 Corporate governance APRIL has clear and well-developed Board is to oversee the business affairs of Committees and delegation corporate governance. the APRIL Group. It reviews and determines of authority overall strategy, policies on business The affairs of APRIL Indonesia are overseen Specific areas of responsibility are direction, financial objectives, control and by a Supervisory Board comprising, at delegated to Committees. These performance, risk management and issues 31 December 2012, six members: Bey Committees have the authority to examine of resource allocation. Soo Khiang (Chairman), A.J. Devanesan particular issues and report back to the (President and Chief Operating Officer), The Supervisory Board is responsible for Board with their recommendations, where Praveen Singhavi (Chief Financial Officer the effectiveness of governance practices appropriate. The ultimate responsibility and Deputy Business Head), Ibrahim Hasan and the overall management and control for final decisions, however, rests with the (President Commissioner, Indonesia), of all entities within the group. The Board’s Supervisory Board. Kusnan Rahmin (President Director APRIL role is to oversee the management of the To ensure smooth operations and facilitate Indonesia) and Imelda Tanoto. group on behalf of the shareholder. decision making, the Supervisory The Chairman is an Executive Chairman. Where new Board Members are Board has delegated certain functions Two of the Board Members are nonappointed, arrangements are made to to Executive Management Committees. executive. None of the Board Members are fully brief them on the Group’s business, These committees are formed as dictated independent. organisational structure and activities, by business imperatives to deal with strategic direction and corporate specific matters such as strategic direction, The Supervisory Board of APRIL Indonesia governance practices. performance reviews, market updates, is committed to ensuring that high risk management and organizational standards of corporate governance Five members of the Supervisory Board are development of the Group. are practiced throughout APRIL and its of the male gender, one member is female. subsidiaries. This is fundamental to the Approval sub-limits are set for various The Board Members represent a diverse discharge of its responsibilities to protect management levels to facilitate operational range of perspectives, originating from and enhance shareholder value. efficiency. The Board has defined financial Indonesia, Singapore and India. authorisation limits for operating and The principal function of the Supervisory capital budgets, procurement of goods and services, new investments and divestments and treasury transactions. The levels of authority for management are documented in detail in a Delegation of Authority Policy the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board has put in place. During 2011 and 2012, authority levels were regularly reviewed of APRIL Indonesia and modifications were made to improve the operation of the policy and more is committed to clearly delineate responsibilities for the conduct of certain transactions. ensuring that high The Supervisory Board has approved a standards of corporate risk management program that is being progressively adopted throughout APRIL. governance are practiced The program involves identification and assessment of significant risks and rating throughout APRIL and its of the effectiveness of associated controls, subsidiaries. with mitigation strategies being developed and implemented. Periodic reports are made to the Supervisory Board on progress with this work. 14 1.2 Corporate Management Corporate Governance ACCESS TO INFORMATION GOVERNANCE ARRANGEMENTS Evaluation and Rating (PROPER). This is Board Members are entitled to full access ON SUSTAINABILITY outlined at section 3.7 of this Report. Apart from this, APRIL Indonesia did not incur to the information required to discharge In 2010, the company established an any significant monetary or non-monetary their responsibilities, including unrestricted External Affairs Council to overview sanctions during the reporting period. access to all senior executives as well as development and delivery of APRIL the internal and external auditors. Indonesia’s sustainability strategy and An annual report is made to the performance. Supervisory Board of performance against The Board and individual directors may the code of corporate governance and obtain independent professional advice at This Council meets approximately quarterly. business ethics. the expense of the company, where they Ex officio members are APRIL Indonesia’s consider it appropriate to do so, in order to Supervisory Board Chairman, the Chief No incidents of corruption have been carry out their responsibilities. Financial Officer and Deputy Business discovered or disclosed to the Supervisory Head, President Director, Indonesia and the Board in respect of the reporting period, Mechanisms exist for the viewpoints of Sustainability Director. Business Heads and and accordingly no actions have been employees to be brought to the attention key members of the Sustainability executive taken against management or staff in of the Board by means of regular annual team participate in meetings as required. response to incidents of corruption. employee surveys (results of which are brought in summary form to the Board) and The Council met seven times in 2011 and Risks of corruption are, however, via other informal interactions between four times in 2012. continuously monitored and this is a employees and Board members that occur responsibility of the company’s Internal APRIL Indonesia upholds a strict code on an ongoing basis. Audit function. Employees are subject to of corporate governance and business corruption risk education programs on an Employees are actively encouraged to ethics, standards by which all employees ongoing basis. raise concerns directly with members of the are contractually bound to abide. These Board, who are present and visible within guidelines include provisions for fair At APRIL Indonesia, all contractors and the operational units of the company on and non-discriminatory engagement suppliers are expected to comply with a regular basis, and at scheduled town with stakeholders, avoidance of conflicts the same culture of business ethics as hall briefings in which Board members of interest and intolerance of corrupt employees. Enforcement is ensured through participate. practices. a combination of routine and random audits, and through a comprehensive An area of governance that is closely annual review of employee performance. monitored by the Supervisory Board is compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Aspects of the company’s performance in this area are addressed in sections 3.0 and 4.0 of this Report. A significant non-monetary sanction during the reporting period was a downgrading, and subsequent re-rating, of APRIL under Indonesia’s Program for Pollution Control, Sustainability Report 2011–2012 15 1.3 Certification and Awards APRIL strives to ensure that our management In March 2012, APRIL certified under have held Sustainable Production Forest processes and initiatives are aligned with Bureau Veritas’ Origins and Legality Management and Timber Legality national and globally accepted standards of Timber (OLB) Standards for Forestry Verification (PHPL-SVLK) certification since and benchmarks. Towards that aim, we Companies, the first industrial plantation October 2010, the first plantation company actively work to achieve international company in Asia to do so. OLB Standards in Indonesia to do so. and national certifications that provide for Forestry Companies ensure compliance PHPL-SVLK is a mandatory national timber end-to-end assurance, from the efficiency, with national laws and regulations for forest legality certification jointly developed with quality and sustainability of our mill and management and harvesting, social and the European Union (EU) to meet EU’s forestry operations, down to that of the environmental aspects. Forest Law Enforcement, Governance end-product. Supply partners successfully passed audits and Trade (FLEGT) licensing requirements Our operations in Indonesia are certified under OLB ‘Chain of Custody-Acceptable in force from March 2013. The system under ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS Wood’ standards. creates a rigorous chain-of-custody process 18001 for quality, environment, and designed to ensure mills only receive and APRIL’s pulp and paper production and health and safety management systems process timber from legal sources and that sales facilities also certified under OLB respectively. all products exported from the country are Chain-of-Custody standards in April 2012. traceable to verifiable points of origin. Since 2006, our plantation operations In August 2012, APRIL successfully have been certified under Sustainable APRIL is certified under the Hong Kong attained Timber Legality Verification (SVLK) Plantation Forest Management standards Green Label Scheme (HKGLS) for selected certification for its entire manufacturing by the Indonesian Ecolabelling Institute, plantation-based paper products including operation. Our forestry operations locally known as Lembaga Ekolabel PaperOne™ (All Purpose, Presentation, Indonesia (LEI). In late 2011, RAPP Copier), Laser and Copy brands. successfully recertified under SPFM-LEI for the period of 2011-2016. APRIL’s pulp and paper manufacturing, stores and sales have been certified under Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) Chain-of-Custody standards since 2010. In line with our commitment to progressive improvement, APRIL qualified for several new certifications in the last two years. 16 2.0 Sustainability Management 2.0 sustainability Management Sustainability Report 2011–2012 17 18 2.1 Sustainability Management Sustainable Development and APRIL’s Economic Contribution 2.1 Sustainable Development and APRIL’s Economic Contribution With its population of 238 million people Sustainable businesses bring prosperity to • rapid replanting of areas harvested and considerable natural resources, local communities, improve education and • a no-burn policy combined with active Indonesia is on an inexorable journey to skill levels and contribute to infrastructure fire control in forestry activities becoming a significant global economic development, while ensuring that force. However, with a per capita GDP that environmental impacts are appropriately • sophisticated water management ranks 115th in the world and 12 per cent managed. • science-based carbon management of its people living in poverty, this country Riau province, the home of APRIL’s still faces significant challenges. • community infrastructure projects operations, exemplifies the importance of Continuing rapid economic growth sustainable development in Indonesia. • creation of economic alternatives for (6.2% in 2012) is creating conditions local people In our business, operating industrialthat will allow Indonesia to address some scale plantations and a major pulp and • the creation of economic multipliers, and of its most pressing problems, in areas paper manufacturing plant, sustainable such as poverty, education, health and • providing the capital and resources development entails: infrastructure. necessary to ensure best practice. • adherence to regulations Having operated successfully in Indonesia for the past two decades, we firmly believe • accountability through significant that sustainable, responsible development international scrutiny contributes strongly to Indonesia’s • protection of conservation forest areas response to its considerable challenges. APRIL’s sustainable forestry and pulp and paper operations have made a significant contribution to the rapid economic growth achieved in Indonesia’s Riau Province. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 19 Riau province plays a key role in in Indonesian terms, but our contribution The income multiplier for this business Indonesia’s overall development strategy, extends well beyond our employees. was measured as 1.36, meaning every accounting for 6.7% of Indonesia’s additional dollar spent on employees In 2011, the Economic and Social national GDP in 2010. increases household income in Riau by Research Unit of the University of Indonesia 1.36 dollars. The employment multiplier Over the five year period 2007-2012, completed an analysis of APRIL’s economic was 2.17 for each additional person Riau experienced rapid economic growth, contribution. The conclusions of this study employed in our Forestry business, 2.17 with GDP increasing by almost 200%. can be applied to the reporting period employment opportunities were generated This is due to both government and private 2011-2012, since there were no changes in Riau. sector activity and has resulted in better related to our operations, or to Riau living standards for Riau’s people in recent province, that would significantly alter the As our plantations are established and years. outcome of this study if it were concluded operated in accordance with Sustainable in 2012. Forest Management principles, they are From 2007 to 2012, poverty decreased renewable resources. Therefore, the by 17%. Nevertheless, in 2012, more The study found that between 1999 and contributions our Forestry business makes than 8%, or more than 480,000 of Riau’s 2010, APRIL’s payments to employees, to Riau will be ongoing. people were still living in poverty, while purchases from suppliers and contractors the rapid growth of the local population – and investments in areas such as training, The multipliers for our pulp and paper more than doubling to 5.5 million over the infrastructure and community benefits industries demonstrate the importance of last 30 years, brings additional challenges represented 6.1% of Riau’s gross regional our mill in adding value and scale within in raising living standards. domestic product (GRDP) and 5.4% of all the Riau economy. household income in the province. The In this context, companies like APRIL, which For APRIL’s pulp and paper businesses, University of Indonesia study calculated have a direct, positive economic impact on the output multiplier was 2.29. So every that in 2009, APRIL created consequential Riau, are helping improve many lives. additional dollar of pulp and paper sales employment opportunities for 90,000 increases the value of Riau’s output by Importantly, our business strategy includes people in Riau Province. 2.29 dollars. a long-term presence in Riau, so we expect the economic benefits of our activities to The income multiplier was 2.36, so every flow through to residents for decades to Economic multipliers additional dollar spent on employees come. The University of Indonesia study also increases household income in Riau by measured the income and output multipliers 2.36 dollars. The employment multiplier It should be noted that APRIL receives of APRIL’s economic activity in Riau was 5.7 each additional person employed no significant financial assistance from province. These indicate the extent to which in our pulp and paper operation generates national or local government in Indonesia. our business activities within the province 5.7 employment opportunities in Riau. We do not rely on subsidies or incentives. impacted on the local economy between In terms of the economic development APRIL’s sustainable forestry and pulp and 1999 and 2010. of Riau, we believe that value-adding paper operations have made a significant The study found that for our forest operations such as our mill are important contribution to the rapid economic growth plantations, the output multiplier was 1.50. both as a means of retaining downstream achieved. Every additional dollar of timber sales from economic benefits within the province In 2012, we paid our employees in excess our Forestry business will increase the value and for the broad range of training and of $US72 million in wages, salaries and of Riau’s output by 1.5 dollars. employment opportunities they bring to the benefits. This is a considerable amount Riau workforce. 20 2.2 Sustainability Management Products and Markets 2.2 Products and markets APRIL’s primary products are bleached and labeling requirements APRIL complies marketing communications material related hardwood kraft (BHK) pulp and paper with*. The company maintains internal to its products, including product claims products in cut size, folio and rolls. Our systems and procedures, both at the Kerinci made on packaging, to ensure it complies flagship paper brand is PaperOne™. Other mill and within its sales and marketing with the relevant laws, standards and mill brands produced and sold by APRIL function, to ensure conformity with these codes of the markets where APRIL sells its include Perfect Print, Excellent Copy, Copy requirements*. products to customers*. A comprehensive & Laser, Dunia Mas and Lazer IT. review was undertaken in early 2012. APRIL also adheres to a number of Customers are then responsible for The company has a global customer voluntary codes relating to products and ensuring that any marketing by them of base and sells its products across Asia labeling information such as those of APRIL products is also compliant with the Pacific, the Middle East, North America, ISO 9001, ISO 9706, ISO 14001 and laws and standards that apply in their Europe and Africa. APRIL’s customers various forestry certifications, as part of markets. consist of trade customers who on-sell to its continuous improvement focus*. The end-customers or use APRIL’s products to packaging of PaperOne™ for example, For paper products, APRIL’s packaging and produce finished products for on-sale. references conformity to various codes. labeling complies with the requirements of its home market and with the countryTo manage and maintain markets, APRIL’s internal programmes ensure that specific requirements of certain other customers, channels and relationships for its its sales and marketing activities and markets (eg. Japan) for product sold products APRIL has a dedicated Sales and product claims meet legal and regulatory there*. Pulp products are generally not Marketing function which is responsible requirements and are fair and accurate. subject to specific packaging and labeling for understanding customer needs and Regular website updates, customer requirements, other than as may be ensuring those needs are reflected in the information and sales kits, channel specified by particular customers*. specifications of APRIL’s products, design communications through trade events and and development of product brands, partner meetings, emails and letters are During the reporting period, there development and verification of product means used to keep customers updated on were no incidents of non-compliance claims and marketing of products to product upgrades and packaging changes, with regulations and voluntary codes business-to-business trade customers who together with brochures and flyers for concerning product and service information may on-sell products to end consumers. consumers. and no actions were taken for noncompliance concerning the provision and Various certification schemes APRIL adheres For key markets, APRIL’s Sales and use of products and services by regulators to, for example those under the PEFC and Marketing function in combination with the or other proper authorities. ISO umbrellas, have product information company’s Legal office periodically reviews Figure 3: Market Distribution Pulp Figure 4: Market Distribution Paper Million Tonnes Million Tonnes Other regions Other regions Sustainability Report 2011–2012 21 2.3 Sustainability Approach and Governance Sustainability approach share knowledge, experiences and best and occupational health and safety risks, practices. We advocate business positions as well as chain of custody management APRIL’s vision is “to be one of the largest, on sustainability issues in a variety of practices, make our business stronger. best managed and sustainable fibre, pulp forums, working with governments, nonand paper companies in the world, the The policy sets out APRIL’s commitments governmental and intergovernmental preferred supplier to our customers, and the to full legal and regulatory compliance, organizations. employer of choice to our people.” best practice operations, environmental APRIL is a signatory to the United Nations responsibility in resources and land As this vision places sustainability at the (UN) Global Compact. The aim of this use, waste management, caring for our core of our values and aspirations, we compact is to encourage businesses employees, empowering our communities constantly reinforce our commitment to worldwide to adopt sustainable and and maintaining effective chain of custody sustainable management and to best socially responsible policies, and to report procedures. applying practice environmental and safety on their implementation. As such, we management across all our operations in The development and delivery of APRIL’s are guided by the Global Compact’s ten Indonesia. sustainability strategy and performance principles. is driven by an External Affairs Council, This commitment includes compliance with The company has been a member of the in place since 2010, which meets (at Indonesian laws and a clear, expressed World Business Council for Sustainable minimum) on a quarterly basis. Ex officio understanding of our obligations based Development (WBCSD) since 2007 and members of this Council are APRIL on the unique and complex context in was the first Indonesian company to attain Indonesia’s Supervisory Board Chairman, which we operate. Indonesian regulatory membership. Throughout the reporting Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Business requirements are extensive and highly period, APRIL was an active participant Head, President Director Indonesia and influenced by developing international in WBCSD’s Forest Solution Group. Sustainability Director. Business Heads and norms, although the application of some The company conforms to that Group’s key members of the Sustainability executive precepts applied in some western legal Membership Principles and Responsibilities team participate in meetings as required. systems, for example the “precautionary against which APRIL undertook structured principle,” are subject to adaptation to the The Sustainability Director heads an self-assessments in 2012 and early 2013. Indonesian context. integrated management structure for this key business function, which comprises Continuous improvement in sustainability by alignment with global best practice is part Sustainability governance representatives from both our Jakarta office and our operating business units located in of APRIL’s commitment. APRIL’s Sustainability Management Systems Sumatra. are based on strong corporate governance, Through responsible resource management, as outlined in section 1.2 (Corporate At operational level, APRIL’s sustainability good governance and stability and Governance). management is divided between our balancing of social, business environmental forestry plantations and our Kerinci mill needs, we aim to create long-term business APRIL’s environmental and related complex. Dedicated environment and value. policies serve as cornerstones for the health and safety departments are in company’s sustainability governance and APRIL’s approach to sustainability is guided place for both the mill and fibre segments. management. and influenced by our involvement with Documented environmental and health and leading industry associations and global Our Environmental, Health and Safety, safety procedures exist for both groups organisations, which provide avenues Chain of Custody policy acknowledges that of operations. These procedures extend to explore sustainable development, to responsible management of environmental to social aspects including community development. 22 2.4 Sustainability Management Sustainablility Management System 2.4 Sustainability Management System The schematic opposite represents APRIL Figure 5: april sustainability management system Indonesia’s Sustainability Management System. It shows how our systems, which are driven by our key governing bodies, are open, dynamic and responsive. The principles that guide our governing bodies and the sustainability strategies and policies these bodies create reflect both internal values and external factors. These factors include recognizing triple bottom line concerns, direct stakeholder influence and the guidance of elements such as the United Nations Global Compact, ISO 26000 Social Responsibility Guidance and the Global Reporting Initiative. Sustainability policy is enacted through our Sustainability Management System. Implementation is achieved through processes and procedures that cover planning and target setting, allocation of responsibilities, taking actions, assessing effectiveness and implementing corrections and improvements. Where necessary, auditing tools are applied to help build a culture of continuous improvement. Through a cyclic process of reporting and communication, we inform and educate our stakeholders and guiding bodies about our work in developing and improving sustainable practices. Much of the information that forms the base of our communications with stakeholders is externally reviewed and assessed, thereby ensuring objectivity and transparency. This process is informed by the messages that stakeholders convey to APRIL. APRIL maintains an Integrated We undertake annual surveillance Reports as required under Indonesian law Management System (IMS) that is audits for ISO9001, ISO14001 and for environmental monitoring are submitted certified to ISO9001, ISO14001, and OHSAS18001, while internal audits for at six monthly intervals. OHSAS18001 standards. These voluntary, both the plantation and mill complex are APRIL achieved ISO14001 certification third party-certified processes cover our based on an internal audit schedule. This for its forest operations in 2001, and for quality management, environmental and is in addition to Chain of Custody audits mill operations in 2003. We achieved health and safety systems, respectively. that are completed for the wood supplied OHSAS18001 for forest operations in to the mill. 2005 and mill operations in 2006. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 23 Current ISO14001 Certifications: Communications Our public reporting addresses land areas which are directly linked to APRIL • APRIL’s Riau Complex, Certificate no. Transparent reporting and communication Indonesia value chains. It is not APRIL’s ID08/1181 valid from 18 November is key to building strong stakeholder practice to disclose detailed data 2008 to 14 November 2014, subject to relationships. It is also important in the pertaining to its supply partners, who satisfactory surveillance audits, Certified evolution of our sustainability strategy. supply wood fibre to APRIL under long-term by SGS Our Environmental, Health and Safety, supply arrangements. Supply partners • Riaufibre (Certificate No. ID01/1179, Chain of Custody policy states our are independent companies with their valid from 14 November 2008 to 14 commitment to providing stakeholders own Boards of Directors and governance November 2014, subject to satisfactory with information that is understandable, arrangements, subject to their own surveillance audit), certified by SGS. adequately explains issues, and presents disclosure obligations. an accurate and verifiable representation Current OHSAS18001 Certifications: A comprehensive index describing GRI of the Company’s integrated Environment, disclosures, referenced to specific pages is • APRIL’s Riau Complex to Health and Safety and Chain of Custody set out in section 7.2 of this Report. Within OHSAS18001, valid from 14 management systems and its performance the GRI 3.1 reporting framework, there November 2008 to 14 November in these areas. We are committed to are three application levels (A, B and C) 2014, subject to satisfactory ensuring this policy is communicated, against which companies can report. This surveillance audits. Certificate understood by our employees and report is aimed at B+ level. This requires ID08/1180 available to interested parties, including that our report include disclosures from this suppliers and customers. • APRIL’s Riaufibre to OHSAS18001, framework we have defined as relevant to valid from 14 November 2008 to 14 our stakeholders and our operations. The Reporting November 2014, subject to satisfactory plus (+) symbol indicates that an external surveillance audits. Certificate APRIL has engaged in Sustainability third party has verified this Report. ID08/1182. Reporting since 2002, producing one report biennially, in addition to updates Our Sustainability Reports are third party The audit report for the latest surveillance between reports. These are available to the reviewed. This 2011-2012 Sustainability audit for Riau Fibre, covering ISO14001 public via our company website. Report has been by Ernst and Young, and OHSAS18001, was undertaken on 5 Singapore. The Assurance Statement Our Sustainability Reporting format follows October 2012. appears in section 7.1 of this Report. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The audit report for the latest surveillance framework. This widely used framework While other interim updates are provided audit for Riau Complex, covering sets out the principles, indicators and via the company website at www.aprilasia. ISO14001, OHSAS18001 and ISO9001 other disclosures that organizations can com, APRIL’s Sustainability Reports provide was undertaken on 28 September 2012. use to measure and report their economic, an integrated presentation and review of environmental, and social performance. In many areas of our operations. In meeting these standards, important preparing this 2011-2012 Sustainability components are: (i) regular updating of It should also be noted that many other Report, APRIL followed version 3.1 of the legal and other requirements to ensure disclosures made in this Report have been GRI guidelines. A new set of guidelines these are recognised and incorporated into subject to various forms of independent (GRI 4) came into effect toward the end operations, (ii) a requirement to prevent third party review. For example, over of the process of assembling this report. pollution, work incidents and work related the reporting period, Bureau Veritas It was therefore not feasible to follow the illness and (iii) a requirement for continuous has extensively audited APRIL’s forest new guidelines. improvement. management practices for the purpose of In general, the data reported in this Origins and Legalty of Timber certification APRIL has also adopted other best practice Sustainability Report covers the calendar and a range of other auditors have voluntary standards and guidelines years 2011 and 2012 (the “reporting reviewed operations for the purposes of including the United Nations Food and period”). In various cases where the additional certifications referenced in this Agriculture Organization (FAO) Fire company has previously reported section and in Section 4.10 of this Report. Management Guidelines. information for the 2008-10 period, data In addition, during the first half of 2013, sets have been extended to cover the fiveHigh Conservation Value assessments for year period 2008-2012. In a number of the Pulau Padang concession have been cases, updates of key pieces of information expert-reviewed and subject to further have been provided at 30 June, 2013. independent review (see section 4.8). 24 2.5 Sustainability Management Stakeholder Engagement 2.5 Stakeholder Engagement Given the dynamic social, economic and Stakeholder engagement Notable areas of interaction over 2011political landscape in which we operate, approach 2012 were with: active stakeholder engagement has APRIL has in place: • Local communities in Riau Province and always been a key part of APRIL’s business on the Kampar Peninsula in proximity to approach. (i) A Stakeholder Engagement Strategy our concession and mill areas and Plan designed to guide engagement Consequently, APRIL has been reaching activities; • The scientific community including out to and working with a wide range independent researchers from of stakeholders to share information, (ii) Communications protocols and organisations such as IVL Swedish gather feedback and to work together procedures to support the Stakeholder Environmental Research Institute and on important programmes that inform Engagement Plan; and Hokkaido University our approach to achieving outcomes (iii) Notification and grievance channels that deliver both sustainability and • Indonesian government-appointed to enable stakeholders to communicate development. Monitoring, Reporting and Verification their perspectives, expectations and (MRV) teams APRIL operates in a highly regulated recommendations to APRIL’s decision industry that attracts interest and scrutiny makers In 2011-2012, APRIL further systemised its from many different stakeholders. Our resources and mechanisms for the gathering APRIL’s stakeholders fall into three broad internal structure ensures multiple external of perspectives from a wide range of categories: touch points for the organisation including stakeholders relevant to our business and through our Sustainability team, our (i) Those that have an interest in or are for transparent communication of APRIL’s customer teams, our external affairs directly affected by the economic, social practices and plans. function, our community liaison teams, our and environmental impacts and/or benefits These efforts included: R&D and scientific teams and our finance of APRIL. team. • Community surveys, the results of (ii) Those whose views and perspectives which form an important input to These teams undertake regular and on our business are influential in shaping our community engagement, land proactive contact with key stakeholders and perceptions of the company’s reputation use management and community gather information and perspectives on our and operating environment; development activities. business and operations. It is important that (iii) Third parties who through our engagement process provides us with • Stakeholder workshops to gain a collaboration, knowledge sharing, a clear insight to the range of views about detailed understanding of stakeholder expertise or other inputs directly contribute APRIL at any given time. concerns. to the balance APRIL achieves in effectively The collaborative initiatives that have come shaping its triple bottom line of people, • Site visits to our operations by from our stakeholder engagement efforts planet and profit. government officials, international have led to a number of practical solutions. interest groups, scientific bodies, During 2011-2012, stakeholder educational institutions and NGOs. APRIL’s stakeholder engagement systems engagement included extensive interaction play an important role in improving our with representatives of each of these • Participation in international bodies and communications, obtaining support for our groups. forums including the World Business projects and understanding concerns about Council for Sustainable Development, our practices. United Nations Conferences on Climate Change and active membership of forestry and pulp and paper industry bodies domestically in Indonesia and internationally Sustainability Report 2011–2012 25 Our stakeholder engagement processes Local communities – key to Meranti Estate MRV indicate that the following areas are of our operating environment Our community engagement activities significant ongoing interest to our key In Indonesia, a stable and productive and delivery of commitments is frequently stakeholder groups: business environment can only be achieved monitored by independent third parties. For • A desire to see APRIL conclude its through close engagement with local example, at our forestry concession at the plantation establishment program as communities and diligent, patient work to Meranti estate, a goverment Monitoring, soon as possible. share information and resolve disputes. We Reporting and Verification (MRV) team actively seek open dialogue with those who has been monitoring and reporting on • The company’s systems for responsible are interested in our business. our activities, including community and management of its ongoing utilisation environmental commitments, since 2009. of mixed hardwood feedstock sourced Prioritising local community engagement from third parties for its mill operations. involves deployment of an extensive field This Monitoring, Reporting and Verification force of community development officers process is described at section 4.9 of this Report. • A desire to see APRIL improve who are in everyday contact with local relationships and engagement with communities. Our most senior executives prominent international NGO’s. meet periodically with local community PUlau Padang • A need to better explain APRIL’s leaders. APRIL’s approach is exemplified by steps community level engagement and Community engagement is also conducted taken over the reporting period on the dispute mitigation or resolution through formal surveys, village level island of Pulau Padang. A detailed case processes. public meetings and third party organised study of processes used to resolve Pulau • Alignment and compliance with APRIL’s public forums and hearings to understand Padang community concerns is set out in core conservation and sustainability and address the expectations held by section 4.8 of this Report. commitments by all APRIL fibre supply communities. There, during the reporting period, a partners. Typical community engagement includes: minority of the community protested against • Impact of APRIL’s operations on carbon licenses granted to APRIL by the Indonesian Public consultations to present emissions, including from peatlands. Government. The majority of local and receive feedback on our land communities have continuously supported APRIL is working actively to increase management and community APRIL’s presence and the development stakeholder confidence in the company’s development plans. opportunities the company brings, and have positions in each of these areas, via Renegotiations of previously concluded signed community development agreements disclosures in this Sustainability Report, and arrangements for community livelihood with APRIL. through channels such as a new blog site: plantations APRIL Dialog (www.aprildialog.com). APRIL complied fully with a request by the Local business forums with SMEs and Ministry of Forestry at the start of 2012 that We encourage all stakeholders who have family-run businesses we halt operations while an independent, concerns to raise them with the company multi-stakeholder panel comprising through the channels accessible via our Achieving universal or even consensus government officials, NGOs and scientists company website: www.aprilasia.com positions around key issues is often difficult, undertook a review of APRIL’s proposed time-consuming and resource-intensive and land management uses, conservation frequently involves reaching a compromise commitments, plantation establishment plans that factors in diverse views within and and community development commitments. across communities while taking account of the company’s right to operate. After an exhaustive process, the independent panel’s input was adopted by APRIL takes a consultative and dialogue APRIL including voluntary re-delineation of based approach to community some concession boundaries, a reduction engagement. We frequently work with in plantable area, affirmation of the third parties to achieve dispute resolution creation of conservation forest areas and and APRIL respects and adapts to the confirmation of community development outworkings of those processes. initiatives including livelihood farming, education spending and upgrading of healthcare facilities. 26 2.6 Sustainability Management Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2011–2012 27 2.6 Sustainability priorities Figure 6: APRIL sustainability priorities Focus Area The Challenge APRIL’s Response Health and Create a safe work environment for Intense management-led effort to minimise workplace injuries Safety employees and contractors by minimising and eliminate fatalities. Health-safety indicators strengthened health risks in industrial and remote forest in performance measurement process. Increased training locations. Twenty-two fatalities reported in for employees and contractors. Suppliers must attest to safety these settings over 2011 and 2012. preparedness of their employees. Target is Zero Accidents and a Total Safety Culture by January 2014. See section 6.4 Plantation Complete plantation development Completion of establishment of plantations on current APRIL Establishment following year-long delay for intensive concessions is expected by end December 2014. Plantations community discussions at last undeveloped comply with approved land-use management plans and reflect concession on Pulau Padang. community dispute resolution outcomes. See section 4.2. Supply Partners Help supply partners improve sustainability All new suppliers required to undergo full HCV assessment. performance ensuring that all new Working with long-term supply partners to take them through partnerships identify and protect High the process of HCV assessment. Completion of establishment of Conservation Value (HCV) forests. plantations by all long-term supply partners is expected by end December 2014. See section 3.9. Conservation Protect areas of HCV. Establish a model Maintained commitment to protection of conservation areas Programs for ecosystem restoration capable of identified through HCV assessments. Obtained license to manage managing ecologically significant, 20,265-hectare block on Kampar Peninsula. Helped establish nondegraded peatland areas to renewed profit Riau Ekosistem Restorasi to oversee restoration work. Seeking health. additional eco-restoration licenses. See section 4.3 and 4.4. Peatland Minimise peatland carbon emissions, Gained government approval for MRV processes applying to three Management ensuring uniform application of water newest peatland concessions. Participated in scientific research to and MRV management practices. further improve peatland management. See sections 4.6 and 4.9. Carbon Determine APRIL’s carbon footprint based Employed outside experts to assess total carbon emissions as a Emissions on sound science. baseline for reduction of carbon footprint. Research indicated that emissions from APRIL plantations likely lower than if land were not under management. MRV teams evaluating peatland emission data. Further work underway to calculate comprehensive carbon footprint. See section 3.8. Land Tenure Improve the process of engaging and Followed dispute resolution process and reached agreement with and Community managing partnerships with communities community groups to settle Pulau Padang community disputes. See Entitlements and resolving disputes. sections 2.5 and 4.8. Stakeholder Reach out to stakeholders to identify new Continue to implement community development programs in Riau Engagement and opportunities to enhance community Province aiming to enhance relationships with civil society groups. Partnerships development. Worked with specialist experts in community liaison, e.g. BIDARA. See sections 2.5, 4.8 and 5.0. Compliance and Develop standards, staff and management APRIL successfully passed audits for certifications under Bureau Certification system controls to ensure compliance with Veritas’ standards for Origins and Legality of Timber. APRIL reall applicable certification requirements. certified under SPFM-LEI for the period 2011-2016 becoming the Seek to expand certifications. first industrial plantation company in Indonesia to certify under Sustainable Production Forest Management and Timber Legality Verification (PHPL/SVLK standards.). See section 4.10. APRIL regularly reviews and updates a schedule of sustainable priorities that underpin sustainability action plans in each year of operation. Priorities reflect APRIL’s own initiatives and actions the company has determined to take to address issues and opportunities raised by key stakeholders. 28 3.0 Kerinci Mill 3.0 Kerinci Mill Sustainability Report 2011–2012 29 30 3.1 Kerinci Mill Overview 3.1 OVERVIEW With a designed capacity of 2.8 million At a national level, our pulp and paper tonnes of pulp and 820,000 tonnes of mill helps reduce import reliance, with paper per year, APRIL’s Kerinci pulp and consequent reduced transport impacts and paper mill is rated in the top five in the national economic benefits. It also brings world for efficiency. competition to the domestic market. APRIL complies rigorously with all Since our 2010 Sustainability Report and Indonesian environmental regulations and with our operations in Riau province well our mill meets the EU IPPC directives to cut established, we have focused on optimising emissions using best available techniques the performance of our mill. This has (BAT) for the pulp and paper industry. resulted in strong performance, a high level From the outset, this mill was engineered of efficiency and significant environmental to be world class. benefits. These include reductions in materials and energy required to produce Our mill operation benefits Riau province a given amount of product. With our mill and Indonesia in a number of ways. running at designed capacity and no The mill adds considerable value to our additional capacity planned, we continue plantation products and importantly, to invest in better environmental initiatives. it does this in our local area of Riau province. This brings a range of benefits For example, APRIL employs the Lean to the province, in areas such as positive Manufacturing philosophy. This involves economic impacts, skills training, a constant drive for efficiency across opportunities for advancement. all measures combined with a steady elimination of waste to ensure smooth running. Avoiding shutdowns and disruptions has been shown to achieve the best possible environmental outcomes in terms of energy requirements and emissions. With a designed capacity of 2.8 million tonnes of pulp and 820,000 tonnes of paper per year, APRIL’S pulp and paper mill is rated in the top five in the world for efficiency. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 31 Location Abundant water supply Operating a pulp and paper mill in Riau Our location also demands that we While water availability is becoming an province Sumatra requires us to be self take special care of our employees. issue of concern to many pulp and paper sufficient and independent. This location Accordingly, we have developed our own manufacturers, our location provides brings a number of challenges in areas town site that is now home to more than access to a plentiful water supply, in a such as logistics, lack of power grid 7000 people. Our town includes two region where water is abundant, as the connection and absence of state-owned schools (including an international school), map below shows. The impact of our water infrastructure. As a result, we operate with a health clinic, sports facilities and a hotel. sourcing on the flow rate of our main water a high degree of vertical integration, from source, the Kampar River, is well below But as well as challenges, there are tree nursery and plantation to packaging BAT limits. (See Figure 24). considerable benefits to operating in Riau and dispatch. province. Figure 7: Map showing global water availability (m3/person/year) Vulnerability Scarcity Stress Source: FAO World Resources Institute 32 3.1 Kerinci Mill Overview Strong pool of Proximity to markets Impact on surrounding potential employees Being at the heart of the fast growing populations Riau province also contains a large Asia region means we can supply our The relative remoteness of our mill location pool of potential employees who are markets with far less transport distance than limits the impact of our operations on major keen to improve their lives through European or American pulp and paper population centres. employment with our company. manufacturers. It is recognized that even the most efficient They take advantage of our training Our location contributes to the objective of pulp and paper mills have an impact on systems, scholarships and other reducing transport emissions. surrounding populations in areas such as opportunities, which delivers good transport and odours. This requires the outcomes for the company, for individual development of management systems to employees and for the community more mitigate these effects. broadly. We are proud of the fact that we are helping people in this way, and bringing prosperity to central Sumatra. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 33 Best Available Figure 8: ippc bat recommendation Technique (BAT) To ensure ongoing high operating standards, we benchmark our pulp and 1 Increased delignification before the bleach plant by extended or paper mill against other leading mills, modified cooking and additional oxygen stages; measuring our environmental performance 2 Highly efficient brown stock washing and closed cycle brown against stringent European Union stock screening; IPPC Best Available Techniques (BAT) recommended maximum and minimum 3 Elemental chlorine free (ECF) bleaching with low AOX; levels. Where possible, we have included BAT recommended levels in our mill 4 Recycling of some, mainly alkaline process water from environmental performance data in this the bleach plant; Report. 5 Effective spill monitoring, containment and recovery system; The following list shows BAT recommendations for bleached kraft 6 Stripping and reuse of the condensates from the evaporation plant; pulp mill operations, with our mill meeting all recommendations. 7  ufficient capacity of the black liquor evaporation plant and the S recovery boiler to cope with the additional liquor and dry solids load; The data provided is in accordance with GRI 3.1 environmental performance 8 Collection and reuse of clean cooling waters; indicators. Disclosures include materials use, energy use, water, emissions and 9  rovision of sufficiently large buffer tanks for storage of spilled P waste. cooking and recovery liquors and dirty condensates to prevent sudden peaks of loading and occasional upsets in the external effluent treatment plant; 10 In addition to process-integrated measures, primary treatment and biological treatment is considered BAT for kraft pulp mills. (BREF Pulp and Paper, 2001, p.iii) 34 3.2 Kerinci Mill Environmental Achievements 2011-2012 3.2 environmental achievements 2011-2012 Efficient use of energy and materials Figure 9: Total fuel energy consumption Decreased energy consumption per ADT The graph in Figure 9 above shows total This can be seen in the decrease This trend toward greater efficiency is fuel energy consumption from 2008 to in energy and materials required to evident in much of the data presented in 2012. Since our 2010 Sustainability produce one tonne of mill output (mj/adt). this section of this Report. Report, improved efficiency and asset utilisation has resulted in better environmental performance. Figure 10: Energy contribution by fuel source, 2011-2012 Sustainability Report 2011–2012 35 Return on investment from environmental initiatives APRIL operates an ongoing program of The commissioning of Recovery Boiler Recovery Boiler Number 5 now contributes investing in projects that improve our Number 5 to capture energy from black a significant amount of our mill’s energy environmental performance. During the liquor, (a product of Kraft pulp making) requirements. The energy it and two 2011-2012 reporting period, a number of greatly increased our use of biofuel for older recovery boilers generate is used these projects reached their full potential, power generation. to produce steam for power generation delivering solid returns on our investment. and for drying pulp and paper. The boiler As one of the world’s largest recovery also recovers chemicals for reuse in pulp Figure 10 opposite shows energy boilers, this facility has allowed us to demaking. contribution by fuel source. Of our total bottleneck our pulp production, thereby energy consumed, 85 per cent* now reducing our reliance on fossil fuels and An additional 10 per cent* of our energy comes from biofuel, with the largest cutting the indirect, transport related comes from biomass such as bark, sludge, component contributed by our recently built impacts of these fuels as well as reducing palm husks and methanol. recovery boiler. emissions from fossil fuels. More fuel captured from waste Figure 11: Methanol Captured from Evaporators The graph in Figure 11 above shows that Since our last Sustainability Report, our methanol capture project has reached methanol production has been ramped up designed capacity. APRIL can now capture from 4,000 to 15,000 tonnes per year, significant volumes of methanol from further reducing dependence on fossil fuels, weak black liquor through a process of particularly marine fuel. evaporation and distillation. This valuable biofuel is reused in our lime kilns, replacing fossil fuel. 36 3.2 Kerinci Mill Environmental Achievements 2011-2012 Reducing wood fibre Our PCC plant combines calcium Another successful project involves a content through capture hydroxide with waste CO2 that is captured reduction in the amount of bleached soft and use of waste CO2 from our lime kilns. As an integrated pulp wood kraft (BSWK) we require. BSWK mill, we use lime kilns to convert calcium is used to add strength to paper during APRIL has entered into a joint venture carbonate to calcium oxide or “quicklime.” papermaking. However, the addition of partnership with the developer of This process generates a significant amount a strengthening compound during paper technology related to the use of of CO2. making has decreased our consumption precipitated calcium carbonate (PCC) as a of BSWK by around 25,000 tonnes filler in paper. Rather than emit this gas as a waste, we compared with 2009. PCC reduces the need for wood fibre, capture a portion of it to produce calcium carbonate on site. The result is that around This BSWK is imported from Chile, so while allowing paper to retain desired 40% of the calcium carbonate filler in our the reduction represents a meaningful characteristics such as stiffness and paper originates as waste CO2. decrease in indirect, transport related CO2 smoothness. emissions. Reduced material imports Figure 12: Imported Bleached soft wood kraft [BSWK] Usage for paper Sustainability Report 2011–2012 37 Maximising valuable fibre resources Figure 13: Pin chip pulp production Our investment in a pin chip digester and Protecting forest soil chip classification screens continues to and reducing transport prove valuable in waste prevention and emissions resource maximisation. Fine wood particles Our multi million dollar investment in that were previously used for fuel are mechanical harvesting and debarking, now captured by a fine chip classification which included the hiring and training of system. new teams, has delivered a number of Instead of burning, this valuable wood fibre benefits. By leaving biomass on the forest resource is then converted to pulp. The floor, we reduce soil erosion. volume of pin chips recovered in the last As de-barked timber dries more quickly and two years equates to around 560,000 tons weighs less, we significantly reduce fuel of pulp-logs. consumption and emissions associated with transporting this timber to our mill. 38 3.3 Kerinci Mill Materials 3.3 Materials Our overall materials consumption has Figure 14: pulp and paper mill materials used been positively affected by factors such as increased operating efficiency and greater Input Materials Units 2011 2012 use of recycled materials. (Materials consumption data for pin chip pulp and Water* millions m 3 128.42 131.16 BSWK appears in section 3.2). Wood* millions adt 10.19 10.55 Minerals, Pigments, Fillers and millions tons 0.49 0.50 Starch* Fossil Fuels* Peta Joules 11.57 16.67 External Biomass* Peta Joules 0.02 0.94 Imported BSWK Pulp* million adt 0.05 0.03 Output Materials Units 2011 2012 Sold Electricity GW/hrs 82.94 82.94 Market Pulp million adt 1.88 2.07 Paper Products million adt 0.81 0.82 Reusable residues, black liquor, million adt 6.11 5.63 etc Sold Water million m3 5.11 5.39 Water Sold With Products million m 3 0.23 0.24 Water Evaporated million m3 24.33 23.45 Treated Waste Water* million m3 98.98 102.31 Sustainability Report 2011–2012 39 Efficient conversion of wood to pulp. Figure 15: Wood conversion efficiency Note: Wood conversion factor is based on forest floor, helping to protect the soil and While overall consumption has increased pulp production only (paper excluded). prevent erosion. in line with our mill operating at optimum capacity, the minerals, pigments and Our target for conversion of wood to pulp The lower weight of dry wood reduces chemicals required per tonne of pulp (ADT) in 2013 is 3.75 adt (pulp) per adt (wood). both transport costs and emissions. As an is significantly reduced compared with indication, a three per cent decrease in As mentioned above, our investment in 2010. The greater efficiencies gained wood moisture equates to 300,000 tonnes mechanical debarking has resulted in a through optimum asset utilisation are less wood by weight per year. significant amount of biomass left on the evident in data throughout this section of this Report. Reducing materials use Figure 16: Minerals, pigments and chemicals 40 3.3 Kerinci Mill Materials Recycled materials Replacing fossil fuel with biogenic fuel. Figure 17: Black liquor bio-fuel Biomass a significant energy source Figure 18: Bio-fuels used for energy Biogenic fuel such as palm husks and achieving reductions in indirect energy use forest floor as a result of our mechanical effluent sludge reduce our reliance on and emissions. (Biogenic carbon fuels are harvesting and debarking initiative. fossil fuels and our fossil generated carbon in some cases, considered carbon neutral). While bark previously added to our releases. Transport distances related to The decrease in biomass energy source biogenic fuel volume, it also helps stabilise biomass fuels are far lower than those between 2011 and 2012 reflects the and protect soil when left at the site of associated with fossil fuels, so we are also greater volume of biomass left on the harvesting. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 41 3.4 Energy consumption Figure 19: Primary Energy [fuel] consumption Figure 19 above shows that while total energy consumption increased as the mill approached designed capacity, energy in mj/adt has dropped. This is due to smooth operations, full asset utilisation and related efficiencies. Direct energy consumed per year, and compared to BAT Figure 20: Electricity consumption It can be seen here that our electricity consumption exceeds the upper limit of the BAT range. This chart reflects APRIL’s relatively high proportion of external pulp sales, (see Figure 21) compared to contemporary European mills. Pulp driers are reasonably large consumers of electricity. 42 3.4 Kerinci Mill Energy Consumption Figure 21: Electricity consumed by mill area Figure 21 above shows total energy consumed by area during the reporting period, 2011–2012. As can be seen, pulp production consumes 56 per cent of our total electricity. Around two per cent of the power we generate is sold into the local grid. Figure 22: Heat energy consumed Figure 22 above shows heat consumption per adt well within BAT range. Low-pressure steam is a by-product of electricity generation. We conserve the additional energy present in this steam by using it for drying pulp and paper. Following condensation, water is sent back to our power station where it is reheated into high-pressure steam and recycled through our system. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 43 3.5 Water Figure 23: water source information Name of Do average Recognised Volume of water Biodiversity value and Value/importance to local water source annual by source (Million m3 protection status communities withdrawals authorities per day) amount to more as a Kerinci MillthanWater 5% of Source Information sensitive average annual area? volume? Kampar River No Yes 18.9 million m3/ No special protection Medium. River used for transport, day (Average status but Kampar fisheries, hydro-electricity volume flow ANDAL Peninsular is designated generation upstream from Mill. 1992 2006 at an IBA due to five APRIL is the only pulp and paper 219 m3/sec)*. threatened bird species mill on the Kampar River. APRIL’s mill operations are located in an Our mill water source, the Kampar River, fisheries as well as supplying water to area where water is plentiful. The average has an annual average flow (1992 to local communities. APRIL operates the only annual rainfall in Riau Province is around 2006) of 219 cubic metres/second. pulp and paper mill on the river. A hydro 2.5 metres per year. This river is used for transportation and electricity plant is located upstream. Total Water Withdrawals Figure 24: Total annual water withdrawals from Kampar River In line with our mill reaching optimum a water withdrawal rate of 4.15m3 per filtration. We return around 78 per capacity, our water consumption has second, or 1.89% of the Kampar River cent of withdrawn water to the river. increased since our last Sustainability measured mean flow of 219 m3/sec*. [see Figure 27] The balance of water is Report. In 2012, total water withdrawals Some of this water undergoes pre-treatment either evaporated in cooling systems or were 131.2 million m3. This equates to including chlorination, clarification and embedded in the end product as moisture. 44 3.5 Kerinci Mill Water Materials used water Figure 25: Water consumption for pulp and paper Note: Water consumption rate is calculated cooling water and other clean water are improved. Water use (35.4 M3/ADT) is after deducting water evaporated from discharged separately. (BREF, 2001, p.iii). now at the lower end of the BAT range, cooling, as per BAT guidelines. Water Total water consumption has increased which is indicative of a modern pulp and flow is based on the assumption that since 2010, but water efficiency has also paper mill working at optimum capacity. Figure 26: Water consumption by area Water is used in almost every part of the slurry) through the mill, and in power 73 per cent, followed by power generation, pulp and paper making process, both generation. then paper. A small amount is sold to directly as a solvent, and indirectly in locations such as our town site, our hotel, Figure 26 above shows that pulp is the transporting materials (for example pulp forestry research and development facilities biggest consumer of water, accounting for and our nursery. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 45 Figure 27: Waste water discharged to kampar river Figure 27 above shows total (annual) Wastewater treatment soils and biological monitoring. There are volume of water discharged. In 2012, we 34 proposed sites for sampling, with on Typically, mill effluent has high levels of returned 102.3 million m3 of treated water going sampling to be undertaken on an biological oxygen demand (BOD), chemical to the Kampar River around 78 per cent annual basis. oxygen demand (COD). As such, it requires of our water withdrawal*. Efficient mill treatment before discharge. Our mill has This project is driven by APRIL’s internal operations have enabled us to mimimise an on-site wastewater treatment facility, and sustainability agenda and is not the result water discharge per tonne of pulp. treats around 280,000 m3 of effluent per of legal requirements. The first year’s In 2012 the volume of water discharged day. Suspended solids are removed, and results will act as a baseline and can be was 35.4 m3/adt, putting us at the lower recovered for use in the recovery boiler. used to assess any future improvements or end of BAT range and well within our Additionally, leachate collected from landfill degradations in environmental quality. Indonesian permitted level of 85 m3/adt. operations is directed towards the mill This was achieved against an increase in effluent treatment system. mill production output. Total recycling of water The mill wastewater treatment process can Our mill uses high levels of internal While we are working to reduce water use be summarised as follows. recycling. Some production stages, such per unit of product, a reduction in water use Primary Treatment: Screening, Primary clarifier, as the paper machine forming section, means a subsequent increase in the loading Equalization, Neutralisation, Cooling. involve very dilute processes, so high water of wastewater effluent. efficiency is a priority. We currently re-use Secondary Treatment: Aeration, Secondary In 2011-2012, there were no significant more than 90 per cent of our water. Around clarifier, Sludge handling, Decanter centrifuge. issues related to wastewater. six to seven per cent of water consumption Post treatment effluent monitoring is carried is contained within the end product, with out every shift by mill technicians and pulp containing around 10 per cent water monthly by an approved third party testing and paper around four to five per cent. company and reported to regulators. Some stakeholders are becoming interested In 2010 APRIL engaged a testing and in our overall water footprint. There are monitoring company to design and carry a number of emerging methodologies for out an environmental monitoring program. determining water footprint. APRIL is in This program includes mill effluent quality, the process of deciding which of these river water quality, river sediment, riverbank methodologies to employ. 46 3.6 Kerinci Mill Emissions 3.6 Emissions Emissions to air APRIL makes ongoing efforts to reduce 4. TRS emissions of the lime kiln are emissions from the mill. These efforts mitigated by controlling the excess An integrated pulp and paper mill has a include fitting of additional plant and oxygen, by using low-Sulphur fuel, number of associated air emissions, arising equipment to recover by-products for use and by controlling the residual soluble mostly from operational processes and to as fuel. The methanol recovery project sodium in the lime mud fed to the kiln. a lesser extent from vehicle transport. Key mentioned in section 3.2 is an example. point sources of air emissions at our mill 5. The SO2 emissions from the recovery include recovery boilers, power boilers, APRIL’s pulp and paper mill conforms to the boilers are controlled by firing high dry fibre lines, bleaching plant and lime kilns. following EU Best Available Techniques for solids concentration black liquor in the reducing emissions to air: recovery boiler and/or by using a flue Recovery and power boilers are used to gas scrubber. generate steam. These power seven steam 1. Collection and incineration of turbines, generating 535MW of electricity. concentrated malodorous gases and 6. BAT is furthering the control of NOx The recovery boiler, power boilers and control of the resulting Sulphur Dioxide emissions from the recovery boiler (i.e. lime kiln stacks are fitted with emissions (SO) emissions. The strong gases can ensuring proper mixing and division abatement equipment in the form of electrobe burnt in the recovery boiler, in the of air in the boiler), lime kiln and from static precipitators, to reduce the particulate lime kiln or a separate, low Nitrogen auxiliary boilers by controlling the firing loading of air emissions. Oxides (NOx) furnace. The flue gases conditions, and for new or altered of the latter have a high concentration installations also by appropriate design. We have also installed continuous emissions of SO2 that is recovered in a scrubber. monitoring (CEM) equipment at key emission 7. SO2 emissions from auxiliary boilers sources. This provides a continuous set 2. Diluted malodorous gases from are reduced by using bark, gas, low of data for our control rooms to review, various sources are also collected Sulphur oil and coal or controlling while supplementing third party monitoring and incinerated and the resulting SO2 Sulphur emissions with a scrubber. for regulatory reporting. Emissions-to-air controlled. 8. Flue gases from recovery boilers, monitoring is carried out quarterly by an 3. Total Reduced Sulphides (TRS) auxiliary boilers (in which other approved third party testing company. The emissions of the recovery boiler are biofuels and/or fossil fuels are results are reported to regulators. mitigated by efficient combustion incinerated) and lime kiln are cleaned control and CO measurement; with efficient electrostatic precipitators to mitigate dust emissions. Dust Figure 28: Total particUlATe air emissions Note: (BREF, BAT, 2001, p.iv) includes dust emissions from 3 lime kilns, 4 recovery boilers and 3 power boilers. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 47 Figure 28 opposite shows dust emitted in Although they exceed BAT, these levels A modern electrostatic precipitator system tonnes and total suspended particles per are within Indonesian national limits. The was installed during the construction dry weight tonne (TSP/DWT). Indonesian limits for power and recovery of Recovery Boiler Number 5. We are boilers and for lime kilns are 230 mg/Nm3 currently working on several initiatives This data is collected every three months and 350 mg/Nm3 respectively. that will allow further reductions of dust by a third party and represents a snap shot emissions. of dust emissions. It is not derived from In 2012, total dust emissions and TSP/DWT continuous monitoring. decreased. Sulphur Oxides within BAT Figure 29: SOx Treated Air Emissions Note: Recalculation of historical ratios 3 lime kilns, 4 recovery boilers and 3 power of black liquor for fuel. This process has based on total mill output have varied ratios boilers. decreased our consumption of higher reported above for 2008 and 2009. sulphur fuels such as coal and marine Sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions (kg/ fuel oil. When we burn coal, it is mixed SOx reported as Sulphur: See note: (BREF, ADT) are within BAT limits. These have with limestone to precipitate out sulphur BAT, 2001, p.iv ) includes emissions from been reduced since the commissioning of as calcium sulphate. This prevents sulphur Recovery Boiler Number 5 and burning being emitted as a gas. 48 3.6 Kerinci Mill Emissions Nitrogen Oxides Figure 30: NOx treated air emissions Note: Recalculation of historical ratios based on total mill output and re-analysis of data have resulted in increased ratios for 2008-10. Increased NOx emissions have resulted from greater amounts of energy being derived from biomass. Malodorous gas below BAT lower level Figure 31: TRS Treated Air Emissions Note: Recalculation of historical ratios based on total mill output and re-analysis of data have resulted in increased ratios for 2010. TRS reported as Sulphur (mill data H2S). Includes emissions from FL1, 3 lime kilns and 4 recovery boilers. Figure 31 above shows that total reduced sulphur (malodorous gas) levels are well below BAT recommended range. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 49 Emissions to water Figure 32: Water discharge total suspended solids (TSS) Total suspended solid discharge per ADT of pulp has increased as production has increased, but remains just outside the upper limit of BAT range. Volume of total suspended solids discharged per ADT was slightly lower in 2012, due to operating efficiencies. As can be seen, TSS volumes remain well within our Indonesian permit level Figure 33: Water discharge Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Note: Treated wastewater, bleached Kraft mills (BREF, BAT, 2001, p.iii). Chemical oxygen demand is below the lower end of BAT range, comparing favourably with European mills. COD decreased lightly lower in 2012 and is well within our Indonesian permitted level. 50 3.6 Kerinci Mill Emissions Figure 34: Water discharge biological oxygen demand (BOD) Note: Recalculation of historical ratios based on total mill output and re-analysis of data have resulted in increased ratios for 2010. Treated waste water bleached Kraft mills. (BREF, BAT, 2001, p.iii) Biological oxygen demand of wastewater has remained at the lower end of the BAT recommended range since 2008. BOD of wastewater (tons/tonnes) increased to 1,995 tones in 2012 but remains well within Indonesian permitted levels. Figure 35: Water discharge Adsorbable organic halides (AOX) Note: Adsorbable organic halide levels per ADT remained at the lower end of the BAT recommended range in 2011 and 2012. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 51 Figure 36: Water discharge total nitrogen Note: Treated wastewater, bleached Kraft mills (BREF, BAT, 2001, p.iii). Figure 37: Water discharge total phosphorous 52 3.7 Kerinci Mill Waste Management 3.7 Waste management Figure 38: Solid Waste to Landfill Pulp and paper production generate The absence of sludge in landfill since Remediation did not remove the material, significant waste streams. APRIL is 2009 is due to our biomass energy but concentrated on leachate recovery committed to reducing, reusing and recovery initiative. We continue to develop and venting of methane. Remediation of recycling these streams. APRIL currently alternative uses for our waste streams with this facility was undertaken with approval operates a 14 hectare landfill site within the ultimate aim of having no waste sent to from the Indonesian authorities. A network our mill complex. This site incorporates landfill. of groundwater monitoring wells has been modern leachate systems and is run established around the remediated landfill Our landfill is for solid industrial hazardous according to best practice. Within the mill and these are monitored on a quarterly wastes only, not for prohibited materials precinct, we face similar environmental basis with results reported to the regulator. such as oil, fuel, lubricants and chemicals. challenges to other leading pulp and paper Monitoring of this site continues. manufacturers around the world. Disposing The mill site also includes an original A dedicated store for hazardous wastes of solid waste is an ongoing issue for our landfill that was started in the mill (B3) is also located at the mill site. We industry, whenever a high percentage of development phase. Subsequently, have strict environmental procedures for fuel used is biofuel. remediation of this older landfill operations and control of this facility and commenced in 2004. Power boiler ash is a significant component for appropriate disposal of hazardous of our total solid waste volume and has This involved sealing the landfill and waste. increased with mill production. In line with capturing the effluent generated from The data reported in Figure 38 above our industry counterparts around the world, the site. Remediation was split into three is based on a comprehensive review we continue to work on alternative solutions phases, with 10 hectares remediated of historical waste management data to this problem. in 2005, a further 10 in 2006, and the undertaken in late 2012. remaining 14 hectares in 2009. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 53 Figure 39: solid waste by type, 2011-2012 Figure 39 above shows the relative solution. The zero value for sludge is a We immediately began remediation of proportions of solid waste generated over result of this waste stream being redirected the site and consequently, we have been 2011 and 2012. Recovery Boiler number as part of our energy recovery program. upgraded to a blue rating*. We are on 5 has delivered significant environmental track to regain our PROPER green rating in Our ongoing efforts to find a solution to the benefits in allowing fossil fuels to be due course. landfill issue led to a situation in late 2011 replaced by biofuel. that resulted in APRIL having its valued Throughout this episode, we benefitted from It can be seen that boiler ash now green rating with Indonesia’s Program constructive engagement with the Ministry represents just over half of all solid waste for Pollution Control, Evaluation, and of Environment, which again demonstrated from our mill. Rating (PROPER) downgraded*. A green to us that Indonesia’s authorities have rating indicates that the mill environmental both the regulatory means and the will to As we have continued to look for better performance goes beyond the PROPER engage meaningfully on such matters, and solutions in solid waste management, compliance guidelines. that the Government’s system of annual we have examined the feasibility of compliance checks is effective. using this material in road making and When a boiler ash reusing initiative did not brick production. Other possible uses meet our expectations, we were compelled On occasions when APRIL recognizes it has being explored in our industry include to dispose of the resultant solid waste in operated outside a regulation, immediate construction and concrete manufacture. We an emergency landfill site. That landfill steps are taken to address the position. We are working to find an alternative to landfill area was not compliant with Ministry of are continuously working to further reduce that is acceptable to our stakeholders, Environment requirements. This led to our our mill’s environmental impacts through meets Indonesia’s regulatory requirements PROPER rating being downgraded from modifications to plant and processes. and constitutes a global best practice green to red*. 54 3.8 Kerinci Mill Carbon 3.8 Carbon APRIL is focused on achieving a sound • Establish a verifiable baseline range of from peat can only deliver a plus or minus scientific basis for ongoing carbon carbon emissions from the concessions range, often with many variables. monitoring and reporting. We are awarded to APRIL at the point at which These variables include peat composition, committed to tracking and reporting on APRIL took them over (“Take Over condition and history; vegetation condition carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. We are Point”) including canopy closure (exposure of peat making progress in our efforts to manage • Determine our carbon footprint, i.e. the surface to sunlight tends to raise emissions), the reduction of green house gas (GHG) difference between our current total weather including rainfall, humidity and air emissions. emissions and our baseline emissions temperature, and ground water levels and Our focus on determining carbon before we took over those land areas flow rates. emissions includes monitoring of our mill • Measure the effectiveness of current APRIL has embarked on a comprehensive operations and of carbon emissions from initiatives to minimise carbon emissions and long-range programme including work our concessions including those located on from the mill and forest lands with a number of third-party experts to peatland. build knowledge about carbon emission • Formulate plans and initiatives with a APRIL’s overall goals in regard to carbon factors to reduce the company’s overall strong scientific basis to reduce carbon emissions are to: carbon footprint. emissions in the future • Establish a carbon emissions total from Understanding peatlands and carbon is our current operations and activities complex and the science is still evolving. combined, including all the land we are Measurement technologies are at a point responsible for where measurement of carbon emissions Sustainability Report 2011–2012 55 TAKING ACTION TO REDUCE We have implemented a number of We have also implemented for several CARBON FOOTPRINT programs that have reduced the Kerinci years measures designed to minimise mill’s reliance on fossil fuel. In particular, carbon emissions from those of our While research is ongoing, APRIL has the increased use of biomass for energy concessions located on peatland. These designed and implemented a suite of generation means that only 7.4 per cent initiatives include: initiatives in the management of its of the energy consumed by our mill now operations that, based on best currently • Protection of critical headwater peat comes from coal. (See section 3.2 of available science, have the greatest areas to maintain the integrity and this Report). This represents a significant potential to minimise carbon emissions from hydro function of peat domes reduction in coal consumption. our operations. • Water management practices that In the past the use of coal in our mill has It is APRIL’s firm view that carbon ensure water levels compared to At been a major contributor to our fossil CO2 management strategies must be based on Take Over levels in conservation areas emissions per metric tonne of pulp and best available science, not hypotheses or are maintained or improved over the per metric tonne of paper, but a significant vested-interest driven policy derived from long term reduction in the use of coal has been limited data. achieved. • Plantations configured as a ring around Most fossil fuel emissions in the production conservation and natural forest areas Other initiatives that have led to reduced of pulp and paper occur at the mill to discourage encroachment, illegal GHG emissions include: methanol capture manufacturing stage; smaller emissions logging, unmanaged drainage and and re-use; capture and use of waste CO2 arise from transport of raw materials to entering of the core from lime kilns in our precipitated calcium the mill and of pulp and paper products to carbonate plant and; reduced import and • Maintenance of tree canopied buffer the mill gate for export via our own port. use of bleached softwood kraft. (See section zones between our plantation and Some fossil emissions also occur in the fiber 3.2 of this Report). areas of conservation natural forest supply chain, from nurseries to plantation management to harvesting. In the operation of plantation concessions • Applying best practice water on peatlands we comply fully with management throughout peatlands, APRIL complies fully with Indonesian legal Indonesian legal and regulatory and for plantations working to maintain requirements throughout the production requirements and have played a lead highest practical water tables and to process, from operating concession lands role in having improved practices of avoid unnecessary discharge of water and sourcing fiber to manufacturing, peatland management recognized and disposal of mill wastes and export of • Periodic review and adjustment of adopted. Within Indonesia, we have been product. plantation rotation cycles to maximise instrumental in creating awareness and the time plantations have a closed solutions with respect to the need to protect canopy protecting the peat critical headwaters of peat landscapes. 56 3.8 Kerinci Mill Carbon CARBON FOOTPRINT STUDY Figure 40: CARBON FOOTPRINT OF APRIL PULP PRODUCTION: Greenhouse gas emissions and removals PER TON OF PULP APRIL commissioned IVL Swedish Environmental Research Institute to undertake a carbon footprint study of our operations in Riau, Indonesia. The initial work for the study was carried out during the second half of 2009 and this was updated with new emission factors during 2011 and finalised in January 2012. IVL is an independent, non-profit research institute, owned by a foundation jointly established by the Swedish Government and Swedish industry. This institute has been operating since 1966 and has extensive experience across the entire Fossil Biogenic environmental field. Note: Positive values represent emissions to the atmosphere, negative values represent removals. The IVL study included a full product life cycle analysis (LCA) for the period 2006 – 2009. This analysis covered plantations Figure 41: Greenhouse gas emissions at APRIL pulp and forestry, production of other raw production from cradle to customer gate in Europe materials, pulp and paper production, transport and waste management. Our pulp and paper was assumed sold into markets in Europe, China, Japan and Korea. The methodology employed for the study was the Framework for Development of Carbon Footprint by the Confederation of European Paper Industries, (CEPI). The resulting carbon footprint included greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from fossil fuels, calculated as carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e), and net removal of biogenic CO2 from the atmosphere (sequestration). To give a carbon footprint, Fibres Other raw Pulp Distribution Total current net emissions from managed land materials priduction transport were compared to those before APRIL took over the concessions. GHG emissions are in units of Global IVL found that net emissions for the period The fossil fuel part of the Carbon Footprint Warming Potential (over 100 years): 2006-09 have in fact been negative. study for pulp and paper published in CO2e of net emissions per metric tonne of This reflects increases in forest biomass 2012 showed that fossil GHG emissions market pulp and per metric tonne of fine stocks resulting from APRIL management. associated with APRIL pulp and paper paper, including distribution to Europe and Productive plantations and protected production and transportation to the end of product life in Europe. conservation areas have replaced what customer gate were 850 kg CO2e/tonne was degraded natural forest at the time IVL similarly derived estimates of biogenic pulp (see Figure 40 opposite) and 1070 kg APRIL first took over the land. This “At (forest biomass and soil) net CO2e CO2e/tonne fine paper. Take Over” situation is also referred to emissions to the atmosphere per tonne by IVL as a reference scenario – to give Figure 41 above is expanded from Figure of product, from comparing the situation a comparison of net biogenic emissions 40. The fossil GHG emissions are divided before APRIL took over management of the today “with APRIL” with the emission level by IVL into various production stages from concession lands, with APRIL’s current land expected “without APRIL”, today. “cradle to customer gate”. management practices. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 57 The method used to generate these Figure 42: Forecast Co2e emissions from APRIL scenarios was based on the Interplantations versus unmanaged land. governmental Panel On Climate Change (IPCC) “Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty Managements in National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, guidance for Million metric tonnes of CO2e land use, land-use change and forestry, default method”. The forest and plantation carbon analysis undertaken was based on annual carbon stock changes of all forest areas under APRIL forest management control. The plantation component of carbon footprint, expressed as tonnes of biogenic CO2 per tonne of pulp, was determined by relating the total estimated annual forest carbon stock change to the annual production of pulp and paper. The “At Take Over” scenario that served as a baseline for the comparison in carbon stock change between land under APRIL somewhat lower or substantially lower now, plantations has resulted in considerable management and unmanaged land was compared to before APRIL. emissions of CO2 at time of conversion. IVL based on calculations that reflected expert included these emissions in accounting for It was concluded that the impact of APRIL assessment of the status of unmanaged the net effect of APRIL land management management in reducing the overall rates land. on atmospheric emissions. of carbon losses from APRIL forest lands has It is important to note that when APRIL took very likely, though not absolutely certainly, Figure 42 above shows future accumulated over the concessions, the existing forests been a significant one. CO2 emissions from APRIL-managed were not in pristine condition. They were forestland with emissions from unmanaged Another key finding was that, despite this affected by previous logging activity by forestland. This data was derived from emission reduction compared to Take-Over, other parties, particularly illegal loggers. an extrapolation over time for identical APRIL forest lands currently do act as a net Drainage canals, wildfire and agricultural forestland areas, with and in the absence source for CO2, emitting to the atmosphere encroachment had also impacted on these of APRIL forest management. It can be in the range of five to nine million tonnes areas. seen that a considerable variation range CO2e/year. IVL found it most likely that A clear finding of the IVL study was has been included in extrapolated CO2 the size of present day (calculated over that the estimated CO2 emissions from emission volume. 2006-09) emission reduction was between forest land under APRIL management three and ten million tonnes of CO2e/year. IVL have concluded that while unregulated would likely be substantially higher or at For the plantation areas, the emissions of degradation of remaining unoccupied state least the same in the absence of APRIL CO2 decreased following APRIL take-over forests in Indonesia remains widespread, management. A number of variables have of this land. APRIL’s operations on peatland result created uncertainty over the magnitude in a comparative reduction in carbon It was also concluded that the process of of lowering and whether emissions are emissions. conversion of degraded natural forest to 58 3.9 Kerinci Mill Fibre Sourcing 3.9 fibre sourcing APRIL’s objective is to establish an entirely For both supply partners and community Wood Purchase Policy plantation-based source of renewable fibre farms, APRIL provides advisory APRIL’s approach to the procurement and plantation grown wood to supply the support and specific services to encourage sourcing of wood fibre as feedstock for the essential raw material needed to sustain good agricultural management and Kerinci Mill is a responsible one. our business and the livelihoods of those sustainable practices. For example, we who depend on it. Developing the network provide partners with high-yield seedlings Key elements of APRIL’s Wood Purchase of plantation estates to underpin the from our network of three central nurseries Policy governing the sourcing of fibre business has been an intensive undertaking supplemented by satellite nurseries that include: since the inception of our company 19 together have the capacity to produce over • Taking necessary measures to ensure years ago. 150 million plants per year. In 2012, APRIL that wood is properly checked and enabled the planting of more than 130 verified as being of legitimate source Acacia plantations in Indonesia take million trees. and origin before deliveries from any approximately 5-6 years from planting to reach maturity. As plantation-based fibre The company assists its long-term supply new supply source commence. supplies sufficient to meet the requirements partners to develop and manage the land of the Kerinci mill are not yet fully areas for which they are responsible to • Insisting that all suppliers and mature, the mill sources a combination enable them to develop sustainable sources contractors comply with all licensing of plantation-derived fibre and mixed of renewable plantation fibre. Promoting requirements and relevant rules and hardwood. the adoption of advanced forestry practices regulations related to cutting, transport by supply partners whose operations or delivery of wood raw materials to In the 2012 calendar year, 65 per cent will help sustain our business for the long the mill. of the timber consumed by the Kerinci term is a key element of APRIL’s business mill was plantation wood (Acacia and • Immediately warning any suppliers strategy. Eucalyptus) and 35 per cent was mixed identified as violating relevant legal hardwood*. All wood was from legal We work with all long-term supply partners, requirements and/or the provisions of sources. over time, to encourage them to adhere to APRIL’s Wood Purchase Policy. APRIL practices and to help improve their Since mid-2012, all paper produced at • Ceasing purchasing from suppliers who on-the-ground management capacity. Kerinci has been based on plantation disregard applicable licensing and sourced fibre. Long-term supply partners are encouraged regulatory requirements. to adopt standards similar to APRIL’s in land Wood is supplied from APRIL’s own • Ensuring that all our employees use planning, identification and protection plantations, long term supply partners responsible for the procurement, of high conservation value (HCV) forest and community plantations (community purchase, and acceptance of wood and community engagement. In particular fibre farms). As at 31 December 2012 delivered to or used as raw materials we are working with these partners to community fibre farms occupied a for the pulp and paper mill are take them through the process of HCV combined gross area of 28,384 hectares, properly informed and trained to assessment with the plantable areas within them enforce the provisions of APRIL’s Wood totaling 19,640 hectares. APRIL maintains intensive dialogue with Purchase Policy. supply partners and discusses any supplier APRIL also maintains contractual supply • Taking disciplinary action, including issues raised by external stakeholders with arrangements with a range of limitedpotential termination, against any staff the supplier concerned, provides feedback term suppliers who are subject to the found violating the Wood Purchase and viewpoints and encourages actions by requirements of APRIL’s responsible Policy. supply partners to address any problems procurement policies. identified. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 59 APRIL has a clear position against illegal that the system is effectively implemented, PIMS maintains records necessary for timber use. Our policies dictate that only thus assuring customers of the effective internal and external auditors to verify legal wood can be purchased for use segregation of plantation wood from mixed compliance to legal requirements. in our mill. To maintain the integrity of hardwood in the entire production process, PIMS is based on a Geographic our wood supply procedures, we have and they ensure the legality of the wood. Information System (GIS), linked to implemented a third party-audited Chain of The range of national and international databases that include information on Custody system to ensure the legality of the certifications held by APRIL that provide plantation stock, inventories, operational timber we use. end-to-end assurance are described in status, orders and costs. Suppliers are required to demonstrate that section 4.10 of this Report. The company also maintains a database they have all necessary permits including We assist our partners to develop and of all licences and permits required to valid cutting permits, transport permits etc. manage the land areas for which they harvest and transport wood. Our system APRIL has a zero tolerance approach to are responsible to enable them to develop and processes aim to ensure that our entire illegally harvested wood being supplied to sustainable sources of renewable plantation supply meets legal requirements as well as our mill. fibre to underpin the future of our pulp and APRIL’s wood sourcing criteria. A plantation wood CoC System is used paper manufacturing operations. The aim of these systems is to ensure to track the origin of products sold by that wood is legally harvested and that APRIL. This system ensures that plantation production Information harvesting does not violate traditional and wood is strictly segregated from mixed Management System civil rights, take place in forests where high hardwood, from the supply source through conservation values could be threatened by to production. APRIL has designed and implemented a management activities, or occur in forests system known as the Production Information The plantation CoC System is regularly in which genetically modified trees are Management System (PIMS) for tracing audited by national and international planted. wood from APRIL’s forest management units acredited, independent certification bodies (FMUs) to the mill-site. Any such sources identified are excluded againts the implemented standards; PEFC from APRIL’s supply chain. CoC, OLB CdC, SVLK, LEI. They confirm 60 60 4.0 Plantations 4.0 plantations Sustainability Sustainability Report Report 2011–2012 2011–2012 61 61 62 4.0 4.1 Plantations Kerinci Mill –Overview Overview 4.1 Overview Growing global demand Forestry a key driver of Balancing development for plantation fibre Indonesia’s development with environmental The United Nations has estimated that the Indonesia has emerged from decades of protection world’s population will be at least 9 billion sporadic growth to become a positive In September 2011, Susilo Bambang people by 2050. The World Business economic story in recent years. With 238 Yudhoyono, Indonesia’s President stated: Council for Sustainable Development million people, more than half of whom are “Sustainable development is part of our (WBCSD) has estimated that the total yield under 40 years-old, growth and opportunity efforts to boost Indonesia’s economy so that and harvest from planted forests will need must continue to deliver a viable future for it will become the 12th largest economy to increase threefold, with the area under Indonesians. by 2024... We therefore need to go fibre plantations needing to grow by 60% into partnership with all stakeholders to Poverty however remains endemic, versus 2011 to meet expected demand for sustainably manage our forest resources.” particularly in rural areas. Despite a strong fibre in 2050. improvement in the number of people rising Unsanctioned human encroachment and Plantation establishment undertaken now out of poverty, almost 30 million people still illegal logging in forest areas has, over will ensure a sustainable and renewable live below the poverty line in Indonesia. recent decades, led to a reduction in the source of fibre to meet future global areas of undisturbed forest remaining in Production forestry is important to the demand. Indonesia, although deforestation of pristine livelihoods of more than 20 million forest areas has slowed considerably in the Due to the faster growth cycle of acacia Indonesians and is estimated to generate past five to ten years. species in tropical climates, the volume of 1.8 million jobs. In Riau Province, where wood that can be harvested per hectare is APRIL has its primary operations, forestry In addition, the Government has made very high compared to northern latitudes. contributed 16.9% of the Province’s GDP in international commitments to ensure In Indonesia, acacia rotation times are 2012. development is undertaken responsibly, five to six years, a considerably shorter particularly in relation to climate change, time than for northern latitude plantation carbon emissions and environmental species. sustainability. Various countries around the world, including Indonesia, are legitimately capitalising on these trends as part of their economic development agenda. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 63 INDONESIAN PULP & PAPER commercial interests through formal Responsible forest management is a INDUSTRY CONTEXT concession licenses, representing 4% of challenge in Indonesia. The forest areas are total forest areas. vast and often remote. Poverty and lack of Indonesia has 131 million hectares economic alternatives drive illegal forest designated by the government as forest The government requires that the maximum activities that have no regard for regulation areas. area of any pulp and paper concession or conservation. International scrutiny of that can be used for plantations is +/-70% Of that, 78 million hectares has been Indonesian forestry practices often ignores (APRIL and supply partners only use 51% zoned for production forestry. Land the fact that without responsible private of their concession areas for plantations). earmarked for pulp and paper activity sector management, significant areas of accounts for approximately 10.5 million That means the total area currently licensed forest are lost to illegal logging, slashhectares of production forest areas, or 8% and identified for plantation establishment and-burn farming and destructive human of total forest areas in Indonesia. accounts for approximately 2.8% of total encroachment. forest areas in Indonesia. APRIL’s own Of that 10.5 million hectares, By contrast, APRIL’s responsible forest concessions account for approximately approximately half (5.25 million hectares) management ensures sensitive areas of 0.15% of all forest areas in Indonesia. has been licensed to pulp and paper forest are conserved, land use is optimized and local communities share the benefits of development. APRIL’s responsible forest management ensures sensitive areas of forest are conserved, land use is optimized and local communities share the benefits of development. 64 4.2 Plantations APRIL’s Land Use Management 4.2 APRIL’s land use management APRIL’s goal is to reach a point where Land Use Categories LAND Concessions Key Data all fibre used in its mill comes from APRIL is guided by the Indonesian APRIL currently holds direct licenses for renewable and sustainable plantation Government’s forestry regulations that 14 concessions in Riau Province. As at fibre and to achieve it as soon as possible. stipulate the general allocation of land to be 31 December 2012, APRIL concessions Establishment of plantations on APRIL’s used for fibre, community livelihood, natural covered a total area of 357,851 hectares. concessions is an essential step to meeting that goal. tree plantations, conservation forest and Adjustments were made to the dimensions infrastructure. of the Pulau Padang and Ukui concessions Plantation establishment for APRIL began Indonesia’s Ministry of Forestry provides in early 2013, with the result that the total in 1993, with the objective of achieving broad guidance on the allocation of land land area of the concessions held by APRIL sustainable fibre supply from plantations use within industrial forest plantation at 30 June 2013 was 344,560 hectares. operated according to principles of licenses that includes: Of this total area, 62% was plantable area sustainable forest management. for plantation establishment. When concessions are licensed, • Industrial tree plantation +/70% Overall, as at 30 June 2013, 88,610 APRIL undertakes comprehensive land • Infrastructure +/5% hectares or 26% of APRIL’s concession management planning and submits those • Community livelihood plantation +/5% areas were set aside for conservation plans for approval to government. In and indigenous tree species with 44,147 developing land management plans, APRIL • Conservation +/10% hectares or 13% delineated for continued undertakes High Conservation Value (HCV) • Natural tree plantation +/10%. use by local communities, infrastructure and assessments within its concessions before other uses. operations commence. This approach, Under the land use management plans undertaken voluntarily, has been in place APRIL has in place for all of its directly held When the conservation and indigenous tree since 2005. concessions, the company meets all land species areas set aside by both APRIL and use criteria and delineation requirements. its long term supply partners are combined, These assessments identify areas to be set they account for more than 220,000 aside for conservation and protection. They hectares of concession lands that are set also identify plantable non-conservation aside and protected. areas for plantation establishment, areas suitable for community plantation and continued community use, and areas for infrastructure development. Figure 43: APRIL land use (at 30 june for april concessions) Sustainability Report 2011–2012 65 Following changes made during the Completion of plantation The areas still remaining to be established reporting period to APRIL’s contractual establishment on APRIL as plantation areas are primarily within arrangements with suppliers, the total concessions one concession, licensed to APRIL in 2009, gross land area of concessions held by Since commencement of operations, on the island of Pulau Padang. APRIL and long-term supply partners, at 30 APRIL has worked toward creating an The Pulau Padang case study in section June 2013, was approximately 817,000 entirely plantation-grown supply of wood. 4.8 of this Report describes how, in late hectares. Establishment of plantations involves the 2011, there was a halt to plantation After taking into account conservation harvesting of existing degraded forested establishment activities in this estate, in and indigenous tree species areas, areas areas on designated plantable areas compliance with Government directives for community use, infrastructure areas within licensed concession areas, then while concession boundaries were and land not suitable for plantation planting seedlings to establish plantations. affirmed and some local community establishment, the combined total plantable Plantable areas are designated after HCV disputes were resolved. This resulted in area identified in land use plans on APRIL assessments have been conducted. a delay to the completion of plantation and its supply partners’ concessions is 51% APRIL expects to complete the establishment establishment in that concession. of the total gross land area. of plantations in these concession areas by In 2011, APRIL established 17,367 the end of December 2014. hectares as plantation areas. In 2012, As at 30 June 2013, the plantable area 4,526 hectares were established as remaining to be established within APRIL’s plantation areas. own concessions was less than 20,000 hectares. 66 4.3 Plantations Forest Fire Management 4.3 Forest Fire Management Since establishment, APRIL has had a strict Burning is widely used by small farmers as We now have 665 rapid response team “no burn” policy within our concessions. an inexpensive way to prepare their land members available to fight and prevent We also ensure adherence to this policy by for farming activities. During Indonesia’s dry fires. The equipment used by our firefighters our supply partners. We do not use fire in season, these activities are intensified and includes aerial, land and water-borne the process of land clearance or plantation this can be the key source of fires that occur vehicles. We have also helped establish establishment. in our concession areas. 22 community-based fire prevention and control groups, working closely with local Fibre from trees is the key raw material APRIL is committed to United Nations Food communities and providing education, in the pulp and paper process, so any and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Fire training and equipment. fires within our concessions reduce our Management Guidelines, which include commercial returns. We therefore act ongoing commitments to improve fire Fire management objectives include quickly to extinguish fires that do occur in or management through policy, regulation, detection before fires reach 0.1 hectares in near our concessions. procedures, plans and implementation. size, fire suppression within two hours of reporting, and containment within 48 hours Fires in our concessions occur for two main We have a Fire Danger Rating System, to an area of less than 10 hectares. reasons. The first is when fires in land used which includes analysis of weather by local communities within our concessions conditions and appropriate preventative Our performance against these objectives spread to our plantation or conservation and precautionary measures. in 2011 and 2012 is shown in the table areas. The second is when fires started by below. APRIL has built comprehensive fire third parties outside our concession areas management capability, investing more than spread into our concessions. US$5 million in manpower, equipment and training. Figure 44: Results of APRIL Fire Management Programme (including supply partners) Description 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of fires 133 224 147 225 410 Hectares burnt 1,187 2,486 307 258 602 Average fire size 8.9 11.1 2 1.1 1.4 Fire management 96 87 94 98 98 performance rating We undertake regular land, air and water patrols and use satellite imagery and direct field verification to detect and map fire risks and fires. APRIL collaborates with government agencies in fighting fires near to our concessions. Through our Community Development Programme, we work with local farmers in education on fire prevention and in alternative farming methods, such as natural mulching techniques, that can replace the traditional use of fire. Illegal burning practices detected by APRIL are reported to police and forestry authorities. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 67 4.4 conservation Sustainable forest management practices As a result, APRIL’s own land-use A land-use planning process then follows are essential to maintaining healthy delineation practices now emphasise that ensures and incorporates compliance and productive forests. APRIL’s forest protection – both in terms of on-the-ground with legal requirements, science-based management practices aim to safeguard resources and in designing plantations practices and voluntary commitments. the quantity and quality of the company’s to establish buffer zones that make We are guided by the Indonesian forest resources by achieving a long-term encroachment and illegal logging in Government’s forestry regulations that balance between harvesting and re-growth. conservation areas more difficult. stipulate the general allocation of land to APRIL complies with all laws, regulations The company’s policies ensure that no fibre be used for fibre, community livelihood, and licensing requirements in the for APRIL’s production processes is sourced natural tree plantations, conservation management of its concessions and from areas delineated as conservation forest, and infrastructure. meets or better than meets Government zones in Government-approved land use A macro-delineation occurs using available benchmark requirements for the delineation plans or from tree species protected under vegetation and environmental data to and protection of conservation forest. Indonesian laws. broadly identify appropriate land use Our approach to managing land has It is APRIL’s view that well run production allocations within the concession. been developed based on the cumulative forests deliver strong environmental and Subsequently, a micro-delineation occurs by experience of our 19 years of operation social outcomes through Governmentan expert third party to differentiate areas in Riau Province. During that period, APRIL mandated systems and practical, tested to be maintained as natural forest and has learned which conservation strategies sustainable forest management and those areas suitable for development into are effective and which are not. We conservation programmes. fibre plantations. This is done based on have continually adapted our practices Land-use planning, which since 2005 specific legal criteria focusing on protecting accordingly. has included high conservation value sensitive soils, hydrological features, A key learning has been that in Riau assessments, is completed prior to wildlife and cultural sites. These processes Province, areas identified for conservation commencement of plantation establishment. fulfill Indonesia’s legal requirements for but not effectively protected are subject land-use plan development. Before a plantation concession license to significant degradation by human is awarded, APRIL’s land development Particular additional steps take place encroachment and illegal logging. specialists conduct preliminary evaluations where development occurs on peatland of available concessions, assessing soil concessions (described in section 4.7 of and land types for potential fibre plantation this Report). growth rates, access and wood transport distances, the quality of existing vegetation and identification of any social issues. 68 4.4 Plantations Conservation High Conservation Value APRIL has found the HCV processes and Overall Protection of Forest Delineation concepts to be valuable planning tools. We Conservation Areas by APRIL identify and delineate additional values that Prior to the development of concessions and Of APRIL’s total concessions, the areas may result in the conservation of additional as a voluntary commitment since 2005, set aside and conserved following areas of natural forest. APRIL has conducted High Conservation incorporation of HCV assessments in landValue (HCV) assessments for each new The guidance and recommendations from use plans account for approximately 26% concession area based on the Toolkit for HCV experts enable our planners and of our total concession areas or 88,610 Identification of High Conservation Values managers to implement best practices hectares. As referenced in section 4.2 of in Indonesia (2008). These assessments and achieve sustainable wood production this Report, when the conservation and identify and delineate exceptionally through a rational balance between indigenous tree species areas set aside by important biodiversity values, ecosystem environmental conservation, social both APRIL and long-term supply partners elements and social or cultural values and concerns and economic development. are combined, they account for more than recommend management and monitoring 220,000 hectares. It is important to recognize that the HCV activities to maintain and enhance these approach in Indonesia acknowledges that APRIL audits its own concessions to ensure values. one or more forms of active management actual conservation areas correspond APRIL reaffirms its commitment to the can be undertaken to ensure the with areas identified as conservation in integration of High Conservation Value maintenance or enhancement of one or land management plans and where any (HCV) assessments into its land-use more high conservation values in an area. discrepancies are found, an investigation planning processes and to the application takes place and rectification actions are APRIL Indonesia works closely with leading of the HCV Indonesia Toolkit to delineate undertaken. HCV experts in Indonesia and through the and protect conservation zones and Global HCV Resource Network to develop indigenous tree species areas within its consistent approaches for application concessions. of HCV processes to the context of APRIL incorporates the findings of HCV developing fibre plantations in Indonesia. assessments into its land-use planning Many detailed questions and issues of processes and undertakes fibre plantation interpretation can arise on the appropriate development in ways that will maintain the manner for applying the HCV Toolkit in the HCV. Indonesian context. Generally, the HCV process confirms the Our managers and internal specialists micro-delineation and water management participate in regional and global HCV planning that has been conducted. forums and work with partners who are experts in the application of the HCV Toolkit. Figure 45: HCV indicators HCV 1: Areas with Important Levels of Biodiversity (Habitats for Critically Endangered Species) HCV 2: Important Landscapes and Dynamics (Ecosystems and Populations) HCV 3: Rare or Endangered Ecosystems HCV 4: Environmental Services (Watersheds, Erosion Prevention, Fire Control) HCV 5: Natural Areas Critical to Meeting the Basic Needs of Local People HCV 6: Areas Critical for Maintaining the Cultural Identity of Local Communities Sustainability Report 2011–2012 69 Internal reviews of our performance in Protecting Biodiversity The International Union for Conservation protecting conservation zones on our own of Nature (IUCN) maintains a Red List of APRIL Indonesia’s forest conservation concessions has shown that, despite the Threatened Species (also known as the activities contribute to protecting natural continuous threat of encroachment, a high IUCN Red List or Red Data List). It is the forests with high levels of biodiversity. These level of protection has been achieved. world’s most comprehensive inventory of areas commonly occur along streams, the global conservation status of biological Third-party reviews have been undertaken rivers and other hydrologic features. species. Protection of listed species is fully by assessors and verifiers under the various Constant monitoring, patrols and factored into APRIL land-use evaluations certification schemes APRIL participates in. collaboration with law enforcement and protective actions. Independent monitoring, including by authorities reduce the incidence of Within the broader landscape of the Government-appointed Monitoring, poaching of protected animal species. areas in Riau Province where we operate, Reporting and Verification (MRV) teams APRIL’s forest protection officers and there are habitats for a number of notable (see section 4.9 of this Report) has verified security teams conduct both ground and species, including the Sumatran tiger, Asian APRIL’s adherence to land-use plans and aerial patrols to identify, quickly respond to elephant, tapir, hornbill species, white confirmed that designated conservation and stop threats to native wildlife. winged wood duck, Storm’s stork and giant areas are well protected. APRIL’s conservation zones and the river turtle. buffering of them with strategically placed On an ongoing basis, at a concession plantations provide significant biodiversity level, APRIL’s land-use management plans and wildlife security, compared with other and our standard operating procedures land management practices occurring provide for monitoring for indications of the outside our concessions. presence of these species. In addition, numerous other less well known and less studied species can be found. Importantly, APRIL conservation areas maintain the potential for protection and connectivity of species at the landscape level. 70 4.4 Plantations Conservation Sustainability Report 2011–2012 71 4.5 New eco-restoration activities APRIL continues to develop its conservation The programme, which will restore and RER’s programme is being conducted under efforts in Riau Province. protect 20,265 hectares of peat forest as a a 60-year restoration license issued by In April 2013, a multi-year ecosystem forest reserve, is showcased at the Ministry of Forestry. More than US$ restoration programme involving the www.rekoforest.org. 7 million will be invested in the first three establishment of a peat forest reserve on The project leader is Restorasi years to create an enduring, world-class the Kampar Peninsula of Riau Province, on Ekosistem Riau (RER), a new not-forforest reserve. the east coast of Sumatra, was launched by profit organization. APRIL initiated the RER’s approach involves four main pillars the Indonesian Minister of Forestry Zulkifli establishment of RER and will provide which are described below. Hasan. financial and technical assistance. Protect Indonesia’s remaining forest areas are facing increasing threats from illegal land clearance for agriculture and human settlement, hunting of wildlife, forest fires and continued drainage of water from peat swamp forests. RER will adopt appropriate protection strategies that will include the establishment of a formal guard and patrol function and bespoke community resource management and protection schemes. RER will work with its stakeholders to ensure that solutions are practical and effective. Assess Detailed assessments of remote peat swamp forests can be logistically challenging but RER is committed to delivering the time and resources required to understand the ecosystem that is to be protected. RER will carry out an inventory of the current presence and condition of flora, fauna and wildlife habitats, assisted by expert third-party partners. The restoration zone’s current physical and social environment will be assessed to establish the baseline against which future assessments can be benchmarked. The assessment will include: • Biogenic carbon and carbon stored within peat soils. • The water cycle and other components of the physical systems. • Communities and their relationship with the forest resource, in terms of the frequency and purpose of usage of the forest. • Biodiversity in terms of the number and distribution of flora and fauna species present Restore The RER zone is not pristine. Certain areas have been degraded by fire, selective harvesting, hunting, fishing and illegal logging. RER will restore the degraded sites through a process of “restocking”, using seedlings from the surrounding local forest. It will establish a nursery to cultivate native seedlings and carry out a programme of staged replanting. Water level restoration will be conducted in tandem to maintain water levels critical to the health of peat forest ecosystems, and we will continually evaluate the effectiveness of our efforts. Manage With a diverse set of partners, RER possesses the knowledge, expertise and skill sets to carry out the restoration efforts. It also draws on the experience of various partners in the management of High Conservation Value tropical peat forest areas. RER will develop a comprehensive, long-term management plan with its advisory panel of Indonesian and international specialists. This plan will incorporate the outcome of consultations with local communities, the Indonesian Government and adjacent forest concession licence-holders. It will be disseminated to national government bodies and international interest groups for their feedback. APRIL’s vision is for RER to be the first in a series of eco restorations. 72 4.6 Plantations Best Practice Plantation Management 4.6 Best Practice Plantation Management APRIL’s plantation We are guided by the definition of Key best practices include: management strategy is to Sustainable Forest Management (SFM) operate high yield production laid down by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO): Tree Planting forests in line with world best practice, while protecting “Achieving a balance between society’s Ensuring plantation areas are rapidly conservation areas. increasing demands for forest products and replanted is important for sustainable wood benefits, and the preservation of critical supply and to maintain vegetation cover. biodiversity – essential for the survival We operate a network of three central of forests, and the prosperity of forestnurseries and six satellite nurseries that have dependent communities”. the capacity to produce over 150 million APRIL derives clear business benefits from plants per year. From these, we supply highan SFM approach, which represents yield seedlings for our own plantations and a form of risk management. Factors those of supply partners and community such as disaffected local communities, partners. In each of 2011 and 2012, corruption, damaging farming practices, APRIL enabled the planting of more than fire and haze, and unstable economics 130 million trees. can potentially disrupt our operations. By applying SFM principles, we can minimize Efficiency and yield the business risk related to these factors. We believe our success in obtaining both Maximising yields is a key aspect of plantation concession licenses and a major effective plantation management as higher eco-restoration license reflects our SFM productivity minimizes the amount of land approach. needed to deliver the necessary fibre supply to the mill. Since commencement of Our forestry practices are contained in the plantation establishment in 1994, APRIL company’s Code of Best Practice and in has worked to increase the fibre yield of its Standard Operating Procedures. All APRIL plantations through improvements in areas employees and contractors are trained in such as planting and harvesting. these practices. Continually improving yield and efficiency requires ongoing R&D and rigorous implementation of standardised processes. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 73 Silviculture and Yield Use of Fertilisers Pest management improvement In APRIL’s plantations, plant debris, Managing pests is a necessary part of APRIL’s approach to plantation management including branches and bark, is left in the maintaining plantation productivity. is to capitalise on the natural advantages of field to maximise retention of nutrients, The key threats to acacia trees are root our location in Riau Province fertile soils, reduce erosion, and reduce the need for rot Ganoderma, Ceratosystis and insect high rainfall and a tropical climate, while artificial fertiliser. pests (in particular Helopeltis). APRIL uses caring for the land we operate on. The cultivation of plantations requires the an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Focus areas include best practice addition of fertilisers in order to maintain approach, including biological control. silviculture, achieving genetic improvements and enhance yields. Application of We also manage pests and diseases through research and development, optimal fertiliser is done in a manner that minimises through regular monitoring and reporting matching of sites with species and effective its impact on off-site locations through of tree health, while pest and disease water management. We do not use GMO prevention of groundwater and surface resistance are key selection criterion in the in our silviculture practices. water eutrophication. production of high-quality planting stock. Fertiliser availability is controlled via Pest-control chemicals are managed by Nursery operations central stores. Procedures such as the central stores. Training in agrochemical dosage and type of fertiliser to be applied Plantation development is supported by use is provided for employees, and MSDS are formulated by the Research and three central nurseries producing a total of sheets are available. Regular medical Development department. approximately 10 million plants per month. checks are undertaken for people dealing These are supplemented by a network of Soil mapping and site classification has with agrochemicals. High levels of weed satellite nurseries that play an important been completed for all plantations. This control are achieved with minimal use of role in creating employment opportunities assists in delineating planting areas and chemicals, using prescribed herbicides. for local communities. Our total nursery applying site-specific fertiliser regimes. capacity means we can grow over 150 million plants per year. Plants are produced Mechanisation of from cuttings and seeds. Seeds are harvesting supplied by the Research & Development From 2011, APRIL has taken actions to Department. increase the level of mechanized harvesting within our forestry operations. Mechanized harvesting improves efficiency and worker safety. It also reduces harvesting time and wastage, which allows for improvements in replanting. 74 4.7 Plantations Peatland Management 4.7 Peatland management The fact APRIL has significant operations APRIL’s peatland management approach located on peatland brings additional incorporates the following principles: responsibilities in land management. Our • Forests and carbon sinks in peatland approach to managing peatland concessions can only be sustainably managed if is “real world”, based on a “total landscape” the hydrological system is protected or perspective and on best-available science. rehabilitated. This is of importance for It includes efforts to minimise greenhouse conservation, and is also vital for longgas (GHG) emissions from peat through term economic production on peat land careful land-use planning and detailed implementation that includes hydrology • Degraded land which may be of management. relatively low conservation value and hold marginal potential for agriculture, Effective peatland management requires a can nevertheless hold considerable “total landscape” approach. This involves carbon deposits. Such land is managed protection and buffering of central peat to retain and rebuild treed cover, domes to guard against drainage impacts. to exclude fire and to maintain or Our approach, based on landscape rehabilitate the hydrology hydrology, aims to protect the critical headwaters of raised peat domes, ensuring • Management is designed to maximize connections to major riparian corridors. fiber production from designated plantation lands, leaving designated setIn locations such as the Kampar Peninsula aside lands both within and adjacent to and the island of Pulau Padang, our concessions as extensive and as intact as concessions are configured to assist in possible preserving and protecting central peat dome areas located outside our concessions. • On the most degraded lands, create Water tolerant species are planted. Buffer fibre plantations that provide livelihood zones are created to protect peat domes and opportunities for local communities other set-aside natural areas including those and so reduce the poverty that drives outside of our concessions, from impacts degradation and loss of forest cover, arising from active water management within while also supporting small local business the plantations. This is the “total landscape” development management approach. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 75 The “total landscape” approach is applied Some stakeholders have expressed holistically right across our concessions, to viewpoints that in the absence of legitimate community lands, plantations, conservation professional forestry sector activities on and other areas like buffers and local-use peatland, these areas would exist in a forest. pristine condition and carbon sequestration would be optimized. However, the reality It should also be noted that consistent today is that just 10% of the original peatland expansion in the area of APRIL’s plantations forest in Riau remains in a semi-intact state over the 20 years that we have been (with 50% or more of original canopy trees planting, means that APRIL’s concessions can remaining). Illegal logging, drainage and be considered a significant carbon storage. slash-and-burn clearing are still widespread By comparison, some government backed today on the remaining unmanaged peat climate mitigation programs have horizons forests, and consequently these forests of just 10 years. continue to degrade and reduce in area. It is APRIL’s firm view that our approach APRIL has learnt from experience of nearly provides an effective alternative to the two decades that active management continued degradation through illegal involving a human presence on the land, logging and human encroachment that across the landscape, is the only effective would occur if APRIL were not managing the way to curtail carbon emissions. peatland areas covered by our concessions. This is the “real world” position. APRIL believes the responsible approach is to play an active role in managing forest areas that are subject to these risks. 76 4.8 Plantations Community Partnerships & Engagement 4.8 Community Partnerships & Engagement APRIL’s concessions exist in remote areas Livelihood creation Community dialogue & and our operations co-exist with some APRIL creates direct employment for around agreements villages and local communities. Positive 5,400 workers, while it has been estimated High Conservation Value assessments relationships with local communities are that around 90,000 livelihoods are are undertaken prior to plantation essential to our long-term success. See indirectly dependent on APRIL’s operations. establishment. These take into account Section 5.0. cultural, economic or religious factors as APRIL’s operations provide a legitimate We work to maintain good relationships well as archeological and cultural heritage. means of earning an income for local with local people who live near our people. This provides an alternative The identification of communities as plantation estates. APRIL’s management to illegal logging and destructive land falling within the definition of “indigenous systems ensure that plantation development conversion. peoples” is a complex issue in Indonesia processes foster full respect for the dignity, and subject to the possibility of ongoing culture, human rights, aspirations and With support from APRIL, Community Fiber debate, given differing levels of natural resource-based livelihoods of Plantations (HTR) have been set up by integration of communities into broader indigenous peoples and other local people. communities to provide APRIL with wood society. Generally, the members of rural supplies. 28,384 hectares are dedicated We also provide opportunities for communities in Riau Province do not selfto community fibre farms. Crops are sold to development benefits in culturally identify as indigenous peoples. APRIL under a pre-agreed benefit-sharing appropriate ways and we seek to do scheme. APRIL invests around US$1,200 in A common factor affecting many rural this in a manner that acknowledges the each hectare planted, creating around 30 communities in Riau is entrenched poverty. aspirations of local people. to 35 jobs for every 100 hectares planted. Consequently, the economic opportunities and improved livelihoods that result from In addition to community farms which sell our operations are generally welcomed. fibre to APRIL, about 5% of our total areas This has been confirmed by social audits are classified as community livelihood and community dialogue. APRIL’s plantations areas within our concessions made available for community planting of Over the course of 2011 and 2012, concessions crops such as rubber and sago. To support this, APRIL assists in the learning of farming APRIL has been in close dialogue with the communities that live in close proximity exist in remote skills by community members. to our most recently licensed forestry concessions – the Meranti, Tasik Belat and areas and our The company also has an Integrated Farming System (IFS) programme for the Pulau Padang estates. These were licensed in 2009. operations cofarming of other staples. The IFS trains local people in horticulture, livestock, freshwater During the reporting period, multiple exist with some fish cultivation, composting and organic waste recycling. Three training centres Memoranda of Understanding have been entered into with local communities villages and local have been established for this purpose. We are also heavily involved in education neighboring our estates. communities. and health programs for local communities. Positive Employment of local workers and subcontractors is a priority. If jobs are lost relationships through mechanization, we endeavor to find alternative employment, in line with with local our community development commitments. communities are essential to our long-term success. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 77 Dispute resolution On occasions where local people native food gathering and river transits are have perceived that development of an uniformly included in all APRIL community APRIL operates only on concessions operation may have adverse impacts on engagement outcomes. that have been licensed to us by the them, the company seeks through dialogue Government of Indonesia and have Disputes can arise with local villagers who to minimize and mitigate such impacts and therefore been assessed by the Government take issue with the shared-usage protocols maximize commensurate benefits in other not to be subject to any prior legitimate established by APRIL. areas. community land rights claims. For example, APRIL‘s practice is to identify Over the course of the reporting period, However, ongoing land disputes do and set aside significant conservation improvements were made to APRIL’s exist in relation to plantation concession areas within its concessions. These areas method for registering grievances and to areas. APRIL therefore maintains a are protected by regular patrols to ensure conflict resolution processes within MOUs. specialized department responsible for the forest is not degraded through human the management and resolution of land An independent Grievance Redress Unit encroachment or illegal logging. disputes. (GRU) was designated for the Pulau On occasion, this causes tension and Padang concession. This unit includes APRIL is careful not to operate in areas disputes with groups of local people who more vulnerable groups (such as women’s where legitimate pre-existing land rights wish to use the conservation areas for other groups) as representatives from local may exist and where prior agreement with purposes that would involve clearing of villages. local communities has not been reached. forest. Land claim resolution procedures have However, the land tenure system in During the reporting period, APRIL been developed by APRIL to work towards Indonesia is relatively immature and complied with and embraced all the settlement of claims in a responsible, has been complicated over the past requirements under Indonesian law transparent, peaceful and collaborative decade by a process of decentralization and regulations regarding community manner. of decision-making from a previously engagement and dispute resolution. highly centralized model. Jurisdictional APRIL does not undertake any forced overlap, lack of clear records and lack resettlement of local communities regardless of precise delineation and definition are of licenses for land that may be affected by commonplace. disputes. In addition, significant trans-migration Under APRIL’s policies, access to its under government policy over the past concession land is preserved under 30 years means assessment of the origin agreed protocols that incorporate safety of peoples in local communities and their considerations and assurances that no historical and heritage links to land is illegal activity, such as illegal logging, will complex. be undertaken. Access for fishing, hunting, 78 4.8 Plantations Community Partnerships & Engagement Pulau Padang Case Study – HCV Assessments Community Consultation Responsible forestry and Our concession area on Pulau Padang After receiving the concession license community engagement at has been the subject of numerous HCV in 2009, APRIL undertook extensive work assessments since it was awarded to us in community consultation on its land use In 2009, after a comprehensive licensing 2009. management plans with villages located process, APRIL was granted a forest near the concession area. concession license for the development of Using the HCV Indonesia Toolkit, we Acacia plantations on the island of Pulau conducted an HCV pre-assessment of the More than 60 rounds of consultation were Padang in Riau Province. likely concession area in 2005, followed undertaken over 12 months. The process of by a full assessment in 2008. dialogue included discussions at community The licensing process, development of a and individual level with representatives land use management plan, interaction Both assessments were conducted in appointed by villagers. Public consultation with local communities and ultimately the conjunction with third party experts and the sessions involving local government, NGOs incidence of community dispute requiring findings influenced land use management and local communities were attended by third party involvement illustrate the proposals during the course of the local media. complexities of establishing sustainable concession licensing process. forestry in Indonesia. As a result of these processes all local After being awarded the concession, APRIL villages voluntarily signed community The Pulau Padang concession area undertook a further HCV assessment in agreements with APRIL. These agreements awarded to APRIL originally consisted of 2010 using three different external expert expressed support for APRIL’s plantation 41,205 hectares. consultants. establishment activities and set out a variety The area within the concession to be used At the conclusion of the 2010 process it of community shared-value initiatives for plantation establishment consisted was determined that of the total 41,205 to improve the living standards of local of largely degraded forest – a result of hectares of the concession, 66% or 27,375 villagers. its previous status as a selective logging hectares would be utilised for plantation Subsequently however, in late 2011, the concession held by other parties. establishment while 34% or 13,830 leadership of three of the villages changed hectares would consist of conservation Third party reviews of the concession areas and they withdrew their earlier consent to areas, areas for community use and confirmed that significant illegal logging the agreements. infrastructure. activities were underway at the time the concession was awarded. Land-use planning also used plantation and indigenous tree species areas as buffer zones for the identified conservation areas to reduce the likelihood of illegal encroachment and illegal logging in the conservation and peat dome areas of the island. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 79 Community Disputes and make recommendations regarding Resolution APRIL’s operations on Pulau Padang In late 2011, subsets of the communities In May 2013, APRIL was given Ministerial peatlands. These recommendations at the three villages, with support from a approval to proceed with its revised covered peatland subsidence management, complex web of third party groups, some land-use management plan. As at 30 June water management and protection of with political agendas, protested against 2013, the community disputes that led to conservation areas. A framework was APRIL’s land use plans. APRIL’s halt in operations on Pulau Padang established for future monitoring of APRIL’s were considered to be resolved. Despite calls for dialogue and peaceful land-use management and conservation resolution from all sides, some villagers practices. As a result of the independent mediation resorted to self-harm tactics to attract and MRV processes: attention to their protests. Arson attacks HCV ASSESSMENT REVIEWS • All parties agreed that APRIL’s gross occured against company property and concession area would be reduced from tragically, this escalation resulted in the In early 2013, APRIL undertook an expert41,205 hectares to 34,865 hectares, murder of one of APRIL’s contractors. reviewed analysis and update of all HCV a reduction of 15%. Redrawing of the assessments conducted on Pulau Padang In late 2011, APRIL suspended all activities concession boundaries took out areas over the previous seven years. This resulted on Pulau Padang. In late December 2011, that would have been in proximity to in the additon of several hundred hectares the Indonesian Ministry of Forestry issued a villages that had expressed ongoing of land set aside for conservation. decree to form a multi-stakeholder team to concerns during the review process. find a solution to the remaining community The expert review of HCV assessments also • Conservation areas were increased to disputes. underwent independent peer review by two 12% of the adjusted concession area. members of the internationally recognised A mediation team was subsequently HCV Resource Network Indonesia. • Community livelihood areas were appointed. This included government increased in two areas, consistent with officials, members of NGOs and Key observatioons and findings from the adjacent village wishes. scientists. The mediation team’s initial further peer review included: recommendations included re-checking During the period of dispute resolution, • Without responsible land management of concession boundaries, community APRIL continued to develop shared-value such as proposed by APRIL, there are consultation and mapping of community initiatives with the villages that had entered intense external factors that threaten areas, involvement of independent parties into agreements with the company. the sustainability of the Pulau Padang in the dispute resolution dialogue and the landscape. In 2013, APRIL plans to spend appointment of a Monitoring, Reporting approximately US$900,000 to implement and Verification (MRV) team for Pulau • That on balance, the APRIL operational community programmes including: Padang. This MRV team was appointed in plan offers an opportunity for February 2012. sustainable management of the Pulau • Establishment of integrated community Padang region. farming systems through planning and Based on an agreed protocol for supply of agricultural materials boundary demarcation, APRIL commenced • Acknowledgment of the importance the government-supervised process of of APRIL taking a lead role in the • Business assistance, loans and training participatory boundary mapping. conservation of the large core area of for small-medium enterprises establishing deep peat swamp which is surrounded in the area The independent MRV team commenced by and buffered from encroachment by a new round of consultations with all • Scholarships, teacher training and APRIL’s land concession. village heads of Pulau Padang and education equipment other community representatives, local • Endorsement of the “exceptional levels • Support of enhanced health services government stakeholders, numerous NGOs of public consultation carried out during and APRIL. These consultations focused on the concession boundary demarcation • Provision of social infrastructure including developing a comprehensive understanding process” and the excising of land by sports equipment, road infrastructure of remaining concerns about APRIL’s plans. APRIL from the original concession improvement, bridge repair and area to accommodate community electricity generation capacity In November 2012, the MRV team expectations. convened a meeting of scientists to assess • Religious and other training focused on youth 80 4.9 Plantations Monitoring, Reporting and Verification 4.9 Monitoring, Reporting and Verification Increased Monitoring, The implementation of MRV is based on The MRV teams’ analysis, the process Reporting and Verification four key areas related to peatlands and the for which was signed off by the Ministry establishment of plantations on peatland: of Forestry, is based on monitoring In 2009, Indonesia’s Ministry of Forestry and reporting on 19 indicators in three appointed an independent and integrated 1. Community preparedness for changes categories. The teams produce monitoring team of specialists to evaluate APRIL’s in social and cultural values as a result results and recommendations on a six land-use planning and water management of plantation development monthly basis. Results are based on system on the Kampar Peninsula through 2. Communities’ ability and opportunity to field visits, stakeholder interviews and a multi-year Monitoring, Reporting and benefit from plantation development verification of data. Verification (MRV) process. The MRV teams have been active throughout the period of 3. Managing the impacts of peat water The categories and indicators are depicted this report and have indicated that the work drainage on carbon emissions and in the table below. being undertaken with APRIL may, in time, impacts on protected natural forests become a model for other forestry sector 4. Ability to sustainably manage water participants. levels to reduce the likelihood of fires Figure 46: kampar peninsula mrv indicators Community, social and economic development 1. Values that support the improvement of prosperity, education and health through training and health screenings Economic improvement by developing community farmer groups with necessary infrastructure, equipment and resources, and 2. developing community livelihood plantations 3. Social improvement through access to formal education and improved nutrition and health 4. Promote local culture and ecotourism Environmental monitoring and protection Environmental monitoring and protection 5. Measuring peat subsidence and closing old drainage canals 6. Measuring carbon emissions 7. Measuring methane emissions 8. Measuring carbon sequestration 9. Monitoring biodiversity using protected species lists 10. Measuring water table depths based on land use 11. Measuring soil moisture content and temperature in surface peat 12. Reducing “hotspots” and fire occurrence in village and concession areas and developing community fire response teams Stakeholder participation 13. Identifying key stakeholders to achieve harmony and reduce conflict 14. Ensuring involvement with key stakeholders 15. Disseminating information on water level management to other companies on the Kampar Peninsula 16. Applying APRIL Indonesia’s water management to other companies on the Kampar Peninsula 17. Reducing contributions to national emissions levels 18. Increasing education infrastructure and training to develop human resources 19. Developing local contractors in plantation management and employing local labor Sustainability Report 2011–2012 81 MRV Assessment procurement of library books in villages measurement has been conducted in (more than 3,640 books), a health conjunction with CO2 measurement, APRIL’s operations in the Kampar education program and characterand methane gas measurement has Peninsula have been favorably rated in the building training for students. Most of also been performed. Measurement Measurement, Reporting and Verification the programs are above target. methodologies have been progressively (MRV) assessments conducted by a team adjusted to reduce variability and from Indonesia’s Ministry of Forestry. The • APRIL helped establish 19 farmer improve accuracy. MRV assessment occurred every six months groups and set up four savings and over the reporting period. This involved credit units. In 2012, 101 community • The management of carbon emissions report analysis, field visits, discussion and residents were trained in the use of and peat subsidence produced results verification of indicators and the progress the Integrated Farming System. The that exceeded targets. or constraints for 19 MRV indicators achievements are above target. • Measurement of above ground biomass which covered production and social and • Initial evaluations of progress in has been undertaken but no significant environment issues including biodiversity. establishing rubber livelihood crops work has been done to measure below APRIL cooperates fully with the MRV team. for local communities showed that ground biomass such as biodiversity We provide access to all areas of our progress was below target. But after and respiration. Below ground operations and actively participate in APRIL followed and implemented the observations will be considered. gathering and delivering data for analysis MRV team recommendations, rubber • The result of biomass assessment shows and verification. establishment has shown substantial that Acacia crassicarpa sequestrates progress, i.e. 4,040 hectares of rubber The company has assisted in the formation more carbon than alternatives and livelihood crops have been established. of farmer’s groups, provided training on stores it as biomass. However, Initial constraints to completion of the integrated farming systems, participated in studies continue to seek more certain livelihood crops programme included the creation of savings and loans facilities conclusions and a specific allometric availability of high quality seeds, lack for local communities and provided equation for the species. Measurement of trained manpower, delays due to advice and resources for production from of biomass data will continue to be weather and plant disease. community farming areas. Such activities undertaken and data made public at are monitored by the MRV team. • For the last two years, activities for a later stage. Biomass measurement measuring and analysing environmental in Estate Meranti has been regularly Key findings over the January-December data, including hydrology (water conducted over the 2 year period up 2012 period by the MRV team have management), carbon source and to the end of 2012 (age classes 1 and included: sink, peat subsidence, fire prevention, 2). Therefore, biomass data from Estate • APRIL’s contribution has helped meet and biodiversity have been underway. Pelalawan will be able to be used as a important socio-economic and localGathering of data on eco-hydro peat reference for age classes 3 and 4 for culture indicators by maintaining subsidence, watertable levels and Acacia crassicarpa. the values that support the Human carbon emissions have taken place • APRIL has measured and monitored Development Index (HDI) through its across the main crop areas, local biodiversity within its conservation community development programme. species areas and protected areas. The areas and been recognized for this The programme supports the impact of closure of illegal drainage work. The MRV team has recommended development of education, health, canals has also been monitored. APRIL grouping the species favored by infrastructure, and agriculture for • Measurement of soil water (water table) communities, increasing the economic community welfare. has been carried out, initially being benefit for communities and comparing • APRIL has implemented a mutual monitored manually each month and the results associated with non-timber cooperation programme with the gradually transitioned to monitoring species and species in conservation community. This includes environmental by sensors and data loggers. Soil areas. clean-ups by employee volunteers, water content and soil temperature 82 4.10 Plantations Forest Certification and Legality 4.10 Forest Certification and Legality Certification is part of APRIL‘s Rigorous legal compliance Chain of Custody and commitment to continuous APRIL has maintained strict compliance with legality assurance improvement and product APRIL has a clear position against illegal all relevant Indonesian legal and regulatory and process assurance timber use and has implemented rigorous requirements related to its operations. Our for stakeholders such as systems to ensure that no wood from illegal code of conduct is rigorously enforced to customers, bankers and sources enters its wood supply at any ensure all employees of the company act governments. The company point. To this end APRIL has a policy and a lawfully. The company has maintained a currently holds a diverse Chain-of-Custody (CoC) system for sourced comprehensive wood “Chain of Custody” portfolio of national and timber, with third party audits of the CoC system that ensures no illegal wood enters international certifications system undertaken to assure its integrity. As its supply chain. that provide end-to-end a forest manager and wood supplier to its assurance in the areas During the period of this report, APRIL mill, APRIL has adopted a number of wood of efficiency, quality and was not subject to any adverse rulings certification and CoC schemes. sustainability. This portfolio against it on any matters related to its covers mill and plantation corporate conduct or legal compliance with We have strict policies on the purchase of operations and extends to Indonesian law. only legal wood for use in our mill. These finished products. policies are implemented through contracts that are signed before delivery. Wood is supplied from APRIL’s own plantations, supply partners and community plantations (Community Fibre Farms). Suppliers are required to demonstrate that they have a valid cutting permit, transport permit etc. Our commitments to sustainable fibre sourcing and the methods we use to ensure accurate sourcing are outlined in section 3.9 (Fibre Sourcing). Sustainability Report 2011–2012 83 International developed in response to the needs of National certifications certifications various European governments to assess Since 2006, APRIL has been certified for that timber has been produced, processed APRIL’s operations in Riau Province, Sustainable Plantation Forest Management and traded in a legal manner. Indonesia are certified under OHSAS (SPFM) under the Indonesian Ecolabel 18001 (Safety Management Systems), ISO APRIL is also certified under the Hong Kong Institute’s (LEI) standards. In late 2011, 9001 and (Quality Management Systems), Green Label Scheme (HKGLS) for selected APRIL successfully re-certified under SPFMand ISO 14001 (Environment Management plantation-based paper products including LEI for the period of 2011-2016. Systems). PaperOne™ (All Purpose, Presentation, LEI has received increasing recognition Copier), Laser and Copy brands. Since 2010, APRIL’s production facilities in global markets including in Japan, have been certified under Programme for In addition to the certifications and audit where its standards are recognised in the Endorsement of Forest Certification processes highlighted above, APRIL the Green Procurement Policy of Japan (PEFC) Chain of Custody standards, continues to work actively towards (Green Ko Nyuho) and are a requirement ensuring that all raw materials coming into additional certifications including the for Indonesian pulp and paper exporters the mill are from non-controversial sources. Programme for Endorsement of Forest to Japan. Various LEI-labeled products are Certification (PEFC) forest management also recognised in Europe and the US. In October 2011, APRIL successfully certification via the new Indonesian passed audits for certification under APRIL was the first industrial plantation certification body being established under Bureau Veritas’ standards for Origins and company in Indonesia to certify under the PEFC system, the Indonesian Forestry Legality of Timber (OLB), the first industrial Sustainable Production Forest Management Certification Cooperation (IFCC). plantation company in Asia to do so. and Timber Legality Verification (PHPL/ Certificates for OLB Standards for Forestry In Indonesia, adoption of sustainable SVLK) standards from the Indonesian Companies covering APRIL’s plantations forest management (SFM) is a mandatory Ministry of Forestry. and production facilities were issued in the obligation for forest operators, as PHPL/SVLK certification was jointly first half of 2012. RAPP supply partners stipulated by the Law of the Republic developed and will be endorsed by the also successfully passed audits under OLB of Indonesia No.41/1999 on Forestry. European Union (EU) through the Voluntary ‘Chain of Custody-Acceptable Wood’ This law recognises that an effective Partnership Agreement (VPA) programme standards. implementation of SFM will help ensure that between EU and the Government of the country’s forest resources continue to Bureau Veritas’ OLB certification is Indonesia. This was developed in provide ecological, economic, social and recognized by the Netherlands’ highly preparation for the EU’s Forest Law cultural services in an optimal, balanced respected Kerhout Legal System. Forest Enforcement, Governance and Trade and sustainable way. The aim of the law management certification is assessed (FLEGT) licensing requirements which came is to promote SFM by allowing forestry against the requirements of the Dutch into force in March 2013. stakeholders to assess the progress a government for sustainable forest company is making toward achieving management. The Kerhout framework was certification. 84 5.0 Communities 5.0 communities Sustainability Report Sustainability 2011–2012 Report 2011–2012 85 85 86 5.1 Communities – Overview 5.1 Overview APRIL is committed to the principle of community empowerment and actively supports and participates in economically viable and sustainable development programmes that foster community self-reliance. Teluk Binjai village head, Syamsuir. “APRIL’s programmes and presence have brought benefits to the village, especially in the empowerment of our people.” We have a long-term commitment to be part of Riau Province’s economic and social fabric, hence building genuine and mutually beneficial relationships with local communities is an imperative for us. Our community partnership strategy is to create shared value, which means going well beyond legal compliance to form partnerships. These partnerships are based on trust, integrity, fair achievement of majority consent and respect for human rights. Our aim is to have a direct, lasting impact on the socio-economic wellbeing of those who live within our areas of operations. The communities whom we work with are spread across 150 villages throughout our operational areas in Riau Province, covering the districts of Pelalawan, Kuantan Singingi, Siak, Kampar and Meranti Island. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 87 5.2 Community Development Programmes Our Community Development programmes have these specific objectives: i. Poverty alleviation ii. Economic development for income growth iii. Building a capacity for local partnerships and cooperatives iv. Improving quality of education for children v. Providing community healthcare services vi. Developing businesses based on community participation vii. Developing social infrastructure. Figure 47: APRIL indonesia’s main community programmes Programme Description Community empowerment through agricultural initiatives such as horticulture, plantation, animal Integrated Farming husbandry, fishery and paddy planting development. Main activities include training, facilitating and System (IFS)* providing ongoing technical support to farmers*. Education and talent-pool Scholarship programmes covering primary, secondary and university levels, teacher training and development honorariums, supply of school and education equipment, study tours. Small & Medium SME development programme targeted at businesses that directly support company operations, as well as Enterprises (SME)* businesses not related to APRIL*. Building of community clinics to provide free health services including immunization, nutritional supplement Community healthcare support, surgical procedures such as cataract and harelip operations, family planning advisory and health education. Improving physical and social infrastructure such as schools, places of worship, road construction and Social infrastructure maintenance, sanitation infrastructure and civic buildings. Vocational training in trades such as tailoring, hair styling, baking, bee keeping and honey production, Vocational training carpentry and automotive repairs. Community religious Improving soft skills of religious leaders through training and capacity building. affairs Supporting employees to undertake volunteer work in partnership with local communities in areas where Employee volunteerism we operate. Activities include joint ‘gotong royong’ or cleaning, improvement and beautification of community areas. Sport development for community youth. Training facilities, coaching and equipment are provided in Youth sport development targeted sports badminton, karate, football and tennis. 88 5.3 Communities – Highlights 5.3 Highlights Launch of blueprint for 1. Freshwater fish cultivation* sustainable community In the village of Teluk Binjai, community development members were trained to cultivate For almost two decades, APRIL has been fish in ponds they constructed from implementing community development in tarpaulins, supported by timber frames. Riau Province, to help alleviate poverty and The programme began with a visit to an improve quality of life through economic established fish cultivation facility and development, health, education and social included training in pond building and fish infrastructure programmes. breeding . APRIL provided all training and Over the last two years we have rematerials needed for six ponds. We are also examined our programme design and providing ongoing assistance and training delivery mechanisms. Our aim was to in management and maintenance. achieve better outcomes from sustainable programmes tailored to individual 2. Local handicrafts* communities. Programmes in areas such as health and education which were found to Our community development staff have overlapping objectives with existing also worked with the women of Desa government initiatives, were refocused Sering and Teluk Binjai to establish local to avoid duplication of efforts, and to handicrafts businesses. APRIL helped foster ensure maximization of resources for more these initiatives by facilitating meetings, effective outcomes. monitoring the development of handicraft products, providing handicraft training, In October 2011, APRIL launched a new and assisting with sales, marketing and community development initiative that exhibition of products. focused directly on self-reliance. Called the “Eco Village Development Programme” (EVDP), it served as a blueprint for a new 3. Cattle farming* approach to community development. In Teluk Binjai, APRIL supported the While self-reliance has always been a expansion of an existing cattle farm. priority in our work with communities, Training for 29 community members EVDP places a greater emphasis on covered areas such as animal husbandry enabling self-reliance though the creation and management, as well as production of of long-term and sustainable economic compost from cow manure, a new business activity with low environmental impacts, venture for farmers. APRIL provided 28 bulls based on local resources. and helped establish two farming groups. With this new approach, we are aiming to bring real, positive change to the lives of thousands of people. 4. Compost fertilizer development* The EVDP pilot programme was launched In Teluk Binjai, a community initiative that in the villages of Desa Sering* and Teluk has met with early commercial success is Binjai*, home to 2,800 people in 800 the production of liquid organic fertilizer households. Nine months after the launch, made from composted water hyacinth the following income-generating activities plants (known locally as “Kiambang”). The had been established. process, which uses the bioactivator EM-4, has gained commercial interest from a Given the success of these initiatives, APRIL local palm oil company. The initial training is examining the application of the EVDP phase was attended by 40 people, but model to 150 villages where community with small amounts of fertiliser being sold, programmes are already in place. opportunities now exist to increase the scale of this venture. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 89 5.4 Community programme outcomes Investment Figure 48a: APRIL indonesia’s community In 2011 and 2012, APRIL Indonesia development investments 2011-2012 invested approximately USD4.6 million Programme Cumulative Investment (USD) in various community programmes. These 1. Integrated Farming System 500,000 have yielded a range of positive outcomes. 2. Education 400,000 Figure 48a below shows a summary of the total community development investments in 3. Social Infrastructure 1,100,000 the last two years. 4. Other CD Programmes 2,600,000 Total 4,600,000 Integrated Farming System IFS has three main focus areas: • Continuing ongoing technical and managerial guidance through APRIL The Integrated Farming System (IFS) • Training villagers in farming Community Development field officers. is a key component of our community activities such as horticulture, development strategy. IFS aims to improve vegetable farming, livestock rearing We currently manage two training centres the skills of community farmers and raise and husbandry, and freshwater that help deliver technical and practical the income-generating opportunities of aquaculture. knowledge to local farmers*. We have community farmer groups. also donated another training centre to • Providing start-up investments, tools local district governments to share our and materials. knowledge with local people*. Figure 48b: Key Facts and Figures for IFS Since its inception, APRIL’s Integrated Farming System (IFS) has progressed from covering about 170 hectares in 1999, to approximately 2,400 hectares* of village farmland by the end of 2012. Income generated per participating household has consistently increased (or been maintained) over the last 5 years. In 2011, it was IDR1.5 million/month, and in 2012, it rose to IDR1.7 million/month. Monthly income of IFS farmers in previous years was IDR1.4 million/month in 2009 and 2010. To place the financial impact of the IFS programme in context, the average monthly household income of farmers in Riau Province was about IDR 1.1 million/month and IDR 1.2 million/month in 2011 and 2012 respectively, comparatively lower than the monthly income of IFS-supported farmers. Between 2011 and 2012, APRIL expanded the hectarage of land involved in IFS by about 28% (from 1,354 hectares to approximately 2400 hectares)*. From 1999-2012, IFS has (cumulatively) benefited 3387 farmers*. As of 2011, there were 2,913 participants from 96 villages in the IFS*. The year 2012 saw 474 new farmers join the programme, bringing the total number of participants to 3,387 farmers from 94 villages*. In 2011 and 2012, 105 and 112 farmers participated in training programmes respectively*. Over the last two years, 1,418 households (2011) and 1,618 households (2012) received support for agricultural materials*. 90 5.4 Communities – Community Programme Outcomes Small and medium operations are fibre plantation planting and businesses, by providing formal assurance enterprise development maintenance teams, harvesting contractors to banks that the entrepreneurs hold and transport services. legitimate contracts with the company that APRIL launched the Small and Medium will enable them to meet loan repayment Enterprise (SME) development programme Another group of entrepreneurs have commitments. with the objective of providing aspiring participated in our vocational training entrepreneurs with technical and financial programmes to develop livelihood skills In 2011, APRIL helped SMEs secure over expertise. This programme supports a such as tailoring, honey production, IDR 9 billion in bank funding to start and wide range of businesses, within and carpentry and motorcycle repair. develop their businesses. In 2012, over outside the forestry industry. Examples of IDR7 billion in bank funding was supported APRIL has also assisted these entrepreneurs SME businesses that directly support our by APRIL. to secure bank loans to fund their Figure 49: key facts and figures for smes In 2011, APRIL hired and supported 40 new entrepreneurs to provide services to directly support its operations. This added to 132 existing participants who received support that year. In 2012, 17 new SME’s were included in the programme, while 143 businesses received training and assistance*. APRIL’s vocational training programme created in 2002 has seen 70 new entrepreneurs graduate over the reporting period*. 57 new local SMEs were hired as APRIL contractors from 2011-2012*. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 91 Education APRIL’s teacher development programme Local high school graduates can apply for previously awarded bursaries to teachers full scholarships to study at the Akademi We strongly believe that education is a in rural areas. In 2009, the programme Teknologi Pulp & Kertas (Academy for Pulp major factor in alleviating poverty. Hence refocused its efforts to training in order to and Paper Technology), part of the well providing economically disadvantaged better support teacher skill development respected Bandung Institute of Technology children with access to quality education and help raise the quality of education in in Java. is a core community development rural areas. programme comprising: In 2011, a new scholarship programme APRIL has invested in developing the quality was introduced for local high school • Scholarships of Indonesian pulp and paper professionals graduates to pursue agricultural diploma • Grants & Teacher training support through our talent development studies at the Institut Teknologi Pertanian programme. The APRIL Master’s (INSTIPER), the Institute of Agricultural • Educational Infrastructure support Scholarship Programme aims to nurture Technology in Jogjakarta. Scholarship In 2011, APRIL re-worked its school the best local talent in the industry, which recipients have their full tuition fees and scholarship programme to focus in turn, adds depth to our organisation’s costs covered, in addition to living bursaries specifically on high achieving and expertise. for the full duration of their studies. economically disadvantaged students who Since the programme’s inception in 2007, are in their last two years of secondary APRIL has sponsored 26 employees for school. graduate studies at the Asian Institute of This was done to avoid duplicating Technology in Thailand, with an average of the efforts of Government financial four grants awarded per year. aid programmes, which also cover economically disadvantaged primary and lower secondary level students. Figure 50: key facts and figures for education initiatives From 1999-2010, APRIL provided a (cumulative) total of 17,613 scholarships to deserving primary and secondary school students Under its Pro-Poor programme, APRIL granted scholarships to 765 high achieving and deserving students over the last two years 380 students from 116 villages in 2011, and 385 students from 122 villages in 2012. Over 2011 and 2012, 25 university students per year successfully qualified for full academic scholarships, which are renewable annually, based on results. Since our talent development programme’s inception in 2006, a total of 57 scholars have received full scholarships (as of end 2012) to the Akademi Teknologi Pulp & Kertas (ATPK). In the last two years, 14 local students received full scholarships to ATPK. To date, 30 of the 57 scholars were hired by APRIL In 2011 and 2012, APRIL provided 30 and 20 scholarships respectively to local high school graduates to pursue agricultural studies diplomas at INSTIPER. Since 1999, APRIL has supported the renovation and development of 219 schools in rural areas where we operate. 25 schools received support in the last two years. APRIL has sponsored training for 600 teachers from 2009-2012. Over the last two years, 451 teachers benefitted from training programmes. 92 5.4 Communities – Community Programme Outcomes Health government’s health services programmes. programmes in order to reduce the rates To support the Indonesian government’s of maternal and infant mortality in villages. APRIL’s community development effort to improve its Human Development APRIL also sponsors nutrition supplement programme includes access to healthcare Index, APRIL now focuses efforts on programmes for mothers and babies at the for communities in rural areas. Prior to education programmes that are preventive village level. 2011, APRIL’s programme supported the in nature, as opposed to curative. provision and funding of government Over the last two years, the programme mobile clinics, an immunization The current programme has a two-prong served 9,965 people (2011: 7324 in 93 programme, a food and nutrition approach, the first being public health villages and 2012: 2641 in 3 villages), as supplement programme and a public education such as hygiene campaigns well as ran 25 health campaigns. health education programme. From 1999in schools. The other part focuses on 2012, a total of 132,716 individuals were supporting public health officers at the served by APRIL’s health programmes. village level, focusing on family planning, pre-natal, post-natal and maternal health In 2011, APRIL re-worked this programme’s design to avoid duplicating efforts of the Sustainability Report 2011–2012 93 Sports development Social infrastructure Employee volunteerism APRIL sponsors the professional coaching In 2011 and 2012, APRIL undertook APRIL’s employee volunteer programme and development of local talent in four 441 social infrastructure projects for local aims to foster stronger relationships with sports: karate, lawn tennis, badminton communities. This included infrastructure local communities. Our employees work and football. Since the programme’s development and improvements to schools, with local people on a range of village inception in 2009, 142 talented youth places of worship, road and drainage improvement activities known as “gotong from schools in our area have received maintenance, water and sanitation, family royong.” These involve tree planting, training and coaching at the APRIL sports planning clinics, civic buildings and repair and improvement of buildings and facilities in Kerinci, where our mill is sporting facilities and equipment. other structures, rubbish collection and located. cleaning and tidying of public areas. Our goal is to groom sporting talent to In 2011, 2077 employees spent 10,385 compete at regional and national levels. hours volunteering in 48 villages, working In a relatively short time, our sponsored with 5900 members of local communities. athletes have achieved some impressive In 2012, 1676 employees spent 8380 results, earning 18 medals at National hours working with 6325 locals across 51 level and 123 medals at the Regional level villages. over the last two years. Figure 51: APRIL indonesia social infrastructure initiatives 2011-2012 Social infrastructure initiatives 2011-2012 (Number of units) Places of worship and religious schools 178 Public schools 96 Health, water and sanitation projects 30 Roads and drainage projects 19 Electric generators 98 Civic buildings 2 Sporting facilities 17 Historical sites 1 TOTAL 441 94 6.0 Employees 6.0 Employees Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2011–2012 2011–2012 95 95 96 6.1 Employees About Our Employees 6.1 About our employees At the end of 2012, APRIL was providing dominated. However we continuously class industry. A key part of this goal is direct employment for about 5,400 try to increase female participation in our our strong commitment to and our focus employees in our forestry and mill workforce, which increased slightly from on grooming the next generation of operations*. The vast majority of these are 9% in 2011 to 10% in 2012*. Women Indonesian nationals, preparing them for permanent, fulltime employees, with only in the APRIL family are well represented roles in company leadership. In 2012, 2% of the workforce comprising employees in other parts of our operations, in areas 79%* of senior management comprised on renewable contracts*. such as research & development, nursery Indonesian nationals, a rise over 75%* the operations, finance and administration. year before and 74% in 2010. There are advantages for employees to be engaged on a fulltime basis and this is a Our employees are a diverse group, As expatriate managers continue to preferred basis of employment for us. reflecting, in part, the considerable cultural develop local staff and transfer knowledge, diversity of Indonesia. In 2012, APRIL’s we expect this percentage to increase Procedures require that all fulltime workforce comprised employees from 15 further. This is evidenced by the lower employees receive regular performance nationalities, including Indonesian, and number of expatriates employed over the appraisals and high performers are from six different belief systems or religious last three years, a trend that will likely encouraged to explore the many faiths*. As our company continues to grow, continue as more qualified Indonesians rise progression opportunities that are available this diversity will provide strength and through the ranks. In 2012, APRIL had 56 within the company. flexibility. expatriates on its workforce, a decrease APRIL’s pulp and paper business comprises of 12 people from the previous year*. In APRIL’s long-term objective has been a forestry operation and a mill operation, 2010, 78 expatriates were employed by to help grow the Indonesian pulp and both sectors which are traditionally male APRIL. paper industry into a competitive worldFigure 52: Breakdown by Age (Direct employee Age distribution) 2012 Figure 53: Total number of new hires by year Figure 54: Turnover of staff/year: • 2011: 15.9% (814 pax)* • 2011: 6% (304 pax)* • 2012: 7.4% (405 pax)* • 2012: 8.6% (467 pax)* Sustainability Report 2011–2012 97 6.2 employee rights and benefits In a relatively remote province like Riau, in a developing country like Indonesia, employment has a particular level of significance for both APRIL and our people. Our remote location means we have to care for our employees in ways that many of our international pulp and paper industry counterparts do not. To meet their day-to-day needs, our employees receive quality housing, medical facilities, international and national-syllabus schools for their children, as well as sporting and recreational facilities. However, our impact on their lives does not end there. The skills, training and opportunities we offer our employees enable them to improve their lives and the lives of their families. It is a matter of great pride for us that we can bring these opportunities to the people of Riau Province. For APRIL, the benefits are equally powerful. By caring for and training our employees well (in some cases sponsoring them through Masters-level degrees), we are building a local workforce of increasing depth and expertise. This adds greatly to our strength as a company. Employee satisfaction Over the last three surveys, all scores have Figure 55: employee saTISFACTION APRIL and our employees both benefit from been in the “Good” category with a slight strong employee satisfaction. To ensure year-on-year increase. Year Level of employee an accurate understanding of employee satisfaction, (out of The 2012 survey results provided insights satisfaction levels, we commission an possible 100). into employee commitment levels and annual independent employee satisfaction concerns. Employees identified three areas 2009 63.4 survey. This survey covers areas such that were most important to them. These 2010 65.5 as rewards, recognition, training and were “clear career path”, “opportunity to 2012 69.4 development. The results so far have been develop career” and “earlier promotions encouraging. for high performance employees.” This information will be used to improve HR programmes, policies and practises. 98 6.2 Employee Employee Rights and Benefits Employee Rights OLB certification also requires that we If unresolved at this level, the dispute will align the company’s policy for health and be elevated to deliberation and resolution APRIL Indonesia adheres strictly to national work safety with legal and regulatory by a bipartite body comprising members labour laws and our own codes of requirements, and develop it in open of the Company and the union. practice to ensure appropriate employment co-operation with workers. For example, practices are implemented. These include If this fails, the worker may pursue the our workers have access to appropriate strict rules against the use of child labour grievance with the local government individual protection equipment and we Indonesian Labour Act No. 13 of 2003 authority (Department of Labour) through ensure that we possess the means to defined the term “child” as every person the union for mediation and resolution, take care of any worker who suffers an whose age is under 18 (eighteen) years in accordance with existing labour law industrial accident, regardless of their old (Article 1). Our standard operating and regulations. Such issues may include contract type. procedures (SOPs) provide for the retrenchment, salary negotiation and checking of identity cards of all people APRIL recognises and respects the right payment of incentives. working on our sites. This enables us to of freedom of association and the right Our plantation and mill are also certified check that no under-age employees have to form or be members of labour unions, under the Health & Safety Management been engaged. as permitted under Indonesian law. We System OHSAS18001. This system maintain collective bargaining agreements APRIL’s entire supply chain is covered is underpinned by the development with trade and labour unions. In 2012, by Origins and Legality of Timber (OLB) and implementation of policies and union membership in our company Standards for Forestry Companies, an procedures. increased from 67.8% in 2010 to international legality certification that is 74.8%*. In 2011-2012, APRIL Management externally verified by Bureau Veritas. Ours experienced no significant issues in was the first industrial plantation company In accordance with existing collective regards to employee rights or relations. in Asia to achieve this certification in labour agreements, the first attempt to For example, there were no strikes or 2011, which requires adherence to all resolve a significant dispute is made at similar stop work periods. laws and regulations on employment and the level of the employee and the relevant labour. These include respecting the legal Company superior. hiring age and allowing staff to organise and negotiate their hiring in accordance with conventions 87 and 98 of the International Labour Organisation. We also have strict rules against the use of forced labour. All employees receive proper employment contracts which stipulate job title, terms of employment as per standard company practice, and compensation. We require contractors to also adhere to all laws and regulations in regards to employment and labour. For example, contractors who provide us with labour supply are required to show proof of payment for their workers’ national social security prior to receiving payment on their invoices submitted. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 99 Employee benefits Safety* Training* We are committed to providing employee • Safety induction briefing as part of the • APRIL employees have the benefits that comply with national laws orientation programme opportunity to receive training and ensure the welfare and living certification as form of recognition. • Personal Protective Equipment standards of our staff. Our comprehensive Training covers areas such as our (hardhat, safety shoes, eye and benefits packages are fundamental to the Driving Licence Programme (DLP) hearing protection, etc.) retention of talented people. Employee certification benefits include: • Regular emergency drills Awards and incentives* Medical care* Insurance* • Annual competition for continuous • Health insurance, on-site medical • Social security benefits such as improvement initiatives clinics, and employee physical retirement plan, group life and examination annually accidental insurance coverage Service awards and gifts* • Employee relief fund granted to employee/spouse/children suffering • Recognition for long-service Schools* from a critical illness or accident employees as well as for special hazard • Employee families have access to events such as marriage, new schools in areas where we operate, births, birthdays or funerals of • Regular company doctor visits to which includes on company premises family members employees and/or employee family and within all our concessions in members who are hospitalized in area Riau. These schools are staffed by hospitals. qualified teachers and school fees are subsidised. Housing* • Accommodation or monthly housing allowance 100 6.3 Employee Training and Development 6.3 Training and development Employee training is an essential part due to increased hiring, a significant of ALI, another specialist institute for the of any successful business. Training has proportion of new hires that year being forestry and plantation operations was positive impacts on employee satisfaction, fresh graduates. APRIL training programmes created, the APRIL Asian Agri Learning performance and retention. By training for new or recent graduates are intensive, Institute (AAALI). The two learning centres our employees well, we enable them to long-term programmes of 6 to 12 months adopt a holistic approach based on reach their full potential, which makes in duration, which are required to quickly competency-based methodologies. our organisation more competitive. In a build a sound knowledge base and skill Individual employee training needs are broader context, the skills we give our set in line with APRIL standards. There determined via the APRIL Assessment employees help them to find their place in were very few new graduate hires in Centre which conducts pre-assessments of Indonesia’s rapidly developing economy. 2012, hence the more normalised average most employees to determine competency training hours per employee that year. gaps. Individually tailored development Summary of employee programmes are then provided for training APRIL Learning Institute employees through the Individual In 2011, 4796 participants spent 337,206 (ALI) Development Plan. man-hours in 1301 training programmes. The APRIL Learning Institute (ALI), which Our programmes have the collective aim of started in Kerinci, Riau Province in 2005, is securing a flow of talent for the Company. In 2012, 4358 participants spent 110,060 an example of the value we place on staff As such, APRIL works to develop and man-hours in 713 training programmes. training and learning. improve employees at all levels from talent Each employee received an average of 70 hours of training in 2011 and 25 hours in All ALI programmes are based on identification in young scholars, to skills 2012. three Cultural Pillars – Customer Focus, enhancement in senior management. We Performance Driven and Proactive achieve this through five main programmes: The comparatively higher number of Teamwork. Following the establishment training hours in 2011 over 2012 was Figure 56: APRIL LEARNING INSTITUTE PROGRAMmES A mandatory programme for all employees that covers general information on safety, work environment, 1. APRIL Citizen new job function, compensation and benefits, company culture and the company’s improvement methodologies. 2. APRIL Academy A programme designed for recent graduates to learn and grow with the Company. 3. APRIL Expert An employee development programme that specifically addresses technical and functional competencies. An employee development programme focused on the organisation and business, as well as leadership 4. APRIL Leader and management competencies. The programme focuses on fibre technical and soft skill development, including retention and attraction 5. Fibre Talent Development schemes, and scholarship programmes for external talent. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 101 Programme participation In 2005, we implemented the APRIL evaluation process, six new pilot projects at ALI Improvement Management System were launched in 2012, covering Work (AIMS) a comprehensive framework Area Management and Autonomous ALI aims to build a culture of learning to to guide and monitor continuous Maintenance. boost employee morale and team spirit. The improvement activities. AIMS enables programme design has shifted from larger BCID is also involved in Enterprise Risk improvement ideas through: workshops to tailor-made sessions, as well Management (ERM) and works closely as more participative methodologies like • Suggestion system for simple with all business units on risk evaluation, self-directed learning, acting in specific improvement ideas by employees preparedness and business continuity. roles and partnerships. • Small group activity for medium complexity initiatives by departments Enabling staff to improve • Task force project for complex our business programmes by cross-functional teams Continuous staff improvement is essential In 2006, a dedicated Business Continuous to our business success. APRIL Indonesia’s Improvement Department (BCID) was set strategy is to maintain our competitiveness up to promote this mind-set and implement by: all improvement projects and activities • Leveraging individual and business team throughout the organisation. innovation The BCID team also organises annual • Motivating people to use company-wide competitions between business units to standard frameworks and methods to select the “best-of-the-best” improvement maximise efficiencies projects and initiatives. • Creating value-add in day-to-day In 2007, the BCID team launched a Total activities through both incremental and Productive Maintenance programme, breakthrough improvements which ran till 2012. Following an 102 6.3 Employee Training Training and and Development Development Sustainability Report 2011–2012 103 Masters Scholarship To date, 26 scholars have attended the The three expected a premature end to programme Institute of Technology (AIT) in Thailand their studies, however we worked with AIT and 60 scholars have attended the in order to secure an alternative university A key component of APRIL’s employee Academy of Pulp and Paper Technology to host them. The scholars subsequently development is a Masters Scholarship (ATPK) in Bandung, Indonesia. completed their research towards their programme aimed at developing the respective Masters in Engineering degrees next generation of pulp and paper In 2012, an event occurred that at Canada’s highly-regarded University of professionals. Every year, we sponsor exemplifies our commitment to our people. British Columbia (UBC). about four employees for graduate studies Three APRIL scholars were in the last term overseas under this programme. of their Masters degrees at Thailand’s One of these scholars, Zulfauzein Nadra, Asian Institute of Technology (AIT) when is now APRIL’s Mill Environmental Officer Since 2007, APRIL has selected top major floods occurred, destroying in Kerinci. performing employees to attend leading university laboratories and equipment. Indonesian or overseas universities specialising in pulp and paper or agriculture technology. “The chance to complete our research at UBC was a blessing. Canada is one of the most advanced countries for pulp and paper and UBC’s R&D activity is amongst the best. We have been exposed to the most advanced thinking and practises in the field and we will apply this experience at APRIL.” Zulfauzein Nadra, Mill Environmental Officer, Kerinci. 104 6.4 Employee Health and Safety 6.4 Health and Safety As an operator of both forestry plantations Accordingly, APRIL has engaged in a new Improvements and a large industrial facility, safety is of set of safety programmes and initiatives A major focus during 2011 and 2012 critical importance to APRIL. with contractor safety management was improving the consistency and becoming a major area of emphasis. We Our Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) comprehensiveness of our systems for have undertaken a major overhaul of our policy promotes the maintenance of a safe, capturing statistical safety performance company’s approach to the management of healthy and secure work environment for data. This reflects our belief that proper its occupational health and safety. all employees, temporary staff, contractors, measurement is a key step in implementing customers and visitors. “Safety First” must Safety statistics reported and other improvement. Statistical outcomes from become the dominant mindset for any observations during the first half of 2013 2011 onwards reflect this commitment to person connected to our operations. suggest these programs are having a diligent recording of data. positive effect. A most concerning aspect of our operating While our overall safety performance over activities over 2011 and 2012 was the We have set ourselves a goal of Zero 2011-2012 was unacceptable, some occurrence of injuries and fatalities. Accidents. This requires a company-wide statistical improvements have become commitment. The alternative, to allow the evident in measures such as reduction We must be able to assure our employees situation of recent years to persist, is not an in LTIFR and TRIR for both fibre and mill and their families that APRIL’s businesses option. operations. will become safer places to work. Whilst forestry is inherently a hazardous industry and in our case this situation is DEFINITIONS exacerbated by the remoteness of our Under the “OSHA” Standard used for plantations and by the relatively low reporting here, Lost Time Injury Frequency education levels of some of our workforce Rate (LTIFR) is calculated as the number of and in particular, contractors, this can in no Lost Time Injuries plus fatalities, divided way excuse loss of life. by the number of hours worked, multiplied by a factor of 200,000. Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) means the number of injuries and illnesses, or lost workdays, per 100 full-time workers. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 105 Figure 57: LTifr AND TRIR PERFORMANCE 2011 2012 2013 (Jan-Jun) LTIFR Fibre 0.38 0.22 0.20 LTIFR Mill 0.49 0.29 0.27 TRIR Fibre 1.70 0.88 0.54 TRIR Mill 1.26 1.22 1.14 The above table suggests that the One initiative that we expect to have a comprehensive range of safety measures major impact on safety performance is the we introduced in 2012 (including the 12 shift toward full mechanical tree harvesting. new programmes referenced below under Manual felling activity is hazardous and the heading “Implementing behavioural difficult to manage safely for reasons safety”) are beginning to have an impact, detailed in this section of the report. The with downward trends being established transition to mechanical harvesting will (as at the date of reporting) in LTIFR lessen risk among contractors. and TRIR for both our forestry and mill operations. The effectiveness of these programmes is being closely monitored and will be reported in future years. Significant progress was also made in building organisation-wide commitment to our goal of Zero Accidents. We will continue this process, while working to translate commitment into better day-to-day safety practices. 106 6.4 Employee Health and Safety Challenges We have revised our statement of We acknowledge that the challenge we commitment to achieving this goal. APRIL’s have undertaken in this area is effectively, While APRIL Indonesia has always placed “HSE Management System Paradigm” now a safety revolution. To achieve this, we are workplace safety as a top priority, safety states: “We, APRIL Riau Complex and our addressing a number of specific challenges. improvements are needed if we are to Business Partners are committed to working discharge our responsibilities as a leading towards a Total Safety Culture by January employer in Indonesia. In order to establish 2014”. Zero Accident workplaces, we must first commit to building a Total Safety Culture. 1. Time. We cannot implement the necessary cultural and behavioural changes overnight. The process of change is time-consuming and requires great commitment right across the organisation. This commitment must be reflected in comprehensive systems and processes. 2. Priorities. A key insight into managing occupational risk has been the recognition that our organisation’s traditional paradigm of “Priority = Production” must change to “Safe Operations First”. Recognising that improvement in safety performance is a journey, we have adopted “Behaviour Based Safety”(BBS) as our target. To emphasise this priority shift, our OHS management unit has conducted monthly meetings on safety issues with top management and department heads. 3. Leadership. Change is required in leadership at every level. We have now modified our human resources and management systems to embed ten key safety behaviours as key performance criteria/indicators. Leaders will be individually assessed for their performance in demonstrating these behaviours and outcomes will be linked to remuneration and bonuses. 4. Training. Low education levels and inadequacy of on-the-job training (especially in the case of contractors) have been identified as key contributing factors in a number of fatalities. APRIL has embarked on a programme of extensive coaching and training to begin improving this situation. 5. Changes in work practices. Where our analysis of operating procedures identifies significant risks, we will consider changing practices. For example, in harvesting activities, we are working toward the objective of full mechanical felling, where terrain and soil conditions permit, in order to minimise the felling activity that has caused a number of fatalities in the past. Safety performance The following graphs summarise the fiveyear safety performance of the Kerinci Mill complex and our Fibre operations, (connected to forestry). Figure 58: Number of lost time injuries Sustainability Report 2011–2012 107 Figure 59: lost time injury frequency rate Figure 60: Total recordable incident rate Figure 61: number of medical injuries 108 6.4 Employee Health and Safety Figure 62: major Illnesses 2008 2012 Riau fibre Note: Detailed continuous records have been kept for the above three illness categories, identified as the most prevalent major illnesses in the APRIL workforce in 2008. Records of other significant illnesses are also maintained. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 109 Safety systems Fatalities A mill employee died after inhaling noxious gases at a recovery plant, the result of nonAPRIL’s Occupational Safety and Health As mentioned above, despite our statistical use of protective equipment, required by Management System (OHSMS) is based improvement, an unacceptable number of Standard Operating Procedures*. around a series of well-recognised fatalities occurred in our businesses during Standards: 2011 and 2012. In a catastrophic incident on a fibre line on February 7, 2011, three contractors and The company adheres to the Occupational Mill operations: four fatalities occurred in one employee lost their lives when they Health and Safety Assessment Series 2011 and five in 2012*. came into contact with high temperature (OHSAS) 18001 Standards (for both Fibre operations: nine fatalities occurred in pulp while performing on-the-run repairs*. plantation forestry and mill operations). 2011 and four in 2012*. Of the total of 13 fatalities in Fibre To systematically implement business The incidents which led to fatalities in Mill operations across the reporting period, improvement in our operations we follow operations were diverse and included: eight involved deaths of chainsaw the 5 ‘S’ Workplace Organisation Process a contractor falling from height while operators struck by trees during felling*. the Kaizen-based system. We are in the replacing materials on a roof; a contractor process of moving to a 6 ‘S’ system, which The remaining five fatalities in Fibre suffering an electric shock while chipping adds the element of Safety. operations involved a drowning in a canal, off Boiler Wall Tube Refractory in the a worker trapped in a pontoon ramp, A further key process is the principal furnace of the power boiler; a contractor two road traffic accidents and a boat Indonesian Occupational Health and electrocuted while drilling a retaining wall accident*. Safety system, SMK3 (“Sistem Management of a calcium hydroxide sludge bunker Keselamantan Kesehatan Kerja”). and a contractor coming into contact with moving parts on a conveyor while Reviews performing on-the-run repairs*. APRIL is audited every three years under OHSAS as well as under SMK3. In November 2011, we successfully passed a 3-yearly OHSAS audit. In April 2013, we were awarded a “Golden” flag and certificate under SMK3, signifying we are implementing the 166 criteria within the 12 elements of the SMK3 system (representing 90% plus implementation). 110 6.4 Employee Health and Safety Procedure for analysing Key insights obtained from this process of Implementing behavioural fatalities review and analysis include: safety We thoroughly review and analyse all • The high rate of fatalities among APRIL has planned a staged methodology serious incidents, including fatalities, and contractors has shown inadequacies in and approach to achieving a Total Safety take corrective actions. In the event of a safe work training procedures used by Culture by 2014. Our challenge is to fatality, we commission a full investigation many contractors. accelerate through this process to the as required by Indonesian law, OHSAS point of Zero Accidents. Behavioural • The fatality rate also demonstrated 18001 and our own systems. Safety cannot be achieved overnight. It is deficits in our previous procedures for not easy to fundamentally change safety A fatality report is produced and reviewed on-boarding contractors. We have behaviour. A relentless focus is required in detail by senior management. Process upgraded our training programme to from supervisors, managers and front line improvements are then implemented. ensure contractors are fully apprised of employees. Every fatality that has occurred has been the workplace risks in heavy industrial exhaustively analysed and investigated, mill and forestry environments. Our success is directly related to the wellresulting in system improvements. All being of our employees. Their most basic • A high number of fatalities have been fatalities are reported to the Indonesian requirement is a safe work environment. due to workers not following standard government. Senior staff are assigned to Therefore, our top priority must be ensuring operating procedures, and this work with and assist the families of the that everyone is safe on the job. particularly relates to the large number victims. of fatalities in tree felling operations. Each of the incidents leading to these • A contributing factor is generally low deaths, and the circumstances behind each education levels among the population fatality are extensively investigated and from which many contract workers are the results presented to, and reviewed by, engaged. senior management. As a result, insights have been reached about the nature of the • An identified need to place stringent risks in our business and the steps needing limitations on who is permitted to work to be taken to move our safety performance on our sites. to new, more acceptable levels. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 111 Figure 63: Organisational safety models and associated injury rates Na tur al our Goal: insti nc Zero Accidents ts Total Safety Culture Injury rates Sup ervi sion Self Level of safety culture Team Reactive Dependent Independent Interdependent engineering health & Safety behavioural traditional management Safety control System commitment and sys building skill total safety culture • safety by natural • Management • Personal • helping others instinct committment knowledge, conform • compliance is the • condition of commitment and • others keeper goal employment standards • networking • delegated to safety • fear/discipline • Internalisation contributor manager • Rules/procedures • Personal value • care for others • Lack of • supervisor control • care for self • organisational pride management • Practice and habits involvement • Individual recognition 112 6.4 Employee Health and Safety The schematic on the preceding page self care is the goal. The next phase, Safety involves employees extending shows the process of evolution from Engineering Control has a higher level of this approach to caring for each other. Traditional to Behavioural safety, with the management involvement but is driven by It is when safety becomes embedded in associated reduction in injury rates. It can external pressure to conform to regulations. employee behaviour that a Zero Accident be seen that the Traditional approach to level can be maintained. The Health and Safety Management organisational safety is characterised by phase involves employees internalising or As part of our focused drive toward reactivity and natural instinct and tends “owning” the responsibility for safety. The Zero Accident workplaces, we have to be associated with high rates of injury. final and desired position, Behavioural introduced the following new programmes In this approach, compliance, rather than and enhanced a range of existing safety initiatives. Figure 64: NEW SAFETY PROGRAMmeS 2011-2012 1. Contractor Safety In November 2011, a pilot Contractor Safety Management System project commenced in the Mill. Management System This project involved the appointment of 350 positions designated as Process Safety Engineers (PSEs). This (CSMS) group consisted of both existing and new employees. All PSE’s underwent retraining and modification of job responsibilities. Extensive systematic education and the attainment of certification from the Ministry of Manpower of Indonesia (a two-week programme) have given these individuals a reasonable level of expertise in safe business processes. 2. Contractor Safety A new stipulation is that only contractors who pass CSM accreditation can be involved in bidding for work. Management (CSM) Following a process of review, we have reduced the overall number of contractors working within our Contractor Safety Management System, resulting in a smaller number of contractors with the desired focus on safety. Work permits are only issued to contractors who have completed the required safety training. 3. Fibre operations In response to the high fatality rates among contractors working in Fibre operations, we have implemented initiatives an improved OHS Management system specifically for these businesses. These cover HIRADC, SOP and a Plantation Quality Checklist. Improvements include an OHS management system designed for chainsaw operators. Training for these operators has been upgraded with tools such as audio-visual support material. We have also introduced new First Aid protocols such as the provision of first aid kits to all chainsaw operators and the training of assigned staff First Aiders. We have also introduced a system of rewards and incentives to encourage better safety behaviour among employees and improved health and safety related facilities in housing and workers’ camps. 4. Safety Inductions A full-day safety induction is held for each new employee in technical and operational areas in our Mill and Fibre operations. 5. Training As mentioned, low education levels and inadequacy of on-the-job training (especially in the case of contractors) have been identified as key contributing factors in a number of fatalities. Consequently, in 2011 and 2012, more than 3,200 people were safety-trained in the Mill operation alone. We have also undertaken extensive coaching and training of employees and contractors. Safety refresher training is continuously provided for all workers. In keeping with the foundations of Total Safety Culture, training has emphasised the need for workers to look out for the welfare of one another, as consistent with the “others’ keeper” notion. They are trained to intervene whenever unsafe behaviours are observed and to help educate one another about potential hazards and the consequences of unsafe behaviour. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 113 6. Better Engagement To ensure further understanding and acceptance of the need to improve safety, we have commenced a with Union and programme of regular monthly meetings with trade union leaders and members as well as contractor other Workforce leaders. Leaders 7. Supply of Personal APRIL has conducted a thorough review of the availability and types of PPE for all operations. There has Protective Equipment been significant capital investment in new safety equipment, while staff received comprehensive training in when and how to use PPE. 8. Zero Tolerance of Unsafe behaviour cannot be tolerated and it is company policy that employees may be dismissed for Disregard for Safety contravening safety protocols. The same stringent approach is being applied to contractors, with termination of engagements for particular individuals identified as not following safe work practices 9. Standard Operating There has been an enhanced focus on training and educating all front-line workers and contractors about Procedures and the specific procedures and tasks involved in their jobs. Clear expectations were given regarding how Work Directions those roles should be carried out safely. This was reinforced through an emphasis on effective supervision and monitoring, to enforce adherence to procedures. Standards, Policies and Administrative Controls (SPAC) are regularly reviewed and updated, based on critical evaluation. 10. Worksite inspections In our efforts to reduce incidents of unsafe behaviour, we have expanded measures such as routine safety observations and the issue of non-conformance reports and violation tickets. We have also increased safety spot-checks and improved our safety inspection methods and procedures. Penalties and fines were included for infractions. In the case of serious non-compliance with safety procedures, worker and contractor suspensions have been imposed. 11. Employee Health APRIL has implemented an ongoing programme of medical check-ups and evaluations for employees*. A and Wellbeing main objective of this programme is to ensure that all employees in operational roles are in good physical condition. On site emergency ambulances have been introduced within the mill area, while a new campaign was launched to promote and encourage better hygiene practices among employees, contractors and their families. This has included doctor visits to camps, canteen inspections, period medical check-ups, routine safety talks and inspections*. We have also improved the systems used to pinpoint the principal causes of work-related illness as well as our emergency medical treatment services and first aid resources, which has included enhanced records of work-place hazards and employee illness histories*. Malaria and upper respiratory tract infections remain common occupational diseases affecting our Fibre workforce and measures are being taken to reduce the incidence of both these diseases among our employees and contractors, including provision of clean water, improvements to housing facilities at base and field camps, medical talks, distribution of medicines and better road watering practices*. 12. Communications A major safety information campaign was launched in 2012. This programme focused on supervisors, who are expected to convey specific safe work instructions to each worker in their area of responsibility. We have also produced safety communication material that is displayed in dedicated areas in work places. Features were: a safety declaratiion programme for employees and contractors, the signing of OHS commitment letters and implementation of penalty mechanisms. 114 7.0 Appendices 7.0 Appendices Sustainability Report 2011–2012 115 Sustainability Report 2011–2012 115 116 Sustainability Report 2011–2012 117 118 Sustainability Report 2011–2012 119 120 7.2 Appendices GRI Standard Disclosures Table 7.2 GRI standard disclosures table Figure 64: Sustainability Report 2011-2012 Table of Standard Disclosures Sustainability Report 2011-2012 Table of Standard Disclosures (In accordance with GRI profile 3.12) GRI profile and description Relevant section and subsection of Status this report Reported= Y Unreported = N Externally Assured = EA Strategy and Profile 1.1 Statement from the CEO President Director’s Statement Y 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities President Director’s Statement Y 2.5 Stakeholder Engagement Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation 1.1 Corporate Profile Y 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 1.1 Corporate Profile Y 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 1.1 Corporate Profile Y 1.2 Corporate Governance 2.4 Location of headquarters 1.1 Corporate Profile Y 2.5 Countries in which the organisation’s operations are 1.1 Corporate Profile Y located 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 1.1 Corporate Profile Y 2.7 Markets served 1.1 Corporate Profile Y 2.2 Products and Markets 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 1.1 Corporate Profile Y 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 4.2 APRIL’s Land Use Management Y 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 1.3 Certifications and Awards Y Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period President Director’s Statement Y 3.2 Date of most recent previous report President Director’s Statement Y 3.3 Reporting cycle President Director’s Statement Y 3.4 Contact point for questions Inside back cover Y 3.5 Process for defining report content 2.5 Stakeholder Engagement Y 3.6 Boundary of the report 2.4 Sustainability Management System Y 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary 2.4 Sustainability Management System Y 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries etc President Director’s Statement Y 3.9 Data measurement techniques President Director’s Statement Y 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of 3.6 Emissions Y information 3.7 Waste Management 6.4 Health and Safety 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 4.2 APRIL’s Land Use Management Y in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.6 Emissions applied in the report. 3.7 Waste Management 6.4 Health and Safety Sustainability Report 2011–2012 121 Table of Standard Disclosures contd GRI profile and description Relevant section and subsection of Status this report Reported= Y Unreported = N Externally Asssured = EA Report Parameters contd 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard 7.2 GRI Standard Disclosures Table Y Disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice regarding external 2.4 Sustainability Management Systems Y assurance Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including 1.2 Corporate Governance Y committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Position of the chair of the board of directors 1.2 Corporate Governance Y 4.3 Independent, non-executive directors on the board of 1.2 Corporate Governance Y directors 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 2.5 Corporate Governance Y provide recommendations to the board of directors 4.5 Executive compensation 1.2 Corporate Governance N 4.6 Avoiding conflicts of interest 1.2 Corporate Governance Y 4.7 Determining the qualifications and expertise of board 1.2 Corporate Governance Y members 4.8 Mission or values statements, codes of conduct, 1.2 Corporate Governance Y sustainability principles 2.3 Sustainability Approach and Governance 4.9 Board-level procedures overseeing sustainability 1.2 Corporate Governance Y performance 4.10 Evaluating board performance with respect to 1.2 Corporate Governance Y sustainability performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 2.3 Sustainability Approach and Y approach or principle is addressed by the Governance organization. 4.12 External charters, principles or initiatives endorsed 1.3 Certifications and Awards Y 2.3 Sustainability Approach and Governance 4.13 Memberships in associations 1.3 Certifications and Awards Y 2.3 Sustainability Approach and Governance 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged 2.5 Stakeholder Engagement Y 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders 2.5 Stakeholder Engagement Y 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 2.5 Stakeholder Engagement Y 4.17 Responding to key topics resulting from stakeholder 2.6 Key Sustainability Issues Y engagements 122 7.2 Appendices GRI Standard Disclosures Table Table of Standard Disclosures contd GRI profile and description Relevant section/subsection of this Status report Reported= Y Unreported = N Externally Assured = EA Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, 2.1 Sustainable Development and APRIL’s Y including revenues, operating costs, employee Economic contribution compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan 6.2 Employee Benefits Y obligations. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 6.1 About our Employees Y management hired from the local community at EA locations of significant operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments 2.1 Sustainable Development and APRIL’s Y and services provided primarily for public Economic contribution benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect 2.1 Sustainable Development and APRIL’s Y economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Economic contribution Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 3.2 Environmental Achievements Y 3.3 Materials EA 3.5 Water 3.9 Fibre Sourcing EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input 3.2 Environmental Achievements Y materials. 3.3 Materials EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 3.2 Environmental Achievements Y 3.4 Energy Consumption EA EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 3.2 Environmental Achievements Y 3.4 Energy Consumption EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 3.2 Environmental Achievements Y improvements. 3.4 Energy Consumption EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable 3.2 Environmental Achievements Y energy based products and services, and reductions 3.4 Energy Consumption in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and 3.2 Environmental Achievements Y reductions achieved. 3.3 Materials EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 3.5 Water Y EA EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of 3.5 Water Y water. EA Sustainability Report 2011–2012 123 Table of Standard Disclosures contd GRI profile and description Relevant section/subsection of this Status report Reported= Y Unreported = N Externally Assured = EA Environmental contd EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and 3.5 Water Y reused. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed 4.2 APRIL’s Land Use Management Y in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, 4.2 APRIL’s Land Use Management Y products, and services on biodiversity in protected 4.4 Conservation areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 4.5 New Eco-Restoration Activities protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 4.2 APRIL’s Land Use Management Y 4.4 Conservation 4.5 New Eco-Restoration Activities EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for 4.2 APRIL’s Land Use Management Y managing impacts on biodiversity. 4.5 New Eco-Restoration Activities EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national 4.4 Conservation Y conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by 3.2 Environmental Achievements Y weight. 3.3 Materials EA 3.4 Energy Consumption 3.8 Carbon EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 3.2 Environmental Achievements Y reductions achieved. 3.3 Materials 3.8 Carbon EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 3.6 Emissions Y EA EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type 3.6 Emissions Y and weight. EA EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 3.5 Water Y 3.6 Emissions EA EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 3.7 Waste Management Y EA EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 1.2 Corporate Governance Y of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with 3.7 Waste Management environmental laws and regulations. 124 7.2 Appendices GRI Standard Disclosures Table Table of Standard Disclosures contd GRI profile and description Relevant section/subsection of this Status report Reported= Y Unreported = N Externally Assured = EA Labour Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment 6.1 About our Employees Y contract, and region, broken down by gender EA LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and 6.2 Employee Rights and Benefits Y employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. EA LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 6.2 Employee Rights and Benefits Y provided to temporary or part-time employees, by EA significant locations of operation. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 6.2 Employee Rights and Benefits Y bargaining agreements. EA LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 6.4 Health and Safety Y absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by EA region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and 6.4 Health and Safety Y risk-control programs in place to assist workforce EA members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by 6.3 Training and Development Y gender, and by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 6.3 Training and Development Y that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular 6.1 About our Employees Y performance and career development reviews, by gender. Human Rights HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and 6.3 Training and Development Y procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as 6.2 Employee Rights and Benefits Y having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and EA measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as 6.2 Employee Rights and Benefits Y having significant risk for incidents of forced or EA compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 125 Table of Standard Disclosures contd GRI profile and description Relevant section/subsection of this Status report Reported= Y Unreported = N Externally Assured = EA Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local 5.0 Communities Y community engagement, impact assessments, and EA development programs. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 1.2 Corporate Governance Y SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative 4.8 Community Partnerships and Y impacts on local communities. Engagement 5.0 Communities SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in 4.8 Community Partnerships and Y operations with significant potential or actual negative Engagement impacts on local communities. 5.0 Communities Product Responsibility PR3 Type of product and service information required by 2.2 Products and Markets Y procedures and percentage of significant products EA and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 2.2 Products and Markets Y regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information, by type of outcomes. 126 7.3 Appendices Glossary: APRIL Sustainability Report 2011-2012 7.3 Glossary: APRIL sustainability report 2011-2012 Acacia Genus of tree belonging to subfamily Mimosoideae of the family Fabaceae. APRIL cultivates three species (crassicarpa, mangium of Acacia, all characterised by rapid growth and good pulping qualities. The company plants Acacia and auriculiformis) crassicarpa on low-lying poorly drained land and Acacia mangium on better-drained soils. For mineral soils, APRIL is currently evaluating Acacia hybrids (A. mangium x A. auriculiformis). ADT Air Dry Tonne (1000 kg). In the pulp and paper industry, air-dried pulp is defined as containing 90 per cent solids, and is therefore 10 per cent water. (Paper is around 94-95% solids.) ANDAL Analisis Dampak Lingkungan (environmental impact assessment study) AOX Adsorbable organically bound halogens (AOX) are a group of chemicals that can be adsorbed from water onto activated carbon. AOX expresses the total concentration of chlorine bound to organic compounds in wastewater. It measures all chlorine compounds both harmful and harmless. BAT Best Available Techniques. A term that describes best practice in limiting pollutant discharges. The term constitutes a moving benchmark on practices, since developing societal values and advancing techniques may change what is currently regarded as “reasonably achievable”, “best practicable” and “best available”. Biodiversity Total diversity or variation of life within a given ecosystem. Biofuel In contrast to fuel based on products derived from the petrochemical industry (i.e. fossilized biomaterial) biofuel is based on raw material derived from living organisms and therefore can be classified as renewable resource. Bleached Chemical Pulp obtained by digestion of wood with solutions of various chemicals. The principal chemical processes Market Pulp are the sulfate (kraft), sulfite, and soda processes. Chemical pulps are used to make shipping cartons, paper bags, printing and writing papers, and other products that require strength. BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand. A measure of water quality. Specifically, the amount of oxygen that bacteria will consume while decomposing biologically available organic matter. BOD expresses the degree of organic pollution in water. See COD also. BREF Best Available Technique Reference document. Published by the European Commission Joint Research Centre, the documents summarise BAT across a wide range of industries. Carbon footprint A measure of the total amount of carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4) emissions of a defined population, system or activity, considering all relevant sources, sinks and storage within the spatial and temporal boundary of the population, system or activity of interest. Calculated as carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) using the relevant 100-year global warming potential (GWP100). Chain of Custody System For APRIL, CoC involves monitoring, tracing and documenting the flow of fibre from the plantation to the (CoC) mill. Part of APRIL’s commitment to sustainable fibre plantation management. Through APRIL’s Chain of Custody (CoC) System, plantation wood can be identified and segregated from mixed hardwood at any point from the plantation to the mill production chain. Elemental Chlorine Free Pulp bleaching process, where no chlorine gas (i.e. no elemental chlorine (Cl2) is used, but only chlorine (ECF) dioxide (ClO2). Using chlorine dioxide (a powerful oxidant) minimizes the formation of chlorinated organic compounds during bleaching. ELV Emission Limit Values relating to National regulations concerning environmental discharges from a pulp and paper factory. Eucalyptus A large family of trees, common in Australia. Certain species, like the Eucalyptus pellita, are native to Indonesia. APRIL is evaluating the suitability of planting Eucalyptus hybrids on a large scale on mineral soils. FAO The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, headquartered in Rome, Italy. The FAO promotes the principles and practice of sustainable forest management. FLEGT Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade. The European Union’s effort to exclude illegal timber from markets, to improve the supply of legal timber and increase the demand for responsible wood products. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 127 GHG Greenhouse gas. Gases such as carbon dioxide and methane that absord and re-emit thermal radiation (heat). GJ Gigajoule A unit of energy equal to one billion joules. GRI The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). A non-profit organization that promotes economic sustainability. The GRI produces one of the world’s most prevalent standards for sustainability reporting. GRI Guidelines are used by around 4,000 organizations from 60 countries to produce their sustainability reports. Hectare Metric unit of area equal to 10,000 square metres (2.471 acres) HCV/ HCVF High Conservation Value Forests. HCVFs are defined as forests of outstanding and critical importance due to their environmental, socioeconomic, biodiversity or landscape values. Illegal Logging / Illegal The practice of cutting trees from natural forests, private concessions and village land without legitimate Wood government authorisation or permits. It also includes wood obtained through bribery and wood acquired in violation of the conditions of the permit (e.g. cutting more than the authorised volume, or cutting outside the permit area). Illegal logging is a global multi-billion dollar industry affecting many countries. APRIL is actively combating illegal logging. IPPC A European Union directive that serves as a legislative instrument for the protection of the environment and human health through pollution control. IUCN The International Union for Conservation of Nature. The world’s oldest and largest global environmental network. The organisation describes its mission as “helping the world find pragmatic solutions to our most pressing environment and development challenges.” The IUCN supports scientific research, manages field projects all over the world and brings governments, non-government organisations, United Nations agencies, companies and local communities together to develop and implement policy, laws and best practice. IUCN Red List The world’s most comprehensive inventory of the global conservation status of biological species. The IUCN Red List is based on criteria that evaluate the extinction risk of thousands of species and subspecies. ISO The International Organization for Standardization, also known as ISO, is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies representing more than 140 countries, one representative from each country. ISO is a non-governmental organization established in 1947. The mission of ISO is to promote the development of standardization and related activities in the world with a view to facilitating the international exchange of goods and services, and to developing cooperation in the spheres of intellectual, scientific, technological and economic activity. ISO’s work results in international agreements that are published as International Standards. ISO 9000:2000 Comprises a series of documents (standards, guidelines and technical reports) that set out more specific standards for areas such as auditing procedures, quality performance evaluation, quality improvement, quality in project management, training, techniques and statistical process control; however, they do not result in “certifications”. ISO 9001:2000 “Quality management systems Requirements” is the standard used to assess an organization’s ability to meet customer and applicable regulatory requirements and thereby address customer satisfaction. ISO 9001:2000 is the only standard in the ISO 9000:2000 family against which third-party certification can be carried out. ISO 14001 The standard within the ISO 14000 series against which an organization’s environmental management “Environmental system (EMS) can be certified. ISO 14001 requires that an organisation’s EMS provide a framework to Management Systems identify and address the significant environmental aspects and related impacts of its activities, products Specification with and services. ISO 14001 requires compliance with all relevant legislation and a commitment to continual guidance for use” improvement of the organisation’s EMS. However, the ISO standard does not set specific environmental performance criteria nor does it establish absolute requirements for environmental performance; these are defined by the organisation seeking certification to this standard. IVL The Swedish Environmental Research Institute is an independent non-profit owned by a foundation jointly established by the Swedish Government and Swedish industry. 128 7.3 Appendices Glossary: APRIL Sustainability Report 2011-2012 Kampar Peninsula The Kampar Peninsula is situated in the province of Riau, on the east coast of central Sumatra in Indonesia. It is delimited by sea in the north and east, by Kampar River in the south and the Kutup River in the west. The 700,000 ha peninsula is covered by peat swamp forests – a special type of rainforest growing on an accumulating, waterlogged peat soil up to 15 metres thick. (See also Peat and Peatland) Kerinci Location in Riau Province, Sumatra, Indonesia. Home to APRIL’s Indonesia operations. Kraft pulp Pulp produced by the most widely used chemical pulping process, the kraft process (also known as sulphate pulping process). This process is versatile, allowing most types of wood to be used as raw material. Unbleached kraft pulp is brown in colour and its uses include brown sack paper and bags. For use as printing or writing papers it needs to be bleached. The name of the process comes from the German word “kraft” (power, strength), referring to the high strength of kraft pulp (as compared with sulphite pulp, a product of the less common sulphite pulping process). LEI Lembaga Ekolabel Indonesia. The Indonesian Ecolabelling Institute, a non-profit constituent-based organization that develops forest certification systems. LEI aims to promote just and sustainable forest resource management in Indonesia. Megajoule A unit of energy equal to one million joules. Melaleuca Melaleuca is a genus of around 170 species belonging to the Myrtle family (Myrtaceae). APRIL is testing Melaleuca intensively to determine the best planting material sources, to further develop our management techniques, and to understand their fibre properties in pulp production. Mixed Hardwood pulp A specific type of pulp that, in the case of APRIL, is produced from a mixture of various hardwood species harvested from concession areas that are being developed into Acacia plantations. MRV Monitoring, Reporting and Verification. Processes developed by Indonesia’s Ministry of Forestry to evaluate land-use planning and water management systems for peatland, based on 19 indicators. NOx Nitrogen oxides such as nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide, (NO and NO2). OHSAS 18001 OHSAS 18001 is an Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series for health and safety management systems. It is intended to help organizations control occupational health and safety risks. Peat Dead organic (vegetative) material that has accumulated over thousands of years due to a combination of permanent water saturation, low oxygen levels and high acidity. Peat consists of 90% water and 10% plant material. Peatland Also known a “wetlands,” peatlands are ecosystems based on peat soils. These vary widely due to regional and local differences in soils, topography, climate, hydrology, water chemistry, vegetation, and other factors, including human disturbance. Peatlands are found from the tundra to the tropics and on every continent except Antarctica. PEFC Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification is an international, non-governmental, non-profit organization dedicated to promoting sustainable forest management. PEFC is the world’s largest certification system. Petajoule A unit of energy equal to 1015 joules. pH The pH scale commonly measures the acidity or alkalinity of water. It ranges from 0 to 14. A pH of 7 is neutral (pure water). A pH less than 7 is acidic, and a pH greater than 7 is basic. PROPER Program Penilaian Kinerja Perusahaan or Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation, and Rating. The Government of Indonesia’s National Environmental Impact Agency reporting initiative and regulatory tool. PROPER is designed to promote industrial compliance with pollution control regulations, to facilitate and enforce the adoption of practices contributing to “clean technology,” and to ensure a better environmental management system. Pulp Cellulose fibres used in the production of paper, tissue and board. Can be derived from hard-woods, softwoods and plant fibres. Sustainability Report 2011–2012 129 Riau Province (Riau The province on the island of Sumatra, Indonesia, where APRIL’s pulp & paper mills are located. For Propinsi) administrative purposes, Indonesia is divided into a number of provinces, each administered by its own government. Riparian Relating to the immediate surrounding area of a natural watercourse. This includes vegetation as well as the soil. SME Small & Medium-sized Enterprises. APRIL helps establish and encourages local SMEs both through our industrial operation and via community development. SOx Sulphur oxides such as sulphur monoxide, sulphur dioxide and sulphur trioxide (SO, SO2, SO3,). TRS Total Reduced Sulphur. Compounds released from both natural and industrial sources that produce offensive odors, but not normally considered a heatlth hazard. TTSS Total Suspended Solids. A measure of the solids in suspension in wastewater, effluent or water bodies. UNGC United National Global Compact. A compact consisting of 10 principles covering human rights, fair labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Established in July 2000, the UNGC seeks to promote responsible corporate citizenship by providing a framework for businesses to follow in response to the challenges of globalisation. The UNGC has been signed by more than 3,000 participants, including 2,500 companies around the world, making it one of the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiatives. WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is a CEO-led, global association of some 200 companies dealing exclusively with business and sustainable development. 130 All text pages are printed on PaperOne™ 120 GSM 155CIE Sustainability Report 2011–2012 131 132 www.aprilasia.com Sustainability Report 2011–2012 133 Sustainability Report 2012
