From landing to take off: we care! Sustainability Report 2013 TABLE OF CEO Statement 4 Human Rights & Labour Principles: Our Employees  Code of Conduct  19 19 CONTENTS About Us  6 Fair Competition  20 Mission Statement  6 Anti-Corruption Guidelines  20 Facts & Figures  6 Web-based training  20 Milestones 2012  7 Recruiting & Equal Opportunities  21 Headcount Reporting  8 Retention  21 Products and Services  10 Compensation & Benefits  22 HUB & Base Management  14 Employee Relations  22 Training  23 Governance  15 Health & Safety  28 The Group Executive Management (GEM)  15 Responsibilities  16 Global Standards & Local Implementation  31 Local Champions  31 Environment  17 Performance management  32 Environmental Policy  17 Corporate Core Activities  18 Our Stakeholders  33 Customer Dialogue  33 Awards & Recognition  34 Air Cargo Award  34 Ground Handler of the Year at the Cargo Airline of the Year Awards 2013 34 Best Ground Handling Company by the Institute for Transport Management 35 About this Report  36 2 3 CEO This report is designed to show a snapshot of the Swissport world, providing you with an insight into our understanding of sustainable practices and what makes us who we The acquisitions of the Flightcare businesses in Spain and Belgium, which handled in total over 24 million passengers and approximately 287,000 tonnes of cargo in 2011, and Statement are. We operate in a challenging industry, where the only real constant is change. Therefore, employ around 3,000 staff, are great additions to Swissport’s network, due to their good reputations with customers and strong operational performance. For the coming period Swissport will be putting a particular tactical and strategic focus on achieving and mainit is imperative to our customers that Swissport is able to navigate these challenges on taining profitable and sustainable growth. Swissport has also signed an agreement under their behalf in order to keep their operations and their businesses running smoothly. which it will acquire the Servisair group from the French Derichebourg SA. The acquisiSwissport International Ltd. and all its subsidiaries (collectively, “Swissport”) have a tion, which is subject to merger clearance by the European Commission, is expected to commitment to the highest ethical standards. Yet, as we continue to grow and expand our close in the fourth quarter of 2013. business we will face challenging ethical dilemmas. We have set the bar high for all our activities to support our mission of “providing the aviation industry with consistent and It is important though that we do not rest on our successes, and that we have developed tailor-made solutions around the globe for a better customer experience”. methods and tools for continuous improvement, working with our customers in a collaborative way to ensure that we always strive to be the best and offer innovative and optimal Swissport’s ethical and behavioural principles, which apply throughout all the countries solutions to all of our customers – existing and new – across all of our many and diverse in which it is active, are enshrined and explained in our Code of Conduct (the “Code”), operations. which is intended to serve as a guide to corporate and employee ethical behaviour. Along with the Code, our Core Values People, Professionalism and Partnership form a strong To underline our commitment to sustainable practice, Swissport has joined the United foundation for our actions. This provides a consistent guideline for how we work with Nations Global Compact, expressing our support of the Ten Principles in the areas of our clients, each other, and our business partners and communities. human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are, and we will continue to be, committed to making the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles part of the strategy, Aviation has been and will always be a very dynamic and cyclical business. This is why culture and day-to-day operations of Swissport. In addition to the above-mentioned it is so important that its various players maintain great flexibility in responding to the fundamentals, Swissport also has a Group Environmental Policy which was established in, industry’s constant shifts and realign their processes as swiftly as possible to the many and has been valid since, 2007. changed and changing conditions. During 2012, air travel slowed from the high growth rates at the start of the year. Nevertheless, for the year as a whole air travel grew by It is my expectation that all employees will commit to the highest standards of business 5.3 %, only slightly down on the 2011 growth of 5.9 %, and it still remained above the conduct and will act with complete integrity. You can be assured that all members of the 5 % twenty-year average. International travel grew at a faster rate than domestic traffic Board and the Group Executive Management have made the same commitment. This (IATA air transport market analysis 2012). sustainability report gives us the opportunity to share a little bit of our vision with you. We were very pleased to conclude the acquisition of Flightcare Spain and Belgium. Both markets offer great opportunities for Swissport. These were essentially bolt-on acquisitions in two existing core markets for Swissport that perfectly complement Swissport’s existing activities in Spain and Belgium and will enable us to grow the business most effectively. We look forward to working with staff, airport operators and our customers to ensure a seamless transfer of the businesses, and to continue expanding our product portfolio into Spain and Belgium by applying Swissport’s highly recognised Per H. Utnegaard standards and processes. President & CEO Swissport International Ltd. 4 5 Mission To provide the aviation industry with consistent and tailor-made solutions around the globe, for a better customer experience. Revenue (not normalised) Countries CHF 2.0 billion 38 Statement In order to achieve the goal of our mission, Swissport is focused on consolidating and strengthening our market position to ensure we are constantly driving industry innovation Employees > 39,000 Flights handled (movements) > 2.8 million in key areas such as service, quality and reliability. Swissport is a people-focused organisaCargo handled (tonnes) > 3.5 million tion – without our people we simply cannot meet our goals and achieve our vision. As such, we focus on the principles of sustainability and compliance, living by our Corporate Core Warehouses > 100 Values: Airports served > 190 ·· People Customer airlines > 650 ·· Professionalism Passengers handled (departures) > 118 million ·· Partnership Countries The ongoing professional development of the people within Swissport ensures that: Continent Countries Stations South America 4 31 ·· We show respect towards our people and their values; we do not compromise on safety and work with enthusiasm and enjoyment. Africa 8 32 ·· We are pioneers; working constantly towards achieving sustainable results, Asia & Middle East 2 7 we creatively explore new options and improved solutions. North America 2 39 ·· Continually striving to exceed the expectations of our clients and our commitments, Central America & the Caribbean 6 18 we deliver excellent service; in any place, at any time. Europe 16 64 Facts & Swissport is the biggest global airport and aviation service provider in terms of quality, reliability, safety, innovation and network coverage. January ·· Swissport grows 7 % in challenging market conditions Milestones Figures Offering a comprehensive range of services, Swissport is able to provide an “all-inclusive” service package in addition to managing integrated collaboration models. March 2012 ·· Swissport launches cargo handling at Kansai International Airport ·· Ground Handling ·· Swissport wins the ITM award for the Best Ground Handling Company for ·· Cargo Services the twelfth consecutive time ·· Executive Aviation April ·· Fuelling Services ·· Swissport wins licences for Moroccan international airports ·· Aircraft Maintenance May ·· Aviation Security ·· Swissport launches cargo handling in Copenhagen Airport June ·· Swissport wins the ACW award for the Best Air Cargo Handling Agent for the fourth consecutive time July ·· Swissport acquires Flightcare Spain & Belgium ·· Swissport acquires the ground-handling activities of Finland’s Inter Handling September ·· Swissport completes the Flightcare acquisition October ·· Swissport wins new cargo customers in Copenhagen November ·· Swissport agrees on a pan-Africa handling partnership with fastjet ·· Swissport Algeria wins a ground-handling licence for Oran International Airport ·· Swissport strengthens its top management structure 6 7 Headcount Swissport’s headcount reporting is consolidated on a monthly basis for all the legal and operating entities of the Swissport Group with a majority participation of Swissport Reporting (> 50 % Swissport participation). It includes a consolidated overview over all headcount, male / female ratios and the allocation of permanent and temporary contracts. The headcount report also shows the headcounts per division and per continent, for managing the business effectively. It forms the basis for calculating HR-related performance indicators. As of 31.12.2012 Total Headcount 39 228 FTE 31 009 Male 26 769 Female 12 459 Permanent 35 834 Temporary 3 394 Full-time 27 501 Part-time 11 727 Full-time/Part-time Male/Female Headcount per Workforce Category Headcount per Continent Employment Employment Direct Operation North America Total Total Male Full-time Ops Supervision South America Total Female 10% 2% 0% Total Support Functions Europe Part-time Station Mgmt Asia 14% 10% 3% Africa 26% 30% 32% 70% 68% 39% 18% 84% Headcount per Business Line Permanent/Temporary Employment Passenger Services Total Permanent Ramp Services Cargo Warehouse Total Temporary Cargo Office Aviation Security 0% 2% 1% 3% Executive Aviation 4% Aircraft Maintenance 3% 9% 3% 32% 7% 45% 91% 8 Products Ground Handling The award-winning Swissport Ground-Handling business currently provides passenger Cargo Swissport is the world’s biggest Cargo Services provider, offering award-winning Cargo and Services and ramp handling at over 125 stations worldwide and serves in excess of 118 million passengers per annum. Today, Swissport is recognised as the biggest independent global Handling at more than 85 airports worldwide, and handling in excess of 3.5 million tonnes annually. The cargo organisation is set up to allow global, regional and local representation ground services provider with the largest number of hub and Low Cost Carrier base at both sales and operational levels through its Customer Relationship Management (CRM) operations globally. process, which is designed to improve the customer experience. Swissport Cargo is in the process of rolling out new technologies to improve operational capabilities and allow the Innovation customer to experience cost savings throughout the contract period, and we have linked this Swissport has the advantage of being able to exchange expertise and share best practices process to Cargo 2000 (C2K) measurements across our network. Our size and scope allows from all over the world – the benefit of which is seen in the Swissport Formula. Due to our Customers to manage multiple operations through a single point of contact, one common global presence, operational practices and service innovations are being developed and Service Level Agreement (SLA) and one invoice if necessary, saving on administration implemented on an ongoing basis. Process and service optimisation, through the use of costs. information technology, has been crucial to the success of Swissport. Our vast reach and Innovation network enables rapid adoption of the latest technologies, which deliver efficiency and cost-effective operations on site. Using the benefit both of our experience and proprietary With daily monitoring of the key business drivers and shipment tracking in line with Cargo software for resource optimisation enables Swissport to develop rapid turnaround times 2000 (C2K) standards, we have a transparent overview of our services that ensures service without sacrificing quality of service. Processes are documented and described in detailed quality and enforces operational excellence. Implementation of hand-held terminals operations manuals to ensure safe handling according to the ISAGO authority. Our aim is reduces human error and ensures efficient operation, which allows our customers to also to serve our airline customers in the most effective way while also being cognisant of the benefit from reduced handling and costs. Daily follow-ups on hours worked, volumes individual needs and requirements of each of our customers. handled, door waiting times and many other measures ensure a scorecard approach to daily activity which further supports the Cargo operations and helps to deliver efficient operaOutlook tions. Swissport will continue to improve technology and interfaces for its customers and Swissport is monitoring automation developments in the area of ground-service provision has many new and exciting advancements in production to minimise cost and improve very closely. We constantly strive to reduce our production costs with the early integration operational readiness. We are also committed to improving the look and feel of our faciliof newly created features within our scope of activities. The automation process is already ties, as well as to grow and develop new operations worldwide. well developed in the area of passenger handling, including: Some benefits of this approach to innovation include: ·· Fully automated passenger handling at check-in ·· Cargospot: The system used to manage our Cargo business, interfacing with any ·· Automated boarding processes airline system. ·· Freightfinder: Using the latest technology, Freightfinder allows you to track and trace Swissport also supports working groups with our know-how in order to advance the same your freight in any of our warehouses worldwide. kind of automation in other areas, such as: ·· Hand-Held Terminals: Swissport’s customers benefit from real-time status updates so ·· Self-service devices at Lost & Found counters shipments can be tracked and traced in our warehouses. ·· Checked-baggage screening ·· Volume Scanning Devices: Allow our customers to calculate the volume of shipments with accuracy. ·· Central load control ·· SHIELD Document Imaging System: Capturing the entire flight pouch digitally solves the problem of missing documents. Our well-established operational monitoring tools allow us to test every change in procedure and verify the impact of any deviation to the running process. Swissport is an organisation that is actively shaping the future for the benefit of our customers. 10 Outlook AIRCRAFT & GSE MAINTENANCE The continued drive to grow with our customers and to ensure that we continue to deliver Aircraft Maintenance the highest quality handling in the most cost-efficient way is our prime focus in 2013. By Swissport Aircraft Maintenance, the recipient of the prestigious FAA Certificate of Excelleveraging the use of system-management and implementing innovative, solid operational lence Diamond Award, is a quality provider of third-party line maintenance services operatand financial processes together with our customers, we will continue to enhance our prime ing at 13 airports in the USA and in four other countries globally, providing line mainteposition in cargo-handling services. Our Global Account Management Team allows cusnance support to major commercial airlines on both a scheduled and on-call basis, ensuring tomers to benefit from full access to Swissport’s specialist resources, including the latest that all capital-intensive equipment operates and performs flawlessly. Swissport’s A & P industry information and cutting-edge operating solutions designed to optimise the effiMechanics have the training, knowledge and expertise to meet our customers’ demands. ciency of customers’ handling processes. This specialised team provides our customers with peace of mind and an established confidential relationship to explore and develop new Ground Support Equipment (GSE ) Maintenance opportunities and strategies. This single point of contact allows quality consistency, open Swissport GSE and ULD Maintenance Services operate at over 45 airports in 13 countries, communication and increased transparency in the handling process. We tailor operations to managing and maintaining a fleet of more than 4,000 units. Our commitment is to offering the needs of our customers and create a suite of reports based on their information requiresuperior and consistent standards and dedication throughout our network: providing reliments, both at operational and sales levels. able, comprehensive and cost-effective GSE maintenance, minimising downtime and maxThe acquisition of Flightcare in 2012 has enabled our cargo product entry into the imporimising productivity. Swissport Maintenance Services is committed to working within the tant Spanish market; this is further enhanced by the opening of new operations in Japan and industry towards the research and development of efficient, safe, ergonomic and environDenmark. mentally friendly Ground Services Equipment. Executive Aviation Aviation Security Swissport Executive Aviation (SEA) & PrivatPort provide exclusive ground-handling Swissport Aviation Security provides security services for more than 40 customers in over services to the international community of operators and executives who utilise private or 12 countries worldwide. The team working within the organisation is highly trained in both corporate jets in up to 60 stations worldwide. The mission is to make arrivals, stopovers security and vulnerability assessments, providing complete solutions for our customers. and departures as convenient and smooth as possible for passengers and crew, providing a Swissport Aviation Security customers have the flexibility to choose the solution fit for customised spectrum of aircraft care services. them; be it on a local or a global level, the Checkport entities guarantee full flexibility for the procurement of security services. Our services and expertise in this specialised field are These bespoke service requirements are offered by professionals with good expertise, based on more than 20 years’ experience within Aviation Security with a clear focus on, exceptional skills in servicing and understanding the importance of the business aviation and commitment to, quality solutions and integrated products for the client’s convenience. world. The dedicated teams are hand-picked for their commitment to the job and are highly Working with a company like Swissport allows our clients to purchase security services via committed to their assignment, delivering assistance beyond expectation. Ground Handling and Cargo and benefit from the synergies realised by the integration of security tasks in existing processes, such as: Fuelling ·· Check-In Security Combined Check-In and Security Services Swissport Fuelling Services is an international company that provides high quality, independent aviation fuel handling on behalf of airlines, airports and fuel suppliers. We provide ·· Gate Security Combined Gate and Security Services a full service solution with regards to our clients’ fuelling needs including both on and off ·· Cabin Clean & Search Combined Cleaning and Security Services airport fuel storage and distribution systems. Swissport Fuelling Services has a proven track record in demonstrating a full understanding of the requirements and responsibilities of maintaining aviation fuel systems, with a focus on safety, cost control, inventory management and a clear emphasis on environmental compliance and responsibility. Swissport Fuelling Services provides our customers with safe, efficient, independent intoplane fuelling services whilst leading the industry in on-time performance. Our expertise and knowledge in this specialist field also assists our clients in the design, construction and commissioning of aviation fuelling facilities and related structures. Swissport Fuelling Services operates to the highest industry standards in Health, Safety and Environment. Our policies and procedures have been developed in accordance with the Air Transport Association (ATA) 103 Specification and the Joint Inspection Group (JIG) Guidelines for Aviation Fuel Quality Control & Operating Procedures. 12 13 Hub & Base Outsourcing continues to play an important role in the aviation and airport services industry. As airlines continue to focus on profitability, they are increasingly focusing on The Group Executive Management (GEM) GOVERNANCE Management their core business: passenger transportation. While the Swissport service portfolio can begin from a single station, true partnership President & CEO comes when Swissport provides the full management of our airline partner’s hub or base operations. Swissport HQ assumes professional project leadership from appointment through to the operational start, providing total reassurance for our customers during Per H. Utnegaard transition. Experienced field managers from our global network support the implementation on site. Legal & This solution encompasses vast commercial expertise from more than 650 customer airFinance Risk Management lines. Quality reassurance is given to our customers via the operational and leadership training of local staff and management. Commissioning Swissport with hub operations is Alvaro Gómez-Reino Johannes C. Spindler both financially and operationally sensible for our customers. Swissport has earned our EVP EVP customers’ trust for hub management through our proven track record in best practice, quality and industry-leading processes and procedures in addition to our commitment to continuous innovation in service provision. Group Services Business Development Swissport is well positioned to manage the sensitive responsibility for hub management Erich Bodenmann Roman Hermann for our customers – success stories include Munich – the regional fleet of Lufthansa, EVP EVP Helsinki – Finnair, Larnaca – Cyprus Airways, Johannesburg – South African Airways, Sao Paolo and Rio – Gol / Cargo: 3 stations for United in the USA. Human Resources, Communications & Marketing Peter Moser EVP Europe, North America, Central Europe Cargo Services Africa & Latin America Japan & Korea Juan José Philipp Joeinig Joe Phelan Andrés Alvez Nils Pries Knudsen EVP EVP EVP 14 15 Responsibilities Topic Lead / responsibility General strategy of Swissport Chairman of the Board and Board According to the United Nations Global Compact Principles, businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives to promote ENVIRONMENT members, CEO / GEM members greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Strategy of Divisions, subsidiaries Division Head / Unit Head or business lines For Swissport, corporate social responsibility focuses on safeguarding society and mankind Financial results / investor relations CEO / CFO by preserving our living conditions as well as ensuring safety for our employees. We achieve environmental quality by proactively, systematically and fully integrating environAcquisitions & mergers CEO / CFO / BOD / Investment Committee mental considerations into the planning and execution of our work. Press releases & articles, media contacts, VP Corp. Communications & Marketing trade events, CD / CI In general, it is important to highlight that Swissport – being a ground-handling service provider – does not run any production plants or similar. New operations & major contracts Division Head / Unit Head Environmental & political issues CEO / Legal / Corp. Communications or legal specialities Crisis Communication & Marketing / Division Heads CEO / Corp. Communications & Swissport has made an effort to identify its main environmental impact areas. Guidelines are given to all organisations on the design of operational and managerial procedures. Environ(including accidents and injuries) Marketing / GEM members (Group emergency guidelines), Employee behaviour is guided through awareness training and regular briefings. Typically, the operational areas interface directly with the airport infrastructures. Swissport has to mental Policy make use of the locations, assigned infrastructures and processes prescribed by the local risk manager Swissport authorities. Local activities on station level Local management The Swissport environmental policy focuses on the following core impact areas: Labour issues Local CEO with Human Resources Swissport Operational Managerial Behaviour GSE Maintenance GSE Purchasing GSE Usage Overall responsibility for the development and implementation of equal opportunity initiaAnti/ De-Icing Stationary Purchasing Office Electricity tives rests with the Chief Executive Officer of the company. It is the responsibility of each Waste Management Office Airconditioning manager to ensure that the associated policies and procedures are published and communicated to all staff within their area of responsibility. It is also the responsibility of each Lavatory Services Waste Recycling manager to ensure that effective monitoring takes place to provide assurance that the poliFuelling cies / procedures are being adhered to. Furthermore, it is the responsibility of every staff member to ensure that their actions adhere to the associated policies and procedures that In addition to complying with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, Swissport apply in their place of work. Failure to do so could lead to disciplinary action, including is committed to: dismissal. In general, all Swissport policies and procedures are designed to comply with ·· making environmental concerns an integral part of our planning and decisionlocal law, represent the best human resource management practices, encourage and respect making process and committing sufficient resources to implementing effective diversity and ensure equal opportunities, foster a team approach to business success, offer environmental programmes; development and secure employment, and provide competitive remuneration and other terms and conditions. These policies, processes and guidelines are in place to provide guid·· practising sound environmental management of all Swissport-operated facilities and ance, structure and alignment for the various HR activities. properties and all natural resources under our management; educating employees to be accountable for environmental management and encouraging them to seek innovative Group Executive Management Meetings (GEMM) take place on a monthly basis to review ways to improve the environmental aspects of our operations; the business performance. This ensures that any fluctuation in country or operational per·· minimising, mitigating or restoring any adverse environmental impacts caused by formances can be identified immediately. Actions and improvements can be implemented our operations; maintaining open relationships with our customers, employees and and reviewed monthly. In addition, the divisional EVPs and the Group CEO visit the key government agencies to meet their information needs with regard to environmental countries several times a year to conduct in-depth business reviews. These reviews are issues; supported and rounded-off by internal safety and management audits, external audits (e.g. ISO / ISAGO and / or airline audits) as well as independent internal corporate group audits, ·· continually improving our environmental programmes; which report directly to the Board of Directors. ·· ensuring the proper handling and disposal of all wastes, and minimising their creation while pursuing opportunities to prevent pollution and recycle and reuse waste Governance mechanisms are compliant with the general norms. Some points worth menmaterials; tioning: Currently, the Group Executive Management has only male members. This fact has been addressed regularly and seriously. Swissport wants to reiterate that this has been ·· evaluating our environmental performance through periodic reviews and audits to and will be addressed in any recruitment and is not the result of discrimination. ensure that our conduct is consistent with these principles. All 6 members of the Board of Directors are dependent (PAI or Swissport), except the Chairman Dr Staehlin. 16 17 Corporate GSE Due to Swissport’s business nature, the operation of ground service equipment (GSE) has According to the United Nations Global Compact Principles, businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and make sure that they HUMAN RIGHTS Core been identified as the main source of environmental impact, which could be influenced by the organisation. are not complicit in human rights abuses. Furthermore, businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recog& LABOUR Activities Within its own organisation, Swissport maintains continuous contact with major GSE nition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination PRINCIPLES manufacturers worldwide to evaluate adequate equipment with minimal environmental in respect of employment and occupation. impact. For example, Swissport has been operating electrically powered GSE for many years wherever possible and available. Some electrical ground-service equipment reduces As an independent ground handler and cargo services provider Swissport ensures best-infuel usage by 30–40 %. In the Swissport de-icing business, the use of glycol is strictly class services for our customers forming the base of our entire business and philosophy. As monitored. Swissport constantly strives for an optimisation of glycol use and glycol recovSwissport recognises its employees as the most valuable contributors to success, Swissport ery by using state-of-the-art technology. A glycol mix is a Swissport standard for optimised is committed to investing in a well-trained and motivated workforce in every airport we glycol usage, i.e. to reduce the use of glycol to the minimum necessary. operate. As a result, we have committed, engaged and dedicated colleagues who are proud to work for Swissport. HR management is in the core of our business and the Swissport HR Fuelling strategy builds upon the global business strategy. Swissport’s Fuelling operation is fully committed to meeting its customers’ fuelling and Both the Swissport business and the HR strategy are based on our shared corporate vision fuel storage needs in a manner consistent with a clean environment. We believe it is both and mission “to provide the aviation industry with consistent and tailor-made solutions good business practice and our duty to protect the natural resources of the communities around the globe, for a better customer experience” and our commitment to our Corporate which we serve while maintaining outstanding service to our customers. In keeping Core Values “People, Professionalism and Partnership”. Every employee is expected to live with this belief, it is our policy to conduct our business in an environmentally responsible up to our Corporate Core Values as, after all, the culture of a company becomes evident in manner that protects the public, our customers, our employees and the environment. its employees’ attitude towards the customer. To ensure minimum spilling of fuel, a “zero-drop” compliance and incentive in the Code of fuelling service has been implemented. This happened not only for environmental, but The Code of Conduct and its supporting policies (Anti-corruption Guidelines and Competialso for safety reasons. tion Law Guidelines) apply and form the guiding principles of our behaviour. It states Conduct that all actions and operations worldwide have to comply with both Swiss rules and any Green Logistics applicable local rules. All senior management is to comply and distribute these guidelines to their local teams, and therefore all employees should follow them. The majority of the GSE is leased, hence there is minimal logistics required for transportation of GSE from one location to another. When GSE transportation is required, the method As a service provider and therefore a people’s business, Swissport has a big responsibility of transportation depends on various factors, such as distance and volume for example. In towards its employees. Therefore, Swissport is fully committed to ensuring fair and equal most cases, the logistic suppliers transport GSE by boat. employment opportunities, diversity and no discrimination, as well as full compliance with health and safety regulations. For all its employees, Swissport maintains and promotes a Duty travel by air is kept at the lowest possible level – a policy with top management corporate culture and behaviour in which honesty, integrity and respect for the law are attention. Car-sharing options and discounted rates for public travel or hire cars are offered viewed as essential to achieving our desired success. in order to reduce the personal need for a car. Video conferencing, WebEx, Skype and ·· behaviour with integrity and in compliance with the law telephone conferencing are often-used alternatives. There is currently a further initiative to ·· the recognition of internationally proclaimed human rights equip more offices around the world with the required IT equipment to further foster such means of communications. Video conferences are preferred to face-to-face meetings when ·· respect for other cultures and opinions possible. Conference calls reduce travel costs and the environment impact related to travel, ·· responsibility towards society such as fuel. ·· care for the environment ·· loyalty towards the Swissport Group Regarding employees’ individual transport, financial incentives for public transport offers ·· fair, courteous and respectful behaviour towards colleagues, superiors, subordinates, are in place. In Head Office, public transport is subsidised with CHF 50 per employee and per month. Various similar initiatives are in place around the globe. customers, shareholders, authorities, business partners and the public ·· professional behaviour and observance of the rules of good business practice and of Environmental Performance internal and external rules and regulations ·· protection from discrimination Swissport is compliant with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and standards worldwide. In the period covered by this sustainability report, Swissport was neither ·· an open, transparent and constructive business style. involved in any rulings, nor made liable as a result of environmental non-compliance. 18 19 The Swissport Code of Conduct has been distributed throughout the whole organisation of the Swissport Group worldwide. Swissport’s recruitment policy can be summarised in two words: Objectivity and Equality. Swissport cares for its employees as they are the most valuable contributors to success. Recruiting & Any and all employees are personally obliged to abide by the Swissport Code of Conduct. Therefore, Swissport is committed to making an effort when recruiting new staff where human resources specialists and line management are involved. We are looking for Equal OPPORTUNITIES Since constant awareness is the best prevention of all, Swissport urges all its employees to motivated, committed and dedicated colleagues who are skilled and bring the experience report any violation of the Swissport Code of Conduct. Such reporting should primarily be or willingness to learn and who are proud to work for Swissport. We invest in our people addressed to the superior or the local HR manager. If the superior is part of the issue then and do not treat them as a cost. the employee should directly address it to the head of the business unit. As a last resort, if the employee fears retaliation and / or if he / she wants to report on a confidential basis he / Swissport wants to be and remain an “employer of choice”. Therefore, Swissport adheres she has the possibility of contacting the Swissport Whistle-blower e-mail hotline or the to all national laws relating to the recruitment of staff, and to any of the more-stringent Swissport Whistle-blower telephone hotline, where all communications will be treated in requirements of its own internal policies (e.g. equal opportunities, employee advancement, strict confidence, and will not result in any disciplinary action against the person making etc.). As with all other practices, Swissport is fully compliant with its Corporate Core them in a good faith and intention, even if the alleged violation proves unfounded in the Values (People, Professionalism and Partnership) and its Code of Conduct. subsequent internal investigation. In contrast, however, any violation of the Code of No job applicant will be discriminated against or treated less favourably based on gender, Conduct by the person making such communications, and any intentionally falsified claim race, colour or ethnic origin, marital status, religion or any other category protected by of such violation (such as malicious and improper accusations) will result in disciplinary law. Any such discriminatory behaviour will constitute gross misconduct under our Code action. of Conduct. The company also recognises that, as an employer, we fully comply with all legislation that renders certain types of discrimination unlawful. Fair Swissport is an advocate of fair and open competition: competition law may on no account be violated. Any such violation may result in substantial fines for Swissport and in fines or Competition prison sentences for its employees. In particular, price-fixing among competitors (verbal, written or in any other form), market allocation and any other practices which may inhibit Swissport is not only fully committed to finding the right people for the right job at the right time, we are also dedicated to providing an attractive work environment and company Retention culture where our employees feel respected and appreciated for the great work that they free competition are prohibited. Each individual Swissport employee is obliged to follow are performing every day. Retention of our dedicated staff and talents is key to our success. the Competition Law Guidelines and, in case of doubt, consult the Group General Counsel. Swissport is working on various retention measurements and means to ensure that we can say “able to go, but happy to stay!” AntiAccording to the United Nations Global Compact Principles, businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. One way of better understanding the reasons why we lose good people, is to ask them. Therefore, Swissport will introduce a structured exit interview for voluntary leavers in Corruption Swissport has issued Anti-corruption Guidelines which are based on the anti-corruption rules set forth in the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public management in order to find out about the “real” reasons for a resignation. The analysis and derived intelligence will help us in identifying any issues – individual or systematic – as soon as possible and will allow us to address them in a quick and appropriate way. Officials in International Business Transactions, the 1999 Criminal Law Convention of the Council of Europe on Corruption and the 2003 United Nations Convention against Further to structured exit interviews, Swissport has engaged in a study of general retention Corruption. means for senior management and its current situation. Findings on the reasons for leaving and motivators are essential for us to understand the needs and requirements of our senior All directors, officers and employees of the Swissport Group are required to abide by the management in order to address them appropriately and effectively. Swissport Anti-corruption Guidelines, regardless of their place of work. They are prompted to report any corrupt practice of which they become aware (including attempts thereof) to their superior or to the Group General Counsel. Disciplinary actions (including termination without notice) will be taken against those directors, officers and employees who do not comply with anti-corruption rules. In the period covered by this sustainability report, Swissport was neither involved in any rulings, nor made liable in relation to corruption. Web-Based A web-based training on the three modules “Code of Conduct”, “Competition Law” and “Anti-corruption Guidelines”, was rolled out for the Head Office in 2013. The roll-out of Training the web-based training will be extended globally to senior managers. It consists of three modules, with an approximate duration of 1.5 hour. 20 21 CompensaEmployment terms and conditions, competitive salary packages and incentive systems are in local responsibility and always in compliance with local legal requirements. Swissport The CEO of Swissport and the entire Group Executive Management are committed to the development of all employees: endorsing that each individual has the relevant knowledge, Training tion & is committed to having a fair and equal payment structure and to “pay for performance”. In 2012 and 2013, Swissport initiated a project, “Position Benchmark Analysis”, to benchskill and proficiency to deliver the highest standards of work consistently and safely in the workplace. Benefits mark internal positions and to ensure a coherent and consistent way to handle Compensation & Benefits for exempt employees. Swissport recognises that training and development is fundamental to maintaining and continually improving operational performance, and an integral part of the organisation in the achievement of our strategy and goals. Therefore, Swissport is striving for excellence The Project will provide the following benefits: at all levels in the organisation. ·· Establish internal fairness in positions globally Swissport is dedicated to supporting all employees in reaching their full potential through ·· Enhance simplicity and transparency a wide variety of training and development techniques and continuous performance manag·· Assist with global reward strategies, i.e., Executive Bonus Plan ment. The Swissport training programme provides level-adequate training from base to top ·· Provide data to assist with the identification of attendees for global strategic – for all operations staff, to supervisory and first-line management, as well as middle and management meetings senior managers. All staff levels are in scope for technical and developmental training as ·· Support succession planning and talent management reflected in the Training Pyramid represented below: ·· Support international assignments ·· Support mergers and acquisitions. Target Group Content Further to a competitive and fair base salary for all employees, some positions are also DASM* Senior Management Talent Leadership Essentials entitled for a variable component of their compensation. Rules and qualifications for such Programme Management Training executive and local bonus schemes are clearly outlined and communicated and form a fair and market-consistent portion of the overall package. Middle Management Advanced Active Advanced Leadership & Additional fringe benefits such as flight discounts, subsidies for public transport and health Leadership (AAL) Functional skills programmes, discounted memberships and alike are available in various locations over the world. First-Line Management Management & Basic Active Leadership (AL) Leadership skills Employee Swissport is fully committed to information sharing with employees and provides business news and performance updates to staff on a regular basis. We recognise the legitimate role Relations of responsible trade unions and employee representatives. Swissport establishes appropriate Technical Training mechanisms to enable the effective representation of staff. Swissport believes that good Supervisory Staff Active Supervision (AS) Operations Steering people-management practice generates a working environment where employees are committed and dedicated to giving their best. We also believe in the importance of listening to staff and using staff knowledge in solving business issues. Operation Operations Staff Technical Training Execution *DASM: Development Assessment Swissport Management 22 23 Organisational Structure Standard Training Programme For the development of corporate technical training standards and to monitor implementation, Swissport has a Functional Training Organisation in place under the leadership of the The Swissport Standard Training Programme (STP) is applicable to all Swissport stations, Corporate Training Manager, where all business divisions are represented. Additionally, unless overruled by local laws, regulations or written carrier-specific instructions. Station all relevant corporate functions – such as Human Resources, Supply Management and IT management shall ensure conformity with local laws, regulations and specific carrier – are also represented in this group. requirements. For that purpose, station management will establish supplementary local documentation to the STP. Functional Training Group Working Groups The Technical Training Material follows a modular approach and covers generic trainings Develop standards by sharing best practices Development and review of the Technical such as human factors, fire prevention or active supervision, health and safety, dangerous and expertise Training Materials goods and security, as well as all training and qualification needs for the execution of Revision of the Swissport Standard Ensure compliance to industry regulation operational core services offered by Swissport. Technical Training Programme and standards Monitor the implementation of the Swissport Act as an entry point for updates and alerts Technical Training on Standard Technical Training Programme on regulatory changes The Swissport personal development and training programme pursues the global standardiacross all stations sation of the trainings worldwide. Therefore, Swissport is responsible for the development Ensure the link to the Swissport Corporate Ensure that best practices are captured and maintenance of the globally binding Standard Technical Training Programme (STP) Policies and Processes and transferred into the Technical Training and the corresponding Technical Training Material, with the support of expert know-how Materials from the business divisions and from Swissport field locations. The target groups are Identification and nomination of country employees working in operations and supervisory staff. training responsibility It is a goal of Swissport to ensure that all employees have a sound basic knowledge of their Identification and nomination of divisional duties in the work place. For this reason, Swissport has developed a Technical Training expert(s) to take part in the field experts Policy to achieve safe, smooth and efficient handling, and which contains the following working groups principles: ·· One global Swissport Standard Technical Training Programme that is binding for all Management Training operational units to ensure consistent, high-quality technical training to Swissport’s Our shared goal at Swissport is excellence. We strongly believe in quality, customer operational staff. orientation and delivering top-class services at all levels. To ensure excellence in anything ·· The Swissport Standard Technical Training Programme shall be established in we do, we need to ensure that we have excellent training and development in place for accordance with internal requirements as specified in the Swissport Operations our staff. Manual and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) as well as with industry regulations, laws, regulatory and customer requirements. One of Swissport Formula key initiatives created in 2010 is to provide Management & Leadership training to our management. As a consequence, two management training ·· Local station, regional and / or business unit management (as appropriate) shall ensure programmes – Active Leadership (AL) and Advanced Active Leadership (AAL) – have conformity with local laws, country regulations and specific carrier requirements, and been created and customised to the different management levels in our organisation while will establish supplementary local documentation (if applicable). at the same time following the same principles and guidelines to guarantee standardised ·· Local supplements are defined as training material additional to the corporate training quality levels worldwide for optimised effectiveness. material in order to fulfil any local requirements that are not covered by corporate material. ·· Training delivery and compliance remains a local responsibility. This includes the establishment and implementation of local supplements to the corporate training, the training record control and the establishment of local training development for local implementation plans. ·· The Swissport Standard Technical Training Programme should include innovative learning elements, such as e-Learning modules and online testing, as well as interactive training solutions. 24 25 Active Leadership (AL) The ultimate objective of this programme is to: “Introduce and develop skills enabling The second part consists of 360° feedback. While the Hogan assessment predicts how the delegates to appropriately manage and lead teams in ways that engage employees and seemployee will behave to a certain extent, the 360° feedback shows how the employee cure commitment to improved performance, revenue generation and customer satisfaction.” behaves in their leadership. This comprehensive feedback allows individuals to understand their strengths and opportunities as a leader for consideration in the development plan. The This training is followed by all first-line management, and is focused on the following third element that completes this analysis is the performance evaluation from the direct topics: manager. ·· Performance Management / Goals and target setting The in-depth analysis helps to better capitalise on the strengths of each top executive and ·· Basic Customer Service culture to work on specific improvements, where indicated. This helps to realise Swissport’s global ·· Conflict resolution / Managing conflicts leadership potential as well as to determine individual and organisational development ·· Employee direction and motivation needs so that they can be addressed properly. ·· Basic influencing skills Hogan assessments have not only been used for this skills gap analysis, but have also ·· Time management and delegation established as mandatory part of the selection and recruitment process for senior manage·· Teamwork and collaboration ment at Swissport worldwide, as well as for supporting hiring and promotion decisions. ·· Basic communication skills In order to support individuals in their development, Swissport has various tools on hand: ·· Individual Development Plans (focusing on behavioural development) Advanced Active Leadership (AAL) ·· Goal planning and competency assessment (focusing on professional development) The ultimate objective of this programme is to: “Build on existing management and opera·· Think Box – a personal development tool providing online coaching, e-learning, book tional capabilities to advance leadership and functional skills in order to ensure a high level and article tips, an online development plan, videos, online training sessions and much of employee engagement and commitment.” This training is addressed at operations and more in cooperation with Hogan station managers, and is focused on the following topics: ·· Targeted Trainings (Finance for Non-Finance Managers, Empathy, Listening skills etc.) ·· Commercial / Financial awareness based on general or individual findings from Hogan and LVI analyses ·· Advanced Customer Service culture ·· Individual Coaching ·· Introduction to Project Management ·· Mentoring ·· Attendance management ·· Employee direction and motivation ·· Influencing skills ·· Leadership ·· Managing change Development Assessment Swissport Management Swissport’s skills gap analysis is called Development Assessment Swissport Management (DASM). The DASM project was launched in 2009 and conducted over the duration of 2.5 years for all senior management positions at Swissport worldwide. The project goal was to gain a holistic and fair assessment of our senior management group to understand both Swissport’s strengths and shortcomings in order to accelerate them and to address them respectively. Process definition, roll-out and support, as well as the facilitation of feedback and debriefs, including all preparation, information and communication, is owned and driven by Corporate Human Resources in close collaboration with the HR Community and with regular discussion and approval from the Group Executive Management team. In order to be effective, development support and development actions have to be based on a thorough needs analysis. Under these circumstances, Swissport designed a development assessment consisting of three parts: The first part is the Hogan assessment, which provides in-depth analysis of leadership potential based on a generic job profile that Swissport has defined and validated for its managers. This allows employees to receive comprehensive feedback and build an individual development plan. The employee is asked to agree on this plan with the line manager, supported by the respective HR manager, and to conduct regular follow-up sessions. The developmental aspect for existing managers has a clear priority. 26 OrganisaThe Corporate HR team works closely with line management and the worldwide HR Community to develop and implement valuable programmes, tools, processes and procedures to Safety Management System For new locations, implementation and usage is guaranteed from the first day of operation. tional support Swissport managers in their daily work for more efficiency, better management and leadership in order to achieve our shared goal of excellence. Swissport operates a Safety Management System (SMS) to comply with ICAO, IATA Civil Aviation and Airports Authorities requirements. Structure Swissport is presently operating on five continents in a variety of different legal environments. This requires local experts for all human-related matters. Therefore, Swissport strongly believes in a decentralised approach for its operational HR matters. Description and Key Features Nonetheless, Swissport’s unique strength lies in our standardised approach to operations Organisation · Definition of accountabilities which certainly also includes best practice processes and procedures in HR. This guaran· Definition of responsibilities tees best-in-class service to our customers. Hence, there is a strong link between the local · Functional organisation HR teams and the Corporate HR team at Head Office – the Swissport worldwide HR · Tasks for safety functions Community. Risk Assessment · Severity rating · Probability rating The Swissport worldwide HR Community represents all the Senior HR leaders of our · Risk analysis process and requirements countries and the Corporate HR team. The Senior HR leaders have two important roles: Training · Training and instruction requirements 1. Full HR responsibility for their countries and regions for all operational needs and issues. Reporting and occurrence categories · Employee injuries 2. Collaboration on, and implementation of, global HR projects in line with our functional · Aircraft damage HR strategy and the defined strategic initiatives. · Third-party damage and injuries · GSE damage Global and regional meetings of the entire or parts of this group take place regularly to · Dangerous goods incidents facilitate an exchange of current HR issues, collaboration and shared project work. · Cargo damage It is important to understand that the Swissport worldwide HR community is collaborating Information / Communication · Internal communication regulations on a regular basis and in different projects. As all members of this community are senior · Communication regulations to customers HR professionals and leaders in their countries, we have a vast variety of skills and experand authorities tise that we can widely utilise. Projects are not solely run out of the Head Office, but rather Occurrence Management · Investigations led by individual HR leaders (based on their knowledge and expertise) and accompanied · Root cause analysis and coordinated by Corporate HR. This ensures full buy-in and smooth roll-out and local · Findings and actions implementation. Audits and Controls · Audits In most cases, our HR colleagues are supported by their local human resources, payroll and · Checks tax specialists to ensure smooth and effective human resources operations and employee · Review relations. Performance Measurement · Statistics · Performance indicators · Corporate dashboard HEALTH & The Swissport Health & Safety Management System incorporates all aspects of operational and managerial activities that could have a potential impact on safety. Swissport is using the AQD (Aviation Quality Database) to report and record all incidents SAFETY The Health & Safety, Crisis Management and Environmental Management policies all operate in alignment with one another to ensure that Swissport’s staff work in an environand accidents. AQD has been rolled out and implemented in all stations across the entire global network. ment that has processes when unexpected events occur, is safe and environmentally aware. Risk assessment and investigation processes with root cause analysis are fully built in. All Swissport entities are required to adhere to the standards given in this policy to ensure a safe working environment for its staff and customers, and to avoid damage to property. 28 29 AQD further provides statistics to monitor actual performance and trends throughout the network. Regular case analysis is used to review existing operational procedures. Swissport is dedicated to aligning, regularly reviewing and continuously improving its standardised processes and procedures across the entire organisation. Local implementation GLOBAL Operational Risk Management of all standardised processes and procedures are crucial to our success in providing the customer with best-in-class services every day, every time and everywhere. STANDARDS Swissport has set up its operational safety risk management in line with the ICAO recommendations for the establishment of a safety management system. All occurrences recorded in AQD are being risk rated through the combination of defined severity and probability coding. Records are either based on incident and accident history as well as on information Collaboration across the entire organisation is crucial for successful local implementation of our global standards. Therefore, Swissport is structured as a matrix organisation. The Local on “near miss” situations and ground-safety reports. Together with structured information on operational phases and contributing factors, the database provides all the necessary functional communities and cross-functional teams are collaborating in a strong relationship to ensure full alignment and implementation of our standardised best-in-class processChampions es in the local stations. Good relationships are absolutely crucial in creating buy-in, ensurinformation about the Swissport Group risk register, which is automated and continuously ing a smooth roll-out and delivering the same message across the organisation. updated. Taking over the management of a new and large operation in a totally new environment With regards to Health & Safety, all Swissport employees working on the ramp near to requires the skills and knowledge of a seasoned and successful management team that is aircraft, in cargo warehouses or in another potentially hazardous environments are fully able to fully ensure best quality service delivery to our customer from day one. equipped with personal protective clothing (security vests, helmet, gloves, etc.), which is mandatory for them to wear: we do not compromise on safety. For the same reason, the Swissport prefers to use existing internal knowledge from the organisation to recruit a new standard training programmes which are applied in all stations worldwide include safety management team to lead the new operation. The management team usually exists of a aspects of the working environment, in particular the use of protective clothing as well as locally hired HR director with long-standing expertise in working with unions and local, the special behaviour on the ramp aiming at minimising the risk of working accidents. specific labour-related issues. The operational procedures are reviewed by the management of the Swissport Group periIn preparation for the take-up of the new operation, the key members of the management odically and are improved continuously. team are identified during the succession management process as ideal candidates for such an assignment. Action plans include early communication, preparation of professional and Health & Well-being smooth transfers for individuals and their families, but also individual and cultural preparaHealth and Safety is not only a matter of protective equipment, but also of different protions and advance meetings and location visits. grammes that support a healthy lifestyle. Various stations of the Swissport Group run such programmes: “Fit on Ground” (exercise programme), “Tao” (relaxation and massage) and other local Human Resources programmes for health and well-being. Such programmes are addressed in all local Human Resources management and operational Quality and Safety agendas. 31 Performance Performance Management is one of the most important competencies in Swissport. Our Performance Development Review System for all senior managers worldwide is another Swissport engages with a range of stakeholders on a regular basis. It is our declared goal to be a reliable, professional and recognised partners in the creation of values and results for OUR Management example of worldwide alignment and transparency with local implementation. Not only has the worldwide HR community ensured a consistent and smooth roll-out of the system to all our stakeholders – internally and externally. Our key stakeholders are identified by analysing those groups that are intrinsically affected STAKEHOLDERS the entire organisations, but we have also been working continuously in setting even higher by, or could have an effect on, our operation. standards. ·· Customers Airlines This led to the implementation of a supporting HR system to support the workflow and enable management and HR to closely manage and monitor the entire process. ·· Airports ·· Airport authority (private and governmental) On top, an up-skilling training was developed and is rolled-out via the HR community to support our managers in providing high-quality performance appraisal, feedback and ·· IATA and other international associations in the aviation industry development sessions. The train-the-trainer approach ensures a consistent and strong ·· Shareholders message to be delivered by all trainers at the same time. ·· Management As a next step, the performance management process will be amended and extended to the ·· Staff group of operational managers at Swissport. Roll-out will then follow a similar process to ·· Trade Unions and work councils ensure full coverage and local implementation worldwide. ·· Communities As well as continuously reviewing and improving our processes, Swissport HR is also ·· Suppliers planning to include the reviewed and optimised Swissport recruitment process in this ·· Passengers supporting HR system. This will further support and professionalise Swissport’s efforts in getting the best people on board. A global approach in rolling out the same HR system solution ensures a fully aligned process, but at the same time still allows for the required flexibility to embed process steps for local legal compliance or cultural specialities. Swissport intends to deliver the best service and improve operational processes by developing and introducing state-of-the-art technology to our customers. Customer We do not rest on our successes and have developed methods and tools for continuous improvement, working with our customers in a collaborative way to ensure that we always DialogUE strive to be the best and offer innovative and optimal solutions to all of our customers – current and new – across all of our many and diverse operations. We believe that technology has to increase value externally and internally at the same time as reducing cost. In order to achieve this, Swissport meets with airlines to review processes and identify cooperation (potential for outsourcing of “non-core” activities and usage of technology), follows industry trends by visiting industry conferences, analyses and benchmarks competitors and also stays in contact with external partners. This is our understanding of true partnership: one of our core values. Swissport carefully observes market trends. It is obvious that these trends show a clear need for modifications to the current business model and increase the importance of technology: Swissport’s IT is eager to continuously improve the infrastructure and applications landscape to support the business processes. 33 AWARDS & Air Cargo Award Zurich, 6 June 2012 – Swissport was voted Air Cargo Handling Agent of the Year for the Best Ground Handling Company by the Institute for Transport Management Zurich, 15 March 2012 – Swissport, was again named Best Ground Handling Company by RECOGNITION fourth consecutive year in the prestigious ACW World Air Cargo Awards. ITM, taking the award for the 12th year in succession. The award is based upon the results of voting by readers of the newspaper Air Cargo Week, The award is based upon an annual survey by the respected and independent UK-based who were asked to rate companies according to service standards and quality; investment institute to determine the best and most professional companies within the aviation and in people and technology; and the scope of services provided. Swissport was presented logistics fields. The survey included a series of interviews and polls conducted by the ITM, with the award at a ceremony in Shanghai on 6 June. covering suppliers, airports, airlines and passengers. Global Cargo at the Swissport Group, commented: “It is a great source of pride to win this Per H. Utnegaard, President and CEO of the Swissport Group, commented: “We are award, particularly because it is the result of voting by our customers and other partners delighted to be named Best Ground Handling Company by ITM for the 12th year in a row, and members of the air cargo industry. Winning for the fourth year in a row demonstrates reconfirming our leading position in the ground handling sector. I would like to thank all the consistency of our performance and is a real tribute to the dedication of our staff around of our 35,000 people from around the world for the hard work and dedication to quality the world, the quality of our services and the focus we maintain to fulfil the needs and that earned us this award, and I would also like to thank our customers and airport for their requirements of all customers and stakeholders. continuing support, and for commending us to the ITM once again. I would also like to thank our customers for the support they have given during the year, Despite winning the award for the last 12 years, we will work extremely hard to continue to and can reassure them that we will continue to work hard on delivering innovation, consistenhance our Swissport quality and innovation and add substantial value to our customers ent high quality and good-value services in order to earn and retain their business in this worldwide.” challenging and ever-competitive environment.” Ground Handler of the Year at the Cargo Airline of the Year Awards 2013 Zurich, 5 March 2012 − Swissport, added another award to its growing collection after being voted Ground Handler of the Year in the inaugural Air Transport News Awards. Readers from among ATN’s 42,000 subscribers in 161 countries, plus a panel of expert judges, determined the winner of the award on the basis of achievements during the last year; new products launched; most influential leader; financial performance; social responsibility and contribution to society; and innovative and entrepreneurial attributes. Per H. Utnegaard, President and CEO of the Swissport Group, commented: “It is an honour to receive this award from Air Transport News and its readers. We work hard to provide high-quality and industry-leading services to our customers, and it is particularly encouraging to receive recognition from customers, many of whom are readers of ATN.” The award was presented to Mark Skinner, Swissport International’s Senior Vice President for Ground Handling EMEAA, in a ceremony held in Athens, Greece on 4 March, prior to the 2012 ATN Leaders Forum. 34 35 ABOUT This is Swissport’s first Sustainability Report for the reporting period which includes complete information on the year 2012. The next report is planned for 2014 covering data THIS REPORT for the year 2013. Swissport’s Sustainability Report was created in accordance with version G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and with the “Communication on Progress” requirements of UN Global Compact. The report covers at least ten fully reported performance indicators in relation to Economic (EC), Environmental (EN), Human Rights (HR), Labour (LA), Social (SO) and Product Responsibility (PR) indicators. Unless otherwise stated, figures, facts and manager statements are valid for Swissport on a worldwide basis. Our report has been verified by GRI to fulfil all requirements for application level C. The GRI certificate on page 37 and the attached GRI 3.1 index from page 38 ff illustrate all the reported indicators and their corresponding location in the report. Swissport International Ltd. Flughofstrasse 55 CH-8152 Opfikon SWITZERLAND www.swissport.com 36 37 G3.1 Content Index – GRI Application Level C Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure Location of disclosure the reason for STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures Disclosure Reporting omission omission REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION 3. Report Parameters Reporting period (e.g. fiscal / calendar year) for information 3.1 Fully 2012 provided. Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure Location of disclosure the reason for 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully This is the first report Disclosure Reporting omission omission 1. Strategy and Analysis 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully Annual Statement from the most senior decision-maker in p. 36 1.1 Fully pp. 4–5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully the organisation. About this report 2. Organisational Profile The core values on page 4 form the basis of this report. 2.1 Name of the organisation. Fully p. 36 We do not report The reporting was based on fully on this 2.2 Primary brands, products, and / or services. Fully pp. 10–13 the main subject areas set disclosure item out in the GRI Guidelines. Proprietary Operational structure of the organisation, including main 3.5 Process for defining report content. Partially as the 2.3 Fully p. 6 & pp. 15–16 The present structure makes information divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. information is it possible to address specific proprietary. p. 36 About this report information to key stakeholdhttp://www.swissport.com/ er groups: Airlines, employ2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. Fully ees, shareholders. corporate/contacts/ headquarters/ Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, subsidiaries, Number of countries where the organisation operates, and 3.6 leased facilities, joint ventures, and suppliers). See the GRI Fully p. 6 names of countries with either major operations or that are Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 2.5 Fully p. 7 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the p. 36 report. 3.7 Fully report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). About this report http://www.swissport.com/ Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully corporate/ownership/ facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 3.8 Fully p. 6 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors significantly affect comparability from period to period and / or 2.7 Fully pp. 7–8, p. 14 between organisations. served and types of customers / beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Fully p. 6 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-stateSignificant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 3.10 Fully This is the first report 2.9 Fully p. 7 ment (e.g. mergers / acquisitions, change of base years / periods, structure or ownership. nature of business, measurement methods). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully pp. 34–35 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 3.11 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the Fully This is the first report report. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in 3.12 Fully This detailed content index the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement We do not report this information as we have been Governance structure of the organisation, including committees unable to gather 4.1 under the highest governance body responsible for specific Partially pp. 15–16 Does not exist the data. We will tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. be able to report this information in 2014. Chair of the board of directors Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is 4.2 Fully is an independent member of also an executive officer. the B.O.D. For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the 4.3 number and gender of members of the highest governance body Fully p. 16 that are independent and / or non-executive members. p. 21 Employees have the Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 Fully possibility to address their recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. concerns as provided in local co-determination laws. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Fully p. 33 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 4.15 Fully p. 33 whom to engage. 38 39 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting REPORT FULLY ON 10 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Environmental AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH DIMENSION (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL) Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not Reporting Economic Energy Economic performance EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Not Direct economic value generated and distributed, including EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Not revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EC1 Not EN5 and other community investments, retained earnings, and improvements. payments to capital providers and governments. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energyFinancial implications and other risks and opportunities for the EN6 based products and services, and reductions in energy Fully p. 17 EC2 Not organisation’s activities due to climate change. requirements as a result of these initiatives. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. Not Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 Partially p. 18 No financial assistance has been received from the government reductions achieved. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from the government. Fully during the reporting period. Water Market presence EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Not Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender EN9 Water sources significantly affected by the withdrawal of water. EC5 compared to the local minimum wage at significant locations Partially of operation. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Swissport’s definition of local depends on many factors, i.e. Biodiversity Trading blocks, and government regulations. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or In addition to trading regulations and location, the factors EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Not Policy, practices and the proportion of spending on EC6 Fully influencing Swissport suppliers: engage suppliers based on costs outside protected areas. locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. and efficiency. There are no global policies established for granting locally based Description of significant impacts of activities, products and suppliers. EN12 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Not biodiversity value outside protected areas. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior manageEC7 ment hired from the local community at significant locations of Fully pp. 31–32 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. operation. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing EN14 Indirect economic impacts impacts on biodiversity. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation EC8 services provided primarily for public benefit through Not EN15 list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by the commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. level of extinction risk. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic Emissions, effluents and waste EC9 impacts, including the extent of the impacts. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions EN18 achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and EN20 Not weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Not p. 18 Swissport significant spills are defined as spilling volume that EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully needs to be reported to the government officials. During the reporting no spills have been recorded. Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and the percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water EN25 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and run-off. Products and services Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts of products EN26 Partially p. 17 and services, and the extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that EN27 Not are reclaimed by category. 40 41 Level of Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting Reporting Environmental Social: Human Rights Compliance Investment and procurement practices Monetary value of significant fines and total number No fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the The percentage and the total number of significant investment EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Fully law received during the reporting period. agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating HR1 Not environmental laws and regulations. human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights Transport screening. The percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other Significant environmental impacts of transporting products All significant suppliers engaged by Swissport are required to HR2 business partners that have undergone human rights screening, Fully EN29 and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s Fully p. 18 show certificates of compliance with relevant human rights. and actions taken. operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall pp. 19–20 A web-based training on the elements of the Code of Conduct Total environmental protection expenditures and Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures EN30 was rolled out for the head-office late 2013. The web based investments by type. HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Fully training consists of three modules, with a duration of 1.5 hour. operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work Corporate head-office employs 140 people and accounts for 0.35 % of the total workforce Employment Non-discrimination Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, LA1 Partially pp. 8–7 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fully No incidents reported during the reporting period and region, broken down by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee LA2 Not turnover by age group, gender and region. Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided right to exercise freedom of association and collective LA3 Fully p. 22 HR5 Not to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and the actions taken to support these rights. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by LA15 Not Child labour gender. Labour / management relations Operations and significant suppliers identified as having a HR6 significant risk for incidents of child labour, and the measures Not The majority of the workforce (95 %) is non-managerial and taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. therefore theoretically subject to CLAs. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Forced and compulsory labour LA4 Fully Half of US, all of Canada and all of Europe would be covered agreements. by CLAs which would roughly amount to 50 % of the total Operations and significant suppliers identified as having workforce significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, HR7 Not Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective Not forced or compulsory labour. agreements. Security practices Occupational health and safety Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s Health and Safety functions in Swissport have the following HR8 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint structure showing the minimum standard: are relevant to operations. management-worker health and safety committees that help to 1 Manager Corporate Indigenous rights LA6 Fully monitor and advise on occupational health and safety 1 Manager per each Division Total number of incidents of violations involving the rights of programmes. 1 Manager per each Country HR9 Fully No incidents reported during the reporting period indigenous people and the actions taken. 1 Health & Safety Officer per each Station Assessment Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and LA7 absenteeism and the number of work-related fatalities by Not Percentage and total number of operations that have been HR10 Not region and by gender. subject to human rights reviews and / or impact assessments. Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control Remediation LA8 programmes in place to assist workforce members, their Not Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed families, or community members regarding serious diseases. HR11 Not and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with LA9 Not trade unions. Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and LA10 Not by employee category. Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that pp. 23–28 LA11 support the continued employability of employees and assist Fully To some extent Swissport offer those made redundant for them in managing career endings. operational reasons help in finding a new job. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and LA12 Not career development reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and the breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age LA13 Not group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by LA14 Partially p. 21 employee category, by significant locations of operation. 42 43 Level of Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting Reporting Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility Local communities Customer health and safety Percentage of operations with implemented local community Lifecycle stages in which the health and safety impacts of SO1 Not engagement, impact assessments and development programmes. products and services are assessed for improvement, and the PR1 Partially pp. 28–30 percentage of significant products and services categories Operations with significant potential or actual negative impact SO9 Not subject to such procedures. on local communities. The total number of incidents of non-compliance with Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety SO10 with significant potential or actual negative impact on local Not PR2 Fully None reported during the reporting period. impacts of products and services during their lifecycle, by type communities. of outcome. Corruption Product and service labelling Percentage and total number of business units analysed for SO2 Not Type of product and service information required by risks related to corruption. PR3 procedures, and the percentage of significant products and Partially p. 28 pp. 19–20 services subject to such information requirements. A web-based training on the elements of the Code of Conduct Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Percentage of employees trained in the organisation’s was rolled out for the head-office late 2013. The web based None reported during the reporting period SO3 Fully PR4 and voluntary codes concerning product and service Fully anti-corruption policies and procedures. training consists of three modules, with a duration of 1.5 hour. information and labelling, by type of outcome. Corporate head-office employs 140 people and accounts for 0.35 % of the total workforce Practices related to customer satisfaction, including the results PR5 Fully pp. 34–35 of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully p. 20 Marketing communications Public policy Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 Not PR6 codes related to marketing communications, including Not development and lobbying. advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political SO6 Not Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations parties, politicians and related institutions, by country. and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, None received during the reporting period Anti-competitive behaviour PR7 Fully including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, outcome. SO7 Fully p. 20 Code of Conduct. Fair Competition anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Customer privacy Compliance Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches PR8 Fully None received during the reporting period. Monetary value of significant fines and the total number of of customer privacy and losses of customer data. No fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Fully Compliance law received during the reporting period. regulations. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with No fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Fully with the law received during the reporting period. products and services. 44 45 46 47 Swissport International Ltd. Ground Handling, Cargo Services, Aircraft Maintenance, FueLling Services, Executive Aviation, Aviation Security P.O. Box, 8058 Zurich-Airport Switzerland P: +41 43 812 20 20 F: +41 43 321 29 02 contact@swissport.com www.swissport.com
