Globa Compact Indhold S. 03 S. 07 S. 09 S. 13 01 The Executive Vice President’s report 02 About Pressalit 02 Values of Pressalit 03 Special activities 2012 05 Human Rights 05 Diversity 06 Basic vocational training 06 Trainees and interns 07 Interns 07 Semester internship 08 Company centre/partnership agreement 09 Labour 09 Well-being 09 Absence 10 Health check 11 Smoking policy 11 Employment with special conditions 12 Diet 12 Exercise 13 Environment 14 Anti-Corruption 15 Follow-up on goals for 2012 15 Comments on goal fulfilment in 2012 16 Goals for 2013 The Executive Vice President’s report This report outlines some of the activities and results for 2012 relating to our commitment to the Global Compact. The report is based on the ten principles from the Global Compact. We have chosen to only write about the activities once, even though many of them relate to more than one principle. Specific measurements and results are only described where relevant. We aimed to make this report reader-friendly, while providing a good impression of our intentions, initiatives and actions. With this report, I wish to demonstrate our continued support of the Global Compact. Best regards Executive Vice President Pressalit A/S 01 Global Compact 2012 Communication on Progress 2012 About Pressalit and the Global Compact initiative Pressalit is one of Europe’s leading suppliers of toilet message in communications to all Pressalit employees seats (Pressalit Seats) and kitchen and bathroom soluand in connection with knowledge sharing activities tions for people with disabilities (Pressalit Care). outside of the company. Social responsibility has alOwned by the Boyter family, Pressalit has been headways been a part of Pressalit’s agenda. Since its foundquartered in Ry, Denmark since its founding in 1954. ing, the company’s management has been dedicated to Pressalit now has 376 employees, 7 subsidiaries and a taking social responsibility as a partner and member of small toilet seat manufacturing operation in Thailand. the community in the local town of Ry. Therefore, we were also proud to win the 2011 CSR People Prize, the Pressalit has supported the Global Compact initiative highest CSR distinction of its kind in Denmark, for our since 2002 and has always strived to promote this good efforts in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. Values of Pressalit The values of Pressalit form the roots of the company’s fied three core areas in our CSR work: Joint Responsiculture and the foundation for the company’s actions bility, Employees and Environment. Within these core and activities. Our values are as follows: We listen. We areas, we seek to take our responsibility in a conscious give. We play. We act. The core of our CSR work is our manner and contribute to a world outside the compainvolvement in the Global Compact and the ethical ny’s internal sphere, we take care of the employees guidelines we have formulated on the basis of the UN who have chosen Pressalit as a workplace, and we act recommendations for responsible behaviour by busiresponsibly in the environmental arena. ness owners and leaders. On this basis, we have identi02 Special activities 2012 E-learning Pressalit launched an e-learning platform in 2012. This included the development of a course on our ethical guidelines for all new employees. These ethical guidelines are based on the ten principles of the Global Compact relating to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Thus, employees have the opportunity to learn about the ten principles and about the importance Pressalit attaches to the principles and their influence on employees’ daily work. We at Pressalit attempt to make the ten principles of the Global Compact relevant and tangible everywhere – not just in countries facing more evident challenges in areas such as human rights. 03 The Paralympic Games As a main sponsor of the Danish Sports Organisation for the Disabled (DHIF) for nearly 10 years now, Pressalit had the pleasure of following the 2012 Paralympic Games in London. This sponsorship is not simply a passive donation of funds, but rather a partnership in which DHIF and Pressalit use the best of two worlds to promote dedication and the competitive spirit. The partnership has resulted in the establishment of Pressalit Sports Academy, where the Danish athletes receive training by sports psychologists and physiotherapists from Team Danmark. This edition of the Paralympic Games is now over, but the athletes have a lot to look back on with pride. The 28 Danish participants set 21 personal records and succeeded in bringing home 5 medals. As a main sponsor of DHIF, Pressalit is thrilled to have the opportunity to support and be a part of the team behind such talented athletes. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Diversity At Pressalit, the Global Compact’s two principles on Pressalit. In 2011 we implemented a “spectrum of human rights are closely tied to our thoughts and diversity” programme requiring managers at Pressalit views on being a company that believes diversity to consider the composition of employees in each makes us stronger. Thus we assign great importance department. The managers had to choose three pato diversity and we have defined it according to the rameters on which they would achieve diversity. We fan below consisting of ten parameters. use these parameters in connection with recruitment, which means that the composition of the staff is takBased on our views on diversity, we work to ensure en into consideration when hiring new employees. the most diverse staff possible in every department of 05 Global Compact 2012 Basic vocational training In 2012, the first trainee completed his basic vocational training (BVT) at Pressalit. We did not hire the trainee on the basis of his skills, but rather a desire to give young people with special needs an opportunity to gain training in the company. We have now hired two more BVT trainees in the kitchen and reception, and we are considering hiring a replacement for the first trainee position in our Care production, taking the total number of BVT trainees to three. The BVT programmes are typically two years long, involving practical tasks to equip trainees with professional skills and experience in being part of a working culture, thereby strengthening and expanding the personal and social skills of the trainee. The programme is individually tailored, with trainees participating in some courses along the way (e.g. labour market training courses) or other instruction to supplement their completed primary education. Trainees and interns In Denmark there is a strong focus on the fact that departments, from production and logistics to finance many young people have a hard time finding trainee and sales. positions in connection with their vocational education, which requires a combination of school instrucTrainees and apprentices have a network at the compation and practical training in a company. Pressalit ny that meets approximately once every other month strives to be a responsible company in this area. We to discuss an agenda with various topics, as well as to want to ensure close interaction with the educational plan the network’s joint tasks. For example, the trainees system and the young people in need of a trainee and interns attend to the many requests to visit our position to complete their education. production facilities from associations, schools, other companies, etc. The network also works together to Over the years, Pressalit has seen trainee and intern prepare a meal for the company’s employees once a programmes as a natural part of our social responsiyear. The tasks of this project cover the entire process, bility. We have trainees and apprentices in numerous from planning and shopping, to cooking and serving. 06 Interns We work with three different types of internships at Pressalit: we offer students from institutions of higher education a semester-long internship at the company and the opportunity to write their thesis with Pressalit as a case company. We offer work experience positions as a part of the vocational education system. Lastly, we offer internships for the unemployed and those seeking to clarify their ability to work following long-term absence from the labour market due to sickness. Semester internship Every year, Pressalit offers opportunities of internships also brought our current trainees and interns with us as for students enrolled in a course of higher education. No Pressalit ambassadors. Many students took the opporsalary is paid to students in internships, which usually tunity to have an informal chat with us about everything last about six months. We strive to ensure that both stufrom the specific internships to our business, products, dents and Pressalit benefit from these internships. Stucompany culture and values. The many talks with interdents are expected to contribute with new knowledge, ested students have already shown positive results, as creative ideas and the ability to put theory into practice. we are receiving a steady and strong flow of applications In return, we offer challenges, sparring and a good envifrom qualified students. ronment for learning and development. On Monday, 5 November, Pressalit welcomed two visitors In 2012, Pressalit participated in two events at the Aaras part of the “Job Shadow” programme. Job Shadow is hus University School of Business and Social Sciences. organised by Aarhus University’s Career Centre and gives The first event was called “A day with Pressalit” and the graduate students or recent graduates the opportunity to second was called “Company Dating”. Both events are follow an employee at a Danish company. The day provides part of the sponsorship agreement we have with Aarhus participants with insight into the work life awaiting them University to strengthen our external Employer Brand in and inspiration on how they can utilise their education in relation to the relevant target group of business and enpractice. Our objective by participating in Job Shadow was gineering students. Our primary objective by particito show our company and workplace to participants and to pating in these events was to find candidates for the generally increase the visibility of Pressalit by supporting spring internships in HRD & Policy and Seats Sales, OEM. the event. This participation thereby strengthens our exterWe want to meet the students face to face and promote nal Employer Brand. Pressalit as a workplace by talking with them – thus we 07 Global Compact 2012 Company centre / partnership agreement For the past two years, Pressalit has had a partnership municipality – in addition to the hours that are spent on and company centre agreement with Skanderborg Muintroducing the employee to the department. An added nicipality. Under the agreement, the company has benefit of meeting these trainees is that we at Pressalit made seven openings available for people who for one gain an insight into different people and lives that we reason or another are outside of the labour market. do not normally encounter at our workplace. For examPressalit offers to find tasks for these seven trainee prople, we have had a number of trainees who have been grammes; in addition, numerous departments at Presthrough long periods of stress and are now starting to salit have made a colleague available to introduce the get back on their feet in the labour market through a trainee to the workplace. trainee position at Pressalit. Such trainees provide us with a good understanding of the potential effects of stress and how to handle employees returning to the From the company’s perspective, we see the trainees as labour market. The company can use this knowledge in an opportunity to get a helping hand with solving some connection with its own employees and thus hopefully tasks; in return, some of the company’s employees avoid some of the common pitfalls in treating employspend some time on a recruitment conversation, task ees who are sick from stress. planning, follow up and reporting to the trainee and the 08 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Well-being Absence Under the heading “presence, recognition and visibilIn recent years, Pressalit has worked hard to reduce ity”, numerous departments in the production have absences among staff employed on conditions similar worked to accommodate the desire for increased coopto those of salaried employees. Pressalit has a goal of eration with management, as expressed by employees a 3 per cent average absence rate at the company in the 2011 health check. In a couple of departments, level; there is still a way to go, although great prothis has resulted in the establishment of a board where gress has been made. each employee indicates how the past week has been: not so good, good, or very satisfactory. 09 Global Compact 2012 Health check As part of the efforts to reduce absences, Pressalit has also worked with well-being initiatives. In 2011-2012, Pressalit participated in a large-scale health project conducted by the trade union 3F with the support of The Fund for Better Working Environment and Labour Retention. As a part of the project the employees of Pressalit were offered a health check in the autumn of 2011 and again in the autumn of 2012. In 2012, all employees were also offered the opportunity to participate in an extra health check in connection with a research project conducted by the National Research Centre for Work. 10 4 focus areas Based on the health project in 2012, Pressalit chose to work focused on Smoking policy In the spring of 2012, a decision was made at a cooperation committee meeting to make all of Pressalit smoke-free as of 1.1.2013. This means that employees are not allowed to smoke on the company’s premises. As a part of the health project, efforts were made to identify measures to help colleagues who want to stop smoking. Employment with special conditions Pressalit did not take any special initiatives in 2012 to employed persons back into the labour market and to increase the share of employees with special conditions train current employees. The job rotation scheme is in the company, which is currently at about 6 per cent – thus without financial costs for Pressalit. So far, only a level the company finds acceptable at the present one employee has accepted the offer, but the head of time. the department hopes that more employees will take the training course when they hear about the experiIn the company’s service department, 100 per cent of ences of the first employee. The intention of the job the staff are employed with special conditions, a large rotation was to give employees on flexible conditions an number of whom are responsible for cleaning. A job opportunity to earn formal professional competencies rotation project was introduced in 2012 for these emand certificates of their abilities, while also give unemployees, offering them the opportunity to get training in ployed persons the opportunity to be a part of the comcleaning techniques through a few weeks of training at pany during the time the employee is taking the course. a vocational school. Employees receive full pay during Ultimately, we hope that the idea will spread so that training and the company hires a temporary replacemore unskilled employees gain a professional boost in ment with full pay while the employee is attending the competencies for the benefit of themselves, the compacourse. This scheme is an employment tool to help unny and society as a whole. 11 Global Compact 2012 four areas: Diet It is important to the company to offer its employees a survey did not result in a clear and financially acceptable variety of healthy, tasty, well-prepared and nutritious answer. foods every day. The lunch breaks are a natural part of In autumn 2011, the company announced that all salaried the working hours in Pressalit as we believe that nutriemployees at Pressalit would automatically be enrolled in tion influences the well-being of our employees. the lunch programme and thus also deducted the cost The food offered through the company’s lunch procharged to employees. In summer 2012, the cooperation gramme is generally very healthy, including large committee decided that all newly hired staff employed on amounts of fruit and vegetables and homemade whole conditions similar to those of salaried employees would grain bread, as well as the hot dish of the day and varialso be automatically enrolled in the lunch programme. ous sandwich options. In connection with the health Pressalit thereby hopes to make a healthy impact on dieproject, we conducted a survey which would help us to tary habits and generate greater support for the compaincrease the level of participation. Unfortunately, the ny’s lunch programme. Exercise In connection with a healthy diet, Pressalit has also focused on exercise by offering exercise opportunities to our employees. For example, a spinning group meets once a week, while others attend family swimming or With inspiration from a company visit to Midtvask, we relaxation groups. It is also possible to establish new have implemented a couple of pilot projects with a few exercise groups by gathering 12-15 employees interestminutes of elastic band training during working hours. ed in participating. Based on the report from the health Based on training from an occupational therapist, a group check in 2011, we know that a larger proportion of emof employees were introduced to using elastic bands for ployees desire more exercise opportunities through short exercises that benefit different muscle groups. The their employment with the company. Despite numerous background for implementing the training with elastic attempts to identify wishes and ideas for specific exerbands is that the National Research Centre for Work concise initiatives, the working group of the health project ducted a study showing that just 2 minutes of daily trainhas not yet succeeded in finding more initiatives than ing can reduce pain in the neck and shoulders. those already in place. 12 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pressalit has set a goal of reducing its consumption of and turn off the power: are computers turned on energy by 15 per cent by 2015. In spring 2012, the around the clock, are the lights on in empty meeting company’s employees were invited to participate in an rooms, do we also use the lights during summer periinternal competition to come up with best ideas for ods, are our toilet seat forms always heated up and energy saving initiatives. Many constructive proposals ready to use? were submitted, which could be categorised into three Ideas regarding direct energy reductions included main groups: ideas about production and recycling of changing light sources, e.g. replacing older fluorescent energy, ideas about changing attitudes about energy tube with more sustainable energy sources and using and ideas for direct energy reduction. more motion sensors and light meters. For ideas about changing attitudes, it was estimated In the coming years, Pressalit will work to translate that the company could reduce consumption by 5 to these ideas into action on the way to reaching our goal 10 per cent just by thinking about where we turn on of a 15 per cent reduction. 13 Global Compact 2012 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Pressalit has continued to strengthen its antimonths of employment. With the e-learning procorruption efforts in 2012 by incorporating our code of gramme, we sought to present aspects of the ethical conduct, which includes anti-corruption as one of its guidelines to give employees an understanding of their five main areas. For example, our code of conduct is personal responsibility to abide by the guidelines on now always a part of employee recruitment, ensuring appropriate behaviour – even when bribery or large that the company’s positions on important issues such gifts are not a part of working life. This e-learning proas anti-corruption are present from employees’ first gramme is aimed at all employees in the company and contact with the company. not just employees who are most at risk of encountering corruption, such as our sales and purchasing funcPressalit has also intensified efforts regarding our code tions. In our view, these categories of employees reof conduct as a whole by developing an e-learning proquire additional training in awareness of antigramme that is available to all employees, and which corruption. all new employees must complete during their first 14 Follow-up on goals for 2012 In 2012, Pressalit:  Maintained its level of trainees/interns at approx. 1.7 per cent  Maintained its level of staff employed with special conditions at approx. 6 per cent  Had 20 social trainees in 9 different departments, for periods of a few days to 10-11 months, including trainees involved in a sickness benefit project to return to the labour market  Had 9 semester interns from 2 different educational institutions, in 3 different departments  Managed to maintain the historic satisfactory result in absences – but without reaching the goal of 2 per cent in short-term absences and 1 per cent in long-term absences, unfortunately.  For information about environmental results, reference is made to the green accounts at www.pressalit.dk Comments on goal fulfilment in 2012 Pressalit had set a goal of having 30 social trainees and expedience of calculating this number, as the length of interns in 2012. We did not reach the goal due to cuts in trainee and intern programmes varies greatly, while the the production staff at the start of 2012, as we chose hours of each individual can vary from just a few hours not to have trainees working alongside terminated ema week to full time, due to our relatively high number of ployees. Pressalit also has some reservations about the trainees on sickness benefit. 15 Global Compact 2012 Goals for 2013  Maximum absence rate of 3 per cent (2 per cent in short-term absences and 1 per cent in long-term absences)  Maintain a level of 2 per cent of trainees/interns (1 per cent BVT)  Secure a level of at least 5 per cent employees with special conditions  To have 20 trainees in social trainee programmes  To have 4 people in internships as a part of their basic business training studies  Continued reduction of environmental impact in accordance with the green accounts on our website 16
