Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – 2013 STATEMENT BY CEO At Standard Chartered, as we undertake activities that enhance our business performance now and for the long-term, we also look for ways to ensure the economic development of the countries in which we operate, how to have a positive impact on the environment and society, as well as contributing to good governance. We therefore remain committed and will continue to support the Global Compact. Standard Chartered maintains an integrated view of how we will do business – that takes into account economic factors, the environment, community and good governance. We believe banks have an essential role in a prosperous and healthy society. We believe that by running our operations well, standing by our clients and customers and investing in the communities where we operate, we can be a powerful force for good. We have three key priorities: contributing to sustainable economic growth, being a responsible company and investing in communities. We will deliver on this agenda by using the core skills and talents of our employees; providing quality financial services; and leveraging our geographical footprint and international status to be a ‘force for good. Standard Chartered is a great place to work and we have enhanced our labour and employment practices through our collective bargaining agreements with the Local Union and focused interaction with all labour regulatory authorities and agencies, thus, demonstrating the promotion of the principles of human and labour rights. The Bank also has a Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Council which drives the Bank’s D&I policy, ensuring the migration of international best practice policies into the Ghanaian market. We operate in a rapidly changing world with multiple stakeholders and global challenges, such as climate change and poverty. Building a sustainable business is our response to these issues – ensuring we have a positive long-term impact on the world and to continue to be high performing. J. Kweku Bedu – Addo, Chief Executive, Ghana Contact: Ebenezer Amankwah Manager, Corporate Affairs Email: ebenezer.amankwah@sc.com Phone: +233 202 220 111 Fax: +233 – 302 661676 Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – 2013 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year § At Standard Chartered, we believe that the biggest contribution we can 1. Businesses should support and make to the communities we work in; is through operating a commercially respect the protection of successful, sustainable collaboration with others in addressing ethical internationally proclaimed human issues of importance, such as climate change and human rights rights; § We have a workplace policy that ensures fair and equal treatment, diversity and inclusion and provision of opportunities for employees to fulfill their potential within an appropriate and fair working environment. This supports the Bank’s commitment to providing a professional working environment in which all individuals are treated with dignity and respect, free from harassment, bullying and discrimination. This encourages good and productive working operations, decreased staff attrition, high morale and engagement. This policy applies throughout Standard Chartered Plc. § The key principles of the policy are recognition of HIV/AIDS as a workplace and business issue, non discrimination and stigmatization, gender equality, promoting social dialogue, prevention of screening for the purpose of exclusion, confidentiality, and continuation of employment, prevention of new infections providing care and support, and community outreach. Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – 2013 § In Standard Chartered, we do not tolerate human rights abuses in our 2. and make sure that they are not operations and we extend the same conditions to our third party service complicit in human rights providers. Our third party service providers’ contracts specify the abuses. conditions of service for their employees (outsourced) to ensure there are no abusive conditions of service. As of April 2013, we had no cases or incidents of Human Rights abuses. § Protection of the human rights and dignity of HIV infected persons, including people with AIDS, is essential to the prevention and control of HIV/AIDS. Employees with HIV infection need to be treated in the same way as other staff and subject to their health, may want to continue working for as long as possible. 3. Businesses should uphold § Standard Chartered respects the rights of employees to associate. To freedom of association and the this effect there are currently (2) employee associations/unions operating effective recognition of the right in the company: to collective bargaining o The Local Union of the Union of Industry and Finance Workers of Ghana (UNICOF) – membership subscribed by all junior staff o The Professional and Managerial Staff Union (PMSU) of Union of Industry, Commerce and Finance Workers (UNICOF) for some supervisors and middle management staff. § Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) is negotiated every two years Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – 2013 and a wage opener every year. § The executives of the Local Union and UNICOF collaborate with Top Management in the formulation and review of terms of conditions of service. § The company holds at least two staff Townhall meetings in a year – a general meeting of all staff with the Management Committee members (Manco). The meeting is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). It is an open forum in which the discussions centre on the general “Health and welfare” of the Company. § There is a strict adherence to schedules for Negotiations and wage openers timed such that implementation of agreements is effected January 1, each year for the Local Union and April 1 for the PMSU. § The Bank seeks to foster a collaborative style of management daily directly with its employees. The Bank promotes and maintains a healthy relationship with the union and staff representatives for a peaceful industrial atmosphere. 4. the elimination of all forms of § Standard Chartered is committed to ensuring that, as a world class forced and compulsory labour; organisation, we operate with high standards of social, ethical and environmental considerations in every aspect of our business. § Social & Human Rights All suppliers operate their business without violating any human rights policies, for example discrimination, workplace safety, forced labour, etc Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – 2013 5. the effective abolition of child labour § Standard Chartered does not encourage child labour. Every recruitment package includes the collection of a birth certificate which helps the bank to check age before employment. § The Bank is in strict compliance with the National Labour law, and does not employ minors or persons less than 18 years. § Through an effective background checking process, the Bank also ensures its Suppliers and Agencies do not engage in Child Labour 6. and the elimination of discrimination in respect of § Our distinctive culture and values guide the way we do business, allowing employment and occupation us to deliver on our Here for good brand promise. We encourage a collaborative leadership culture that values diversity and promotes inclusion. § Standard Chartered permits the employment of qualified relatives or friends as long as such employment does not create actual or perceived conflict of interest. § The bank is committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and aims to ensure that it will not discriminate without lawful justification in its recruitment and employment policies, terms, procedures, processes and decisions on the grounds of race, colour, nationality, national or ethnic origins, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, part-time or fixed-term status, disability, age, religion or belief. Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – 2013 § The Bank is an equal opportunity employer and will not use HIV testing when recruiting job candidates. The Bank will ensure that job candidates who are known to have HIV/AIDS are treated no differently from those who have any other life-threatening and noncontagious disease. 7. Businesses should support a § Standard Chartered as much as possible, conducts business with precautionary approach to individuals & organizations that are environmentally friendly. Our environmental challenges; Procurement & Vendor Management Unit champions this cause. § The Bank’s Environment Champions have built and continue to drive environmental awareness amongst staff, to widen and deepen the desired impact on our society. 8. undertake initiatives to promote § We consider the environment challenges across the communities where greater environmental we operate and proactively manage the direct impact of our operations. In responsibility 2012, we improved the energy efficiency of our offices and branches by 10 per cent and decreased our paper consumption by 2 per cent commitments and set a new target to reduce paper consumption to 1kg per FTE by 2020. § In partnership with the Ministry of Environment, we helped plant 22,000 indigenous trees in strategic locations across the country with a commitment to increasing the number in subsequent years. § Since 2007, we have celebrated World Environment Day and continue to support the Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology’s efforts aimed at promoting greater environmental responsibility. § We have presented Position Statements to the Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology, challenging businesses to adopt Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – 2013 environmentally-friendly policies and undertaken cleanup activities in our communities as part of employee volunteering actions. § Standard Chartered continues to roll out initiatives across our markets to reduce waste by running a paperless campaign, thereby encouraging staff to reduce demand for paper to help protect the environment. Managing and reducing our own direct operational impact. − Engaging employees, customers and suppliers to reduce waste − Initiating paperless meetings − Making lending decisions that help protect the environment Introduction of e-statements for customers − Developing products and services that promote the reduction of carbon emissions 9. and encourage the development § Standard Chartered encourages the use of shared printers to avoid paper and diffusion of environmentally waste friendly technologies § The Bank has introduced i-banking and e-statements to cut down on paper consumption. § In 2011, as an international institution, we aligned our existing anti-bribery 10. Businesses should work against controls with the requirements of the new UK Bribery Act 2010. In 2012, all forms of corruption, including more than 1205 staff completed anti-bribery e-Learning, representing over extortion and bribery. 90 per cent of our staff. § We also undertook an enhanced Customer Due Diligence (CDD) initiative Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – 2013 through which we ensured that our customers in Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking provided up-to-date information on their activities and businesses. § In Standard Chartered, our Group Code of Conduct is one example of our absolute commitment to our values (Courageous, Responsive, International, Creative and Trustworthy) and the highest standard of ethical behaviour. § Planned systems audits are conducted on regular schedules by our Country Operational Risk and Assurance team, regulators and external auditors. Fidelity of personnel in very sensitive positions of our operations is guaranteed before employment. § Audit findings have prompted systems improvements to close and eliminate gaps that could lead to fraud in our operations. § The introduction of Anti-Money Laundering (AML), Know Your Customer (KYC) and Speaking-Up Policies has vastly improved our capacity to deter, frustrate and tackle financial crime. § In 2009, we organized Operational Risk Week, an innovative approach to embedding a high risk awareness culture among staff and to strengthen the Bank’s Operational Risk Management and Assurance Framework with new Assurance methodology to meet demands of our regulators and Basel II. We believe that one of our greatest contributions to our economic development will be to prevent crimes which can harm our growth and damage our communities by fuelling poverty and inequality. § In 2012, we organised Compliance Clinics across our offices and branch Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – 2013 network to create awareness of the regulatory environment and ensure adherence to the policies and rules pertaining to Banking and the related governance issues and expectations.
