FULL RESULTS EC3 Global 4/11/2013 MANAGEMENT YES NO F/A N/A COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP ACTION MA.1 Does the company comply with all relevant regulation on issues covered by the Global Compact principles? x Assess Does the company identify and assess the impacts of its operations on issues covered by the Global Compact MA.2 principles? x Define MA.3 Does the company have a policy statement in line with the Global Compact principles? x MA.4 Do the company's decision-making processes include issues covered by the Global Compact principles? x MA.5 Does the company involve workers when addressing issues covered by the Global Compact principles? x Does the company promote issues covered by the Global Compact principles in its interactions with suppliers MA.6 Implement and business partners? x MA.7 Does the company positively contribute to community development? x Does the company have a trusted procedure for hearing, processing and settling internal and external MA.8 concerns/complaints? x Does the company communicate with stakeholders about company-specific issues covered by the Global Communicate MA.9 Compact principles? x HUMAN RIGHTS YES NO F/A N/A COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP ACTION HU.1 Does the company ensure that its workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities? x Does the company ensure that workers are provided with the protective equipment and training necessary to Health and safety HU.2 perform their tasks safely? x HU.3 Does the company actively involve workers in health and safety work? x Does the company ensure that the workweek is limited to 48 hours; that overtime is infrequent and limited; and HU.4 that workers are given reasonable breaks and rest periods? x Does the company provide a living wage that enables workers to meet the basic needs of themselves and their Hours, wages and HU.5 dependents? x leave Does the company ensure that workers are paid holiday leave, sick leave, and parental leave in accordance with HU.6 international minimum standards? x HU. 7 Does the company ensure that all workers have an official employment status? x Does the company protect workers from workplace harassment including physical, verbal, sexual or HU.8 psychological harassment, abuse, or threats? x Fair treatment Does the company respect the privacy of its workers whenever it gathers private information or monitors the HU.9 workplace? x Before buying, renting, acquiring or otherwise accessing land or property, does the company ensure that all HU.10 affected owners and users of the land or property, have been adequately consulted and compensated? x Does the company take steps to ensure that company security arrangements are in accordance with international Community impacts HU.11 principles for law enforcement and the use of force? x Does the company engage with local communities on the actual or potential human rights impacts of its HU.12 operations? x Does the company take steps to prevent risks to human rights arising from product defects or improper use or Product stewardship HU.13 misuse of company products? x Country risk HU.14 Does the company seek to avoid involvement in human rights abuses owing to government or societal practices? x LABOUR YES NO F/A N/A COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP ACTION LA.1 Does the company recognise the rights of its workers to freedom of association and to bargain collectively? x Freedom of If independent trade unions are either discouraged or restricted, does the company enable workers to gather Association LA.2 independently to discuss work-related problems? x Does the company take all necessary measures to ensure that it does not participate in any form of forced or Forced labour LA.3 bonded labour? x Child labour LA.4 Does the company comply with minimum age standards? x Discrimination LA.5 Does the company ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria? x ENVIRONMENT YES NO F/A N/A COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP ACTION EN.1 Does the company support a precautionary approach to environmental issues? x Precaution Does the company have emergency procedures in place to prevent and address accidents affecting the EN.2 environment and human health? x Does the company take measures to prevent and reduce energy consumption and emissions of greenhouse EN.3 gases? x EN.4 Does the company take measures to reduce water consumption and treat waste water? x Does the company take measures to prevent and reduce the production of waste and ensure responsible waste EN.5 management? x Responsibility and EN.6 Does the company prevent, reduce and treat air emissions? x Performance Does the company prevent and reduce impacts on the surrounding environment from noise, odour, light and EN.7 vibrations? x Does the company minimise the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemicals and other dangerous EN.8 substances? x EN.9 Does the company prevent, minimise and remedy negative impacts on biodiversity? x EN.10 Does the company ensure that natural resources are used in a sustainable manner? x Technology EN.11 Does the company encourage the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies? x ANTI-CORRUPTION YES NO F/A N/A COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP ACTION AC.1 Does the company take a clear stand against corruption? x AC.2 Does the company assess the risk of corruption when doing business? x Company culture and AC.3 Does the company ensure that relevant workers are properly trained? x procedures AC.4 Do the company's internal procedures support its anti-corruption commitment? x AC.5 Does the company's anti-corruption initiative cover agents, intermediaries and consultants? x Joint actions AC.6 Does the company take joint actions with others to engage in and promote anti-corruption initiatives? x
