1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of 2012 3 Contents This Corporate Social Responsibility Report of 2012 is the seventh such report of United Nations „Global Compact”: principles and activity 4-5 the company. The electronic versions of reports are available on PakMarkas’ website: Executive letter 6-7 http://en.pakmarkas.lt/social-activity-reports.html Description of company’s activity 8-9 Sustainability and responsibility 10-11 Value chain 11 Involvement of stakeholders 11 Working environment 12-17 Human rights 13 Personnel 13 Social responsibility management 13 Occupational safety and health 14 Monitoring of equal opportunities 14 Additional benefits 14 Development of competencies 17 Business environment 18-19 Anti-corruption attitude 19 Involvement of suppliers 19 Product and service quality management 19 Responsible communication 19 Exchange of social responsibility (SR) practice 19 Environmental care 20-21 Environmental impact monitoring 21 Community 22 Public activity 22 4 5 United Nations „Global Compact”: principles and activity Human rights The United Nations (UN) „Global Compact” is the largest global corporate social responPrinciple 1: sibility initiative having over 10,000 members from 140 countries. It was established Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proin 2000 in order to promote the responsible attitude on a global scale. The central idea claimed human rights; of this compact is to align operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted Principle 2: principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment protection and anti-corrupBusinesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. tion. The participating organisations are obliged to publish their annual corporate social responsibility reports. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recogniPakMarkas has been the member of the UN „Global Compact” since June 2005. Following tion of the right to collective bargaining; the 10 principles of the Global Compact, the company submits annual social progress Principle 4: reports, thus, emphasizing its care about the welfare of the persons related to company’s Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; activity, preservation of clean environment and promotion of transparency in the busiPrinciple 5: ness environment. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employIn 2005, PakMarkas also joined the National Responsible Business Network (NRBN), which ment and occupation. unifies Lithuanian companies that are the members of the UN Global Compact. The central mission of the network is to promote the development of responsible business in LithuaEnvironment nia as a condition of sustainable development. By participating in the network’s activity, Principle 7: the companies have an opportunity to share their knowledge, experience and innovations, Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; to conduct joint trainings, improve corporate business strategies, co-implement projects Principle 8: that are beneficial to the society and, thus, contribute to the sustainable development Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responin Lithuania. sibility; Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 6 7 Executive letter Thank you for reading our Corporate Social Responsibility Report. There is a range of significant things that we have to deal with in our daily life, and which very often slow down the company’s socially responsible activities, notwithstanding good intentions they are based on. It is crucially important to achieve established goals, to meet plans set out or, simply, to timely and appropriately carry out our daily assignments. Properly conducted activities determine our own and our family’s welfare. Also, a highly important role is largely entrusted to the overall performance of the company, profit of a specific period, return on investment and capital. The company should be managed in such a manner so as to possess sufficient resources for the development, to remove any doubt concerning the continuity of activities, and that clear projections would include a not-too-distant future. In addition to the aforementioned, no less important role is played by our socially responsible business initiatives. Everyone of us has been in a situation where we faced difficulties or when expenses exceeded performance results. Despite the fact that such circumstances are uneasy to go though, let us not give up the already started social projects; let us not suppress socially responsible practices. After all, social groups supported by our projects find themselves even in worse conditions. Hard times pass, but recollections about them deeply stuck in our memory, and make us stronger. By this manifestation I would like to encourage people not to abandon activities in progress when encountering difficulties. Yours sincerely, Virginijus Gumbaragis 8 9 Description of Our company is one of We base our everyday activity on the values that help us to unite the team and collect­ company’s activity the largest and most ively seek for the set goals. experienced companies in the area of product Our values packaging and marking in • Consideration for a client Lithuania. The company is We are always considering what is best for our client because we understand that our engaged in three main areas welfare depends on the welfare of our client. of activity: label printing, trade in packaging and • Constant improvement and competence marking equipment and We are able to win even under the most difficult and volatile conditions because we trade in spare parts. are constantly updating and applying our knowledge. During the 19 years of • Teamwork activity we have strongly We believe that if we work together as a team we will achieve our aim much faster. developed the processes of • Respect for employees and business partners production and expanded We understand that respect serves as the basis upon which long-term reliable re­ the range of our goods lationships are formed. and services. Therefore, today our clients are the • Desire to have the lead manufacturers and trade It is a driving motive helping us to make new strides. institutions from various areas of industry (food, Our products and services beverages, cosmetics, chemistry, pharmacy, etc.). • Flexographic roll print: adhesive, shrink and banding labels, single-colour label printing, blanks of adhesive labels. • Trade in packaging materials: packaging films, containers, vacuum bags, bands. • Packaging and marking equipment: packaging, marking, transportation and control equipment for various purposes of use; design and manufacture of packaging lines. • Spare parts: electric motors, reducers, frequency converters, couplings, etc. PakMarkas started its activity in 1994. The main activity of the company is pursued in Lithuania, in a building of the area of 7,000 sq. metres, equipped with modern facilities and located in Nemėžis Eldership, Vilnius District. A branch in Riga (Latvia) was opened in 1997. Office addresses: UAB „PakMarkas” SIA „PakMarkas” Daržininkų k., Nemėžio sen., Vilniaus r. Ropažu iela 19a, Riga, Latvija LT – 13034 LV 1039 More information on our company is available on website www.pakmarkas.com The main company’s indices: Sales income (excl. VAT, thousand LTL) 2010 2011 2012 Lithuania 49.84 50.45 62.06 Latvia 9.04 10.40 11.9 Total 53.06 54.52 67.05 Number of employees (as of December 31) 2010 2011 2012 Lithuania 159 154 161 Latvia 22 22 23 Total 181 176 184 10 11 Sustainability and Value chain responsibility PakMarkas sees social responsibility as an improvement of company’s Suppliers. When selecting our suppliers, we rely on the indices of the evaluation of quality of supplier’s activity—we evaluate the compliance of raw-materials with the requirements of the EU legal acts, applicable standards, fulfilment of obligations, image, activity processes by experience in the market, etc. aligning them with the PakMarkas. We carefully observe and inspect each stage in our production chain startinterests of company’s ing with the reception of raw-materials and finishing with the delivery of goods to the employees and community client. Our aim is to supply the market with the products meeting the highest quality and preservation of the requirements. quality of environment. Clients and consumers. We cooperate with Lithuanian and foreign manufacturing companies and trading organizations from various areas of activity, which are characterised We understand our economic by strong brand names. We meet the highest requirements applicable by the market leadand social responsibility ers. Although we are engaged in the B2B area and have no direct contact with the end and the influence of customers, they are still one of the most important parts of our supply chain. Therefore, To company’s activity on the we supply our clients with safe packaging materials and reliable packaging and marking provide environment. Thus, when solutions only. clients with advantageous solutions adopting the solutions, we in the area of packaging Aim consider the expectations Involvement of stakeholders and marking of of concerned parties and Each year we revise the participation of stakeholders in our company’s activity as the goods. willingly contribute to the condition for sustainable growth and reduction of business risk. Our stakeholders include enhancement of the common each person or organization that is potentially influenced by our activity, i.e.: welfare. • Shareholders • Employees • Potential and current clients and partners • Suppliers • Community • Associations, organisations the company participates in. Stakeholders Our involvement programmes of 2012 Suppliers PakMarkas Clients and consumers Value chain Management analysis Shareholders Social Responsibility Report Complaint/suggestion box Employees Monitoring and development of SR activity indices Column in the Intranet Research on the client satisfaction with company’s Clients activity Commitment Suppliers On working On business Evaluation of suppliers On nature environment environment On community Influence Ongoing projects with educational institutions Student traineeship in the company Local community Blood donation initiative Excursions inside the company Participation in the National Responsible Business Awards Associations, organisations Active Participation in the activity of National Pyramid of PakMarkas’ sustainable activity Responsible Business Network 12 13 Working environment Human rights The long-term success of We maintain the international human rights and respect the dignity of all our employPakMarkas is conditioned ees as it is defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the principles of the by harmonious team of United Nations Organisation and PakMarkas’ Policy of Ethical Employment and Working managers, specialists and Conditions: workers; therefore, we make • We do not use and do not support children, prisoners’ or forced labour; every in the creation of safe and motivating working • We do not practice and do not support discrimination or persecution in respect of place. PakMarkas tries to be age, race, religion, sexual orientation, marital status or political views; an attractive employer by • We respect the right of employees to join trade unions; involving, helping to improve and keeping qualified • We ensure a fair wage system and social guarantees. persons in a professional working environment. Personnel The improving national economic situation led to the further growth of our company and created favourable conditions to welcome new members into our team. On 31 December 2012, there were 161 employees in our company (in 2011 — 154 employees). Characteristics of employees: By positions (2012): By education (2012): New employees: Senior managers – 8 Higher education – 87 2010 – 18 Middle managers – 16 High education – 41 2011 – 24 Specialists – 82 Secondary education – 33 2012 – 28 Workers – 56 Basic education – 1 Social responsibility management On 9 January 2013, we implemented the Social Responsibility Standard SA 8000 and obtained a confirmation certificate. The document certifies that our company cares for the social welfare of its employees, does not apply child and forced labour, follows health and safety requirements, does not tolerate psychological pressure and discrimination, ensures equal career and wage opportunities, encourages the suppliers to follow standard requirements, follows all laws regulating the working conditions. In 2012, we realized the requirements applicable to the company grounding its activity on this standard: • We created and wrote down the Policy of Ethical Employment and Working Conditions stipulating the company’s attitude towards the human rights and freedoms and practice of harmonious employment. • We selected the representative of management – a person who ensures the fulfilment of the requirements of this standard. • We selected the representatives of employees for information exchange with the management in the area of social responsibility issues. • We approved the minimum wage, which exceeds the minimum wage stipulated by the law of the Republic of Lithuania. • We created and wrote down the procedure on the basis of which each employee has an opportunity to notify on the violations of employee rights anonymously and confidentially: we installed complaint/suggestion boxes and created a special e-mail address. • We identified the main SR indices which are filled in the SR activity monitoring programme twice per year (employee turnover, change in the number of accidents at work, distribution of the number of employees in terms of sex, age and other in­ dices). • We started to carry out the management analysis twice per year. • We periodically carry out the intermediate evaluation of social responsibility or our suppliers. 14 15 Occupational health and safety Safe and healthy working environment is our central obligation towards our employees. Thus, we are pleased to inform that in 2012 we managed to reduce the number of acciNumber of accidents at dents at work to 0. We achieved this result by applying and highly focusing on various work preventive actions, i.e.: 2010 – 3 • We revised and updated the occupational and fire-safety guidelines. 2011 – 2 • We enhanced the introductory trainings to our new employees in the area of general 2012 – 0 health and safety issues. • We organized training in the area of safe usage of chemical substances for production employees that were followed by the examinations of each employee. • We invited several fire-safety and occupational safety specialists to carry out the audit in the company, to monitor the working personnel and to record all notes that must be addressed. Monitoring of equal opportunities Due to operational specifics, there are more men than women working in PakMarkas – there are more men working in the factory, where a physical toughness is usually required, as well as in the engineering department – this profession is traditionally more popular among men. We are oriented into long-term working relations. Fixed-term employment contracts are concluded under certain circumstances only. The increase in the number of employees working under fixed-term employment contracts in 2012 was conditioned by the following circumstances: recruitment of personnel temporarily replacing the employees at maternity/ paternity leave, seasonal work and temporary project. Equal opportunities monitoring indices 2011 2012 W – 23% W – 22% Ration of women and men staff M – 77% M – 78% W – 35 W – 36 Age average (age) M – 34 M – 34 W–1 W–3 Fixed-term employment contracts (number) M–0 M–1 W – 31 W – 32 Indefinite employment contracts (number) M – 122 M – 126 W–4 W–5 Maternity/paternity leave (number) M–0 M–2 Employed disabled people (number) M–1 M–1 In 2012, we started the implementation of project of improvement of company’s organisational structure and wage system. The aim Additional benefits of project is to ensure the All employees are provided with additional benefits: they are provided with vaccination fairness of inside wages against flu, benefits in case of death of parents, children, spouses, bonuses on wedding by keeping clear links occasions; benefit for employees attaining the pension age and leaving the company. between a wage and results of activity as well as the Additional benefits in respect of the nature of work include a vehicle, a mobile phone, a place of position in the stationary or portable computer, trainings and qualification enhancements. organizational structure. 16 17 Development of competencies The growth of company is directly related to the employee competencies and individual attitude towards the client. Thus, we are highly focused on the development of ­employee skills – the personnel participate in seminars, various exhibitions, internships and business missions. Number of hours dedicated to employee trainings: 2011 2012 Managers – 411 hours Managers – 887 hours Administration, specialists – 1,181 hours Administration, specialists – 1,042 hours Production workers – 472 hours Production workers – 15 hours A portion (of operational costs) used for trainings excluding European funds (%): 2011 2012 1.22 1.01 Implemented and ongoing actions Actions in 2012 Implementation of Social Responsibility Standard SA 8000 Implemented Reduction in the number of accidents at work up to 0 Implemented Implementation of Project „Prevention against Professional Burnout Syndrome” Implemented Indication of the main indices related to the company’s social activity Implemented Postponed due to temporary changes of Revision and update of company’s values personnel structure Actions in 2013 Installation of the rest zone in production premises Marking of packages of hazardous substances located in production premises in the Lithuanian language Establishment of the conditions for the employees to travel to/from work using company’s transport Implementation of project of improvement of company’s organisational structure and wage system 18 19 Business environment Today, competitiveness and sustainability are Anti-corruption attitude We respect our clients and preserve the company’s reputation, therefore, we do not to­ lerate any forms of corruption. We publicly declare our anti-corruption attitude on our complementary definitions. company’s website (http://en.pakmarkas.lt/social-responsibility-policy.html), where it is The companies that stated that trying to be responsible the company will not offer, promise or give, directly maintain harmonious or indirectly, any financial or other advantages to any government official, politician, relations with inner and political party or any private person for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business outer environment are or a business advantage. We also provide the contact information that can be used by more likely to survive in our business partners to inform us in case of observation of any corruptive actions of our the market. In the business employees. environment, we follow the laws of the Republic of Involvement of suppliers Lithuania and principles We also promote social responsibility among our suppliers. In 2012, we sent our main of the ethical and fair suppliers a questionnaire by signing which the companies confirmed the compliance with business. the main principles of social responsibility within the scope of their activity. We complemented the list of indices of economic evaluation of the quality of supplier’s activity with the index of social responsibility. We are planning to carry out the evaluation of social responsibility of selected suppliers from 2013. Product and service quality management PakMarkas is obliged for constant improvement of product and service quality. We have implemented and now work in accordance with the quality management system complying with the requirements of standard ISO 9001 and operate in accordance with the requirements of the Good Manufacturing Practice and constantly improve the production organisation process in accordance with the LEAN system. We maintain constant contact with our clients and search for effective and win-win solutions. Each year, we carry out client surveys that encourage meaningful discussions how to improve the satisfaction of our clients with the provided services. Responsible communication When act responsibly and fairly in any marketing, communication and advertising activity – we follow the provisions of the laws on advertising, electronic communications and personal data protection of the Republic of Lithuania. We believe that fairly provided information creates and strengthens the relations. Exchange of social responsibility (SR) practice We are certain that being responsible in the economic, social and environmental area we can also encourage our business partners to be more responsible. In 2012, the company’s executive Virginijus Gumbaragis read the presentation in the se­ venth conference of the National Responsible Business Network – „Economical Benefit of Corporate Social Responsibility: What is the Return of Investment into Corporate Social Responsibility?”. The participants of conference were familiarized with the results of PakMarkas’ research of economic benefit and long-term influence of social responsibility on business. The research which was initiated by the audit company „Ernst&Young” aimed at evaluation of direct and indirect value to the company and familiarization of business representatives with the results. Implemented and ongoing actions: Actions of 2012 The first familiarization of suppliers with the application of PakImplemented Markas’ socially responsible practice Actions of 2013 Audit of social responsibility of selected supplier Research of customer satisfaction with company’s activity 20 21 Environmental care Environmental impact monitoring Restricted or slowly We organize company’s activity processes pursuant to the environmental management renewing natural resources standard ISO 14001 and company’s environmental policy. The Quality Assurance Departstimulate the thinking about ment is responsible for the compliance with the environmental procedures. what situation in our yard we will see when stepping We have identified and constantly monitor the following environmental indices: outside after ten, five years or even earlier and about Indices 2012 how we actually want it Electricity to look like. Therefore, we support all environmental 1. Consumption of electricity KW/h 1,942,116 initiatives that encourage 2. Saved electricity due to the application of KW/h 3,000,000 the environmental care and measures stimulating the effectiveness protection. We believe that Sources of pollution we can contribute to the preservation of clean and 131 (waste) 3. Volumes of emissions kg healthy environment. 3,725 (gas) 4. Pollution tax (fines) LTL Raw-materials and waste 5. Consumed packaging materials m2 12,127,473 1,952,350 (labels) 6. Waste (by type) m2 694,917 (sleeves) 376 (photo-polymers) Cardboard 6,440 kg Cellulose (office paper, magazines, etc.) 70 kg 7. Waste delivered for recycling (by type) kg BOPP 5,337 kg PE 1,998 kg PVC 18,220 kg Water 8. Consumed water m3 311 Implemented and ongoing actions: Actions of 2012-2013 To increase the effective usage of paper labels in production up to 77% 76.5% (ongoing) To increase the effective usage of film label-sleeves in production up to 82% 81.6% (ongoing) Ensure that the effectiveness of polymers usage would not be lower 80% 81.3% (implemented) To reduce the volume of adhesive paper and films generated in the production by 4 The project was postponed due to failure times and to reuse them effectively to receive EU funding To improve the motivation system of production employees to encourage them to Ongoing (expected to be implemented in use production raw-materials cost-effectively 2014) To create a solid corporate information system that will not only lead to the simpliOngoing (expected to be implemented in fication of operation process management, but will also significantly contribute to 2014) the reduction of consumption of company’s office paper. 22 Community Implemented and ongoing actions To be sensitive is one of the We appreciate all feedbacks from our concerned parties Actions in 2012 2013 most important values and about PakMarkas’ attitude towards the sustainability and Public activity we apply it in our everyday activity by willingly and responsibility in general. We are closely cooperating with various educational and scientific institutions, therefore, If you want to express your opinion, please contact us via openly discussing with it is increasingly difficult to image us without curious looks of the young ones observing e-mail: the representatives of the operation of printing machines, or without students, who carry out the traineeship the community and by pm@pakmarkas.lt and enrich their knowledge baggage with practical skills. In 2012, same as every year, we supporting social initiatives. had a visit from the kindergarten and school. 7 students were admitted for traineeship or and 3 of them stayed at our company. phone +370 85 205 28 71. We were invited and kindly accepted the invitation to sponsor the National Artworks Contact person: Competition Dizmeiker’is 2012, which is annually organized by the students of Kaunas Jurgita Bagdonavičienė Marketing Manager University of Technology. The event stimulates creativeness and development of thoughts of young persons. We expect to become constant sponsors of this event and, thus, sym­ bolically contribute to the artistic expression of students and encouragement of the search for original solutions. In summer 2012, we provided assistance to the neighbouring animal shelter „SOS gyvūnai” (SOS animals) and decorated the environment of shelter so that the people who came here to take a new pet would be welcomed by a nice surrounding. Our fundamental aim is to develop long-term relations with the community looking for the new forms of cooperation and to remain socially active and responsible. 24
