Preface page 2 Topdanmark in brief page 3 Top stories page 4 CSR policy page 8 About the Report page 10 Responsible business management  page 14 Stakeholders page 22 Products & services  page 32 Society page 38 Outline and data page 44 Foto: Lior Z CSR report 2012 Preface Topdanmark has worked with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) since 2009, and in 2012 it worked more intensively with reporting. I am happy to present the results of our many activities in 2012 in this CSR Report. As an insurance and pension fund company our core business is by nature beneficial to society. Our products and services ensure financial and social security for our customers when damage has occurred or their working life has ended. We also contribute to preventing injury to people and damage to buildings and nature. And we ensure that the negative consequences of the damage are as few as possible. Therefore we believe that we show social responsibility by running a good, sound business for the benefit of both customers and society. We support UN’s Global Compact As a listed company it is Topdanmark’s duty to create value for our shareholders. When working with value creation we are of course responsible for taking into consideration social and environmental factors, which we do on the basis of UN’s Global Compact and ten recognised principles for labour and human rights, agricultural area for the benefit of people, environmental protection and anti-corruption. animals and the environment. Topdanmark has supported UN’s Global Compact since 2010 and we will continue our Topdanmark in Danish society commitment in the future. Although Danish society continues to be affected by low economic growth, we have We consider the ten principles to be a good basis published a profit forecast of DKK 1.6bn for for both responsible Business management and 2012. inspiration to renew our business in terms of both operations and products. For example, in Topdanmark has developed a strong business 2012 we put the largest solar cell system in model which almost certainly ensures that the Nordic countries into service, and regarding a profit is made even in the event of a new products, we have, among other things, worked financial crisis as the one we saw in 2008 / systematically with loss prevention in the 2009. 2 Back to contents Topdanmark in brief Topdanmark A/S is a nation-wide insurance and pension fund business company insuring both personal, SME and agricultural customers. We carry out business operations solely in Denmark, and our head office is situated in Ballerup. Topdanmark is a public limited company listed on the stock exchange. Our objectives Topdanmark’s objectives are to: }} carry out nation-wide, Danish non-life, life and pension fund business }} be attractive to customers by being an independent and pre-eminent insurance group }} ensure that our shareholders achieve a long-term, competitive and stable return Photo: Claus Bjørn Larsen Our customers and market share Half of all Danish farms, about every fourth person in Denmark and every sixth business is insured with Topdanmark, making it the second largest non-life insurance and sixth largest pension fund company in Denmark. Our non-life market share is around 18% and the pension fund share is around 3%. Due to our effective business model we are able to positively contribute to Annually we handle around 300,000 claims and Danish society in the form of taxes and receive around 2,3 million telephone calls from our duties as well as stable workplaces, customers. which we also consider to be part of our social accounting. Our employees The total number of Topdanmark employees is around Yours sincerely, 2,500, of which about 1,400 work at the head office in Ballerup, while around 500 work at 18 major offices and sales centres all over Denmark. Furthermore we Christian Sagild, CEO have around 600 field employees including certified insurance sales people and loss adjusters. WWW Read more about the Topdanmark Group.  3 Photo: Bjarke Ørsted 4 Back to contents Top stories in 2012 This year offered us many CSR activities. Here is a brief introduction to three significant activities: }} The largest solar cell system in the Nordic countries }} Top Farm – Denmark’s safest farm }} Diversity – Women in management  5 Top stories in 2012 Topdanmark has led the way At the inauguration of the solar cell system Lars Løkke Rasmussen said in his speech: Topdanmark has led the way and set the good example which I hope many other companies will follow. Examples like this will drive the green switch-over as there are no snap solutions. If no one catches the ball, we will get nowhere. Therefore it is important that a large company like Topdanmark leads the way. 6 Back to contents See fro video ina m ugu the rat ion We put the largest solar cell system September. It is a farm close to the town in the Nordic countries into service of Skive in Jutland where a large number On Friday 17 August 2012 Lars Løkke of loss prevention measures have been Rasmussen, Chairman of Global Green installed. Top Farm is intended for, among Growth Institute and leader of the Danish other activities, training Topdanmark’s centre-right liberal party, and Connie certified sales representatives enabling Hedegaard, EU Climate Commissioner, them to better advise agricultural customers inaugurated the largest solar cell system on loss prevention. A safe farm could help in the Nordic countries placed on the roof reduce the number of damage incidents for of Topdanmark’s head office. Around 100 the benefit of the farmer, Topdanmark as an guests attended the event. insurance company, the environment and The plant consists of 3,042 solar panels society as a whole. which take up more than 5,000 square metres of space. We expect that annually Read more about Top Farm and the the plant will supply around 15% of the prevention concept of Safe Farm on page 34. total power consumption of our head office and will also reduce electricity costs by Focus on women in management 15%. Thus the plant is a good business case Topdanmark wants diversity – also at top helping reduce our annual carbon emission management level. We have seen far more by approx. 600 tonnes. men than women in management positions in our company. Therefore we have worked WWW Read more about the plant on a large number of initiatives to encourage women’s desire and motivation to go for top management positions. Top Farm prevents agricultural damage Read more on page 18. The first Top Farm was inaugurated in  7 2012 — CSR RAPPORT Topdanmark’s CSR policy Topdanmark creates value for its stakeholders by insuring what we all care about and by helping establish pension savings. This provides financial security. We take on responsibility for people and environment, which helps create the confidence from which our business lives. 8 Back to contents CSR objectives CSR goals Our understanding of and work with Topdanmark’s CSR goals are to: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) are based on those of Topdanmark’s business }} create value for our three main values dealing with responsibility and value stakeholders: customers, employees and creation and the EU definition of the social shareholders responsibility of businesses. }} contribute to financial security in Denmark through our products and services We consider CSR to be a source of inspiration }} be responsible towards people and intended to: environment }} contribute positively to our business goals CSR initiatives and strategy by developing products, Topdanmark has defined a number of services and other activities for the benefit initiatives to support our CSR objectives and of customers, our business and society goals in Topdanmark. We have categorised }} minimise and prevent negative influence the initiatives under four main themes. Below on environment, human rights and is an outline of the four main themes and the anti-corruption associated initiatives. Topdanmark supports UN’s Global Compact This report describes activities and results and ten internationally recognised principles for 2012 for each initiative as well as goals for labour and human rights, environmental for 2013, where defined. Read more about protection and anti-corruption. We the contents of the report in the next section. continually work to establish processes and policies integrating these principles in our way of running and developing our business. Responsible business management Stakeholders Products and services Society Policies and procedures for human and Customers Loss prevention Education employee rights Employees Policies and procedures for environment Loss limitation Environment Suppliers and alliance Policies and procedures for anti-corruption Product development Donations partners CSR organisation If you have any questions or comments on our Topdanmark’s CSR efforts are held by a CSR work, please contact our CSR manager. steering committee reporting to the Executive See contact information on page 12. Board. The steering committee is responsible for the CSR policy. The implementation of Validity of CSR policy CSR policies and initiatives are ensured by the The policy is evaluated every year by the CSR manager in close co-operation with key CSR steering committee and subsequently employees of the company. approved by the Executive Board. The CSR policy applies to all of the companies of the Topdanmark Group.  9 2012 — CSR RAPPORT About the Report This is Topdanmark’s annual CSR Report for 2012. It is also our Completion of Progress report for the UN Global Compact, and thereby it constitutes our statutory report on Corporate Social Responsibility (see section 132 of Executive Order on Financial Reports for Insurance Companies and Lateral Pension Funds) and progress report for the UN Global Compact. It covers the financial year 2012, i.e. from 1 January to 31 December 2012. The report applies to all subsidiaries of Topdanmark. 10 Back to contents Topdanmark has prepared statutory CSR After the four main sections follows ”Outline reports since 2009. We joined the UN Global and data” containing: compact in 2010 and this is our second progress report. In the future we will also }} summary of our activities in 2012 viewed prepare one annual CSR report for the in relation to the ten Global Compact financial year. principles, where relevant }} table with indicators for 2011 and 2012 Objectives and target group }} carbon emissions accounts for 2011 and The CSR report has been prepared to create 2012 transparency and clarity about or CSR work: }} information on social accounting our way of working with CSR, our initiatives, results and plans for the future. Indicators The CSR report is intended to reach For a number of years we have worked Topdanmark’s employees, customer with environment indicators in the carbon shareholders, alliance partners, media and emissions accounts (see the next paragraph). NGOs. In this year’s report we have increased the scope of indicators by also including figures The report is published on www.topdanmark. clarifying working conditions in Topdanmark, com — in both Danish and English. primarily diversity and job satisfaction (for example figures for sickness absence). The Contents of the report indicators are based on the internationally We have chosen to structure the report in recognised reporting system, Global four main sections corresponding to the four Reporting Initiative. Data have been collected main categories of our CSR strategy: from our central HR salary system and data dependability is considered to be high. }} responsible business management See table of indicators on page 52. }} stakeholders }} products }} society Each main section describes the most important policies and activities we worked with in 2012. The structure of the description is: }} policy or commitment in the area }} activities and results in 2012 }} plans and goals for 2013  11 About the Report Carbon emissions accounts Electricity produced by our solar cell system Topdanmark prepares annual carbon is registered by our energy management emissions accounts in accordance with system. Data dependability is considered to the guidelines of the Climate Compass, an be high for all data. application developed by the Danish Business Authority to calculate carbon emissions. Data on driving in company cars (leased cars) We have chosen to include the following are collected from the registration of fuel elements in the carbon emissions accounts consumption (litres of petrol or diesel). Data which we consider to be the principal sources dependability is considered to be good. Data of our carbon emissions. on use of own car for business purposes are collected from HR’s registration of mileage }} heat consumption allowance. The number of kilometres driven }} electricity consumption is calculated on the basis of the mileage allowances paid. Data dependability is }} driving in company cars considered to be low. }} use of own car for business purposes See carbon emissions accounts on page 54. The consumption of heating and electricity has been restricted to our head office and the office in Viby and does not include sales Contact centres. This is due to two factors: we have If you have any questions or comments on no reliable data on the heating and electricity the report, please contact Pernille Fogh consumption in our sales centres and this Christensen, who is responsible for CSR. If consumption represents only 5% of the you would like to talk with us about our CSR overall consumption. efforts, you are also welcome to contact us. The carbon emissions accounts also include Tel: +45 4474 4089 (direct) carbon emissions ”saved” due to the E-mail: pfi@topdanmark.dk electricity produced by the solar cell system. Data collection and data quality for carbon emissions accounts The head office consumption of heating and electricity was collected from consumption reports made available by suppliers while the Viby office consumption was read manually. 12 Back to contents  13 Responsible business management It is Topdanmark’s duty to create value for our shareholders. In this value creation we are responsible for: }} observing national legislation }} meeting recommendations for Corporate Governance }} meeting the expectations of the UN Global Compact which we joined in 2010 14 Back to contents In CSR terms it is our primary focus to Furthermore, we implemented a ensure that we meet the ten Global Compact whistleblower scheme in 2012. As a principles. This means that we must minimise responsible company Topdanmark cannot and prevent negative influence of the accept criminal acts committed in our internationally recognised labour and human company or in the course of our business rights, and protect the environment and fight operations. Nor can we accept acts which corruption in all our internal and external seriously jeopardise individuals or could activities. It also implies that we must work seriously affect our company. In order actively to promote the ten principles. to improve focus on this area, we have implemented a whistleblower scheme. This responsible management is ensured by developing and maintaining relevant policies, WWW Read more about the whistleblower processes and routines for our internal scheme. operations, our products and our relationship with alliance partners. At the same time we aim to promote the ten principles Goals for 2013 through special activities and projects in our We will continue to work with the three operations and core business. policies and gain experience of the whistleblower scheme. We will also prepare Activities and results and implement a human rights policy. In in 2012 we focussed primarily on three policies and the relevant activities: WWW Follow this link and read about our Corporate Governance work }} environmental policy }} diversity policy }} policy for responsible investment Below is a more detailed description of the three policies and the relevant activities:  15 Responsible business management Environmental policy Topdanmark endeavours to reduce its }} Waste sorting. Our goal is that 60% of the environmental footprint and contribute office waste is recycled to sustainable development in the future through our products and services. The environmental strategy does not include goals for water consumption as the We work actively to minimise both the consumption of the business is low and not environmental impact of our business expected to reduce further. operations and the indirect impact due to procurements. Activities and results in 2012 — reduction of carbon emission We think green in our business Since 2010 we have been working with operations energy optimisation of the head office in Topdanmark’s environmental strategy for Ballerup through both specific projects and internal operations includes goals for: regular evaluation of optimisation potential. We have concentrated our efforts on the }} Reduction of carbon emission. Our goal is head office where most energy is used and a reduction of 10% (per employees) from consequently, a reduction is possible. 2011 to 2014 }} Reduction of paper consumption. Our goal is continued reduction in paper consumption Photo: Tommy Verting 16 Back to contents In 2012 we had the following activities: there are good reasons for giving priority to energy optimisation of electricity at the }} Solar cell system. We have established head office. This was also done in 2012 and the largest solar cell system in the Nordic reduced our carbon emission by 6% from countries consisting of 3,042 solar panels 2011. which take up more than 5,000 square metres of space. We expect that the It was achieved partly because we used system will reduce our ordinary power less power, partly because we replaced consumption at the head office by 15%. conventional power with a smaller amount of }} Light and air. We have finished the carbon-neutral power from solar cell system, refurbishment project called ”Light and more precisely 159560 kWh representing air”, which included environment-friendlier 2.3% of our total power consumption. It ventilation and lighting. The project is far from the 15% reduction in power started in 2009 due to, among other consumption we expect from the solar things, employee dissatisfaction with the cells, but in 2012 the plant was only in old open-plan office. operation during few and cold months — and consequently its production was not optimal. }} Energy optimisation. At the end of the year the implementation of an energy See details in carbon emission accounts on management system was finished. page 54. }} IT energy optimisation. We have implemented projects of energy Goals for 2013 — carbon emission optimisation of IT functions: change of reduction central drives, change to energy-efficient In 2013 focus will be increased on general clients and workstation solutions. energy optimisation by systematic use of }} Online meetings. We have taken the first the new energy management system. The steps to solve how to hold online meetings renovation project is finished and this will between employees in order to reduce the also improve the environmental accounts. number of kilometres driven. In the IT area we will continue with energy optimisation, for example, by implementing Results environment-friendly printer solutions and Topdanmark’s overall, absolute carbon roll-out of the video meeting solution. Our emissions did not decline markedly from overall goal is a carbon emission reduction 2011 to 2012 primarily due to an increase of 7% from 2012, while the relative goal in heat consumption at the head office (CO2-reduction per employee) is 2.8 tonnes. when our open-plan office was extensively renovated. The relative carbon emission Carbon Disclosure Project (carbon emission per full-time employee) Since 2010 we have reported our carbon declined from 3.2 to 3.1 tonnes per emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project employee representing a reduction of 3% (CDP), an international environment which was satisfactory. reporting initiative. In 2011 Topdanmark scored 65 points in the CDP point system In 2011 our total power consumption for reporting and transparency out of a represented 42% of our total carbon maximum of 100 points. Our goal for 2013 emissions, of which the head office in is to score 70 points. Ballerup accounted for the 41%. Therefore  17 Responsible business management Activities and results in 2012 Goal for 2013 — paper reduction The goal for 2013 is that at least 525,000 One of the most significant initiatives for customers will receive their papers by e-Boks. reducing our paper consumption is to increase digital communication with our customers. Activities and results in 2012 waste For several years we have sent a number of sorting paper-intensive mailings digitally, such as We have been working with waste sorting insurance details. In 2010, we were the first since 2009 and our goal is that 60% of all our Danish insurance company to start sending waste at the head office will be recycled. policies to customers by the Danish e-Boks system. We have also published all insurance The year 2012 was impacted by a renovation conditions on our website giving customers of our head office which influenced waste easy access to them. These are some of the sorting activities. Our focus on this area was elements of the ”Digital Topdanmark” project. lower than desired, but we improved the visibility of containers for waste for recycling The goal for the use of the e-boks system and waste for incineration. We have no date was 400,000 customers in 2012 — and we on waste for recycling as we changed the succeeded. At the end of the year 440,000 supplier during the year. customers had registered for e-Boks, which was an increase of more than 40% from 2011. Goals for 2013 In co-operation with the new supplier we will ”Digital Topdanmark” has helped reduce launch a campaign to promote waste sorting. our overall paper consumption by 16% to We will again collect and evaluate data. 155 tonnes in 2012 (2011: 184 tonnes). From 2010 to 2011 we reduced our paper consumption by 36%. Diversity policy Topdanmark works to maintain and develop We have no wish to give preferential openness in our company culture to counter treatment to women over men and therefore any form of discrimination due to gender, we have not imposed quotas. Instead we race, colour, national, social and ethnic origin, have defined initiatives to promote women’s religion, belief, political opinion, disability, access to executive positions. age and sexual orientation. We believe that diversity provides business value and that it Activities and results in 2012 is important that all employees have equal In 2012 we published a report on women in access to executive positions at all levels. management based upon a questionnaire survey among Topdanmark’s executives to Women in management identify, among other things, what motivates As an element of encouraging diversity in women to aspire to an executive position the company we have focused particularly on and the typical challenges they will meet in women in management since 2011. We have their careers. The report was is intended seen that there are too few women in our top to provide better understanding of how to management, and this is something we want prepare the ground for more women in top to change. 18 Back to contents management. One of the main conclusions Women on the Board of the report is that men and women are In 2012 four of the nine Board members motivated by the same factors in executive were women, one of them elected at the AGM jobs. and three by Topdanmark’s employees. The We have also held an after-work meeting proportion of female Board members elected for women on gender equality at work and at the AGM has been stable since 2004. In financial control at home. 2011 the number of female Board members elected by employees increased from one to WWW Read the full report on women in three. management in Topdanmark in Danish. Goals for 2013 In 2013 we will implement a mentor pilot Female candidates for job interviews scheme for female employees who want It is Topdanmark’s ambition to invite at least career advice: among other things, the one female candidate for a job interview mentor scheme is intended to help women when an executive vacancy is to be filled. to find out whether they want to go for an We were well on the way to having achieved executive position or they are satisfied with this ambition in 2012: there were 31 vacant their present position. executive positions but female candidates for only 24 of the interviews. The absence of The mentor schemes are a result of our women for the last eight interviews was due survey showing that women are more to the very few female applicants for these ”hesitant” than men about going for an positions or their professional competences executive position. 31% of the women said not being as good as those of the male that ”perhaps” they had an ambition of being applicants. 17 of the 31 vacant positions a high-level executive while only 23 % of the were filled by women. men said so. We will also continue to hold after-work meetings with relevant topics. Photo: Claus Boesen/MediaPress  19 Responsible business management Policy for responsible investment As part of Topdanmark’s ordinary operations Procedure we invest, for example, insurance reserves The process of investment and maintenance and pension customers’ savings. Topdanmark of the investment portfolio includes is aware that these investments may screening and assessment of the social and involve the risk that those companies environmental conditions of those companies in which it invests impose a negative in which we want to invest or have already influence on internationally recognised invested. The screening of the investments conventions and standards for labour and is made under the guidance of the screening human rights, environmental protection agency Ethix and covers the following areas: and anti-corruption. To meet this risk Topdanmark has prepared policies and }} Human rights procedures for responsible investment as }} Employee rights described below. Activities and results for }} Illegal or controversial weapons 2012 are also described below. }} Environment protection Policy restriction and goals }} Corruption Topdanmark’s policy for responsible investment covers funds managed If the overall screening and assessment by Topdanmark’s asset management show that a company, in which Topdanmark (Topdanmark Kapitalforvaltning). Kapitalforvaltning has already invested, violates internationally recognised standards Topdanmark’s goal is to ensure the and / or conventions, Topdanmark will decide highest possible return while also ensuring in each case whether we will: that the value creation does not violate internationally recognised standards and }} Divest the stake concerned conventions adopted by Denmark. It is our }} Keep the stake concerned and participate objective to provide competitive investment in “active ownership” returns, to be is attained taking into account consequent risks including unacceptable Active ownership means that on behalf of social and environmental conditions. Topdanmark and other companies, Ethix enters into a dialogue with a company which The Board of Directors of Topdanmark has been deemed to be in violation of one or Kapitalforvaltning is ultimately responsible more internationally recognised standards for this policy. A Social Responsible and conventions. The dialogue is intended to Investment Committee has been set up to ensure that the violation stops. ensure the implementation of the policy. 20 Back to contents The screening process includes the screening In 2012 Topdanmark became member of results in line with other risk analyses in the DANSif, an impartial forum for players who assessment of each individual investment. take great interest in social responsibility of investments. At the Board meetings of the asset management company, a list is presented of Goals for 2013 possible investments in companies where the In 2013 Topdanmark will continue to screening has resulted in comments. have our portfolios screened. We will regularly evaluate our approach to Activities and results in 2012 possible investments in companies which In 2012 our entire portfolio was screened, are estimated to violate internationally which resulted in participation in active recognised standards and conventions ownership in one company. adopted by Denmark.  21 Stakeholders Topdanmark has many stakeholders — both internal and external, who play an important role in our business. Our co-operation with these stakeholders is one of the factors which ensures the operation, strengthening and growth of our business. Therefore we wish — and work actively — to create and maintain good and profitable relations through dialogue. In CSR terms we focus on three groups: }} Customers }} Employees }} Suppliers and alliance partners 22 Back to contents Customers – their experience is our responsibility Our customers are the core of our business In this light we have great responsibility strategy. We live from our customers — towards our customers – and we take it and for them. The customers and their seriously. We know that we should be experiences with us are the main focus of our attentive and responsive to our customers daily work. and help them cope with complicated things and difficult situations. In terms of CSR the customer perspective – or consumer perspective is vital for several In this section we describe our approach reasons. The two most important are: to, among other things, ”the customer perspective”. First a description of how we }} Our products and services relate to the continually work to improve our customer customer’s security and safety, both service focusing on special activities and financially and socially results for 2012. Then our approach to }} Insurance and pension fund products can customer complaints and how we actively be complicated and therefore difficult use customer complaints to improve both for the customer to understand and our claims handling processes and product comprehend description. Finally a description of a number of ethical dilemmas and our approach to them. Customer service – we are in dialogue with customers For many years, every day we have asked customer service. One element of the some of those customers who have been in campaign was a sponsorship of and touch with us of their opinion of our service. co-operation with the Danish lightweight We listen to their answers and have a dialogue rowing team, the Golden Four. We will reach with those customers who think we need to our goal of quality – like the Golden Four. improve. Customers’ answers are used to improve procedures, processes and employee We have used the Golden Four’s daily work efforts. That was also the case in 2012. of self-improvement and their philosophy of being “the best when it comes to the crunch” Activities and results in 2012 to draw parallels to our own everyday life. Topdanmark has around 1,000 The internal campaign comprised many customer-oriented employees and their activities, including practising and e-learning. education and training is crucial for good Furthermore, all customer-oriented customer service. employees met the Golden Four rowers and heard about their efforts to be the very best. To improve the competence of our customer-oriented employees we have Focus on accessibility in 2011 and 2012 worked on an internal Many of our customers request digital campaign focusing on improvement of solutions which would make it easier to buy  23 Stakeholders our products, receive advice and notify claims. }} Our personal customers’ satisfaction in We therefore constantly work to continue the EPSI surveys, which compare Danish to develop and improve our websites, and in insurance companies, has grown from 2012 we introduced a mobile version of www. 73.7% in 2011 to 75.7% in 2012, and is topdanmark.dk, which provides customers the highest growth in the insurance industry an opportunity to easily and intuitively notify claims. Our customers’ satisfaction is an important element in our success as a responsible Customer satisfaction has increased company. We are therefore happy with the The results of our initiatives are visible and improvement. reflected in the following measurements: Goals for 2013 }} Share of customers who say that they will In 2013 we will continue to focus on improving definitely recommend us has grown from how our customers perceive Topdanmark’s 37% in 2011 to 39% in 2012 services by implementing a wide range }} Share of customers who are not fully of activities. Our goal is that 50% of all satisfied with our service (1 to 4 on a scale customers who are in touch with us would like of 1 to 9) has declined from 7.7% in 2011 to recommend us and that only 5% of our to 6.9% in 2012 customers are not fully satisfied with their contact with us. }} }} Extended my expectations }} I would recommend you because I got very useful information on how to deal with my upcoming divorce — without referring to it myself. This extended my expectations. Customer complaints are taken seriously Topdanmark handles around 300,000 claims which we support. But at the same time we annually. As our products and conditions may wish to reduce the number of complaints seem to be complicated, it is impossible to and by doing so, have even more satisfied avoid customer complaints about the decision customers. and cover we work out. Broadly, the result of a complaint will be in favour of either the Activities and results in 2012 customer or Topdanmark. Irrespective of the Find out here how we handle and evaluate result, we take a very serious view of customer complaints and how many complaints we complaints. And we often endeavour to find received in 2012. solutions which meet customers’ reasonable expectations. How we handle customer complaints Of course, our customers have the right to Initially the customer can send a complaint complain. This is a common consumer right to the employee responsible for customer 24 Back to contents complaints, who will investigate the matter and to customers which were ambiguous. At the same send a response to the customer as soon as time we regularly evaluate our claims handling possible. If there is still disagreement about the processes to ensure as few errors as possible. cover after this decision, personal customers may appeal to the Insurance Appeals Board. Customer complaints in 2011 and 2012 This is an overview of the number of complaints Consumer complaints board against Topdanmark in 2011 and 2012 The Insurance Appeals Board was established submitted to the Insurance Appeals Board. by the Danish Consumer Council and the Danish trade organisation, Forsikring & Pension. 151 customer complaints were sent to Insurance The Board handles complaints from private Appeals Board in 2011 corresponding to an consumers about insurance and pension matters. average of 12.6 complaints each month, of which The Insurance Appeals Board’s handling of a the Board agreed with Topdanmark in 127 or complaint results in a verdict fully or partially 84% of the cases. agreeing with the customer or the insurance company on their claims. The insurance We only had data for the first 10 months of companies may refuse to accept the verdict if 2012 when this report was finished. At 31 they disagree. October 2012, 135 customer complaints had been considered by the Board corresponding We respond to complaints to an average of 13.5 complaints each month. Generally, if the Insurance Appeals Board agrees Immediately it indicates a small increase in the with the customer, we always accept the verdict. number of complaints but it cannot be finally However, in very few cases when the verdict is a calculated until we have the correct number for matter of principle, i.e. if the verdict will change 2012. Out of the 135 customer complaints the our practice, we consider if we will accept the Board agreed with Topdanmark in 117 cases or verdict. Even if the Board agrees with us, we still 87%. (Source: www.ankeforsikring.dk). consider such cases to be an indication that we ought to improve. Goals for 2013 We will continue to evaluate customer complaints Customer complaints may reflect our inability to to improve our processes and communication, communicate the terms and conditions on which e.g. our material for customers. Our focused our policies are based. Therefore we regularly initiatives are intended to reduce the number evaluate and improve our material for customers of complaints in order to ensure more satisfied }} in order to ensure control and transparency. For customers. example, in 2012 we reformulated some letters }} }} }} Don’t know how far my case has got }} I am unsatisfied with slow claims handling and that it has been impossible to get in touch with the relevant people. There is no response to my e-mails or telephone messages. And then it is difficult to find out where I stand and how far my case has got.  25 Stakeholders Insurance dilemmas – Topdanmark’s approach Insurance creates security and safety, and Topdanmark takes its responsibility Topdanmark would be happy to offer everyone seriously in Denmark an insurance policy with us. This We are aware of these dilemmas and we work is our basic philosophy. At the same time our continually to find ways in which to meet them. CSR goal is to contribute to financial security in There are several ways: Denmark through our products and services. For example by being active in the Danish trade But we meet dilemmas in our business, i.e. organisation, Forsikring & Pension, where we situations where it is difficult to fully meet help find solutions to challenges which cannot our basic philosophy and CSR goal and at the be solved by the individual insurance company, same time run a good business. Here are a few but can be solved at a trade level in close examples: co-operation with the civil society. This applies to, for example, the problems of uninsurable }} Due to our risk-based pricing it is actually houses. Read more here. (Box) difficult for home owners, whose homes are situated in places with a very high risk Furthermore, we constantly work to ensure of water damage from rainstorm, to insure transparency in both our product descriptions their houses. They are offered an insurance and insurance conditions besides providing a policy but the price is so high that it could be high level of service as described above in this difficult for them to pay it. section. Customers should feel well informed and safe – also in the event of changes in prices }} Customers with repeated claims over and conditions. a short period of time may experience price increases and an increase in excess In order to help customers avoid repeated which makes it difficult for them to pay an claims – and consequent price increases and insurance policy. If they therefore choose to termination of the customer relationship, if terminate it, they are left without the security relevant, we generally inform our customers of an insurance policy. In very few cases we about the possibilities of loss prevention. terminate customers with repeated claims. In 2013 we will increase our focus on loss prevention by introducing a prevention site – }} The premium of policies for people listed read more about loss prevention on page 32. in RKI (a Danish register of people with tarnished credit histories) is also increased In order to meet the insurance needs of the for risk reasons. Statistics show that they entire population our product development is have more incidents of damage than aware of those groups in society who typically non-registered people. Due to their financial opt out of insurance coverage. We endeavour situation it may be difficult for them to buy a to develop products which also meet the needs policy. of these groups, for example in 2012 we developed a policy targeted at young people. }} Insurance policies are often regarded as ”too expensive” by financially weak groups in society, for example unemployed and young people, and therefore they opt them out. 26 Back to contents Photo: Colourbox  27 Stakeholders Photo: Tommy Verting Employees– our most important resource Topdanmark’s many competent employees Committee” which regularly assesses are our most important resource for success and discusses which activities would as a responsible company. Based on our have a general benefit on employees’ job HR policies, an open employee culture satisfaction. In 2011 and 2012 focus has and specific activities we wish to create a especially been concentrated on health. It is good and motivating working environment Topdanmark’s goal to inspire its employees ensuring a sound work / life balance. It to develop healthy habits which prevent should be attractive to work for Topdanmark. lifestyle illnesses and stress and ensure they have the energy for both work and leisure. Health and job satisfaction We focus particularly on health and job Activities and results in 2012: satisfaction and as we believe they are crucial for our employees to feel good in }} Health check All employees are offered their everyday life and have the energy to do an annual health check. In 2012 34% their very best. of the employees accepted the offer of health check ( 2011: 32%). We have therefore set up a ”Satisfaction 28 Back to contents }} Healthy canteen service. At our head initiated a number of presentations on office in Ballerup we have a canteen exercise and sleep. In 2011 there were service based on the Danish National presentations on healthy food and food Nutrition Council’s recommendations. habits which were met with a positive In 2012 the canteen was visited by response by our field staff. a nutritionist, Christian Bitz, who recommended further improvements to }} We cycle to work. 334 of Topdanmark’s the canteen. employees participated in the campaign ” We cycle to work” covering a total of }} Presentations. In both Ballerup and Viby, 58,098 km. All the participants of the Martin Kreutzer, nutritionist and trainer, campaing were given the opportunity of a has given two talks on healthy nutrition. free overhaul of their bikes. In Ballerup the 70 employees attended the talks. overhaul was made by the socio-economic business, Cykelven (Cycle friend). }} Focus on field staff. In 2011 and 2012 we focused particularly on the health of }} Cykelven. We have continued to work with our field staff, for example loss adjusters Cykelven on repair of bicycles in Ballerup and sales representatives, who spend a during working hours in order to motivate lot of time in their cars and have special our employees to cycle to work. working hours. At the end of 2012 we  29 Stakeholders }} Jogging. Employees in Ballerup and Viby Health initiatives positively received have been offered jogging after hours. And Topdanmark has seen good results from in both Århus, Ålborg and Copenhagen focusing on health. In 2012 we participated a total of 635 Topdanmark employees in the competition to be the healthiest participated in the DHL run. workplace in Denmark and we got 98 points out of 100 in the first stage. However, we }} Advice on stress management. Free and did not qualify for the finals after the second anonymous advice on stress management stage but were close. On the other hand, was made available for all employees in the results of the survey show that our 2012. We have also held stress handling employees give a high score to the many and stress prevention courses for 37 health measures taken by the company. They executives. Read more about advice on appreciate the large number of activities. stress management on page 36. Photo: Claus Boesen/MediaPress 30 Back to contents Job satisfaction survey Goals for 2013 Every second year Topdanmark conducts We will continue to focus on health and job a job satisfaction survey among all its satisfaction in 2013 when we will extend employees. The next job satisfaction survey the permanent activities with, for example, a will be conducted in February 2013. The mindfulness course. results of the survey will be published on our website. Read the results of the 2011 survey WWW and more about our job satisfaction policy (in Danish) Suppliers and alliance partners Confidence and reliability is the core of comply with the ten principles for human co-operation with all of Topdanmark’s rights, labour standards, the environment suppliers and alliance partnerswho total and anti-corruption. If one of our alliance several thousands. When customers make partners acts contrary to our expectations of a claim they may freely choose the service good business practice, we will terminate our mechanic. However, we do not accept co-operation. mechanics who, as far as we know, do not comply with the relevant legislation, Activities and results in 2012 otherwise behave immorally or have a We have made new agreements on claims reputation conflicting with our expectations service improving the control of particularly of good business practice. dehumidification in the event of water damage. The dehumidification of damp Topdanmark’s products are primarily basements is a very energy-intensive sold by our own certified insurance sales activity and improved control of the time of representatives or over the telephone. We dehumidification significantly reduces the have also made distribution agreements strain on energy. with a number of alliance partners, of whom Danske Bank is the largest distribution Goals for 2013 partner. We plan to establish uniform procedures and ethical guidelines for responsible supplier As a Global Compact signatory we co-operation across the Group. recommend all our alliance partners to  31 2012 — CSR RAPPORT Products and services This main section comprises three sub-sections: }} Loss prevention and limitation of damage to businesses and farms }} Prevention and limitation of personal injury }} Initiative targeted at all customer groups 32 Back to contents Our products and services contribute to products are focused on both loss prevention ensuring financial security in the event of and limitation of damage rather than only accidents, damage and illness. However, a lot financial cover after the occurrence of an of damage and injuries mean far more than injury or damage. This is responsible business finances, both for the individual customer and – and makes sense for everybody. society as a whole. Therefore our advice and Environment also benefits from loss prevention Rebuilding after, for example, fire and water damage demands many resources impacting the environment and carbon emission levels. Therefore, loss prevention is not only for the benefit of the individual company or homeowner but also for the environment. Through Technical Institute of Sweden, our Swedish colleague in the industry, Länsförsäkringar, has prepared a report on how much carbon emission is saved by preventing fire and water damage. We have been allowed to disclose some of the figures: For example, water damage prevention saves the environment an emission of 300 kilos of CO2, while the prevention of a total loss house fire saves an emission of 25 tons of CO2.  33 Products and services SME and agricultural areas When insuring the SME and agricultural In 2012 we continued working on the areas we have worked with loss prevention concept by installing all the loss prevention for several years, as damage is often very measures of Safe Farm at a farm, Spøttrup expensive and significant in these areas Svineproduktion (swine production), near the causing severe consequential losses. Danish town of Skive. This farm we call Top Therefore loss prevention helps not only Farm, and it is the first one of its kind. the individual customer but also society by keeping the wheels turning. For example, Loss prevention training all over the we advise businesses on emergency plans, country prevention and limitation of rainstorm damage At Top Farm we can work with loss prevention as well environmental insurance which in a true environment and we can test new prevents chemical and oil spills. equipment together with the owner. The farm is also used for training our certified insurance Activities and results in 2012 sales people enabling them to better advise In 2012 focus concentrated on agricultural agricultural customers on loss prevention. loss prevention. We established Top Farm, Furthermore, the farm is to be used for which is a ”role model” for loss prevention. demonstrations at events about agricultural You can read more about Top Farm below. safety. Goals for 2013 Preventing major losses of production The plan for the Top Farm concept is Building fires are is the most frequent to start using the farm for training of incidents of agricultural damage. In 2011 certified insurance sales representatives, alone we received 1,857 notifications of demonstration for customers and other building fires, of which 78 were large and interested parties and to establish another serious fires causing consequential losses and Top Farm in order to improve prevention requiring rebuilding. initiatives. We will also continue to work with loss prevention and limitation in SME The safety measures of Top Farm enable the insurance. farmer, Søren Bak Andersen, to act early both in the event of a fire in his operational Top Farm – Denmark’s safest buildings and in the event of other types of damage. In this way Søren is able to minimise farm his loss of production from about 1,050 pigs In 2011 Topdanmark’s agricultural producing 33,000 piglets annually. We hope department developed an overall concept for that Top Farm will inspire other farmers to loss prevention called Safe Farm. This concept establish loss prevention measures at their combines all loss prevention measures in farms. one solution and makes everyday life safer for farmers, employees and animals by preventing, for example, fire, water damage and theft. 34 Back to contents Personal insurance When advising and insuring people, private With Top Care we help individuals or employees at a workplace, we also work with both prevention and loss injured people back to work limitation. For example, we offer our SME Since 2006 Topdanmark has worked actively and agricultural customers products, which to limit injured people’s loss of ability to improve their employees’ health and job work. In 2012 Top Care further increased satisfaction, treatment guarantee which our focus on this area. Through Top Care offers their employees access to quick we consider the customer’s situation as a treatment of physical complaints etc., as whole and not only the injury suffered by the preventive efforts. customer. Unfortunately it is impossible to prevent Top Care shows the way through the all injuries and therefore we are careful therapy jungle to advise how it is possible to limit the People who are so unfortunate enough to consequence of injuries and accidents, lose their earnings potential entirely or for example, by providing prompt and partially for a period of time struggle with professional claims handling and advice. not only the injury but also with finding Below you can read how we work with loss their way through the jungle of authorities, limitation. therapists and other institutions. This process is often frustrating and confusing. Activities and results in 2012 In most cases we are able to help the In 2012 personal insurance was especially injured person to put all the pieces together concentrated on two services: and, when required, contact, for example, workplace, employee organisations and local authorities. We adapt our efforts as needed. }} Development and implementation of the Top Care concept intended to help injured people back to work. We create an overview For this purpose we have employed a number of social workers, physicians and other }} Establishment of anonymous advice on therapists to help the injured person through stress management for Topdanmark the examination and diagnosis process to customers with health insurance cover. find the optimum treatment. We assess This offer applies also to our own whether rehabilitation therapy or assistive employees. resources are required for the injured person to be able to perform a job, or whether the The two initiatives are further described injured person needs help to find a different below. type of job. Goals for 2013 Top Care makes a difference We will primarily continue to work with It is our experience that our efforts are vital the Top Care concept and advice on stress to those people we have helped through the management. Top Care concept. In 2012, for example, we helped injured people with relevant  35 Products and services treatment, operations or rehabilitation – Anonymous hotline gives people efforts which enabled them to go back to suffering from stress someone to work. This help was beyond the help given to talk to them by the local authorities – and beyond It could be difficult to talk to colleagues or the scope of their insurance policies. a superior about the onset of stress. It is deeply ingrained in many Danes to handle Our experience reflects well-known research the situation themselves. Many people results which show that a combination of feel perhaps that it is their own problem if, thorough and quick healthcare examination for example, the difference between the and diagnosis and a coordinated social demands made and what is realistically effort produces convincing results in terms manageable is too great. Perhaps they try of work retention. This is for the benefit of to hide that a problem is on its way – and customers, society and Topdanmark. therefore they do not get the help needed. With anonymous advice we hope to reach Anonymous advice on stress those people who find it difficult to ask for help from their own superior or colleague. management prevents illness Also the superior or colleagues of an There is no mistaking statistics and specific employee suffering from stress can take experience: stress of long duration is a advantage of the offer for advice and help to widespread phenomenon among Danes. handle the situation. A report prepared by the Danish National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, in 2012 showed that during the period of 2005 to 2010 there was an increase in the number of people who often felt nervous or stressed. There was also an increase in the number of people saying they had a high stress level. At Topdanmark we are familiar with this trend as increasingly more of our customers with health insurance cover fall ill due to stress. Experience shows that prevention and early action is much better than treatment. Therefore, in 2012 we made a new and improved agreement to offer free and anonymous advice on stress management through Falck Healthcare for our customers with health insurance – and our employees. 36 Back to contents Easy access to loss prevention Topdanmark has worked with loss prevention customers, i.e. in both the SME, agricultural for many years and our competent and personal areas. employees possess a lot of knowledge and experience in this area. In 2012 we decided We look forward to giving both our existing to collect and systematise all this knowledge and potential customers easy access to good for the benefit of all our customers. advice on prevention and a description of our prevention products in 2013. The result of these efforts will be a completely new website on loss prevention, WWW See our prevention site in Danish Safe Topdanmark, which we will introduce here at the beginning of 2013. It will contain good advice on prevention to all types of  37 Society This main section is a description of the most important social activities in 2012 in the educational and environmental areas. We also tell about donations to humanitarian organisations etc. 38 Back to contents As a large Danish company Topdanmark We give high priority to working with the is in possession of knowledge and various trade organisation, Forsikring & Pension, competences which could be for the benefit and, for example, we are represented in of society as a whole. Our core competences several working groups. We also give priority are, of course, insurance and pension fund to supporting education within our own business. We would be happy to make this industry. Furthermore, we acknowledge the knowledge and professional expertise importance of local commitment, primarily in available and use it to solve social challenges, the Municipality of Ballerup, where our head together with other players where relevant. office is situated. Education Trainees in the insurance and Mentor scheme for young pupil pension fund industry The Municipality of Ballerup, where our As the second largest insurance company head office is situated, is working together in Denmark we wish to help ensure the with the Danish national association, continuous availability of a highly skilled and Talentspejderne (Talent Spotters), on a large qualified workforce. Therefore, every year mentor project for young pupils who need a we employ a number of finance trainees helping hand. who are also a source of new knowledge and inspiration for ourselves. Activities and results in 2012 In 2012 we joined the mentor project. One It is important for us to ensure that all of our employees is mentor for a young trainees successfully complete their schoolboy who struggles to cope with education enabling them to meet the the demands of school and find out what demands of the industry. Therefore we have direction to take. The project is a corporate specific activities focusing on the trainees’ voluntary project, i.e. the employee spends job satisfaction and personal development to both work time and spare time on it. By the support them in their training. end of 2012 the mentor and his mentee had met eight times giving the young schoolboy Activities and results in 2012 great inspiration. In 2012 we employed 24 finance trainees, and five finance economists and 14 finance WWW Read more about Talentspejderne in bachelor graduates worked as trainees, while Danish. in 2011 we had 20 finance trainees and 14 finance bachelor graduates worked as Goals for 2013 trainees. The mentoring scheme will continue in 2013. Goals for 2013 We expect the same number of trainees as in 2012.  39 Society Environment We pass on our experience of solar Goals for 2013 cell systems We will continue to answer questions and The planning and setting up of the largest arrange visits to the extent time allows. solar cell system in the Nordic countries has provided Topdanmark with knowledge Contributing to municipality climate in this area. To support the development of protection plan sustainable energy we are happy to pass on Recent years’ violent rainstorms have our experience to businesses, organisations presented challenges to Danish home and institutions which are considering owners, municipalities and society as a setting up solar cells or, for another reason, whole which Topdanmark is ready to help are interested in hearing about sustainable overcome. energy. Activities and results in 2012 Activities and results in 2012 In 2012 therefore we actively participated in In 2012 we made presentations, gave guided a climate group under the Danish Insurance tours for businesses and organisations and Association, Forsikring & Pension, focusing answered e-mails and telephone calls about on initiatives preventing weather-related the solar cell system. We also participated in damage. Among other projects the climate external events on sustainable energy. group works with the one below: Photo: Topdanmark 40 Back to contents We will inspire others Christian Sagild, CEO of Topdanmark, hosted the inauguration of the solar cell system. In his speech he, among other things, said: We want to reduce Topdanmark’s carbon emission while reducing our expenses. We have been working on this for a long time and I’m pleased to present our solar cell system which combines social responsibility and cost consciousness. This inauguration is intended to inspire others to similar investments that make sense for both the environment and the bottom line. All Danish municipalities are under an Climate network in the Municipality obligation to prepare a plan for climate of Ballerup adaptation which includes a plan for how to In co-operation with the Municipality of handle large floods caused by rainstorms. Ballerup, Topdanmark has, since 2011, participated in a so-called ”mobility This requires, for example, an investigation management” project: Formel M project. and analysis of where in the municipalities A number of companies situated at rainstorms may potentially cause most Lautrupparken in Ballerup, where damage. We have for this purpose made Topdanmark’s head office is also situated, anonymised data on rainstorm damage work together to reduce carbon emission and available for a project in Risskov close to traffic congestion on the roads. Aarhus and a project in the Municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg. Activities and results in 2012 Our activities in this area in 2012 were So far Risskov has, as part of their climate primarily to motivate employees to cycle protection, benefited greatly from claims to work. This is described on page 29. data from the insurance industry. Experience Furthermore, we have taken the first steps from the other two municipalities has not yet to introduce online meetings which will also been considered. contribute to reducing transport in the area. Goals for 2013 Goals for 2013 We will continue to actively participate in the We will continue the existing cycling activities climate group. and also, through campaigns etc., improve information about the possibilities of using collective transport.  41 Society Donations Doctors without Borders Since 1996 Topdanmark and its employees have supported Doctors without Borders. Employees pay voluntary contributions and Topdanmark pays a corresponding amount. In 2012, 109 employees were registered and paid a total of DKK 166,520 (2011: DKK 166,200). Denmark Collection Our employees donated DKK 65,950 and Topdanmark paid DKK 70,000 giving a total amount of DKK 135,950. Shoes for asylum seekers In 2012 we donated around 600 pairs of shoes to the Red Cross Asylum Centre, Sandholm, where around 500 children and grown-ups live and need extra help. Usually, most refugees have only got the clothes and shoes in which they arrive. And their shoes are generally badly worn. The Red Cross has limited resources for buying new for the inhabitants of Sandholm and other refugee centres. Therefore, they were happy to receive the many shoes from Topdanmark. Employees donate blood during working hours Topdanmark’s employees donate blood to the Danish Blood Bank three times a year. In 2012, 120 employees had registered for the donor scheme. Goals for 2013 We will continue to work with Doctors without Borders and the Danish Blood Bank. Furthermore, our employees, as voluntary help in call centres, and Topdanmark, as a company, will support the Denmark Collection. Photo: Tommy Verting 42 Back to contents  43 Outline and data 44 Back to contents Global Compact principles A business supporting Global Compact 7. support a precautionary approach to should: environmental challenges 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater 1. support and respect the protection of environmental responsibility internationally proclaimed human rights 9. encourage the development and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in diffusion of environmentally friendly human rights abuses technologies 3. uphold the freedom of association and 10. work against corruption in all its forms, the effective recognition of the right to including extortion and bribery collective bargaining 4. support the elimination of all forms of WWW You could read more about Global forced and compulsory labour Compact here 5. support the effective abolition of child labour 6. eliminate the discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Summary This is a list of the main activities in 2012, If an activity supports principles 1 or 2, goals and results. Each activity refers the specific human right is described in a to the Global Compact principles, where bracket. relevant.  45 Outline and data Responsible Business management Environmental policy Focus areas Main activities Results in 2012 Goals for 2013 Global Compact in 2012 principles Reduction Energy 6% reduction of carbon 15% of 7,8 and 9 of carbon optimisation emissions based on electricity emissions electricity consumption consumption at Establishment at head office head office is of solar cell carbon-neutral system 2.3% of electricity power consumption at head office was Carbon carbon-neutral power emissions per employee 3.1 tonnes of carbon reduced to 2.8 emission per employee tonnes (reduction of 3%) Financial saving of DKK 840,000 Reduction Digitisation of 440,000 customers 525,000 7,8 and 9 of paper policies etc. registered for e-Boks customers consumption registered for 16% reduction of paper e-Boks consumption Waste sorting Improved No specific results Focus on waste 7,8 and 9 visibility of sorting through containers for waste sorting waste sorting campaigns etc. 46 Back to contents Diversity policy Focus areas Main activities in Results in 2012 Goals for 2013 Global Compact 2012 principles Women in Publishing of 31 vacant executive Roll-out of mentor 2 (The right of management report positions and scheme non-discrimination) After-hours female candidates and 6 meeting for 24 of the At least one Planning of interviews female candidate mentor scheme for job interviews for an executive position Policy for responsible investment Focus areas Main Results in Goals for 2013 Global Compact activities in 2012 principles 2012 Policy and Regular Participation Continued screening of All procedure for assessment in active our portfolio; continued responsible and screening ownership in participation in active investment of investments one company ownership Whistleblower scheme Focus areas Main activities in 2012 Results in Goals for 2013 Global Compact 2012 principles Whistleblower Implementation of No specific Continued 10 scheme whistleblower scheme results implementation of the scheme  47 Outline and data Stakeholders Customers Focus areas Main activities in Results in 2012 Goals for 2013 Global Compact 2012 principles Customer Dialogue with Customer 50% of No specific satisfaction customers ambassadors customers as principles In-house increased from ambassadors campaign for 37% in 2011 to customer-oriented 39% in 2012 5% unsatisfied employees customers Unsatisfied customers declined from 7.7% in 2011 to 6.9% in 2012 Personal customer satisfaction in EPSI surveys, which compare Danish insurance companies, increased from 73.7% in 2011 to 75.7% in 2012 48 Back to contents Employees Focus areas Main activities in Results in Goals for 2013 Global Compact 2012 2012 principles Health Health check 34% of Same activities 2 (Right of Healthy canteen employees as in 2012 plus physical and service participated in opportunity of mental health) Various health check mindfullness presentations — 2% increase course Cycling campaign from 2011 Cycle repairs Jogging 334 employees Advice on stress participated in management ”We cycle to work” campaign 200 employees registered with Cykelven (Cycle friend) 37 executives attended stress course Job satisfaction Job satisfaction Made in 2011 To be made in 2 (Including Right survey but not in 2012 February 2013 of physical and mental health) Suppliers Focus areas Main activities Results in 2012 Goals for 2013 Global Compact in 2012 principles Dehumidification Improved Reduced energy Establishment 2012: 8 in the event of control of consumption of uniform 2013: all water damage dehumidification due to procedures and dehumidification ethical guidelines for responsible supplier co-operation  49 Outline and data Products and services Focus areas Main activities Results in 2012 Goals for 2013 Global Compact in 2012 principles Agricultural loss Establishment of No specific Take Top Farm 8 prevention Top Farm — ”role results as the into use for model” for loss farm had not training etc. prevention been taken into Gain experience active use from Top Farm and establish another Top Farm Prevention of Implementation Not yet Continue Top 2 (Right of personal injuries of Top Care calculated when Care labour and Right this report was of physical and closed mental health) Prevention of Advice on stress Not yet Continue advice 2 (Including Right personal injuries calculated when on stress of physical and management this report was management mental health)) closed Prevention of Preparing of No specific Implementing of loss and personal prevention site the site injuries all business areas 50 Back to contents Society Focus areas Main activities in Results in 2012 Goals for 2013 Global Compact 2012 principles Employ finance 24 finance trainees, 5 Same number 1 (Right of trainees and offer finance economists and education) work placement 14 finance bachelors programme to finance bachelors Education and finance economists Establishment of The actual mentor Continue 1 (Right of mentor scheme scheme mentor scheme education) for a pupil Share knowledge Held own and Continue 8, 9 of solar cell participated in external to share system events on solar cell knowledge systems / sustainable types of energy Participation in Contribution to Continue 8 climate group municipalities’ climate participation in Environment protection plan climate group Participation Various activities Campaign for 8 in climate and motivating employees public transport mobility network to cycle to work Continue existing activities Doctors without DKK 166,200 Continue 2 Borders sponsorship Danish Blood 120 registered Continue to 2 (Right of Bank employees work with Blood physical and Bank mental health) Donations Denmark DKK 135.950 Employees, as Collection voluntary help in call centres, and Topdanmark, as a company, will support the Denmark Collection  51 Outline and data Indicators of working conditions General information 2011 2012 Full-time employees 2337 2388 Part-time employees 262 254 Total number of employees 2599 2642 Employees with temporary contract 14 15 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 2533 2577 Diversity 2011 2012 Age and m/f Males Females Total Males Females Total -19 3 2 5 3 1 4 20-29 136 186 322 172 190 362 30-39 350 380 730 375 372 747 40-49 386 344 730 390 343 733 50-59 327 260 587 312 257 569 60155 70 224 147 80 227 Total 1357 1242 2599 1399 1243 2642 Executives and m/f (excluding Executive Board) 2011 2012 Males Females Total Males Females Total Executives at 18 2 20 18 2 20 level 1 Executives at 34 22 56 36 27 63 level 2 Executives at 89 66 155 88 71 159 level 3 52 Back to contents Job satisfaction 2011 2012 Absence due to illness 1) 3.1 % 3.0 % Staff composition 2) 9.8 % 8.7 % Incidents of discrimination 0 1 Employees on reduced hours 14 14 Development of employees’ skills 37m DKK 45m DKK 1) The percentage means that illness represented 3% of total working hours for each employee in average. The percentage is for all employees. 2) Definition: Employees who have left the company either voluntarily, have been dismissed, have retired or died while in work.  53 Outline and data Back to contents Carbon emissions accounts List of carbon emissions in 2011 and 2012 2011 – tonnes 2012 Heat consumption natural gas 863 963 Scope 1 Use of company car for business purposes 700 706 Heat consumption – district heating 110 116 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 3775 3558 Use of own car for business purposes 1976 1976 Scope 3 Total absolute carbon emissions 7424 7319 Total carbon emissions per full-time employee 3.2 3.1 In 2012 the solar cell system produced 159560 kWh representing a carbon saving of around 100 tonnes. Social accounting By operating a profitable business 2013 we will again prepare social accounts for Topdanmark contributes significant, annual the year 2012, which will be available on our amounts to Danish national funds through website. direct corporation taxes and indirect taxes. In the CSR report for 2011 we prepared for WWW See our social accounting for 2011 the first time “social accounts”, which were a calculation of our tax payments. In March Topdanmark A/S Borupvang 4 DK2750 Ballerup Tel + 45 44 68 33 11 Reg. No. 78040017 E-mail: topdanmark@topdanmark.dk 52227UK 01.2012 Web: www.topdanmark.com 54
