ANNUAL INFORMING OF THE “GLOBAL COMPACT” ON THE ACHIEVED RESULTS AND GENERAL PROGRESS Company University of banking of the National Bank of Ukraine (Kyiv) Divisions Institute for masters and postgraduate studies (Kyiv) Lviv banking institute; Kharkiv banking institute; Cherkasy banking institute. Address Anriivska str., 1, Kyiv, 04070 Country Ukraine Contact Protsenko Olexander Position of contact person Deputy director of Cherkasy banking institute of University of banking of the National Bank of Ukraine (Kyiv) Contact information 0472-64-43-55; (phone., fax, e-mail) nmr@cibs.ck.ua Date of joining the Global 20.09.2010 Compact Number of employees 867 Human Rights Labour Standards Environment Principles The Anti-Corruption Principle Page 1 of 18 Introduction The University of Banking of the National Bank of Ukraine (Kyiv) (hereafter – the University) is one of six higher educational establishments members of Global Compact in 2011. The University is a state institution which teaches young people according to the programme at the educational-qualification levels of Bachelor, Specialist and Master by directions and specialties “Finance and Credit”, “Banking”, “Accounting and Audit”, “Economic Cybernetics”, “Human Resource Management and Labour Economics”. It also trains for higher qualifications of PhD by specialty 08.00.08 “Money, Finance and Credit”, 08.00.09 – “Accounting, Analysis and Auditing” (according to the kinds of economic activities), 08.00.11 “Mathematical Methods, Models and Computer Technologies in Economics”. Also? The University provides training programs for business administration/ In addition to it, the University carries out training of foreigners, retraining of students that get second higher education, improvement of skills of the public sector workers, advanced training of the financial and credit institutions employees, preparing for entry into higher educational institutions of Ukraine. As of December 30, 2012, 1935 students in internal educational form and 195 students in extra-mural educational form at the educational-qualification level of Bachelor; 15 students in internal educational form and 517 students in extra-mural educational form at the educational-qualification level of Specialist; 866 students in internal educational form and 455 students in extra-mural educational form at the educational-qualification level of Master; 16 postgraduates in internal educational form and 68 postgraduates in extra-mural educational form study at the University. 6 persons study in the doctoral of the University. The University comprises 4 Institutes: the Institute of Masters and Postgraduate Education (Kyiv), Lviv Institute of Banking, Kharkiv Institute of Banking, and Cherkasy Institute of Banking. It should be noted that the management and teaching staff of the University traditionally dedicated their activity to the questions of the sustainable development. Since the foundation the University graduate students taught discipline “Corporate social responsibility” as a random component of their training. This discipline since 2013/2014 school year will join to the regulatory components of the Master specialty “Economics and Entepreneuship”. Lecturers of University actively participated in the preparation of the curriculum of regulatory discipline in the working group formed by the of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine. In addition, University experts joined a working group formed by abovementioned Ministry that is developing guidelines for assessing the level of corporate social responsibility. Page 2 of 18 Statement of the Rector of the University of Banking of the National Bank of Ukraine (Kyiv City) to support the Global Compact Principles Smovzhenko Tamara rector of the University of Banking of the National Bank of Ukraine (Kyiv City), doctor of economical sciences, professor Page 3 of 18 Banking University is proud to present the second report on progress. This report introduces data on the activities of the University in 2012 calendar year on human rights, the provision of appropriate labour relations, environmental protection and anti-corruption. The University plans to expand and deepen these activities in the future. The University is aware of the urgent need for immediate action at global and local levels to promote the ideology and practice of sustainable development and declares unconditional support of Global Compact principles and the commitment to their constant and consistent practical implementation in their daily activities. The University understands that compliance with the principles of sustainable development is one of those productive driving forces that determine the structure and content of higher education and contribute to the training into practice ready to implement the principles of sustainable development into practice regardless of where and in what capacity they were working. The purpose of the University is organizing a joint, coordinated work of the administration, teaching staff and students, in order to establish close contacts with all stakeholders to deploy the most effective activities to ensure a clean and healthy environment so as prerequisites productive life. It has been 3 years since then as the University joined the Global Compact. During this time, much has been done, and in the future to do much more. The University believes that the principles of sustainable development must be integrated into all areas of its activities. To achieve this in an environment where there are frequent ignorance of the existence of such institutions as the United Nations Global Compact is a daunting task, but it does not defer, but rather inspires University that is proud to be ranked among the world leaders in the movement for sustainable development. Rector of the University of Banking of the National Bank of Ukraine (Kiev), Doctor of Economical Sciences, Professor T. Smovzhenko Page 4 of 18 PURPOSE OF REPORT The report is carried out by the group of employees of the University. For this report were used the data concerning the activity of University in 2011, got from the administration, academic and support staff, students, and also the data is taken from the printed issues and Web site of the University. The group acted on recommendations of GDI 3 while carrying out the report. The report is done for the Administration of the National Bank of Ukraine, the University and its structural divisions, all employees and students, public organizations and partners the University cooperates with. MANAGEMENT, PARTICIPATION AND PARTNERSHIP The management of the University is executed by the rector who was designated at the Conference of work collective. The rector when determining the strategic directions and policy of the University bases himself on the decisions of the Board of Studies of the University which is organized to consider the primary issues of its activity. The rector and the Board of Studies of the University get for their work thorough assistance from the administration of the National Bank of Ukraine. The Board of Studies of the University, the Board of Studies of Lviv, Kharkiv and Cherkasy Institutes of Banking determine the organizational, scientific, educational and institutional directions of University activity. To solve the issues arising in the University the working parties are organized among the members of the Board of Sciences. For the reporting period the University Board of Sciences held 8 meetings where worked up 22 planned issues and 77 other ones. At the Institutes of the University the student self-government has been organized and it is taking active part in implementation of Global Agreement principles. The University of banking of the National bank of Ukraine (Kyiv) during five years supports and improves the certified quality control system that is you known in the world and in Ukraine as the index of standards of ISO of series 9001:2008, which are accepted as national (ISO 9001:2008). The control system responsiveness of the University of banking of the National Bank of Ukraine to the world standards is confirmed by the certificate of external independent certification body of Great Britain (United Registrar of Systems), issued in April of 2011 for a term of three years. For the analysis of the University activity involved internal auditors/ Internal audit is conducted including to determine compliance with the University of action principles of the Global Compact. Prepared as a result of internal audit reports are provided to the administration for review and implementation of corrective actions. The partners of the University is the National bank of Ukraine, The Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine, local executive administration and bodies of local self-government, commercial banks, insurance Page 5 of 18 companies, auditing companies, credit unions, other enterprises, establishments and organizations, lecturers of the University, assistant personnel of the University, students, and other participants of educational and educative process. Their involving into the compiling of further reports is one of foremost measures aimed at the improvement of reporting in the future. Page 6 of 18 Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 2. Business should ensure that their own operations are not complicit in human rights abuses. Page 7 of 18 Our Policy and Responsibilities University policy is strict compliance with the requirements of the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the Constitution of Ukraine and its laws. Hiring, promotion for posts, rewarding employees are, regardless of their sex, age, religious beliefs and so on. Retention and staff are at the expense of flexible material and moral incentives. All the administrative documents of the University and its business units, including those relating to the rights of citizens, legal service are necessarily checked for compliance with applicable law. In the statutory terms between management and employees of the University a collective agreement is concluded under which the annual results are reported to the University administration and to the staff. Brief description of our internal actions system over the last year The question of human rights and a worker is regularly examined and analyzed by the university administration. Each year the activities in this field are Human rights: Principles 1 2 summarized when reporting to the staff about the consequences of the collective agreement. All the categories of employees of the University, who under the current law set a mandatory of medical examination every year, pass it. It indicated, the University employees receive vouchers for health care settings, in addition, at the request of the employee it partially offset the costs of treatment. Given the specific requirements for the equipment of jobs of office workers, the University has work to ensure optimum working conditions for teaching staff, support staff and learning environment of students. For this purpose, as required new furniture and equipment are bought, the current and capital repairs of buildings and structures are carried out. Training of administration and coaching staff and students on safety and fire safety is regularly conducted. Cases of occupational diseases, death or injury at work in 2012 were not observed. Last year the University administration did not receive complaints from consumers of services and personnel-related human rights violations in the sphere of influence of the University. As in the previous years lawsuits for human rights violations associated with the University were absent. Page 8 of 18 Actions and Activities Planned for Next Year The following year, the University administration plans to continue work on human rights in their activities? Strictly adhering to the principles of the Global Compact and the requirements of the national legislation of Ukraine. Results or Outcomes Measurement In the reporting year: 1) 5 employees received vouchers for a spa treatment; 2) 504 employees received free medical examinations; 3) 54 classrooms and offices were equipped with air-conditioned, which helped ensure optimal working conditions in them. Human rights: Principles 1 2 Page 9 of 18 Principle 3. Business should uphold the freedom of labour union and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. Business should uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory LABOUR STANDARDS labour. Principle 5. Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6. Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Page 10 of 18 Our Policy and Responsibilities All interested staff and students are members of labour unions. Total labour union organization has 2,873 members. The University provides the measures called for to exclude the use of forced and involuntary labour. The University ensures compliance with Ukrainian legislation standards under which the application of child labour is prohibited. The University is consistently held to job hiring and promotion nondiscrimination principle as well as non-discrimination doctrine of students admission to study. Brief description of our internal actions system over the last year The relationship between the University administration and its employees and students do not depend on whether the employee or student is a member of labour union. The University administration creates the necessary conditions for Labour standards: Principles 3 6 the labour union leadership and it ensures money transfer specified by the collective agreement, constituting 0.3% of salary for the labour union needs. Any employee or student can freely join the union to be chosen. The authorized labour union representatives are actively involved in collective bargaining and monitoring of its stipulations. The University administration provides monitoring the employees working conditions, including their overtime work compensation or compensatory time off. All the University staff and students are familiar with their working and learning conditions. These conditions are stipulated by the rules of innerUniversity regulations, international documents and legislation of Ukraine. When hiring citizens to the University the personnel service is guided by the Ukrainian legislation requirements on the minimum citizen age admission to hire. The main indicators of the University employees hiring and promoting are qualification, experience and professional skills. Students studying for the qualification of Bachelor are admitted to the University solely on the basis of external testing (exept for persons who belong to disabilities and other disadvantaged groups), who enter the results of entrance examinations. For Master educational qualification – students sit entrance exams. The4 results of these exams are the basis for admission to University. Progress and results of the admissions made public on the Internet. Page 11 of 18 Actions and Activities Planned for Next Year The University administration in the future plans to cooperate with trade unions in order to guarantee freedom of association of workers/ In addition? Trade unions involved to discuss the terms of the collective agreement and will serve a party at this signing. There will also be monitored labour conditions and the learning environment of students to prevent their use for forced and involuntary labour. Criteria for the selection and promotion of personnel will be improved. University administration will be working to ensure absolute transparency. Results or Outcomes Measurement Currently at the University everyone who wants of staff and students are members of trade unions/ The University administration promotes trade unions activities? Treating them as a partner organization in respecting the principles of the Global Compact. According to audit results conducted by the National Bank of Ukraine and other regulatory authorities any cases of the forced and involuntary labour use haven’t been identified at the University. The University does not use child labour. At the University discrimination during employees hiring or students enrolling is unavailable that the internal and external audits data are confirmed. Labour standards: Principles 3 6 Page 12 of 18 Principle 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8. Business should undertake ENVIRONMENT initiatives to promote greater PRINCIPLES environmental responsibility. Principle 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Page 13 of 18 Our Policy and Responsibilities The University supports the provisions of the Rio Declaration, it uses in its work certain provisions of standards ISO 14000 series. In May 2011 the University worked out and approved a list of measures to ensure a higher level of the environmental responsibility. These measures were enacted by the order of the University of 06.05.2011 № 144. The University seeks to minimize the impact of its own activity on the environment. Brief description of our internal actions system over the last year The University has implemented a number of procedures aimed at reducing the environmental impact, in particular for recycling centrally seem old tires, waste oil, mercury-containing lamps, old batteries, computer monitors and other equipment and parts that contain polluting the environment matter. The University adopted a minimum set of measures to promote environmental conservation. As part of these measures, replacement of incandescent bulbs with energy efficient bulbs in all window openings inserted energy efficient windows. The University has consistently pursued policies aimed at reducing energy consumption and water. In addition, the premises of Environment Principles: Principles 7 9 the University and in the locations copier placed stickers calling save paper and energy. The smooth interaction of environmental and conservation organizations and movements. In the course of preparing students introduced discipline Environmental Ethics. The University developed and used special characters, calling save water, electricity, paper and collect trash. University students are also steering clear of environmentally activities. In 2012, they carried out the collection of waste batteries and their subsequent transmission for processing. Shares were held in clearing debris from park areas in Lviv, Kharkiv and Cherkasy. It has become a traditional event with students planting trees. In 2012, they were planted more than 200 trees in Kharkiv and Cherkasy region on the banks of the river Vilshanka. The University developed environmental calendar dates, according to which events are held, particularly interviews, roundtables with the participation of students and others. Page 14 of 18 Actions and Activities Planned for Next Year Next year we plan to continue cooperation with the representation of the Global Compact in Ukraine, as well as specialized committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on protection and presentation of the environment/ Special attention will be given to outreach to staff, students, other stakeholders, whose main purpose is learning Environmentally behaviour. Results or Outcomes Measurement University electricity consumption fell down on 5600 kW/h, compared with the 2011 year. University water consumption decreased on 600 cubic meters, compared with the 2011 year. In 2012 put into recycling 5200 kg of waste paper/ Environment Principles: Principles 7 9 Page 15 of 18 Principle 10.Business should work THE ANTI-CORRUPTION against all forms of corruption, PRINCIPLE including extortion and bribery. Page 16 of 18 Our Policy and Responsibilities The University does not operate in any sphere of the activities so that the law is broken, even if such actions assisted the receiving of immediate benefit. Brief description of our internal actions system over the last year All officers of the University are acquainted with the responsibility for violation of anticorruption legislation. Certified quality control system is applied in the University, in its scopes there are the worked out procedures that allow the executives, acting according to certain algorithms, to provide accordance of activities of the University with the standards set by current legislation. In the University there is hot telephone line which can be used by any The Anti-Corruption Principle: Principle 10 employee or student to report about illegal corruption actions in relation to him/her. Actions and Activities Planned for Next Year In the University further realization of elucidative work is planned among personnel and students directed to the fight against cases of corruption. Results or Outcomes Measurement For the reporting period the employees of the University were not brought to responsibility in connection with corruption offences. Page 17 of 18 PROVIDING ACQUAINTANCE WITH THE REPORT ON GENERAL PROGRESS BY THE MANAGEMENT OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF UKRAINE, PARTNERS AND OTHER INTERESTED PARTIES Copies of the report on general progress will be passed to the top management of the National Bank of Ukraine. For the acquaintance of partners and other interested parties it is published on the web site of the University of Banking www.ubs.gov.ua. Page 18 of 18
