Annual Report 2012 solutions Markets in sight & insight facts contents Markets in sight Print Solutions 14 Laser Industry 22 Industrial System Solutions 28 Service Solutions 36 Social Responsibility 42 Insight Facts Information for Shareholders 50 Group Management Report 56 Financial Statement 96 Further Information 152 >> KEY DATA Please turn over The company The technotrans Group is a technology and service company that concenKeY Data of the trates successfully on applications derived from its core skill of liquid technology. technotrans group (IFRS) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 With 20 locations and more than 750 employees, the technotrans Group enjoys a presence in all major markets worldwide. Over many years, technotrans has concertedly been exploring new segments and areas of application for its core Earnings skills of temperature control, filtration and separation, measuring and metering Revenue  € ’000 90,662 97,265 85,887 82,210 141,677 technology as well as process control. Its strategy focuses on sustained, profitTechnology  € ’000 53,733 61,673 51,388 48,808 103,840 driven development. Services  € ’000 36,929 35,592 34,499 33,402 37,837 technotrans’ business is divided into two segments: Technology and Services. Gross profit  € ’000 31,652 30,779 25,457 16,657 35,745 The Technology segment generates around two-thirds of total revenue. As a leading EBITDA  1 € ’000 8,319 7,980 6,585 – 4,284 12,177 systems supplier, in this area of activity the company develops and sells a wide Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)  € ’000 5,357 4,787 3,036 – 11,929 – 38 range of systems and equipment for controlling and monitoring processes that Net profit for the period  € ’000 3,094 3,019 1,517 – 10,347 – 2,852 involve liquid technology. Its largest clients are still the world’s leading printing press manufacturers, which equip their printing presses ex works with technotrans as % of revenue % 3.4 3.1 1.8 – 12.6 – 2.0 equipment. In addition, the company is specifically unlocking new applications that Net profit per share (IFRS)  € 0.48 0.47 0.24 – 1.65 – 0.45 open up new markets for its core skills, thus guaranteeing its sustained future Dividend per share  € 0.12* 0 0 0 0 growth. With the takeover of Termotek AG (2011) and a majority interest in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH (2013), the technotrans Group has extended its exposure in Balance sheet the growth market for laser applications. Issued capital  € ’000 6,908 6,908 6,908 6,908 6,908 The Technology segment is complemented by the Services segment. techno­ Equity  € ’000 40,865 37,291 33,884 31,287 41,816 trans’ activities are rounded off by an extensive range of services. These ­include providing customer support for the installation, maintenance and operation of sysEquity ratio % 63.2 55.5 50.0 45.2 47.7 tems. Activities in the field of Technical Documentation are another key area of Return on equity % 7.9 8.5 4.7 – 29.6 – 5.8 activity for the company, with its practical software solutions, services and translaBalance sheet total  € ’000 64,705 67,215 67,779 69,242 87,612 tions used by a diverse portfolio of customers from many different sectors. Net debt 2  € ’000 – 8,462 4,890 5,895 12,374 18,705 Working Capital 3  € ’000 27,087 18,527 17,126 7,847 26,177 ROCE %4 10.1 8.9 5.7 – 21.3 – 0.1 Employees Numer of employees (average) 646 659 620 676 823 Personal expenses  € ’000 32,651 33,224 30,843 31,975 41,628 as % of revenue  % 36.0 34.2 35.9 38.9 29.4 Revenue per employee  € ’000 140 148 139 122 172 Cashflow Cashflow 5 € ’000 10,979 5,868 7,418 3,640 6,747 Free Cash flow  6 € ’000 13,172 3,606 6,287 2,435 363 Shares Number of shares at end of period 6,455,404 6,432,775 6,340,035 6,311,415 6,271,797 Share price (max)  € 7.20 7.51 7.25 6.10 17.09 Share price (min) € 4.10 4.01 4.40 2.97 3.54 1 EBITDA = EBIT + depreciation on intangible and tangible assets 2 Net debt = financial liabilities + non-current provisions – cash and cash equivalents 3 Working Capital = current assets – current liabilities 4 ROCE = EBIT/Capital employed 5 Cash flow = cash from operating activities acc. to cash flow statement 6 Free Cash flow = cash from operating activities + cash used for investments acc. to cash flow statement *Proposal to the Shareholder Meeting Markets in Sight PROJECTS 2012 New projects 2012 Content We are specialists for page Page Temperature 14 22 Control. fluid Digital / flexographic printing Laser / cooling technology Print Solutions Laser industry 28 page page 36 Conditioning. Ink and Fluid ­Technology. Spray lubrication / e-mobility Service / gds-Sprachenwelt industrial Solutions Service solutions 42 page Service Global Compact / Friedensdorf solutions. social Responsibility and more We create hot and cold with German precision. we are temperature control We make LIQUIDS the way they should be. Every day. we are fluid conditioning We leave a lasting ­impression wherever we are. we are Ink fluid and Technology We help you out. Every time. Everywhere. With everything. we are service solutions From 0,000000000106 metres is the size of a hydrogen atom, the smallest in the periodic table. That is why we use hydrogen to check the tightness of our maximum ­to refrigerant circuits. If hydrogen cannot leak out, refrigerant won’t either. That provides lasting protection for both the environment and the equipment we supply. minimum refrigerant technotrans 2012 hydrogen atom World in figures 2,269 h/month 2,500 m2 1,062 different versions That is the difference in the average monthly volume of of office and production area went into use at Taicang, work that technotrans accommodated in 2012, in response ­China, in 2012. This is where KLH and technotrans have were made by technotrans in 2012 for 16 product lines. to market requirements. That basically means we are able pooled their expertise and capacity in order to supply local This confirms the growing trend towards customisation at our customers. In return, we need to continually optimise our to respond very flexibly to changing production situations. customers with products made in the country. That reduces production processes. At technotrans, we use modular components in a variety of ways in order to fulfil individual customer Whether we need to handle production peaks or contracting structural costs and boosts efficiency. preferences. levels. And always exclusively by internal measures. 12 technotrans / Markets in sight Markets in sight / technotrans 13 print Name Ralph Pernizsak Position solutions Head of Temperature Control Business Unit D igital printing is increasingly dominating the printing edge, there is also our worldwide network – in other words, industry. That makes it an exciting area of activity customers can depend on our reliability and concentrate on for technotrans, too. Ralph Pernizsak, Head of the creating new innovations. Temperature Control Business Unit at technotrans, explains why in our interview. What enabled technotrans to qualify as a new partner to Hewlett-Packard? Thanks to its continuing development, the printing I think our comprehensive range and versatility were industry remains an exciting and promising market ­­for technotrans enjoys a strong reputation as a system partthe main advantages. Especially in digital printing, the inno­ ­technotrans, and one in which we can make the most ­of ner in offset printing. Why have other printing methods vation cycles are much shorter than in the offset industry, our expertise. Serving the world with new technologies previously not played a part in your business model? so you have to respond flexibly. We achieved that with our and ideas “Made in Germany”. Until now, our expertise and technology have barely feauncomplicated plug & play solution for Hewlett-Packard. Of tured other printing methods because standards of efficiency course, it also helps if customers and purchasers are fa­mi­l­iar in digital printing, for example, were lagging way behind offset with technotrans from other areas and are convinced of our printing. But over the past few years we’ve noticed that digital technology. printing is catching up. That now makes it an interesting area for us, too, because we can bring our core skills into play there, As well as digital printing, you have also ventured into often through a straightforward transfer of technology. flexographic printing. Worldwide It’s a similar case to digital printing. The basic task is Many dubbed drupa 2012 the “digital printing show”. the same: efficient temperature control. Obviously we need Was that the starting point for addressing this topic? to adapt our technology, but the key aspects are familiar System solutions No. It isn’t entirely new ground for us. For instance we’ve t­erritory. There is moreover huge growth potential in the Experience been supplying the Kodak Nexpress and Miyakoshi for quite packaging market, which is all about forward-looking techOffset printing some time. We’ve therefore been observing developments nology. We naturally want to be a part of it. technotrans for a while now, and have become actively involved. Here is Innovation a good example: two years ago we unveiled a colour copier Does that mean offset printing is becoming less imporwith water cooling at the Hunkeler Innovationdays. People tant to technotrans? found it amusing that you could take cooled drinks out of Not at all. technotrans is the world market leader in Technology transfer Energy efficiency the output tray, but few of them realised its full implications. that area and a long-standing system partner. It is our core This year, a manufacturer launched a very similar cooling business. It is healthy, and thrives on stable customer resystem with a view to improving performance. Unfortunately it lationships. That market, too, will naturally continue to see was hidden inside the machine, so not sufficiently apparent. innovations and changes. And we are perfectly positioned as a partner that defines the benchmark technologies. Future market So what has been your perception with regard to drupa? From our point of view drupa definitely provided visitors Thank you for the interview. with business models to launch on-demand, customisation and life-cycle management for packaging and commercial Flexographic printing Digital printing printing. Many ideas made the jump from theory to practice and appeared in innovative equipment that opens the door to new, exciting opportunities. Thanks to our long-standing experience, everyone knows technotrans to be an expert partner for cooling. As well as having the technical knowl14 technotrans / Markets in sight Markets in sight / technotrans 15 Print Solutions Projects Building the Future Through Innovation € 435 billion 2015 22.5m tons 2016 The anticipated volume of printing business worldwide ­in The world market for flexible packaging will reach this vol2015 according to industry experts. They expect the share ume by 2016. This development is being driven mainly by of digital printing to rise sharply by 2015 from a current the advantages that this type of packaging offers: it protects ­20 % of the advertising printing market. the contents better and helps them keep for longer. Projects 2012 Print Solutions T he prospects for the printing industry are widely perFlexographic printing Digital printing ceived as no better than modest. Particularly so for offset printing. But those players that are the techDigital future as an ­ nology leaders in their field, like technotrans, are focusing on Pretty Flexible all-in package innovations and new markets. We were again able to demon­ Flexographic printing is used for printing plastic films, ­for strate in 2012 that success is achievable. With products instance. With the move away from boxes or cans as the prethat reflect our wealth of experience and expertise – that is ferred form of packaging for many types of consumer goods, what makes us a full-liner offering custom-made solutions. flexographic printing is a genuine growth segment which technotrans is addressing very successfully. F­lexographic Flexographic printing Digital Printing printing presses basically work like a stamp: blanket cylinders apply ink to a web of film that is secured permanently technotrans becoming even by an impression cylinder for maximum precision. more flexible. Cool with technotrans­ But even here there are drawbacks: temperature control Thanks to new technologies and advances, digital printof the central impression cylinder is often imprecise, impacting is the perfect basis for new business models for p ­ rinting ing print quality and reducing energy efficiency. In addition, and communications service providers. The new Hewlettthe lack of interaction with the other press components Packard Indigo 10000, which was unveiled at the drupa, makes the whole system less user-friendly. Inking units on raised the bar even higher. It also demonstrated that digital flexographic printing presses consume a lot of energy beprinting on an industrial scale is a rapidly growing market cause of the compressed air drive, the need for frequent segment. diaphragm changes reduces press availability, and high ink With its expertise and services, technotrans is the ideal losses during changeovers result in high costs. We are aimHP Indigo 10000 partner for Hewlett-Packard and other manufacturers wishing to find a lasting solution to this constellation of problems The new flagship version from the renowned printer manuing to share in the success of digital printing. Thanks to its for a renowned flexographic printing OEM. facturer redefines the benchmark for digital printing. Featuring high market share in the offset sector and its good global Accurate temperature control of the central impression ­technology from the systems supplier technotrans. Ready for the tasks of tomorrow. connections with printers, technotrans is ideally placed to cylinder significantly increases print quality, for instance, access this area. Its advantages include the worldwide serwhile precise adjustment of various parameters that can vice network, with the technical expertise it can offer, and its even take place during operation improves energy efficiency. reliable, high-quality temperature control systems. Our technology ensures that the refrigeration control reflects output requirements, paving the way for permanent Integration of cylinder temperature control into the press control system moreover allows the press to be permanently monitored. With regard to the ink supply, too, technology The Future of Flexo energy efficiency and increased productivity. Printers and transfer is helping us to cut energy consumption and costs, HP, too, need no longer concern themselves with the coolas well as improve press availability. Developments in this Flexible packaging accounts for a steadily growing share of the packaging industry. ing technology. Our renowned close relations with customarea have not yet reached the end of the road and still offer There are many reasons for this trend ers and worldwide service arrangements based on service ample scope. As well as affording better protection and longevity, it improves product costs and visibility. This sector is correspondingly contracts make us the full-line partner for system-specific primed for growth. Whereas worldwide revenue for this industry was $ 58.3 billion in 2011, a study forecasts that revenue will products. For Hewlett-Packard and other companies in the TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER TO ­ reach $ 71.3 billion by 2016. Over half of that revenue will be achieved in Asia, with India and China the principal sources. Yet print solutions area. NEW MARKETS it will be no easy ride, because dwindling resources, environmental constraints and costs call for a major green engin­eering effort. Not only is technotrans known for its pioneering concepts for offset printing; it has already been practising green engineering for a long time. In other words, we are perfectly prepared for developing tomorrow’s innovative solutions. 18 technotrans / Markets in sight Markets in sight / technotrans 19 W ith the takeover of KLH Kältetechnik, the techno­ India and Brazil, and everything went perfectly smoothly and trans Group has demonstrated its status as a to the full satisfaction of KLH’s customers. full-line supplier in the field of laser technology and unlocked fresh scope for competing in the international What persuaded you to take your association with techarena. Daniel Selck, Managing Director of KLH, explains the notrans to the next level, leading to its majority stake? laser reasons in this interview. There were several important factors. Increasing customisation in the marketplace is driving the trend towards smaller unit quantities, while the technological standards Mr Selck, KLH focuses very much on cooling systems­­­ are becoming ever tougher. ­ The growing demands that for laser machining. How did you get into that area? this places on the research and development side can be Laser technology is an application area that calls for ­addressed better by a corporate alliance, because it has industry technically sophisticated, high-quality cooling solutions. KLH deeper resources and a stronger team. The international is at home in that environment, in which it can offer a range sales and service network is obviously a real bonus, too. As of innovative, high-performance products. is the group’s financial strength when it comes to funding future investment projects. All in all, that provides certainty From its beginnings in the small town of Bad Doberan, for our customers and builds a lasting bond between them your company has branched out all the way to Asia. and us. Isn’t that unusual for a mid-cap business? Not really. We in effect followed our customers. The What are your plans following the sale of KLH? Trumpf company’s move was just the tipping point. Once this I’m definitely too young to retire! Anyway, KLH is still a manufacturer of laser technology decided to set up operavery exciting part of my life, among other things because I tions in Asia, it simply made sense for KLH to follow suit. On am still involved as an investor: along with my sister I still the one hand we didn’t want to miss out on contracts ­to suphave a 35 % interest. In my role of Managing Director I’m espliers over there, and on the other hand it provided us with a pecially eager now to make KLH a success within the group, technotrans has achieved its goal: we are a ­full-line gateway to fresh business. It was important for ­us not simply and to develop the company further. supplier of laser cooling. With the takeover of KLH to relocate everything; we wanted to set up new locations Kältetechnik, we can now meet virtually any customer that would enlarge our network and enable us to respond Thank you for your time. ­request. With innovative ideas, a perfected approach efficiently to customer requirements. As a result, ­all parties and individual backup. Anywhere in the world. benefited from the new constellation. How did your initial contact with technotrans come about? It was rather a bumpy ride at first. Back in 2000/2001 we contacted technotrans because we were interested in Low cooling performance becoming one of its producers. That all came to nothing, and remarkably our paths never crossed in the market for many Medium cooling performance years thereafter. Growing globalisation meant our customers, too, were becoming more demanding and by 2010 many of High cooling performance them were asking KLH to expand its international service. That prompted us to ask technotrans whether it could provide support for our customers in Japan through its network. The successful partnership was then gradually extended to ­China, Full-line supplier KLH System solutions Synergy 2013 technotrans Group Reduced costs Name DANIEL SELCK 2011 Position Managing Director of KLH Kältetechnik GmbH Termotek 22 technotrans / Markets in sight Markets in sight / technotrans 23 Laser Industry Projects How to venture­­ successfully into new markets. Projects 2012 Laser Industry T he expanding laser market has very rapidly developed system has a compact, user-friendly design. It is perfect for into a highly promising mainstay for technotrans. Its the production of smaller batches of sand cores and moulds progress has featured not just the successful takewithout the need for additional tools. It operates very preover of Termotek, but also the acquisition of KLH. With this cisely and cost-effectively. line-up we are now in a position to supply any cooling perforFor Termotek, this partnership is a good opportunity to mance, anywhere in the world. keep broadening its own core skills and exploit fresh opportunities for synergy. Photonics are coming Termotek We believe our healthy progress in the laser industry area will continue, in particular thanks to our new position as a full-line supplier covering all areas: we can now give A Refreshing Success Story customers precisely the products they need, whatever the the laser market fully maintained its positive development in 2012. Just two years on from its takeover, Termotek can boast scale of the order. In Germany, it achieved an average growth rate of 10 % on the one hand thanks to steady domestic demand and on the an array of achievements that show how right technotrans other hand by virtue of good exports, which actually rose by 20 %. Even if growth is expected to be lower in 2013, the market was to seize this opportunity to extend its core skills in the KLH will remain mobile. Incoming orders, production processes and exports are all adapting to growing customisation and the field of laser technology. Of the many smaller projects underchanges that this is necessitating. Meanwhile it is becoming increasingly important to work the Asian market consistently. taken, two in particular stand out. The forecasts for 2013 reflect this very emphatically. Industrial production and plant investment are both set to rise by 3.5 % Following 18 months of collaboration between technoCool Operator globally, but the growth rates in Asia will be 6 % and 5 % respectively. trans america, Termotek and a renowned laser manufacturer Following on from the takeover of Termotek in 2011, within the Novartis Group in the USA, an order was placed technotrans rounds off its portfolio of laser cooling systems for cooling systems for a new femtosecond laser. With a with acquiring KLH Kältetechnik in 2013. This international KLH Termotek value running into the millions, it will bolster Termotek’s supplier of custom solutions for major clients enjoys good A wealth of expertise in lasers. In partnership with­technotrans earnings for some time to come. This innovative laser, used contacts with customers, especially in China, perfectly exEquipped for the future since 2011. in the treatment of cataracts, is noted for its very high precision, efficient operation and versatility of use. The cooling tending the reach of our group network. The advantages are obvious: as in the print area, technotrans is now also a fulltechnology for this innovative unit is supplied by Termotek. line provider of system solutions for lasers. One particular challenge needed to be met in configuring it: And we are ideally placed to benefit from synergy in 440% 40x as the laser is also used in very hot climates in premises the purchasing, production, sales and service areas. Rewithout air conditioning, the cooling performance needs to duced costs, more innovation and comprehensive service be exceptionally high. At the same time, the cooling unit are all features of a compelling concept that seeks to use must make optimum use of the available space inside the ­resources more efficiently, make structures leaner and focus laser. Termotek was able to build on its experience in workmore strongly on customer requirements. ing with other customers for medical applications. Another The extended range of services comprising cus­­tomerVolumen years advantage is our service and logistics network in the field, which ensures that customers benefit from swift and efficient specific concepts alongside system solutions enables ­technotrans to deploy its renowned strengths such as local is the volume growth of the market for laser systems since is how long the world’s leading exhibition for lasers, the deliveries and service arrangements. support worldwide, efficient technology transfer and local 1993. Over the same period, the market for machinery has ­“LASER World of Photonics”, has been going as of 2013. In The second project with which Termotek has been very production in expanding this area of business. expanded by 80 %. Lasers occupy an increasingly important 2011, it attracted more than 1,075 exhibitors and 27,490 successful for some time is in the field of laser sintering place in production technology. That explains why they now visitors from 80 countries as a forum for discussing and of sand. A very high-calibre cooling system was developed account for about 13 % of the market volume for machine showcasing the shape of things to come. Termotek of course in collaboration with the market and technology leader. In tools. will be at this anniversary-year event. this instance it was especially important to use the available space economically because the innovative laser sintering 24 technotrans / Markets in sight Markets in sight / technotrans 25 INDUSTRIAL Name Christian Walczyk System Position Head of technotrans industrial system solutions ­SOLUTIONS T echnotrans is venturing down new paths with the What did that involve for spray lubrication, for example? ­industrial system solutions area. It sets out on this In that instance we knew that the market volume for journey equipped with the knowledge and e ­ xperience forming technology is around € 3.2 billion, roughly the same that have been acquired over many years, by many people, as the sheet-fed offset market. And the market structure is making our company distinctive and prepared to ­succeed. In very similar, with OEM customers located mainly in Germany this interview, Christian Walczyk reveals what it all involves. and Japan. We were also aware of the problems encountered Where is there still scope for technotrans to deploy with conventional spray lubrication technology. its core skills? Which markets might offer us interesting prospects? In which direction is our group heading? These What is “industrial system solutions” at technotrans all So what did you do next? are the questions that matter to everyone at technotrans. about? We considered how to increase precision while cutting Because we think a good idea doesn’t care who thought industrial system solutions is an innovative business oil consumption. Our expertise in spray dampening systems ­of it first. unit that was set up at technotrans in 2010. Our aim is to stood us in good stead there. In other words, we took our sound out new applications for technotrans’ core skills in tried-and-tested components, such as our high-frequency various different industries. It has worked very well so far. valves, and ultimately found a system solution that can easily be incorporated into production lines at customers. It is How do you come up with these new ideas? attracting plenty of interest both from end customers and Metal working There are various ways. On the one hand we obviously from press manufacturers, for example. hold brainstorming sessions within our area, usually across Forming and stamping technology the various disciplines. On the other hand everyone in the Where’s the connection with printing presses? group is encouraged to identify new ideas for expanding our At first glance it isn’t obvious, but ultimately it is irrelrange of activities. We naturally check the feasibility and evant where our technology is used. And liquid technology is usefulness of all ideas before proceeding any further. our core skill. The key thing is that it does the job. industrial solutions spray.xact How do you make contact with potential customers? Have any other new horizons opened up? We take the classic approach to canvassing. That ine-mobility is another big topic for us. As well as s ­ upplying volves exhibiting at various shows as a means of getting to original equipment for the Siemens trams, we are involved know potential partners and customers so that we can presin potential follow-on contracts. We’re obviously also talking ent our ideas to them. We also practise cold calling; in other to other players in this area. Then we are preparing projects words, if we have an idea that we believe in, we contact the involving equipment manufacturers and suppliers of battery technotrans new customers which we think are most likely to take it up. technology. Sustainability What then happens to such projects? Keep up the good work, then! Siemens It all starts with a customer application that we can Tram Qatar improve on with our core skills. We then start development e-mobility work, build a prototype that we test exhaustively with the Energy store customer, and once everything is working smoothly we give it the production go-ahead. That actually sounds quicker than Development partnership it is. From the initial idea to the finished product usually takes two to three years. 28 technotrans / Markets in sight Markets in sight / technotrans 29 Industrial system Solutions Projects Knowledge needs to be continually reinterpreted e-mobility and spray.xact A new take on core skills. Projects 2012 Industrial system Solutions I n 2009 technotrans started to establish a foothold in Siemens new markets with its long-established technical expertise. With this approach starting to produce dividends in 2011, we continued to pursue it in 2012. The result is On the Move with Siemens projects that rank as pioneering not just in their individual Electric mobility and energy stores are the watchwords industries, but for technotrans too. of the new millennium. They are becoming increasingly important especially in the domain of public transport. The Spray lubrication Siemens mobility project in Doha, Qatar, illustrates this particularly well. An 11.5 km tram network served by 19 trams is set to open from 2016 and operate without the need for technotrans into Oil any external energy sources. Siemens has developed a pioWhat do you do next when you have 30 years of techneering energy system based on the Avenia trams. It draws nological experience and 25,000 installed spray systems in power from two sources. On the one hand there are batteries Future: e-mobility project the graphic arts industry? You use that basis to promote that are recharged slowly while the trams are out of sertechnotrans products now sunning innovations in new industries. That is what technotrans has vice, and dispense their power equally slowly. On the other them­selves up top. The cooling system on done very impressively with its “spray.xact”, a system for hand there are capacitors that cover peak demand. They the tramcar roofs is designed to achieve its full performance when service life of precision spray lubrication for forming and stamping techare recharged very quickly at stops, and also store energy the other components starts to wane. nology. Existing solutions run on compressed air, making recovered from the brakes. However, the heat that these prothem costly and contaminating the equipment and the ambicesses generate reduces the performance and operating life Spray lubrication: spray.xact Perfect for out and about: spray.xact ent air with spray mist. The only solution is then to install of the capacitors, so it needs to be dissipated effectively. mobile. Its design principle means it can elab­orate extractor systems. A problem that is alien to the To address the problem, Siemens chose technotrans as its be used flexibly wherever needed, keep“spray.xact”. specialist for cooling systems. Finding the solution was a ing processes efficient, smooth and free from contamination. The easy-to-integrate, modular system does not rely on challenge for us, because it took our company into entirely compressed air for the spraying process, significantly lowernew territory and involved a completely new application for ing its power consumption and reducing the level of con­ our technology. tamination. No extractor is needed. Added to this, it delivers Siemens was impressed with the results on many difthe oil with reliable precision. All valves can be constantly adjusted via a central control, so economical metering of the oil eliminates oil losses. ferent levels. Over and above the sophisticated but highly efficient technology, it enjoys the benefits of technotrans’ worldwide sales and service network, which makes maintainPutting Energy into Saving Energy Various companies were so impressed with the ­“spray. ing the system a much easier affair. It was also an important xact” during the test phase that technotrans already restep for us as a company: as well as exploring the new marGreen engineering has been a buzzword in the corporate world for some time. ceived a number of orders. The presentation at Euroblech ket of energy stores, we were able to raise our profile as an But in many areas it has now evolved into a clearly defined task that involves the will to innovate and the dedication to 2012 was also a resounding success for us as a newcomer environmentally aware leading player for sustainability and plan ahead. Companies are working hard to improve their “green fingerprint . technotrans is no exception. Wherever we can, to this industry. Potential customers were thrilled not just ecology. we are improving our production, environmental management and logistics. Our customers, too, benefit from such products with the above advantages, but also with its user and operaas the beta.c eco+, which represents a clear leap forward in terms of energy efficiency. By using special components, we have tor-friendly design concept. been able to realise significant energy savings compared with conventional technology: consumption during production has been reduced by 55 %, and when a printing press is stationary, e.g. between jobs, the saving can be as high as 70 %. Our ACTIVELY EMBRACING GREEN customers benefit from lower costs, and less energy is used. We will continue to look for such solutions, because this is still ­ENGINEERING the dawning of green engineering and everyone needs to do their part. 32 technotrans / Markets in sight Markets in sight / technotrans 33 T he changes that our group is experiencing are also draw on the advantages offered by technotrans’ network for impacting the service solutions that technotrans ­is installation and maintenance tasks. able to offer its customers. To guarantee consist­ently high quality, this area too is witnessing a steady stream of What future challenges do you expect your area to improvements. Head of Service Hendirk Niestert explains ­encounter? Service the ramifications in this interview. Just like our products, customer service has to reflect individual customer requirements. For us, that means that we actively involve customers in the development of ­services. Mr Niestert, the technotrans Group is making inroads Personal, direct support is the order of the day, because you into new areas. What challenges does this entail for the need more than simply formulaic customer service if you Service area? aim to compete with the best. solutions The challenge is clearly about how to adapt our skills to the new areas of the company. It’s basically about ­fine-tuning What are the implications of that for service solutions? our processes so that we are able to respond to new indusLike other areas of the company, we too regard innovatries and situations. That is where technotrans’ internatio­nal tion as a key aspect. Ideally we always need to be one step outlook and good infrastructure are a genuine advantage, ahead of our customers’ requirements. In other words, we because they inform and teach us a lot about local markets provide ongoing training for employees and are continually and their requirements. The familiar effective partnership broadening our processes and structures so as to retain a with OEMs is just as big an advantage because of the imporcompetitive edge in future, too. tant insights it brings us. That experience helps us to adapt perfectly to new situations. Finally, what was your most memorable project this year? So does that mean there have been no real changes for I’d have to say logistics. We have put a lot of effort into you? Is there no difference between a printing press improving matters for our customers. That involved not just Many customers increasingly want effective service and e.g. a laser machining centre? modification of our facilities, but also in-depth staff training a ­ rrangements, naturally always to professional standards. On the face of the matter, there obviously are differto qualify as “known consignor” within our area. Thanks to Those who have an international and versatile service netences. But for us, that difference is more minor because we that status, there are now no restrictions on our ability to rework, like the technotrans Group, are at a real advantage remain within our core skill. To pick up on the example you spond flexibly and swiftly, e.g. if parts need to be dispatched in terms of customer loyalty. used, both involve cooling and maximising plant a ­ vailability by air freight. for sensitive processes, and that’s something we can handle. Obviously we are stepping up our engineers’ training Thank you for the interview. to prepare them for new situations. That’s why we have s ­ et up a dedicated refrigeration technology training centre in ­Sassenberg, for example. Has the takeover of Termotek and KLH created extra potential? Maintenance Definitely. We mainly perform repairs and supply parts for Termotek’s smaller-scale equipment. We have set up local Parts service hubs worldwide to provide optimum service. These Installation enable us to help customers directly and swiftly if problems International Technical documentation arise. For KLH’s large cooling units, OEM ­customers can Repairs sprachenwelt Service Services technotrans Name gds Hendirk Niestert Training centre Software solutions docuglobe Position docuportal Head of technotrans Service Solutions 36 technotrans / Markets in sight Markets in sight / technotrans 37 service Solutions Projects Always at the International service quality ready: ­perfect international The technotrans Group is at home all over the world. And knows its way round wherever it is in the world. That means we are always there for our customers when they need service us. Our international service network provides all-round support and individual solutions. As well as technical backup, parts supplies and training courses, we offer consultancy on how to optimise processes. That gives our customers the reassurance that everything will run properly, because they know they can rely on us. All the more reason to keep optimising and adjusting our service arrangements in line with what helps our customers. Projects 2012 Service Solutions G gds-Sprachenwelt ds AG made further progress along its successful push of a button from their familiar content management path this year. A new version of its docuglobe softsystem, capitalising on the benefits of cloud computing. ware, various awards and the takeover of SprachenThey receive the end product back from gds-Sprachenwelt welt GmbH reflect how this area of technotrans is equally GmbH just as smoothly. Another plus point is the time and capable of seizing opportunities effectively; thanks to its money saved by handling translation jobs internally. All steady development, its future prospects are excellent. these factors are a sound basis on which to develop new potential and capitalise on it. GDS-Sprachenwelt gds-Sprachenwelt eROCKIT We speak every language. Above all that of our customers. Perfect International Understanding Companies that operate on a global scale need global Breaking New Ground with the eROCKIT expertise in every area. That includes technical documentaAnyone wanting to sell their product successfully on tion in particular, as well as business and legal texts. gds AG the international stage will appreciate the importance of has been providing such services to its customers very sucbeing understood correctly wherever you are. Berlin-based cessfully for many years. In light of this, the takeover of eROCKIT GmbH fully appreciates that. Its eROCKIT, the Sprachenwelt GmbH marks an important step towards befirst human-hybrid bike, has been a worldwide sensation. coming even better – to the benefit of both the customer and ­Unlike an electric bike, the eROCKIT’s speed is governed by our entrepreneurial success. the pedalling rate. It is thus capable of accelerating to up gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH specialises in specialist transto ­­80 km/h. This is a new departure, so it was ­especially No.8 lations of texts in a variety of areas, and focuses o ­ n mediimportant to supply all the information in the manual logicine and marketing as well as technical documentation. cally and in accordance with international requirements. And it translates into all languages. The international team The ­manufacturer therefore turned to gds AG. This timeat locations in Hünfeld in Germany and Zurich in Switzerconsuming and intellectually demanding task was also very land brings together certified native-speaker translators interesting for both parties. It was therefore all the more with specialist qualifications, capable of covering all areas pleasing that the very first version was awarded with the Version competently. By way of a quality guarantee, Sprachenwelt GmbH is accredited to DIN EN 15038 and DIN EN ISO 9001 “dokupreis 2012”, the fourth time that gds AG has now been ­presented with this accolade. This was an entirely new No international service provider can afford to stand still. and undergoes regular checks to verify compliance with venture for eROCKIT, but one that confirmed they had made gds AG knows that as well as anyone. It therefore unveiled those standards. By additionally using translation memory precisely the right choice with us as their partner. Version 8 of its successful docuglobe editing system in systems, it enjoys maximum flexibility in meeting each indi­ eRockit rocks The eRockit, the first human-hybrid, is devel2012. docuglobe has already been used to optimise the vidual customer’s needs. This approach has already won oping into a real success story. And gds is a big ­ processes involved in compiling and managing technical it contracts for leading companies such as BMW, HP and Promoting international contributor. Excellence all round. documentation at more than 300 companies, where it is Siemens. ­understanding. used by over 1,500 people. The latest version accomplishes The newly acquired company now allows gds AG to offer a notable balancing act: how to handle the growing content services that previously had to be outsourced. Customers and quality requirements even more cost-effectively through benefit in a whole range of ways. For example, the direct inefficient processes. The new version has met with a positive terface between gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH’s services and the response from all quarters. docuglobe software significantly boosts user-friendliness and process reliability. One advantage here is that many docuglobe customers already submit translation jobs at the 40 technotrans / Markets in sight Markets in sight / technotrans 41 It’s all about building a better social future. responsibility Projects 2012 Social Responsibility T he THINK-LEARN-ACT philosophy is actively practised FRIEDENSDORF in the technotrans Group. It also informs our sense of social responsibility. We take up a clear stance in becoming involved in pioneering charitable and social The Value of Surviving ­projects that adopt a long-term view. We want to help build a The charity Friedensdorf International comes to the aid world that is fit for everyone. of children and young people from crisis zones worldwide. Every company bears responsibility. Towards its Its own mission statement is the best explanation for what ­ mployees, the environment and society. technotrans e GLOBAL COMPACT it does: “For as long as we witness day by day the physical is prepared to shoulder that responsibility wherever and emotional harm that is done to the youngest, weakwe are active. And elsewhere, too. est and most innocent members of society – children – we Making Universal Ideals the Norm will come to their aid!” It undertakes firm action to back technotrans believes it has an obligation to the internaup its declared aim. Physically and emotionally traumatised tional community to follow a consistent, moral set of values children and young people are flown to Germany with the in all its activities. That also includes encouraging customsupport of an extensive network of clinics, transport operaHuman rights ers and partners to subscribe to the same values wherever tors and businesses, and given comprehensive care. People possible. We therefore took the major step of signing up to in crisis zones are also helped to help themselves, so that Set of values the UN Global Compact initiative in 2006. This successful they have a bright future to look forward to upon returning. venture now has more than 10,000 members whose primary A further three of now 19 primary health care stations were Environmental protection goal is actively to advocate human rights, fair labour stanbuilt in 2012 to assure basic health care in remote regions. dards, environmental protection and the fight against corThe 20th Friedensdorf parcel campaign was also a success; ruption. The commitment is underpinned by 10 principles. this appeal involved people donating non-perishable items 10 principles These are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human of food. A total of 5,000 crates were distributed to children Rights, the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaand families in Tajikistan, Armenia and Georgia. technotrans Global Compact Logistics ration on Fundamental Principles and Rights of Work, and supports Friedensdorf International because we believe it the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. All is important to help initiatives that build a better future for Clinics Health stations members have undertaken to implement and uphold these children and young people, especially where there is little ten principles wherever they are active and in a position of that people can do for themselves. influence. Friedensdorf Kofi Annan expresses the aims of the initiative in the Ecology leader following terms: “Let us choose to unite the power of marWE TAKE OUR SOCIAL OBLIGATIONS kets with the authority of universal ideals. Let us choose SERIOUSLY. Responsibility to reconcile the creative forces of private entrepreneurship Think-Learn-Act Aid with the needs of the disadvantaged and the requirements BECAUSE WE SHOULD ALL BE CITIZENS of future generations.” technotrans is proud to be a part of OF A WORLD THAT WORKS. Children and young people this ambitious project. technotrans War zones 42 technotrans / Markets in sight Markets in sight / technotrans 43 The ten principles of the Global COMPACT technotrans is proud to operate according to these ten principles: Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence, and Principle 2: they should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, as well as Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, Principle 8: should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and Principle 9: should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technotrans and the Global Compact technologies. Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. A Noble Commitment I GLOBAL COMPACT FRIEDENSDORF n participating in the Global Compact initiative in 2012, principles of the Global Concept, with the aim of establishing we again sought to send out a clear message. For people a fundamental “think green” approach. THE CHALLENGE TO MAKE SOMETHING CHILDREN ARE OUR FUTURE, ­SO WE and the environment, and against corruption. Because we are of the opinion that the initiative’s 10 principles and An Active Stance Against Corruption BETTER. EVERYWHERE. MUST PROTECT THEM. faithful compliance with them represent precious values and According to the World Bank, corruption costs every goals in a globalised world, and merit active support. person seven percent of their output. Not only does that necessitate financial sacrifices; it also has a direct impact on services, which cost more and offer less as a result. The A Focus on People drawbacks affect every person worldwide. Furthermore, corThe audit of our company in 2012 again brought to light ruption is not simply a peccadillo; it is an offence that can no departures from the application of the principles in recause considerable harm to companies. All the more reason, spect of human rights. Nor were any areas identified where therefore, to apply the principles of the Global Compact conwe could increase our commitment. Nevertheless, we will sistently. For technotrans, that means making it absolutely continue to strive to scrutinise and improve our actions on a clear throughout the group that corruption has no place in regular basis, to ensure that human rights are upheld. That our business model. We have enshrined this stance in a is why we are advocating compliance with labour standards globally differentiated anti-corruption guideline, because we worldwide, and are actively involved in the fight against want to impress purely on the strength of our performance. forced and child labour, and against discrimination in employment. Our company aims to create a positive, productive The Future in our Sights working environment for all concerned. We have therefore Many tasks for us all to challenge will lie ahead. We will drafted clear procedural instructions, e.g. in our managetherefore continue to do everything in our power to review ment manuals, that ensure employees are assigned to jobs regularly the consequences of our actions and behaviour for that reflect their qualifications. Unreservedly. In this area, all concerned, and to make changes wherever necessary. too, the audit revealed no cause for criticism or improvements. Here too, we will nevertheless remain on the lookout for opportunities to improve. On behalf of the Board of Management For a better environment As an industrial manufacturer, we are obliged to keep our sights set on the future and to operate with maximum 316 energy and resource efficiency. That is why technotrans started to promote green engineering actively very early on. Henry Brickenkamp Our technology depends on energy-saving components and energy recovery. Along with our subsidiaries, we are also endeavouring to promote the topic of sustainability more forcefully in emerging economies, as evidenced e.g. by our launching of the “Green Printer Award” in India. Another ­example is the Siemens mobility project in Qatar, an energychildren saving solution for trams, in which we are actively involved. were brought to Germany for treatment in 2012. ­ Our economic and technological activity in the spheres of enWe were able to get 327 back home. vironmentality and sustainability will continue to uphold the 44 technotrans / Markets in sight 662! THANK-YOUS TO OUR EMPLOYEES FOR THEIR COMMITMENT AND ENTHUSIASM. technotrans The Board of Management insight facts Figures 2012 technotrans is Contents and remains Information for shareholders Letter from the Board of Management 52 Corporate Governance 54 a growth company. Group management report The 2012 Financial Year at a Glance 58 Basic Profile of the Group 59 Economic Report 65 Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth 68 Other Information 78 Report on Post-Balance Sheet Date Events 86 Risk Management and Internal Control System 87 Report on Expected Developments and Risks 89 Financial Statement Consolidated Balance Sheet 98 Consolidated Income Statement 100 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 102 Statement of Movements in Equity 104 Notes 108 Corporate Bodies 150 Further information Proposal of the appropriation of profit 152 Responsibility Statement 153 Independent Auditors’ Report 154 Report of the Supervisory Board 156 The Success Story 158 Corporate Calendar 160 Dear Shareholders, Dear Business Associates, The past financial year of 2012 was a good one for our shareholders: the trading price of our We will continue to treat acquisitions explicitly as part of our growth strategy. Since actively shares gained 63 percent over the year. Not only did the stock markets reward the company’s adopting this approach, not only have we been receiving regular offers of companies, but there are successful efforts to find a way out of the printing industry's crisis; the share price movement also growing numbers of parties interested in helping us with the financing of targets, including actually highlighted the company’s rapidly improving prospects. Step by step, the results of our sizeable ones. As we have a clear idea of which technologies and markets might be of interest endeavours outside the printing industry became more and more tangible as the year progressed, to technotrans in the future, we are highly selective in choosing our targets. However it appears bolstering investor confidence that technotrans has a very bright future in store. Here are just a highly likely that we will identify at least one more acquisition target in the 2013 financial year. few examples that highlight our progress. Our company’s healthy development and the positive future prospects are not just down to We had already gained a foothold in the market for laser applications in 2011 with the takeover ­successful management; everyone in the company plays a vital role in this progress. The expertise, of Termotek AG. Through the partnership with KLH Kältetechnik GmbH, we significantly stepped up commitment and passion that our employees once again channelled into the company over the those activities in 2012 and, after several months of successful collaboration, decided to acquire past year are evident in the results. Specifically our new customers have commended us for this, a majority interest in that company with effect from January 1, 2013. technotrans is now in a and we gladly pass on the credit to our team; we are sincerely grateful to our employees and very position to supply customers with industrial cooling technology tailored to their needs, from the much hope that the motivation that has made our customers some of our biggest supporters will lowest performance range (Termotek) through the mid-range performance units that technotrans not wane in 2013. Together we will reap the fruits of these labours. itself supplies, to the high performance categories from KLH. This, combined with a worldwide We will endeavour to continue giving due credit to the interests of ideally all parties in taking sales and service network, makes the technotrans Group a highly interesting partner, and not just the company forward. We want our customers to benefit from our stability and technological exfor customers from the laser industry. pertise, we would like to offer our employees a challenging and reliable task area, and it is our Two other examples highlight the sheer variety of the markets in which technotrans’ core skills aspiration for our shareholders to share in the appreciation in their investment’s value – even if can find use. On the one hand there is forming technology, an area that we have ventured into we cannot expect it to rise by 63 percent every year. successfully with a new spray lubrication technology. Spray lubrication has evolved out of a technology that we have installed around 25,000 times worldwide in newspaper presses. The mature We remain actively engaged in shaping the future of technotrans. We will greatly value your support technology and precision that are the hallmarks of our equipment are now proving their worth in for this venture! the area of metal working. On the other hand we have clinched a trailblazing contract to develop cooling units for energy stores that are to be used in a new type of tram. We are very proud to partner Siemens in the field of e-mobility, because we are sure that this area will gain considerably On behalf of the Board of Management in importance over the next few years. Even if gaining access to new markets and new customers involves a lengthy lead time, we can already say that the efforts of the past two to three years are paying dividends. To make sure that this welcome development continues, we continue to invest considerable resources in handling such projects and therefore in tomorrow’s growth. Because in our self-view, technotrans is and remains a growth company. Henry Brickenkamp In order to implement this growth strategy, we drew up three targets following the printing industry slump of 2009. As an initial step, technotrans was to generate 30 percent of its revenue outside the printing industry. We will comfortably exceed that target in the 2013 financial year. The second step is to take technotrans back up to the levels of revenue and profit that we enjoyed before the crisis. We are confident that we will achieve that goal by 2015. Finally, we have the long-term target of growing revenue to € 300 million. That may sound ambitious from where we stand today, but we the company’s management feel not only obliged to have ambitions, but also to gauge our own performance by them. We are able to go about implementing this strategy with a steady hand, carefully weighing up all the opportunities and risks, because technotrans is based on two strong pillars. On the one hand business with our customers in the printing industry. Even if the growth prospects in that market may be low, a stable volume of business based on our many years of experience as a systems supplier provides a firm platform from which to step up our presence in other areas. On the other hand the Services segment provides us with a dependable source of revenue and earnings in both good times and bad. Then there is our subsidiary gds AG, which has specialised in the area of technical documentation; we believe it, too, offers growth potential that we would like to tap. The majority interest acquired recently in Sprachenwelt GmbH, through which gds has added translation services to its range, is a good example of this. 52 Information for Shareholders / Letter from the Board of Management Letter from the Board of Management / Information for Shareholders 53 Declaration of Conformity and Corporate Governance Report The German Corporate Governance Code contains the recognised standards of responsible corporate management. Once a year, the Code is updated by the government commission to reflect national and international developments. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board report below on corporate governance at technotrans AG and explain departures from the recommendations and suggestions of the Code. Responsible corporate management is a high priority at technotrans. One fact which serves to illustrate this clearly is the low number of departures from the 96 recommendations and 7 suggestions with which the Code expects companies to comply, over and above the statutory requirements. The most recent Declaration of Conformity from September 2012 reads as follows: The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board declare that the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code as set forth in the version dated May 15, 2012 have been complied with in the 2012 financial year and will be complied with in the future with the exception of the following recommendations: Articles 5.1.2. and 5.4.1. (Composition of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board)  hen deciding on the appointment of new members of corporate bodies, in future the emphasis W will be on the qualifications of the candidates and not on their gender. Article 5.4.6 (Remuneration of Supervisory Board members) In accordance with the articles of incorporation the members of the Supervisory Board ­receive a variable remuneration component that does not expressly reflect sustainable corporate performance. The first departure concerns the recommendation also to achieve diversity in the composition of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, and in particular to strive for adequate representation of women. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board are convinced that the principle of equality is observed when filling posts and will therefore continue to consider potential candidates first and foremost on the strength of their qualifications. Targets e.g. for certain quotas to be met in the boards’ composition have therefore deliberately not been adopted in view of the specific situation of the company. The second departure relates to the Supervisory Board’s remuneration. The total remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board is divided into fixed and variable components, in accordance with the articles of incorporation. The variable remuneration component has not expressly been determined to reflect sustainable corporate performance. In addition to the recommendations, the Corporate Governance Code contains suggestions, compliance with which is not binding. Nor are explanations for departures from the suggestions required. technotrans does not depart from these suggestions. The recommendations and suggestions of the Corporate Governance Code as well as the statutory requirements form an integral part of the day-to-day working practices of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. The committees examine compliance with the standards at regular intervals, to ensure that the issues at stake are always observed in the interests of the shareholders, the employees and not least the company itself. 54 Information for Shareholders / Corporate Governance Corporate Governance / Information for Shareholders 55 What’s coming,­ contents what’s here to stay, and what counts: Group management report The 2012 Financial Year at a Glance Basic Profile of the Group 58 59 2012 and in the Economic Report 65 Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth 68 Other Information 78 future. · Purchasing and Procurement · Production, Technology and Logistics · Employees · Corporate Communications · Shares · Disclosures and Explanatory Notes Relating to Takeover Report on Post-Balance Sheet Date Events 86 Risk Management and Internal Control System 87 Report on Expected Developments and Risks 89 The 2012 Financial Year at a Glance Basic Profile of the Group Business Model of the Group As expected, the 2012 financial year progressed at two different speeds: the printing industry, still the most important sales market for the technotrans Group, exhibited decidedly weak demand Organisational Structure of the Group in the run-up to the drupa industry exhibition held in May. The influence of that market environment The technotrans Group comprises technotrans AG and 11 subsidiaries (at December 31, 2012) was amplified for technotrans by the insolvencies of two important customers (manroland at the in which it directly has an interest, as well as 6 companies in which it indirectly has an interest. end of 2011 and Kodak at the start of 2012). Thanks to a prompt, flexible response to this overall The parent company technotrans AG, with its registered office in Sassenberg (Westphalia), generally environment, the company nevertheless still succeeded in posting positive results in the first half speaking has a 100 percent interest directly or indirectly in all subsidiaries. The companies in the of the year. group and their locations are listed in the Notes, under “Consolidated companies”. With the order books of printing press manufacturers full after the drupa and a generally rather more benign industry environment, a modest recovery then took shape as expected in the second Segments half of 2012. That period also saw various projects take on firmer contours, through which we aim The Group’s business is divided into two segments: Technology and Services. The Technology to tap into new sales markets. However the upturn was not sufficient to compensate fully for the segment generates just under two-thirds of total revenue. In this area of operations technotrans weak first half of the year, leaving revenue for the full year at € 90.7 million, merely at the lower develops and sells equipment and systems for customers e.g. in the printing industry, the machine end of the target range of € 90 to 95 million. On the other hand profitability continued to improve tool industry and the laser industry, but will also focus increasingly on other markets in the future. over the year, as planned, and the EBIT margin came in at 5.9 percent, right at the top end of the The Technology segment is complemented by the Services segment. technotrans’ activities target range of 5 to 6 percent. are rounded off by an extensive range of services. These include providing customer support for The process of strategic reorientation that began in 2009 in order to increase the proportion the installation, maintenance and operation of systems. The subsidiary gds AG, which likewise of revenue from outside the printing industry was vigorously pursued in 2012. After having taken comes under this segment, mainly produces technical documentation, including in translation, and the opportunity to identify synergy potential from March 2012 on, the company has now acquired sells self-developed software, which it uses to generate this documentation. a majority interest in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH (Bad Doberan) with effect from January 1, 2013. ­technotrans aims soon to approach its traditionally healthy revenue and profit levels. Locations With 20 locations, numerous joint undertakings and 662 employees (December 31, 2012), the The Group Management Report has been prepared in accordance with German Accounting technotrans Group enjoys a presence in all major markets worldwide. S ­ tandard 20 in the version dated November 2, 2012. Changes in presentation compared with the Group Management Reports for previous years relate principally to the content structure. Products and Services The core skills of technotrans AG in liquid technology are organised into three business units. Its special knowledge of temperature control, filtering and separating, measuring and metering, and also its expertise in the accompanying control and process engineering, have been acquired through many years of successful application in the printing industry. Today, they are also being transferred to other areas such as the laser market and the machine tool industry. The focus is on customer-specific equipment and systems that technotrans develops as a leading systems supplier for performing essential functions as part of a specific application, and in addition contributing towards optimising the overall quality and efficiency of the user’s processes. The company is steadily broadening its product range in close collaboration with existing and potential customers, including many renowned industrial enterprises, with a view to opening up new application areas in order to safeguard its long-term growth. Activities outside the printing industry brought in around 15 percent of revenue in 2012, and we are on track to increase that share to over 30 percent by as early as 2013. Business Processes The principal business processes encompass the development, assembly, testing and sale of equipment. Manufacturing penetration is relatively low because the components used in the equipment and systems are usually sourced from specialist suppliers. Sales markets The largest clients of the technotrans Group are still currently the world’s leading printing press manufacturers, with the German manufacturers Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG, Koenig & Bauer AG and the manroland companies between them accounting for over 60 percent of the world market. Their shares of the market are mirrored by technotrans’ customer portfolio. They all equip their printing presses ex works with technotrans equipment. The large installed base and the cyc­ lical nature of the propensity to invest mean that in addition to service business in the ­narrower sense, modernisation and retrofit business directly with end customers likewise generates a signi­ ficant proportion of revenue. Outside the printing industry, customers of the technotrans Group include companies such as Alcon, which is part of the Novartis Group, the Gildemeister Group, Siemens AG and Trumpf Laser GmbH. 58 Group Management Report / The 2012 Financial Year at a Glance Basic Profile of the Group / Group Management Report 59 Alongside technotrans AG, those serving the market for peripheral equipment to the printing It is generally assumed that this basis for business is likely to see its market volume remain industry include a large number of smaller companies, predominantly with a regional focus. In broadly flat in future, with moderate growth limited to individual areas (such as packaging printing, terms of size and international presence, only Baldwin Technology Company, Inc. (USA) enjoys in emerging markets). a comparable position. Whereas technotrans enjoys a stronger market position in the area of In order to achieve technotrans’ ambitious growth targets, considerable attention is being sheet-fed offset printing, Baldwin has focused its product range more on web offset printing. The given to applications outside the printing industry. The focus of the activities that are bracketed market for suppliers in other lines of industry in which technotrans is active is highly fragmented. A together in the technotrans industrial system solutions (ttis) division is on using technotrans major success factor for technotrans is the approach of positioning itself as a systems supplier of technologies in industries with long-term growth potential, such as machine tool engineering, laser complex, custom-made solutions in order to enhance its profile when compared to straightforward and medical technology, and the mobility area. Alongside these, the company is also increasingly component suppliers. active in digital and flexographic printing – both areas that likewise still have potential for considerable growth. External Factors Influencing Business The growth strategy’s implementation is supported by the corporate structure in that both The investment propensity of the target industries in which the technotrans Group is active the business units – in which the core skills are concentrated – and the international sales and regularly has a major influence on the group’s business performance. That propensity is in turn ­service locations worldwide are given growth targets to realise. determined by the present and anticipated economic situation. In view of its focus on the German As part of the strategy redrafted in 2009, three goals (milestones) were defined. The first milemechanical and plant engineering sectors, cyclical fluctuations there have a marked influence on stone specified that the share of revenue from outside the printing industry is to rise to 30 percent its business performance. The specific branching-out of business activities into high-growth induswithin three to five years. The revenue share in the non-print area will already exceed 30 percent tries such as laser or medical technology, and also into Asia, is designed to reduce that correlation in 2013, not least thanks to targeted acquisitions that are accelerating the company’s move into in the future, along with loosening the group’s exposure to structural difficulties that have been a those markets. The second milestone envisages returning to “pre-crisis levels of revenue and major feature of the printing industry for some time now. earnings in the medium term”. The benchmark figures here are from the 2007 financial year. Ultimately, the objective of our various activities is to increase revenue in the long term. In addiAcquisitions tion to these, appropriate measures have been taken to align volume growth with a corresponding As well as organically accessing new markets, technotrans’ growth strategy expressly includes improvement in profitability. the acquisition of companies with core skills that usefully complement those present in every area of the group. For example it entered the market for laser cooling systems with the takeover Internal Control System of Termotek AG in 2011. Together with its own range of cooling and temperature control solutions, that product portfolio is being specifically broadened from 2013 on through the acquisition of a The purpose of the technotrans Group’s internal control system is to oversee implementation majority interest in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH. This joining of forces is creating a very effective supplier of the corporate strategy. The system seeks to identify deviations as early on as possible so that of industrial, customer-specific temperature control technology for all performance ranges. swift action can be taken as appropriate. The strategy is implemented in such a way as to serve With regard to the core skills of filtration and separation as well as measuring and metering the best interests of customers, suppliers, employees and investors. technology, the targeted acquisition of technology and/or market access is likewise not ruled out technotrans AG and its group companies are controlled first and foremost on the basis of as an option for accelerating growth. ­revenue and earnings ratios (EBIT margin), broken down by segment. Corporate planning as a Even in the Services segment, our subsidiary gds AG was able to add translation to its range whole is furthermore based on cash flow. of services in the 2012 financial year through the acquisition of an interest in Sprachenwelt GmbH At group level, the plan for the 2012 financial year was to generate revenue in the order of € 90 (now: gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH), enabling it to offer its customers an even more comprehensive to 95 million. The corresponding EBIT margin was to be between 5 and 6 percent. Due to a weak range of products from a single source. first half, revenue for 2012 came in merely at the lower end of the target range, at € 90.7 million. Acquisitions are fundamentally structured in such a way that they directly deliver increased On the other hand the EBIT range was nevertheless at the upper end of the range, at 5.9 percent. value added. Wherever possible and advisable, the form of participation is moreover designed to Overall, the operating business performance was therefore in line with expectations. ensure that the holders of critical expertise continue to share in the benefits of the acquisition into the medium term. Remuneration Report The Board of Management is in charge of operations. It comprises three members and is overGoals and Strategies seen by the Supervisory Board in accordance with the statutory requirements and the articles of The goal of the technotrans Group is sustained growth coupled with optimum profitability. To incorporation. The members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are listed in the achieve that goal, the company concentrates on its core skills in the sphere of liquid technology, “Corporate Bodies” section. The Declaration of Conformity pursuant to Section 161 of German while focusing investment on measures that enable it to expand its product range further and gain Stock Corporation Act, as well as further explanatory notes, can be found in the separate Corpoa foothold in new areas of application for its technologies. Organic growth is rounded off by partrate Governance Report, which forms part of this Annual Report. nerships in areas where its core skills are called for, and also by targeted acquisitions. Its strategy is to seek sustainable, profit-driven development. Report on the Remuneration System of the Board of Management technotrans concentrates on niche markets where it is possible to achieve a market share of The remuneration system of the Board of Management reflects the current standards and 50 percent, taking into account the scale of its own business and the available resources. This is statutory requirements. The total cash remuneration of a Board of Management member comthe key to being able to capitalise on economies of scale in offering customers benchmark techprises a fixed basic remuneration and a variable remuneration component (profit share). The varinology and prices. technotrans is well-placed to realise such goals thanks to its clear focus on able remuneration component is equivalent to the fixed remuneration if the targets are fully met; system partnerships with major industrial clients (OEM) which operate worldwide and expect their in other words, in that instance the total cash remuneration comprises equal amounts of fixed and suppliers to have a similar organisation. variable remuneration. The precise level of the variable remuneration component is determined As a systems supplier to the printing industry, technotrans has enjoyed a leading position in by target attainment in a given financial year. Revenue and consolidated net income for the year its product areas for many years. Based on its close ties with the manufacturers of offset printing according to the budget serve as the basis for the targets. If the agreed targets are exceeded, the presses and its unique expertise, the company intends to consolidate its role as technology partner variable remuneration component is increased, this increase being capped at a multiple of 2.5. in that industry and – wherever possible – build on it. The variable remuneration component is paid out over a three-year period in instalments of 50, 30 and 20 percent and in relation to actual target attainment. There is no entitlement to a profit 60 Group Management Report / Basic Profile of the Group Basic Profile of the Group / Group Management Report 61 share in the event of a net loss for the year or if target attainment is less than 50 percent in the In addition to the total remuneration stated for the Supervisory Board, the employees’ repreassessment year. The sustainability-oriented profit share is only paid out to the extent that the sentatives on the Supervisory Board receive remuneration in their capacity as employees, on the respective targets for the assessment year are attained in subsequent years. The deferred profit basis of their contracts of employment, and also receive share-based payments. share component may therefore fall, but it can no longer rise. If target attainment falls below 80 percent of the level achieved in the assessment year, the sustainability-oriented profit share comIn accordance with the articles of incorporation the Supervisory Board members receive the following ponent lapses. If a Board of Management member leaves the company, their entitlement to a profit remuneration for the year under review of 2012: share from previous years does not automatically lapse. The company moreover provides fringe benefits in the form of contributions to a provident fund 2012 2011 and a group accident insurance policy. In addition, company cars are available to the members Total remuof which of which Total remuof which of which of the Board of Management and they are reimbursed travel and other allowable expenses. The neration fixed variable neration fixed variable policies for the D&O insurance cover taken out by the company for the Board of Management mem€ ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 bers envisage an excess amounting to one and a half times the fixed annual income. There is also a cap on termination indemnities amounting to a maximum of one year’s salary. Heinz Harling 34 23 11 33 22 11 The overall remuneration of the Board of Management members is approved by the Supervisory Klaus Beike 13 8 5 13 8 5 Board. No share-based payment components were envisaged for the 2012 financial year. Only in the event of exceptional occurrences is the Supervisory Board authorised to adjust the remuneration Manfred Bender* 0 0 0 7 5 2 parameters in the course of a given year. Dr. Norbert Bröcker 23 15 8 23 15 8 Matthias Laudick 13 8 5 13 8 5 The members of the Board of Management received the following remuneration in the past finanHelmut Ruwisch** 21 15 6 12 8 4 cial year: Dieter Schäfer 17 11 6 17 12 5 Total 121 80 41 118 78 40 Henry Brickenkamp Dirk Engel Dr. Christof Soest* *until May 12, 2011. **since May 12, 2011. 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Corporate Governance Declaration Fixed basic remuneration 200 200 160 160 160 93 The current version of the Corporate Governance Declaration pursuant to Section 289a of Fringe benefits 33 34 31 29 28 23 German Commercial Code (HGB) can be found on the Internet at http://www.technotrans.de/en/ Profit share, year under review 168 114 134 91 79 100 investor/corporate-governance/erklaerung-zur-unternehmensfuehrung.html. Total remuneration 401 348 325 280 267 216 Entitlement dependent on the attainment Research and Development of future performance targets 126 98 101 78 79 0 Research & Development naturally plays a crucial role in the process of transformation from a *Board of Management member since June 1, 2011. printing industry supplier into a broad-based systems supplier. This area of activity not only provides services for the projects that the business units and technotrans industrial system solutions (ttis) bring into the company, but also detects trends that reveal the direction in which technotrans’ core Remuneration of the Supervisory Board skills will develop in the future; it moreover brings ideas into the company that are currently still In accordance with the articles of incorporation approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting, the a far cry from its day-to-day business, but will mean we are technologically still at the forefront in members of the Supervisory Board receive remuneration comprising a fixed and a variable comfive years’ time. ponent, in addition to reimbursement of their expenses. The level of the variable remuneration This structured working approach is underpinned by extensive contacts with universities and component is based on the consolidated net income declared in the Consolidated Financial Statevarious research establishments. By taking part in the appropriate work groups and committees, ments. Under the articles of incorporation, this variable remuneration component is not expressly we ensure long-term that the findings of research projects are incorporated into our developments a reflection of sustainable corporate performance. Both the fixed and the variable remuneration even before the concluding reports have been drafted. component are higher for the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board than for the If we consider the ten most important projects that R&D handled in the 2012 financial year (of remaining members. Membership of the committees formed by the Supervisory Board is likewise a total of more than 150 projects throughout the entire company), it is striking that the print area remunerated, in accordance with the articles of incorporation. The members of the Supervisory is still well-represented. For example, we are currently providing backup for test installations of an Board do not receive any stock options for their activities as non-executive directors. The company extractor system for ink pans on web (and eventually possibly also on sheet-fed) offset presses. has taken out D&O insurance cover for the members of the Supervisory Board. There is an excess These rinsing devices can significantly reduce the manual cleaning work on a printing press, and equivalent to the variable remuneration component in the year in which a claim is established. therefore create interesting potential also in the retrofit market. In the new markets area, there are also projects that are very closely related to technotrans’ traditional sales markets. For example, various temperature control solutions are under develop­ ment for a line of very high-performance digital printing presses from a major manufacturer. Backup is currently being provided for a field test in the UK and further installations are envisaged in Singapore. Then there is the area of flexible packaging: new components for ink supply and temperature control are being developed and tested in conjunction with a leading manufacturer of flexographic printing presses. 62 Group Management Report / Basic Profile of the Group Basic Profile of the Group / Group Management Report 63 However, slightly more than half of the projects focus on entirely new applications for techno­ Economic Report trans’ core skills, for example in the areas of cooling and filtration. They are investigated and ­developed to some extent on behalf of specific customers, and to some extent on our own initiative. They include most notably potential applications for machine tools and lasers. The aim is that they General and Industry-Specific Economic Environment should make a substantial contribution to the company’s growth over the next few years. Regular innovation workshops both internally and involving customers ensure that the entire The global economy lost further momentum in 2012. According to figures released by the company’s creative potential flows into the development projects. This culture of innovation is Insti­tute for the World Economy at the University of Kiel (IfW), average world output over the whole to be substantially propagated in future. The intention is to ensure that every good idea finds a of 2012 grew by only 3.2 percent, down yet again from a merely modest increase of 3.8 permarketplace in which it can suitably demonstrate its worth, while always preserving its practical cent in the previous year. There was very low growth in gross domestic product in the advanced relevance. economies, and the eurozone even slid into recession. The need to reduce the excessive levels To build on the link between theory and practice in day-to-day business, too, technotrans acts of debt that a number of countries had built up prior to the financial crisis proved burdensome. as a regular partner for exchanges between the spheres of theory and research. Project studies, Economic activity also dipped sharply in emerging and threshold economies which had expanded graduate theses, placements and dual courses of study provide welcome opportunities to engender very strongly in the recovery immediately after the financial crisis. enthusiasm for the company among future specialists. A provisional estimate by the Federal Statistical Office showed that gross domestic product The Research & Development offices and laboratories are located predominantly at the group’s had contracted significantly by 0.5 percent in the final quarter of 2012. This contraction is attri­ main base in Sassenberg. In all, there are over 30 employees working on new products, nurturing buted mainly to pressures resulting from sovereign debt crisis in the eurozone, and is behind them from the initial idea, through the prototype stage and product qualification tests, to producespecially the weaker demand for German export products and businesses’ increased reticence tion maturity. to invest. Development spending is fundamentally shown in the Income Statement. If the appropriate For the German mechanical and plant engineering sector, 2012 proved to be a better year requirements are satisfied, development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset pursuant than had initially been expected. With growth estimated at two percent in real terms, the German to IAS 38 and reported as such on the Balance Sheet. Development expenditure recognised as mechanical engineering industry was back up at the record level of 2008. According to the German an intangible asset at December 31, 2012 was € 0.9 million (previous year: € 0.3 million). The Engineering Federation (VDMA), this development was driven by German exports of machinery, R&D ratio (development spending in relation to revenue) was again only 2.5 percent in the past which grew by 4.5 percent in real terms or by a nominal 6.8 percent in the first three quarters. The financial year, including because of its capitalisation. With the most important industry exhibition, biggest export market, the People’s Republic of China, was weaker with exports down nominally the drupa, having taken place in 2012 and as a result of the prevailing economic and structural 8.6 percent on the previous year. However, German mechanical engineering companies succeeded environment, printing press manufacturers are now generally driving fewer projects. in increasing exports to many other countries and regions in spite of a generally difficult global In rare instances, external capacity is called upon for special development tasks – normally economic environment: by +10.7 percent to Latin America, by +20.1 percent to the USA and by focusing on specific components – and, much more rarely still, development work is financed in +21.4 percent to Southeast Asia. Even exports to other EU countries were better than the average. part with external support, usually by the party that will eventually be the customer. Once again, While deliveries to Italy and Spain were down a moderate 2.6 and 2.8 percent respectively, trade no public funds were claimed in 2012. with EU partner countries was up 7.5 percent overall. technotrans owns a large number of patents, licences and similar rights. Various patent appli­ However not all industries benefited from this positive overall picture. For instance the level cations were again filed in 2012, for example for the newly developed spray lubrication process of incoming orders for German printing press manufacturers for the period January to December that is used in forming technology. Patents and licences have now acquired considerable signifi2012 was up only 2 percent on the previous year’s level. In other words the drupa industry exhibition, cance bearing in mind the company’s need to protect its own market position, and consequently which takes place only once every four years, failed to provide any major stimulus for suppliers in now merit particular attention. that industry. For the past year, the bvdm (German Printing and Media Industries Federation) expects the printing industry to report slight revenue growth of 1.5 percent. Assuming there is no recession or continuing uncertainty fuelled by the financial crisis, the positive trend for 2013 should continue. It is generally expected that the printing industry – which is still technotrans’ most important sales market worldwide – will not return to the volume of investment of earlier years. Business Performance and Position of the Group The business performance in 2012 was largely shaped by the wider conditions presented above, and in the main reflected the expectations for the 2012 financial year. The negative impact of the general reluctance to invest prior to the drupa was amplified in technotrans’ case by the fact that two customers sought insolvency (manroland AG at the end of 2011, Kodak at the start of 2012). Mid-way through the year, revenue was consequently 13.2 percent down on the prior-year figure, and down all of 21.7 percent specifically in the Technology segment. To limit the impact of the expected weak business performance in the first half of the year, the instrument of short-time was applied at the biggest location, Sassenberg, for the first five months. The printing industry’s return to normal in the second half was slightly below par compared with what would be expected in a drupa year. The weak economic data for the final quarter also contributed here. Nevertheless, the fact that printing press manufacturers had full order books after the exhibition helped to bring technotrans a generally much better second half, which was sufficient to compensate at least in part for the first half’s fall in business. Total revenue finally reached € 90.7 million, representing a drop of 6.8 percent on the previous year (€ 97.3 million) and therefore only the lower end of the target range (€ 90 to 95 million). As intended, profitability also improved in the second half along with the increased volume of business. Overall, EBIT for 64 Group Management Report / Basic Profile of the Group Economic Report / Group Management Report 65 the 2012 financial year reached € 5.4 million, compared with € 4.8 million in the previous year The Services segment again helped to stabilise business in 2012. While revenue from customers (+11.9 percent). The EBIT margin was thus 5.9 percent, which was at the upper end of the target in the printing industry (installation, maintenance, parts) was stable, non-print activities produced corridor of 5 to 6 percent despite the lower business volume. The positive result and the improved a slight increase. Our subsidiary gds AG performed especially well with growth in all areas, and it cash flow played a part in strengthening technotrans’ balance sheet at the reporting date: the created extra potential to grow through the acquisition of a majority interest in Sprachenwelt GmbH. equity ratio rose to 63.2 percent, cash and cash equivalents reached € 18.7 million and net debt was turned around into net liquidity of € 8.5 million. This was not just down to the positive result Exchange Rate Developments for the financial year, but also ultimately to the sale of our property in Gersthofen following the In view of the company’s structure and markets, exchange rates traditionally have only a limited transfer of production to Sassenberg which was now disposed of in the 2012 financial year at a impact on the performance of the technotrans Group because the overwhelming portion of its busislight book profit. ness is settled in euros. Effects on the Income Statement are mainly the result of measurements technotrans also continues to hold a leading position as a systems supplier to the printing of intragroup assets and liabilities, and constitute unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses. industry, and thus participates directly in the general development in the market. For that reason, On the other hand exchange rate movements may be a help or a hindrance to the competitiveness the reluctance to invest adversely affected the Technology segment in the first instance. This area of German and Japanese printing press manufacturers. generated revenue of only € 53.7 million in 2012 (– 12.9 percent) compared with € 61.7 million in the previous year. That was not quite sufficient to produce a positive result for the segment at the end of 2012, but the measures taken helped to bring about a slight improvement from € – 0.9 million in 2011 to € – 0.8 million in 2012. On the other hand 2012 was another highly successful year for the Services segment: revenue increased by 3.8 percent to € 36.9 million (previous year € 35.6 million) and the result for the segment reached € 6.1 million (+7.7 percent), representing an EBIT margin of 16.6 percent. Consolidation remains a feature of the competitive environment in which technotrans operates in the printing industry. Such changes could if anything be more beneficial for the company in the future. The combined effect of the continuing economic uncertainty as a result of the European sovereign debt crisis and the structural problems that the printing industry is experiencing was that revenue for the financial year merely reached the lower end of the target range. In order to make the company’s planned growth pathway more independent of such factors in future, the chosen course of accessing additional applications for technotrans’ core skills was determinedly pursued. Following technotrans’ entry into the market for laser cooling systems in 2011 through the acquisition of Termotek AG, the partnership with KLH Kältetechnik was announced in March 2012. This latter company is also active in the area of laser cooling systems, but it also serves other markets that are equally of interest, such as machine tool engineering and medical technology. The partnership served to confirm the expectation that a merger would yield synergy benefits in the sales, service, purchasing and production areas, as well as in product development. With effect from January 1, 2013 technotrans therefore acquired a majority interest in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH and its sister companies in Taicang (PR China) and Singapore. The combining of the various different cooling performance ranges of Termotek (low performance) technotrans (medium performance) and KLH (high performance) has now created a very effective supplier of customer-specific industrial temperature control technology. technotrans’ activities in the non-print area led to much firmer customer projects in the second half of 2012 in particular. Here are a few examples: technotrans was already appointed serial supplier to Sauer GmbH, part of the Gildemeister Group, for cooling lubricant preparation in the shape of the toolsmart at the start of the year; it followed up this success by securing a leading supplier of machinery and systems for the manufacture and processing of flexible packaging as a development partner. At the Euroblech, technotrans also gave its self-developed spray lubrication process for forming technology applications its first public showing. A number of installations in the metal processing industry have already impressively demonstrated the system’s superiority to conventional solutions. Last but not least, we have gained a foothold in the area of e-mobility in securing the development contract from Siemens for a cooling system for advanced tram systems. All these highly promising projects were not yet sufficient to compensate for faltering business with printing press manufacturers in the 2012 financial year. However they provide sound reasons to believe that that will become possible over the next few years, and that technotrans will become less dependent on both the business cycle and on the structural problems being experienced by the printing industry. 66 Group Management Report / Economic Report Economic Report / Group Management Report 67 Financial Performance, Financial Position Revenue by region and Net Worth 22.9 % Comparative figures for previous periods are quoted in brackets. Unless otherwise indicated, they rest of europe refer to the years 2011 and 2010 respectively. 12.1 % Revenue 53.7 % america germany As expected, the difficult market environment in the run-up to the drupa industry exhibition and the insolvency of two important customers weighed on the 2012 financial year. The technotrans 11.3 % asia Group generated revenue of € 90.7 million, which represents a decrease of 6.8 percent compared with the previous year (€ 97.3, 85.9 million). In other words the goal for the full year to post revenue of € 90 to 95 million was only just achieved. Another contributory factor was that the impact of the drupa exhibition was merely sufficient to restore the volume of business in the print area to a normal level in the second half of the year. The weak underlying economic data in the final few months of the year as a result of the continuing uncertainty created by the crisis in eurozone Development in Prices countries represented an additional burden. Price adjustments to reflect the market trend were implemented mainly in the Service area in The fall in revenue was particularly marked in the Technology segment. This area generated 2012. technotrans’ business with printing press manufacturers is usually conducted on the basis only € 53.7 million (– 12.9 percent) compared with € 61.7 million in the previous year. In the first of multi-year master agreements that only allow well-justified price increases during their term. quarter alone, revenue was down € 4 million on the prior-year quarter; in other words the decline The same is true of requests for price reductions by our customers. For us, long-term, partnerlike eased as the year progressed and revenue for the fourth quarter was actually slightly higher than relations with our customers and safeguarding our position in the market take priority over shortin the prior-year quarter (€ 14.7 million compared with € 14.3 million in 2011). As expected, term price maximisation. activities outside the printing industry were not yet able to compensate for the weak state of the print area. Information on Order Backlog, Incoming Orders and Order Reach On the other hand the Services segment again made good progress in the 2012 financial year. technotrans’ standard business with industrial customers is based on release orders. EquipRevenue rose again by 3.8 percent to € 36.9 million (€ 35.6, 34.5 million). Our subsidiary gds AG, ping of certain machine models with technotrans technology is usually agreed in advance and which provides services and software in the sphere of technical documentation, was a major conthe equipment is supplied as soon as the machine is ready for delivery to the manufacturers’ tributor to this positive development. As well as realising its plans for organic growth, it acquired customers. The time frame between the release order and delivery is rarely more than two weeks. a majority interest in Sprachenwelt GmbH with effect from September 1, 2012, through which it Because of these master agreements, information on incoming orders and order backlogs would has now added translations to its portfolio of services. Classic service business, too, developed not be particularly meaningful. mainly according to plan. Although there was again a lack of major projects and the installation contracts associated with them in 2012, service provider business showed an improvement on Financial Performance the previous year. Despite the decline in revenue year on year, the financial performance of the technotrans By Region Group improved significantly. The financial burdens of the first half – the reluctance to invest Because of its customer structure, technotrans traditionally generates a high proportion of its before the drupa, the insolvency of two customers, expenditure for the show – were suitably revenue in Germany, which is the delivery destination for the world's three biggest printing press ­addressed, including by the introduction of short-time for the first five months of the year. Although manufacturers. However the decline in revenue in 2012 overwhelmingly affected that group of custhe revival in business in the second half fell somewhat short of expectations, earnings did ultitomers, with the result that the revenue share from German customers fell from 69.9 to 53.7 permately achieve the level desired. cent. In contrast other European markets accounted for a higher proportion of revenue, rising from 11.8 to 22.9 percent, despite the weak economy in many countries. The volume of business in Gross Profit Asia climbed from 8.0 to 11.3 percent in 2012. In part as a result of the acquisition of KLH, there Gross profit, in other words revenue less cost of sales, reached € 31.7 million (€ 30.8, is likely to be scope for substantially increasing that share in the future. America – a region which 25.5 million). The 2.8 percent increase in spite of the declining volume of business is attributable also includes our Brazilian subsidiary – benefited from the more positive environment in 2012 and to the ongoing improvements of recent years, in conjunction with the rising proportion of Services advanced to contribute 12.1 percent of revenue (previous year 10.3 percent). revenue. The gross margin was 34.9 percent at the end of the year (31.6, 29.6 percent), 3.3 perThere are also changes compared with previous years as a result of the modified classification centage points up on the previous year. The cost of materials ratio was consequently reduced sigmethod. Whereas the regional figures have been based on the revenue of each group company in nificantly to 36.5 percent (previous year 40.0 percent), first and foremost thanks to the increased recent years, the customer addresses now serve as the basis for calculating revenue by region. By share of revenue generated by the Services segment. way of reconciliation with the previous presentation method and for greater ease of comparison, classification using the old method would have produced the following picture: Germany 69.0 percent, Rest of Europe 12.0 percent, America 10.6 percent and Asia 8.4 percent. 68 Group Management Report / Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth / Group Management Report 69 Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) Depreciation and Amortisation Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) for the 2012 financial year improved by 11.9 percent Compared to the previous year, depreciation and amortisation fell to € 3.0 million (previous to € 5.4 million (€ 4.8, 3.0 million), representing an EBIT margin of 5.9 percent (previous year year € 3.2 million). The figure for the 2012 financial year consequently again exceeded invest4.9 percent). In spite of the decline in revenue, we thus achieved our goal of an EBIT margin of ment in property, plant and equipment of € 1.4 million (previous year € 1.4 million) because between 5 and 6 percent for the 2012 financial year. technotrans is in a position to adapt its replacement investment flexibly to the prevailing business circumstances. earnings in € Million Net Finance Costs Financial liabilities were further reduced according to plan throughout the year (€ 9.3 million – 0.04 – 2.9 – 11.9 – 10.3 3.0 1.5 4.8 3.0 5.4 3.1 at December 31, 2012, previous year € 16.5 million), filtering through into an improvement in the net finance costs. The net figure was € 0.7 million (previous year € 0.9 million). Tax Expense The tax expense for the past financial year climbed to € 1.6 million overall (previous year € 0.9 million). While tax income unrelated to the accounting period was posted in the previous year, tax expense unrelated to the accounting period inflated this item in the year under review. The 2012 tax rate for the Group was therefore 33.8 percent (previous year 22.6 percent). The net profit for the 2012 financial year is € 3.1 million (€ 3.0, 1.5 million), equivalent to a rate of return of 3.4 percent (previous year 3.1 percent). The earnings per share figure for shares outstanding is therefore € 0.48 (€ 0.47, 0.24). Segment Report Revenue The fall in revenue for the 2012 financial year as a result of the reluctance to invest prior to the drupa industry exhibition, the insolvency of two customers and the weaker economic environment towards the end of the year affected exclusively the Technology segment. Revenue for the segment 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 came to € 53.7 million (€ 61.7, 51.4 million), a decrease of 12.9 percent. In technotrans’ case Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) Net income too, orders from printing press manufacturers generated by the drupa were sufficient to restore its business volume almost to normal levels in the second half of the year. Meanwhile, activities outside the printing industry made healthy progress. Especially in the second half of 2012 various The reduction in all major cost items lay behind this development. Distribution costs, for customer projects took on firmer contours, for example for flexographic printing, where a leading ­ xample, were down 6.7 percent at € 13.5 million (€ 14.4, 13.4 million) despite the expenses for e supplier of machinery and systems for the manufacture and processing of flexible packaging was the drupa industry exhibition, which takes place only once every four years. In the previous year, won as a development partner for new ink supply systems and temperature control systems. the higher impairment of receivables weighed on this item. The administrative expenses fell by At the Euroblech, technotrans also gave its self-developed spray lubrication process for forming 5.7 percent to € 10.8 million (€ 11.5, 10.2 million) even though increased costs for M&A activities technology applications its first public showing. Last but not least, we have gained a foothold in were incurred in the 2012 financial year. Development costs remained virtually flat in 2012 at the area of e-mobility in securing the development contract from Siemens for a cooling system for € 2.2 million (€ 2.0, 2.5 million); in addition, development expenditure for projects outside the printadvanced tram systems. All these highly promising projects were not yet sufficient to compensate ing industry amounting to € 0.6 million (€ 0.4, 0.0 million) was recognised as an intangible asset. for faltering business with printing press manufacturers in the 2012 financial year. Whereas the positive balance of other operating income and expenses had amounted to € 1.9 million in the previous year, in 2012 the figure was only € 0.2 million. In 2012, other operating income included income from the reversal of provisions amounting to € 0.2 million (previous revenue by segments year € 1.2 million). This contrasted with a net loss of € 0.6 million (previous year € – 0.3 million) due to the sharp currency fluctuations, though this figure mainly comprised unrealised losses. No hedging instruments were used to reduce the influence of exchange rate fluctuations on the 59.3 % 40.7 % operating result. technology services Personnel expenses for the 2012 financial year came to € 32.7 million (€ 33.2, 30.8 million). The slight reduction of 0.6 percent reflects the decrease in the number of employees in the techno­ trans Group from an average of 659 in the 2011 financial year to 646 in the 2012 financial year. The personnel costs ratio nevertheless climbed from 34.2 to 36.0 percent. The positive effects of short-time were cancelled out by the pay increase in the 2012 financial year. 70 Group Management Report / Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth / Group Management Report 71 The slowdown in the economy at the end of the financial year also left its mark on our subsidEmployees iary Termotek AG. The postponement of investment spending meant that the delivery of various At the end of the year, 428 employees belonged to the Technology segment (previous year customer orders was delayed. The revenue volume of 2011 (€ 9.1 million) was nevertheless mar443) and 234 employees to the Services segment (previous year 194). As in previous years, the ginally exceeded in the 2012 financial year. Based on the well-filled product pipeline, we expect general administrative areas have been spread between the segments pro rata, based on their Termotek to achieve growth well into double digits in 2013. Termotek will also benefit from our revenue shares. increased activities in the area of laser cooling following the takeover of KLH Kältetechnik GmbH. Unlike the Technology segment, the Services segment was able to maintain its growth in 2012 Financial Position and thus contribute towards the overall stabilisation of business. Revenue from customers in the printing industry, in other words the classic areas of installation, maintenance and parts, put in a Principles and Goals of the Financial Management System stable performance overall. While there is still a shortage of major projects for which technotrans It remains the goal of the financial management system to ensure that technotrans is of its own can also take charge of the installation side, service provider business was fairly lively, to some accord able to generate both the financial resources required to fund the organic growth of its operextent because of the ageing installed base. The non-print activities in particular contributed to ations, and the investments this involves. This goal was again achieved in the 2012 financial year. the slight growth. The development of our subsidiary gds AG was especially positive, with growth Selective investment spending (€ 1.4 million) was again restricted to maintenance investments. in all areas (services, software), and it created extra potential for growth in the area of translation technotrans makes use of selected derivative financial instruments exclusively for the hedging services through the acquisition of a majority interest in Sprachenwelt GmbH. of interest rate risks for borrowings incurring interest at variable rates. The company in addition steers the financing required within the group by way of the credit facilities available to technoEarnings (EBIT) trans AG and Termotek AG. There are no exchange-rate factors affecting external financial liabilities. The fall in revenue for the Technology segment naturally had an impact on the segment’s Within the group, short-term and long-term lending between the group companies is practised to profitability. Despite appropriate measures such as the introduction of short-time, earnings were some degree in order to maintain adequate liquidity locally. Substantial liquidity holdings (cash negative by around € 1.1 million mid-way through the year. Even though business volume returned and cash equivalents) moreover exist in EUR, USD and GBP. Once again, no instruments for the to normal as the year progressed, this was not sufficient to make good the shortfall; however the hedging of foreign currency positions or liabilities were used in 2012. second-half result for the segment was positive for the first time since the crisis in 2008. Overall, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) for the Technology segment thus improved only slightly Capital Structure year on year to € – 0.8 million (€ – 0.9, – 2.6 million). technotrans’ capital structure comprises a sound equity base and a demand-led level of borrowing. By contrast, earnings for the Services segment again improved on the already very good priorIn the course of 2012 three aspects of the financing structure were adjusted to reflect the year figure with an above-average rise of 7.7 percent to € 6.1 million (€ 5.7, 5.6 million). This future requirements of the group: renewal of long-term loans in the context of the available credit equates to an EBIT margin of 16.6 percent, compared with 16.0 percent in the previous year. facilities collateralised by land charges; the use of short-term working capital credit was scaled gds AG also contributed towards this positive development. back, and acquisition financing for 2013 (KLH) was prepared. All measures were implemented with varying terms, making use of the best possible interest terms. At the balance sheet date, the averBy Region age weighted interest rate for borrowing was approx. 3.8 percent (previous year 3.7 percent). This Whereas the regional figures have previously been based on the revenue of each group company, financing concept means the overall borrowing arrangements in place amount to some € 26.5 milcustomer addresses now serve as the basis for calculating revenue by region. There are therefore lion, with a strong emphasis on medium to long-term maturities. At the balance sheet date the also changes compared with previous years as a result of the modified classification method. technotrans Group had available but unused borrowing facilities amounting to € 17.2 million. Because of the customer structure, the revenue of the Technology segment is traditionally For the future it can be assumed that technotrans will be in a position to meet its requirevery strongly focused on Germany. However the decline in revenue specifically in this segment has ments over and above its internally generated financial resources in partnership with its principal also had an impact on the regional composition. The proportion of revenue generated by G ­ erman banks, for instance if it needs to make major acquisitions. There are currently no plans to go to customers was now only 64.6 percent, compared with 79.6 percent in the previous year. The the capital market. substantial increase in other European countries, in both absolute and relative terms, resulted in technotrans does not use off-balance-sheet financial instruments (such as sale-and-leaseback). a revenue share of 15.4 percent there (previous year 6.3 percent). The picture was similar in the In 2012 there were no restrictions on the availability of the loans provided. Based on the liquid Asia region, where the revenue share rose from 7.8 to 12.3 percent. The revenue share for America and borrowed funds currently available, technotrans AG’s financial and liquidity plans assume remained virtually level year on year, at 7.7 percent as against 6.3 percent in the previous year. there will likewise be adequate liquidity for business operations in 2013 to meet the anticipated By way of reconciliation with the previous presentation method and for greater ease of compayment obligations. The prolongation of working capital credit for € 12 million will be up for parison, classification using the old method would have produced the following picture for the renego­tiation in 2013. Technology Segment: Germany 80.3 percent, Rest of Europe 5.1 percent, America 6.1 percent The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board will propose to the Shareholders' Meeting and Asia 8.5 percent. in May 2013 that a dividend of € 0.12 per share outstanding be distributed for the 2012 financial The position in the Services segment is similar. Germany accounted for only 38.0 percent of year. After a break of four years, technotrans thus resumes its common practice of enabling the revenue in the 2012 financial year, down from 53.1 percent in the previous year. The revenue share shareholders to participate in the company’s success. Our goal is to return to the pattern of disof other European countries was substantially higher at 33.9 percent (previous year 21.3 percent), tributing 50 percent of the consolidated net profit, provided no current investment requirements or while the picture in Asia on 9.7 percent (previous year 8.3 percent) and America on 18.4 percent major acquisitions stand in the way of using financial resources in this way. (previous year 17.3 percent) was almost unchanged. By way of reconciliation with the previous presentation method and for greater ease of comparison, classification using the old method would have produced the following picture for the Services Segment: Germany 52.6 percent, Rest of Europe 22.1 percent, America 17.1 percent and Asia 8.2 percent. 72 Group Management Report / Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth / Group Management Report 73 Investment and Depreciation Overall, the net cash from operating activities climbed to € 11.0 million (€ 5.9, 7.4 million). Investment once again came to € 1.4 million in the 2012 financial year (€ 1.4, 1.3 million). This positive operating cash flow was sufficient to cover the financing of both investment spending In line with the business performance, spending was thus again kept to a reasonable minimum (€ 1.4 million) and the acquisition of the interest in Sprachenwelt GmbH (€ 0.3 million) as well level. Investment spending was mainly for replacement purchases or IT equipment. Of the overall as the conditional purchase price component (earn-out) for Termotek AG (€ 0.4 million). The sale volume, € 1.2 million was attributable to the Technology segment and € 0.2 million to the Services of the property in Gersthofen made a further positive contribution to cash flow (€ 4.3 million), segment. Because of the low level of manufacturing penetration, the scaling-back of investment with the result that the net cash employed for investing activities produced a positive figure of spending has no impact on the efficiency of production capacity. € 2.2 million. The development expenditure reported in the Income Statement came to € 2.2 million; this The free cash flow reached € 13.2 million (€ 3.6, 6.3 million) and therefore its highest ever amounts to 2.5 percent of revenue. Development costs of € 0.6 million were also recognised as level in the history of the company. intangible assets in the financial year; total development costs within intangible assets increased The net cash employed for financing activities came to € – 7.2 million (previous year € – 4.1 milto € 0.9 million (€ 0.3 million). lion). Loans amounting to € 10.5 million were redeemed, while new loans for € 3.3 million were In addition, a total of just under € 0.8 million was spent on the acquisition of the interest in raised. Sprachenwelt GmbH (€ 0.3 million) and on earn-out components (conditional purchase price) for Cash and cash equivalents at year-end rose by 46.2 percent to € 18.7 million (previous year the acquisition of Termotek AG (€ 0.4 million). € 12.8 million). From a capital management viewpoint, this level is very satisfactory. The group’s Depreciation and amortisation for the 2012 financial year totalled € 3.0 million (previous year liquidity is thus adequate to meet its payment obligations in the 2013 financial year. € 3.2 million). Of this, € 2.3 million was attributable to the Technology segment and € 0.7 million to the Services segment. The main sources of depreciation and amortisation are the mySAP software, the new building at Sassenberg and the international sales and service network. cash flow from operating activities in € Million With effect from January 1, 2013 a majority interest was acquired in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH. No further definite investments that would require an exceptional level of financing are currently 6.7 3.6 7.4 5.9 11.0 planned for fixed assets or intangible assets. Investment and depreciation in € Million 5.1 1.3 4.7 1.1 0.2 3.5 1.2 0 3.3 1.4 1.0 3.2 1.4 0.8 3.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Net Worth Balance Sheet Total and Equity Ratio The balance sheet total for the technotrans Group at December 31, 2012 came to € 64.7 million, representing a slight decrease of 3.7 percent compared with the prior-year reporting date 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (€ 67.2 million). The equity ratio improved yet again and is now 63.2 percent (previous year 55.5 percent). The return on equity, representing net income as a proportion of equity, was 7.9 perInvestments/property, plant and equipment Investments/other assets Depreciation cent. The total return on investment for the past financial year was 4.8 percent. Assets Liquidity The non-current assets declined from € 28.6 million to € 22.4 million at the reporting date, On the basis of a net income for the year of € 3.1 million (previous year € 3.0 million), the first and foremost as a result of the disposal of the Gersthofen property which was latterly r­ eported cash flow from operating activities before changes to working capital totalled € 8.8 million (previous under “Investment property”, and also as a result of depreciation. year € 8.1 million). Current assets grew from € 38.6 million to € 42.3 million, an increase of 9.5 percent. This The changes in working capital had a positive effect of € 3.5 million on cash (previous year change was driven by the rise in cash and cash equivalents from € 12.8 to 18.7 million (+46.2 per€ – 0.4 million), with the reduction in receivables and other current assets of € 1.9 million and cent), whereas inventories (– 3.8 percent to € 13.5 million) and trade receivables (– 13.4 percent of other non-current assets of € 1.0 million compared with the prior-year reporting date a major to € 8.7 million) fell. contributory factor. 74 Group Management Report / Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth / Group Management Report 75 Equity and Liabilities Working Capital Within equity and liabilities, equity again improved by 9.6 percent, rising from € 37.3 million to The reduction in current liabilities meant that working capital (current assets – current liabilities) € 40.9 million. The main factor at work here was the net income for the year. rose from € 18.5 million to € 27.1 million within the space of a year. Cash and cash equivalents Liabilities at the balance sheet date had been reduced to € 23.8 million (€ 29.9, 33.9 million). account for almost half of current assets. They consist of non-current liabilities, which fell from € 9.8 million to € 8.6 million (– 12.3 percent), and current liabilities, which were reduced sharply from € 20.1 million to € 15.2 million Net Debt and Gearing (– 24.2 percent). The group’s net debt, in other words interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivalents, The main changes within non-current assets related to borrowings, which were reduced by of € 4.9 million at the 2011 balance sheet date was transformed into net liquidity of € 8.5 million means of scheduled repayments from € 6.8 million to € 6.4 million. The decrease in other ­financial in the course of the 2012 financial year. Gearing, in other words the ratio of net debt to equity, is liabilities of around € 0.6 million stems partly from the reclassification of a conditional purchase consequently negative at – 20.7 percent (13.1, 17.4 percent). price component in connection with the interest acquired in Termotek AG (€ 0.8 million) as a current liability. This was offset to some extent by the conditional purchase price component for the Provisions acquisition of the remaining shares of gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH (€ 0.3 million). Provisions edged up from € 5.5 million to € 5.8 million in 2012. The long-term provisions of Within the current category, borrowings also fell from € 9.7 million to € 2.9 million (– 69.9 peraround € 0.9 million comprise both personnel-related obligations (partial retirement and pensions) cent), as did trade payables (-– 31.4 percent to € 2.1 million). On the other hand, prepayments and those Board of Management remuneration components that focus on sustainable corporate received grew by almost € 1.3 million for reporting date reasons. The other current liabilities grew performance. The short-term provisions (€ 4.9 million, previous year € 4.4 million) consist of other by € 0.6 million overall, mainly from the conditional purchase price component for Termotek AG. obligations towards personnel (€ 2.8 million), payments to be made under warranty (€ 0.7 million) At the balance sheet date, technotrans’ financial liabilities were down at € 9.3 million (€ 16.6, and other provisions (€ 1.4 million). 17.9 million). Apart from a variable-rate loan of € 0.5 million, only current bank overdrafts are exposed to an interest rate risk; however none were in use at the balance sheet date. The nonOff-Balance-Sheet Financial Instruments current financial liabilities stem principally from investments in intangible assets and property, No off-balance-sheet financial instruments are used in the technotrans Group. plant and equipment; they are protected in part by land charges. Details of the structure of financial liabilities are provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Section 12). Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth technotrans has very sound financing, with € 18.7 million in cash and cash equivalents at the of technotrans AG balance sheet date, a net cash position of € 8.5 million and borrowing facilities agreed but not used amounting to € 17.2 million. The acquisition of a majority interest in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH At the reporting date of December 31, 2012 the balance sheet total of technotrans AG came at the start of 2013 has had only minimal impact on this position and the agreed financing for to € 60.0 million (previous year € 63.5 million). The equity ratio was 61.0 percent (previous year further potential acquisitions amounting to € 4.0 million was used at that time. The long-standing 55.0 percent). Revenue of € 60.5 million was earned in the past financial year (previous year business ties with our banks have remained steady. However, the current environment provides no € 68.2 million). The reported net income for the year is € 1.5 million (previous year € 2.2 million). guarantee that the banks will be willing or able to continue to fill the role of our financing partner to the extent to which we are accustomed. As a listed company, technotrans also has access to capital market instruments. balance structure in € Million Cash 18.7 Other current assets 1.4 Receivables 8.7 15.2 Current liabilities Inventories 13.5 8.6 Non-current liabilities Non-current assets 22.4 40.9 Equity assets liabilities Total 64.7 64.7 Total 76 Group Management Report / Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth Financial Performance, Financial Position and Net Worth / Group Management Report 77 Other Information As in every financial year, further measures to improve all internal processes and procedures were again taken in 2012. This continuous improvement process to optimise products and throughput times has yielded further effectiveness and efficiency gains, reduced production times and Purchasing and Procurement increased productivity. A separate electronic assembly line has also been set up to enable us to Honesty and reliability are key characteristics of the partnership upon which the relationship respond even faster to project orders in the non-print area. The newly developed spray lubrication between technotrans and its suppliers depends. Many such relationships have evolved over many process, for example, benefited especially from this in 2012. years, and in some cases stretch back decades. When working through the complex selection The production area particularly addressed the issue of initial and further training last year. process we choose our suppliers not solely on price, but rather on the strength of a large number The aim of these efforts is to respond as early on as possible to the first signs of a need for differof different aspects which together represent the most advantageous solution for our customers ent or higher qualifications, for instance in refrigeration technology. That specific requirement has and the group. We are guided in our decision-making by the total cost of ownership principle. We been addressed by setting up a refrigeration technology training centre, where our own employees are delighted that our long-standing business partners in our region are often demonstrably very are given advanced training in refrigeration systems engineering. As well as the electronics engicompetitive when compared with companies from supposedly low-wage countries, and that this neers and mechanics from production, it also trains up service engineers from all over the world, form of local sourcing also helps to protect jobs in Germany. Short delivery distances moreover alongside equipping our apprentices for the tasks of the future. minimise the adverse impact on the environment. We strive to underpin this approach by pooling To ensure that technotrans will continue to have sufficiently qualified juniors, it has gone into consignments as rationally as possible. schools and attended vocational training fairs to promote its attractive apprenticeship options. In The group’s central procurement operations again identified many fresh opportunities in the parallel, the mechanical and electrical training park has been significantly increased. We aim to past financial year as a result of new acquisitions (Termotek AG) and partnerships (KLH Kältetechnik address demographic change proactively through this initiative. GmbH). By pooling volumes, more advantageous terms were negotiated with common suppliers for various different groups of materials. While the focus was on a continuous improvement proQuality Management cess in the case of Termotek in 2012, and will remain so moving forward, the joint approach will technotrans applies a modern, integrated quality management system that contributes towards increasingly enable KLH to realise synergies, and thus realise scope for enhancing profitability. meeting customers’ high expectations of our equipment and technologies. Our approach includes The next step will be to give the lead role for certain groups of materials to whichever company is supplier selection, as well as safeguarding and optimising all supply chain activities and processes. best placed to take charge, based on their technologies. We place particular emphasis on developing and using new preventive quality assurance tools in To gauge how efficient our procurement activities are, we monitor 25 efficiency performance order to realise ongoing improvements. These measures are proving effective, as evidenced by indicators for processes and costs, quality, structure and methods, following the methods of the the significant improvement in product and process quality. A special interdisciplinary quality task German Association of Materials Management, Purchasing and Logistics (BME). We believe there force has also been created both to increase the rate at which improvements are implemented is still potential for further improvements here. and promote a cross-departmental “driver mentality”. technotrans’ relatively low manufacturing penetration makes it easier to adjust flexibly to a Prior to its dispatch, all equipment is tested using a proven process, to establish that it is fluctuating production volume. No serious problems in this respect have therefore yet been enfree from faults. Systems and equipment types that have not yet reached production maturity are countered either when business has been falling or rising. In addition, we monitor the economic initially monitored intensively by a team of engineers during extensive field tests. There are also performance of our key suppliers very closely so that we are able to guarantee punctual, high-quality special facilities for running simulations in order to find out more about material characteristics deliveries at all times thanks to effective supplier management. over the entire lifetime of equipment, for example. Whenever suppliers request price increases, we are generally also able to rebut unjustified demands through open dialogue with them. Instead, we counter disadvantageous developments Logistics in prices by agreeing long-term binding terms. We also seek out creative solutions by supporting Logistics at technotrans involves planning, managing and monitoring the flow of materials and suppliers’ purchasing activities, for example, and then benefiting from improved competitiveness goods both inside and outside the company. It ensures that the right quantity of the right goods, in that way. in the right state, is available at the right place and time for the right customer, at the right cost. This cross-disciplinary function has the task of managing all flows of materials and goods in the sub-areas of procurement, production and distribution logistics. Production, Technology and Logistics Procurement logistics is responsible for stock management and transport within the company. The technotrans Group has manufacturing locations in Germany (Sassenberg, Baden-Baden Production logistics is responsible for order picking and providing materials for production orders, and, since 2013, Bad Doberan), China (Taicang) and the USA (Chicago). This global presence for permanent inventory and for supplying replenishment zones in the production areas. Timereflects the fundamental production structure of the international industrial customers which techno­ critical minor orders such as requests for materials from all areas and parts orders worldwide are trans serves. At all manufacturing locations, production proper involves first and foremost the asalso picked by this area. sembly of components that are frequently sourced from local suppliers and used by us to build equipThe main task of distribution logistics is to make goods available efficiently, while observing ment and systems. Our level of vertical integration is therefore decidedly low, and for that r­eason defined general parameters. Laws, national requirements, customer wishes and internal organisain particular we have generally been readily able to adjust capacity in line with changing volumes tional constraints all influence how consignments are packed, shipped and processed. To support of demand. We prioritise high flexibility, coupled with placing the emphasis on efficient processes. customer requirements optimally, we are in possession of the necessary certificates and permits The 2012 financial year saw production operations in China relocated from Beijing to Taicang, for customs simplification processes, and have specialists such as hazardous goods representawhere they were merged with KLH’s operations. technotrans had maintained its own manufacturing tives and customs agents. location in China since 1997, and built mainly dampening solution circulators for the local market All three subsidiary disciplines are fully integrated into SAP. The operational logistics processes there. By relocating operations to KLH, combined capacity utilisation is being optimised, there will are optimally supported by a mobile data collection system with SAP connection. This boosts the be greater flexibility to adjust to short-term fluctuations in demand, and the lower structural costs efficiency of processes and errors are minimised. will provide a lasting boost to competitiveness. Employees from Sassenberg provided in-depth support for the transfer of production and the production start in Taicang. 78 Group Management Report / Other Information Other Information / Group Management Report 79 The introduction of logistics controlling for operations as a flanking measure represents a Apprentices major step towards optimising logistics processes and making them more sustainable. There are Particular emphasis is placed on the training of apprentices at technotrans. In order to fill analyses, reports and performance indicators to support the routine measures for the principal future posts with our own juniors, we significantly increased our efforts in this area during the past functions. For example, stock management regularly takes up routine reporting measures such as financial year. 13 apprentices taking a total of seven different vocational qualifications embarked ABC monitoring, provision analyses and material/plant matching. on their careers at Sassenberg in summer 2012. This increased the number of apprentices to A number of optimisation measures were also carried out in the 2012 financial year. Considera peak of 54, representing 8.4 percent of the workforce. The range of vocational qualifications able costs were incurred through preparing for “known consignor” status, because from the end is continually adjusted in line with the company’s anticipated need for young talents. This time, of March 2013 the sender of air freight must demonstrate that packaging and shipment are free dual training courses (a combination of on-the-job training and studies) were available for the first from manipulation. As well as training the appropriate personnel, extensive conversion work has time, leading to a qualification as Industrial Engineer or Bachelor of Engineering (specialisation: been necessary in order to meet the new requirements. Electrical Engineering). Because technotrans is among the 100 companies offering the most apOther improvements involved optimising freight and performance by switching to a new provider prenticeship contracts in recent years, we were chosen to take part in the pilot project “Online for parcel distribution. Synchronisation and container management in procurement logistics were Apprenticeship Contract”. And technotrans’ involvement in the “Doubly Strong” initiative of the also optimised in tandem with customers. There are moreover many advantages to extending North Westphalia Chamber of Commerce earned it an award: the company created the highest mobile data collection in the warehouse, in production and in dispatch: no withdrawal documents, number of extra apprenticeships for 2013, at a time when they are in short supply in the state due more reliable processes, more efficient order picking and more reliable stocks. Last but not least, to two high school years graduating simultaneously. Thus, technotrans expects to take on 23 new the dispatch areas for parcel and equipment distribution have been centralised and regular reorga­ apprentices in 2013 – a new record for the company. ni­sation measures have been implemented. The effect of good training both internally and externally is not to be underestimated. To introduce the company and their place of work to their families, the apprentices held a first “Parent Alert” in 2012. Over 70 participants, including press representatives, took the opportunity to look Employees behind the scenes. The apprentices also took on the lead roles in a photo shoot staged by the Total and Changes Chamber of Commerce for an advertising campaign promoting “dual courses of study”. ProfesThe number of employees in the technotrans Group increased to 662 in the course of 2012 sional photographers directed the apprentices in this “role play” venture. (637 on December 31, 2011). The sources of growth included our subsidiary gds AG following the The apprentices are deeply indebted to the company for its commitment: 99 percent of those acquisition of a majority interest in Sprachenwelt GmbH, and technotrans AG, where additional starting a career after completing their training choose to take up a post at technotrans. specialists were recruited for the new markets area. On the other hand the transfer of production from Beijing to Taicang in the second half had the opposite effect. Qualifications and Age Structure technotrans is a high-tech company, a fact that is also reflected in the qualifications of its employees. In addition to the apprentices, 43 percent of employees have undergone training leading employees by region to qualifications, 23 percent have an engineering qualification and 19 percent have an academic background. technotrans is furthermore a young company: around 45 percent of the workforce are 541 246 459 166 461 162 487 150 520 142 under 40 years old, and only 3.2 percent are over 60. The average age is just under 40; this figure is therefore virtually unchanged from the previous year. qualification of the employees 19 % 23 % academic degree engineering qualitfication 7% trainees 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 43 % 8% Germany Abroad skilled worker other technotrans is able to handle temporary fluctuations in the level of orders flexibly by means of time accounts, with time credits then earned or used as necessary. In addition, temporary ­workers are occasionally hired and subsequently taken on permanently if a longer-term positive b ­ usiness trend emerges. If falls in the volume of business are expected to be temporary, short-time is introduced in order to hold onto employees and their expertise. Only if there is a permanent downturn in business are measures taken to bring the employee total in line with the new volume of business. 80 Group Management Report / Other Information Other Information / Group Management Report 81 In an effort to make working and family life more compatible for this relatively young workforce, the total volume of machinery sold at the show. Both figures were down on previous events. As well the child care options for employees with children have been significantly extended in partnership as taking part in the drupa, technotrans exhibited at the Graph Expo (Chicago) and the WAN-Expo with a municipal kindergarten. Generous time slots and scope for accommodating unexpected (Frankfurt, formerly IFRA). work commitments flexibly are especially welcome among young women; in this way they are able We again stepped up our involvement in shows addressing markets other than the printing into continue pursuing their career objectives with the reassurance that suitable child care is in dustry in 2012. We took part in the Achema, among others; this show, which focuses on chemistry, place. process engineering and biotechnology, takes place every three years. We showcased industrial It of course goes without saying that the corporate culture is a major contributory factor in job cooling technology at the AMB, an international exhibition for metal working, and our spray.xact satisfaction. technotrans’ canteen plays an important role here. Freshly prepared dishes, a varied spray lubrication principle made a highly successful world debut at the EuroBLECH. The year’s exhimenu and friendly kitchen staff all help to create a pleasant environment for successful informal bitions were rounded off with the emballage, Europe’s largest exhibition for the packaging industry. interaction with colleagues across all levels of the hierarchy. Other companies in the neighbourhood Termotek AG, too, again took the opportunity to establish new contacts and build on existing have now also taken up the opportunity to have their employees catered for here. ones at various shows during 2012. The company presented its miniature cooling solutions, for example, at the Photonics West and the Pittcon (USA), the High Performance Diode Laser Workshop Personnel Expenses in Dresden, the Lasys in Stuttgart and the Espace Laser in Mulhouse. It teamed up with technotrans Personnel expenses for 2012 came to € 32.7 million (€ 33.2, 30.8 million). The decrease is for both the drupa and the Achema. broadly in line with the effects of short-time during the first five months. On the other hand the pay The major event of last year for gds AG was once again the Tekom annual conference. This increase in Germany averaging 3.5 percent bolstered this item. is where experts from the field of Technical Documentation meet – a “must” for everyone in this The personnel costs ratio for the group (personnel expenses as a proportion of revenue) was industry. The Docu-Preis award made each year at this conference consequently enjoys a very high 36.0 percent (34.2, 35.9 percent). The aim is to bring this ratio down to around 30 percent in the status. gds was again among the recipients of these coveted trophies in 2012: this time, in recogfuture. nition of its documentation of the eROCKIT, an electric bike of exceptional pedigree. Revenue per capita remained virtually stable in 2012 despite the weaker revenue, reaching The reason for taking part in all these shows is always to acquire a deeper knowledge of the in€ 140 thousand (€ 148, 139 thousand). Although this performance indicator is below previous dividual markets, their customers and suppliers, but they also of course provide technotrans with levels achieved, it nevertheless demonstrates the company’s ability to adapt to falling revenue. a platform to publicise its products and services. To reinforce that effect, we provided intensive, We continue to maintain more capacity than would be strictly necessary in high-expertise areas, effective PR support for the appearance at the EuroBLECH. A large number of trade magazines regarding these resources as an investment in the development of new markets. reported on our innovative spray lubrication principle both before and after the show, where it was given its first public showing. Remuneration Model The remuneration of employees at technotrans AG is a reflection of their individual positions Shares within the company. The positions are allocated to function groups, or grades, which in turn comprise a number of remuneration bands. The shares of technotrans AG have been traded on the stock market since March 1998. As a The annual decision on percentage pay increases is negotiated between the Board of Managecompany listed in the Prime Standard segment, we must meet the highest possible standards of ment and the Works Council. An individual employee’s pay increase is determined on the basis of transparency. These include quarterly financial reporting in German and English, the publication of their performance and their current level of remuneration. Employees who are in the lower zone of a corporate calendar, holding at least one Analysts Conference per year and the publication of ad a band and perform averagely can thus receive larger pay increases than employees whose pay is hoc information, including in English. The shares of technotrans AG were converted from bearer in the upper zone of a band and performance is the same. An assessment system is used to allow to registered shares in October 2008. Since the changeover, we have been able to communicate the structured assessment of employee performance. directly with our company’s shareholders. Having knowledge of the shareholder structure furtherThe employees’ profit share is based on the EBIT margin. Upward of an EBIT margin of 5 percent, more enables us to target our investor relations work even better. a bonus is paid out to those who are not entitled to a profit share. Transparency and credibility are the cornerstones of our communications with the capital Throughout the group, managers receive bonuses (profit shares) that are agreed individually in ­market. We inform shareholders, analysts, media and the general public regularly and promptly their contracts and depend half on the attainment of company targets, and half on their personal in press releases and ad hoc information about our business performance and the situation of performance. There are no incentive schemes involving share components. the company. All publications are also available on the Internet. Regardless of whether someone is a shareholder or is merely interested in the company, and whether they have a large or small shareholding, in addition to providing written reports we explain individual aspects and answer Corporate Communications questions in telephone conferences or face-to-face talks. The result of an information policy that Taking part in shows and exhibitions is a key instrument of our corporate communications is candid and open to scrutiny is a relationship of trust with all capital market operators, based on work. In the printing industry, such events are first and foremost about supporting our major cusmutual respect, and we attach very high importance to it. tomers, because technotrans of course benefits indirectly from the orders they receive. Exhibitions With the shares having ended 2011 on € 4.24, a recovery in the first few weeks of the year and shows are also part of our push-and-pull strategy: particularly where end customers have ­under review was undermined by news from the printing industry: manroland had filed for insolvency scope for deciding for or against equipping their systems with technotrans technology, we want to in November, Kodak applied for creditor protection in January and a reluctance to invest before impress the advantages of our solutions upon them at first hand. Convinced end customers in turn the drupa industry exhibition weighed on the level of incoming orders registered by most printing supply the printing press manufacturers with the confirmation that the latter are giving the market press manufacturers. The shares consequently hovered around the € 5 mark for several months. what it wants in fitting technotrans equipment. Throughout that period we invested considerable effort in explaining our activities in the non-print The drupa again took place in the 2012 financial year; it is the biggest exhibition in the world area to capital market participants and highlighting their potential impact on the medium-term in the printing industry and is held in Düsseldorf every four years. The show passed off very suc­development of the company. From June on, interest in the shares then picked up appreciably, cessfully for technotrans, with our presentation placing the spotlight on how printers can make moving permanently beyond the 5 euro level. It nevertheless took until November for the 6 euro their machinery more efficient through retrofit solutions. A large number of interesting contacts threshold to be crossed. The closing price for 2012 was ultimately € 6.93 – an appreciation of were established and – unlike previous shows – we even clinched sales directly. The general dif63 percent since the start of the year. Over the same period the TecDAX benchmark index rose ficulties being experienced by the industry were nevertheless reflected in both visitor numbers and 21 percent. 82 Group Management Report / Other Information Other Information / Group Management Report 83 share price January 1, 2009 to February 28, 2013 3. All shares carry identical rights. No shares are equipped with special rights, in particular none imparting authority to control. 250% 4. Employees participating in the capital exercise their voting rights directly. 5. The statutory requirements pursuant to Sections 84, 85 of AktG on the appointment and dismissal of the members of the Board of Management are applied. The articles of incorpora225% tion of the company contain no regulations over and above Section 84 of AktG. Pursuant to Section 179 of AktG, amendments to the articles of incorporation require a resolution of the 200% Shareholders’ Meeting carried by a voting majority of 75 percent. 6. The Board of Management is, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, authorised to increase the share capital on one or more occasions by up to a total of € 3,450,000.00 until April 30, 175% 2015, through the issue of new shares against contributions in cash or in kind. No use was made of this authorisation in 2012. The subscription right of shareholders may be excluded 150% insofar as the requirements of Section 186 (3) fourth sentence of AktG are met in the case of employee shares or the acquisition of companies or of participating interests in companies, if the acquisition or participating interest is in the properly understood interests of the com125% pany; the subscription right may moreover be excluded for the purpose of compensating for fractional amounts. 100%  The Board of Management is furthermore authorised until April 30, 2015 to acquire treasury shares of a nominal amount of up to € 690,000.00. If acquired by stock exchange dealings, the purchase price per share shall not exceed or undercut by more than 10 percent the average 75% Xetra closing price (or, insofar as the Xetra closing price serves as the basis for this authorisation, the closing price determined by a successor system taking the place of the Xetra system) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on the five trading days preceding the acquisition. If acquired on the basis of a public offer to buy, the acquisition price per share shall not exceed or undertechnotrans TecDAX cut by more than 10 percent the average Xetra closing price on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on the five last trading days before initial disclosure of the offer.  The Board of Management is authorised to retire all or some of the treasury shares acquired on the basis of the authorisation, without the need for a further shareholders’ resolution. The 2011 Annual Report also helped change for the better how technotrans is perceived by the  The Board of Management is furthermore authorised to dispose of the acquired shares via capital market; last year’s publication evidently presented the group’s growth strategy both appealthe stock market or to third parties, by cash sale. In these cases the selling price shall not ingly and convincingly. While its design won a Red dot Communication Design Award in the Annual under­cut the average Xetra closing price on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on the five trading days Reports category and a German Design Award 2013, the higher share price and rising trading volprior to sale by more than 5 percent. The Board of Management is, with the consent of the umes also indicate growing confidence in the execution of the strategy outlined in that publication. Supervisory Board, moreover authorised to dispose of the acquired treasury shares in a manner As the tangible results of accessing new markets will if anything become even more apparent other than via the stock market or by offering them to all shareholders if transfer to a third over the next few months, we expect the positive share price trend to continue. The performance party takes the form of counter-performance in the context of the acquisition of companies or over the first few weeks of the current year, with market capitalisation exceeding the 60 million of participating interests. The price at which the acquired treasury shares are surrendered to euro mark and the trading price exceeding 9 euros to reach a four-year high, allows us to predict a third party shall not significantly undercut the average Xetra closing price on the Frankfurt this with some confidence. Stock Exchange on the last five trading days before the concluding of the agreement on the The shares are currently covered by three analysts (HSBC Trinkaus and Burkhardt, M.M. Warburg, acquisition of the company or participating interest. The acquired treasury shares may also Montega). Two banks ceased their coverage last year. We expect that interest will increase again be used in fulfilment of obligations in respect of conversion options granted as a result of the along with our entry into attractive new markets outside the printing industry and the gradual shift issuing of convertible bonds. The subscription right of the shareholders is excluded for the use of our peer group. of treasury shares in the last three cases.  By December 31, 2012 a total of 690,000 treasury shares had been acquired via the stock market on the basis of the authorisation. At the end of 2008, 54,132 shares from this Disclosures and Explanatory Notes Relating to Takeover total, at the end of 2009 39,618 shares, at the end of 2010 28,620 shares, at the end of The following disclosures satisfy the requirements pursuant to Section 315 (4) of German Civil 2011 43,740 shares and at the end of 2012 a further 22,629 shares were voluntarily distribCode (BGB) and Section 120 (3) second sentence of German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). uted to the employees as part of their Christmas bonus. Furthermore, 49,000 treasury shares 1. The issued capital at December 31, 2012 comprises 6,907,665 no par value and fully paid were issued in the 2011 financial year as part of the purchase price of Termotek AG. shares each representing a nominal amount of € 1 of the share capital. The shares of techno The Board of Management is in addition authorised, in accordance with the shareholders’ trans AG are registered shares. Exclusively ordinary shares have been issued; the rights and resolution of May 8, 2009 and with the consent of the Supervisory Board, to issue bonds obligations arising from them conform to the relevant statutory regulations. They are subject to with a term of a maximum of 5 years on one or more occasions up until May 7, 2014 of an restrictions on voting rights and transfer only in those cases laid down by law, and not pursuant aggregate nominal amount of up to € 10 million and to grant the bearers of bonds conversion to the articles of incorporation. The Board of Management has not been notified of any voting options on up to 690,000 treasury shares. trust agreements between shareholders. 7. There are no material agreements of the parent company that are conditional on a change of 2. No direct or indirect interests in the capital amounting to more than ten percent of the voting control following a takeover bid. rights are known. 8. No compensation has been agreed with the members of the Board of Management or employees in the event of a takeover bid. 84 Group Management Report / Other Information Other Information / Group Management Report 85 Report on Post-Balance Sheet Date Events Risk Management and Internal Control System Takeover of majority interests in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH (Bad ­Doberan) as well as in KLH Cooling International Pte. Ltd. As a company with activities worldwide the technotrans Group is, within the context of its (Singapore) and Taicang KLH Cooling Systems Co. Ltd. (PR China) business processes, exposed to a wide range of risks that are part and parcel of any entrepreWith effect from January 1, 2013 technotrans AG acquired 65 percent of the shares of KLH neurial activity. In order to seize specific opportunities, it is necessary to take assessable and Kälte­technik GmbH with registered office in Bad Doberan as well as of KLH Cooling International manageable risks in a deliberate and controlled manner. As part of a systematic and efficient risk Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) and Taicang KLH Cooling Systems Co. Ltd. (PR China). The relevant agreemanagement system, principles of risk policy are drawn up and current developments regularly ments were signed on December 12, 2012. Through KLH Kältetechnik, the technotrans Group logged, analysed, evaluated and – if necessary – appropriate countermeasures taken. The risk is stepping up its activities in the area of laser applications. KLH Kältetechnik employs around management system helps to safeguard the group permanently as a going concern by identifying 100 people and generated revenue in excess of € 15 million in 2012. Its management will remain as early as possible all risks that could materially impair the net worth, financial position and finan­ involved in the successful development of this company. The purchase price for the investment, cial performance of the group. The internal control system (ICS), which constitutes an integral part which comprises a fixed and a variable component, is in the mid-range single-digit millions. of the risk management system, is described in summary form below. The group-wide risk management system observes the following risk principles, among others: Development of the market and economic environment · The overriding risk principle at technotrans is to protect the company as a going concern. No Fresh problems with the public finances of various countries are coming to light on an almost action or decision may endanger the company as a going concern. daily basis. With the USA only narrowly avoiding falling over the fiscal cliff at the turn of the year, · Any risks to the company as a going concern must be communicated to the Board of Managea few days later there was news that the EU might have to bail out Cyprus. When confronted with ment without delay. such announcements, the markets react with heightened uncertainty and this in turn casts a cloud · Necessary risks are consciously accepted to a certain extent in return for economic success. over the investment plans of companies and the equipment industry. On the other hand, during Risks to income must carry the prospect of an appropriate opportunity of a return. the first few weeks of the year increasingly positive assessments of the economic prospects were · Risks are to be avoided as far as possible or, insofar as economically advisable, insured published. However this has not yet had any discernible impact on technotrans’ business perforagainst, continually monitored and brought to the attention of the Board of Management, as mance. Overall, this mixed picture gives rise to increased forecasting uncertainty and means it is well as the Supervisory Board if necessary, in the context of regular risk reporting. In the event always vital to build all possible uncertainties into the equation. of residual risks, countermeasures must be taken. Risk management is designed to promote the awareness of opportunities and risks among Overall Statement technotrans employees, and to guard against potential risks. The necessary procedures and rules We expect that we will be able to realise technotrans’ course of growth as planned, despite of communication within individual corporate divisions have been defined and established by the the unsettled economic environment. The takeover of KLH Kältetechnik GmbH will make a major Board of Management. The superior in charge of each area of operations is responsible for complicontribution in this respect in the 2013 financial year. ance with the standards and directives on how to handle risks, and control is exercised through audits by Group Controlling as well as by the Board of Management. The risk management system including the ICS is moreover regularly updated and thus constitutes the basis for the systematic identification, analysis, evaluation, steering, documentation and communication of the various risk types and profiles. The same applies to our compliance programme. We do not tolerate any contravention of applicable law and to that end regularly examine the internal set of rules as well as our own compliance organisation, and seek to improve them. Organisation of the Risk Management System Organisationally, risk management is integrated into the tasks of Group Controlling and ensures that reports are submitted on a regular basis to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board, or Audit Committee. This organisational structure also makes it possible to identify tendencies and risks early on with the aid of key performance indicators, and thus ensures that the Group Board of Management can immediately implement suitable measures if there is a negative shift. The objective of the ICS in respect of the financial reporting process is to guarantee with reasonable assurance, through the implementation of controls, that the (Consolidated) Financial Statements conform to the regulations, despite the risks identified. The non-central organisation of the ICS for financial reporting features a uniform, centrally defined reporting structure which, based on the local statutory requirements, is in harmony with the group principles. The subsidiaries report periodically to IFRS standards, for group reporting purposes. Newly established or acquired companies are integrated into this reporting process as swiftly as possible. There are no uniform ERP and bookkeeping systems throughout the entire group, and uniform reporting structures are used to integrate figures into Group Accounting. To guarantee uniform reporting, there exist corpo­ rate guidelines such as financial reporting and consolidation manuals, compliance with which is examined in regular compliance audits. At intermittent intervals internal checks on the subsidiaries’ financial reporting are performed in situ, examinations and plausibility checks are carried out on a test basis, and at the end of the financial year the local financial statements are audited before 86 Group Management Report / Report on Post-Balance Sheet Date Events Risk Management and Internal Control System / Group Management Report 87 they are released for the Consolidated Financial Statements. All measures taken and the ongoing Opportunities and Risks Report refinement and adjustment of the ICS help to assure the reliability of financial reporting. On the other hand even suitable, functioning systems cannot provide any absolute guarantee that risks will be identified and controlled. Future Parameters Group-wide, technotrans has a standardised organisation for risk management. Risks within The future development of the technotrans Group is influenced by various general parameters technotrans AG and its subsidiaries are recorded promptly and non-centrally within the regular risk such as global economic development, the development of the capital goods industry in general reports. These include changes to risks already identified, as well as new developments that could and the development of the printing press industry, the machine tool industry and the laser industry lead to the creation of additional risks. The risks are analysed, evaluated based on their probin specific, as well as of other sectors. This growing diversification reduces its dependence on the ability and the potential loss involved, and matched up with appropriate measures. Residual risks business cycles of the printing industry, while creating the chance to share in the opportunities are evaluated again and further measures are earmarked for them. For example, to avoid defaults offered by various growth markets. every customer is issued with a general or individual credit limit (which possibly takes into account the amount of trade credit insurance cover) and their payment history is monitored. Receivables Global Economy are regularly analysed to assess what measures are needed in order to close overdue items, and At the turn of 2012/13 the Institute for the World Economy at the University of Kiel (IfW) sees these are then discussed with the customer. In the case of customers for standard business, the global economy as dominated by the crisis in the eurozone, the uncertainties surrounding the the next stage is to announce the suspension of supplies and then to enforce that suspension direction of fiscal policy in the United States and weak economic activity in emerging economies, until the customer is back below the credit limit. In parallel, external sources are used to assess which had largely driven the global economic recovery after the major downturn. In its forecasts customers’ creditworthiness on a regular basis and to adjust the credit limits if necessary. This is for 2013, it consequently estimates that economic development in the advanced economies will also practised after supplies have repeatedly been suspended. be very weak in the winter half-year of 2012/13, and will subsequently pick up only very slowly. According to the Munich-based Ifo Institute for Economic Research, there have nevertheless been growing signs of an economic recovery in Germany since the start of 2013: in January, the Risk Categorisation German economy’s confidence index revealed a third successive increase. Bank economists genTaking account of the potential impact of a loss and the probability of risks materialising, indierally interpret three rises in a row as signalling the turning point in economic fortunes. In other vidual risk potentials are calculated for quantifiable risks. These are then placed in relation to the words the German economy could climb back out of the trough in the early part of the year. There planned profit for the period (plan EBIT) to obtain the assessment basis for the risk category (risk is also evidence that industry’s capacity utilisation, having fallen on three successive occasions, categories low, medium and high). improved again in January; in other words, production is getting going again. Germany is therefore expected to enjoy a mild recovery in the first quarter of 2013, with increased momentum coming technotrans uses this as the basis for classifying its risks for 2013 as later on in the year. · low if the risk potential is assessed at a value of less than 10 percent of the plan result According to Ifo, exports should likewise pick up. This would be good news for German mecha­ · medium if the risk potential is assessed at a value of between 10 and 20 percent of the plan nical and plant engineering companies. After a rather weak start to 2013, the VDMA too therefore result, and assumes that the remaining quarters of the current year will offer growth potential and forecasts · high or a threat to the company as a going concern if the risk potential is assessed at a value 2 percent growth for 2013. The driving forces are likely to include rising orders from China, following of more than 20 percent of the plan result. a dip of 7 percent in 2012, but also from the USA, where the automotive and aviation industries in particular are investing strongly. Relevant Market The VDMA (German Engineering Federation) expects growth for 2013 as a whole to reach 2 per­ cent, though this average conceals a broad spread across all the component sub-sectors, with the rates of growth and contraction in some cases running well into double figures. It ascribes its more optimistic overall assessment to the belief that Europe will continue along its chosen path, the demand backlog in important markets – most notably China – will be cleared, and growth will continue in the USA. Industry experts expect that the positive effects for the offset printing industry will not extend beyond the first quarter, with their books still well filled with orders placed at or after the drupa and the resulting revenue now being realised. Overall, the difficult macroeconomic environment is likely to dominate the first half of 2013 and weigh on the market’s further development. A more substantial investment surge is not expected to materialise until the general economic risks have receded permanently. Risk: As a systems supplier, technotrans still realises a comparatively high proportion of its revenue from the leading printing press manufacturers worldwide, which are undergoing a continuing process of restructuring and capacity-shedding. Economic difficulties for one of these customers or its disappearance from the market would potentially have a considerable impact on the financial position and financial performance of the company in the short term. However, we do not expect any lasting effects because consolidation would probably not exercise any influence on overall sales of printing presses. Among other things based on the experience of recent years, we continue to rate the risk of a major debt default as high, even though the potential volumes have been reduced and our customers’ payment history gives no cause for alarm. Wherever possible, we have insured against default losses on receivables and thus further limited the risk. 88 Group Management Report / Risk Management and Internal Control System Opportunities and Risks Report / Group Management Report 89 By contrast, manufacturers in the machine tool and laser market are approaching 2013 more The Services segment generates a relatively high proportion of overall revenue and thus plays confidently. They too conclude that the global economic climate has cooled and have observed a an important part in keeping our business stable. We expect this area to achieve further slight reticence to invest among customers despite order books being full, which they attribute to the growth in 2013. In the first instance this will come from our subsidiary gds AG, which added transunsettling effect of the eurozone’s sovereign debt crisis. Nevertheless, these manufacturers are lations to its portfolio of services in 2012 through the majority interest in Sprachenwelt GmbH. aiming for further growth because they are well positioned in crucial markets such as China and For classic service business (parts, servicing, installations) we have identified growth potential the USA. They plan to seize their opportunities in an array of regional or technology-specific markets, in markets outside the printing industry, such as the laser market (Termotek, KLH), which could even if times will if anything become more difficult. compensate for a possible fall in revenue in the print area due to consolidation in the end user market and the resulting contraction in the installed base. We anticipate that merely through the Risk: The actual economic development of the global economy and the German economy, new group companies using our worldwide service network, we will be able to tap fresh potential. but particularly of the export-oriented investment goods industry, could differ considerably from these forecasts. At the time of compiling this report we rate this risk as moderate and we would Overall, our plans envisage the technotrans Group achieving revenue of € 110 million in the moreover be able to adjust the company to changing circumstances at any time at short notice. 2013 financial year (plus/minus 5 percent). We believe this target appropriately takes into account the opportunities and risks of the new financial year. Future Development of the Group 2013 will see the technotrans Group’s revenue rise back above the € 100 million threshold. Risk: If the economic or industry-specific developments expected or the targets for newly KLH Kältetechnik GmbH and its sister companies, in which technotrans acquired a majority interest a ­ cquired businesses or expectations of newly developed products should prove to be inaccurate, the with effect from January 1, 2013, will be instrumental in these improved fortunes. By continuing revenue and therefore also the earnings target could be missed. We assess this risk as moderate. to implement our growth strategy systematically, we will make sure that technotrans will develop much more independently of the wider economic environment in future. We expect to achieve an EBIT margin of between 6 and 7 percent from the planned revenue In the Technology segment we expect the share of revenue from customers in the printing volume. Earnings will ultimately be determined to a great extent by the volume of revenue, but also industry to remain more or less stable. On the conservative scenario we assume that demand for by how long it takes us to implement all the measures at KLH that will optimise the company’s offset presses worldwide will again decline slightly in the 2013 financial year. Growth in emerging profitability. Another drawback will be the higher personnel costs in the 2013 financial year, along markets and in the area of packaging printing is likely to be outweighed by the continuing fall in with depreciation and amortisation as a result of purchase price allocation in connection with the ­demand from established markets and the newspaper sector. On the other hand we expect demost recent investment. As previously, the margin will also come under pressure as a result of the mand for digital and flexographic printing presses to hold up well. We have significantly stepped substantial resources that we are investing in the future product pipeline. There is a time lapse beup our activities in these growth areas in recent years and have built a first significant revenue tween this outlay and realising revenue and profit as a result of it. However we are convinced that contribution from some of these projects into our plans for the 2013 financial year. we will soon begin to reap rich rewards from this investment in the future growth of the company, By contrast, our activities outside the printing industry will again deliver substantial growth in and are therefore prepared to bear these costs up front. 2013, both from organic effects and as a result of acquisitions. The main contributor will be KLH Kältetechnik. KLH generated revenue of more than € 15 million in the past financial year and we Risk: Attainment of the margin targets depends to a very great degree on the planned revenue expect it at least to maintain that level in 2013, even amid an uncertain economic environment. performance and on keeping costs strictly under control. Unplanned expenses, e.g. for restrucKLH is a supplier of industrial cooling systems for use mainly in the laser industry, but also in the turing measures unexpectedly needed or unforeseeable additional quality problems, could also machine tool industry and in medical technology. Now that we have brought together the various cause major shortfalls. There is no evidence of either at the time of writing this report and we rate different performance categories under one roof (low cooling performance from Termotek, medium the risk as low. In drawing up our plans for the 2013 financial year we have based our estimates on cooling performance from technotrans, high cooling performance from KLH) the technotrans Group realistic planning assumptions and can if necessary take swift corrective action to exclude these is a full-liner able to offer its customers the right product for every application. risks as far as possible, or minimise their impact. As before, the Board of Management views acquisitions as an appropriate means of accelerating the company’s growth more rapidly. It is continually investigating suitable options. The condition The financing of acquisitions prompted a slight rise in borrowings at the start of 2013. Following is that any targets must offer synergy potential that could then be realised within the context of scheduled repayments we expect the total to be around € 11 million by the end of 2013 (Decemthe technotrans Group. Technologies that would specifically broaden its core skills are also funda­ ber 31, 2012: € 9.3 million). However the terms agreed are exceptionally favourable, minimising mentally of interest. the overall impact on interest expenses for the 2013 financial year. The effective tax rate for the The organic accessing of new applications for our technologies will again contribute to growth group is expected to be between 29 and 32 percent. The anticipated net income for 2013 should in 2013, for example through the use of spray lubrication in forming technology and of refrigeration therefore be between € 4.0 and 5.0 million. and filtration units, e.g. in the machine tool market. This kind of project often involves a lead time The planned profitability should have a positive impact on cash flow, with the result that techof two to three years before tangible revenue can be realised. We will therefore again be working notrans will likewise be able to finance operating business and its envisaged investment spending on filling the pipeline in 2013 in order to achieve our growth targets for the next few years. from cash flow in 2013. We expect that the net cash from operating activities will be between € 5.5 and 6.5 million. The free cash flow – after the KLH acquisition – should likewise be positive. 90 Group Management Report / Opportunities and Risks Report Opportunities and Risks Report / Group Management Report 91 Investment and Finance In order to gain access to further sales markets, we are focusing on our core skills and speci­ technotrans had cash and cash equivalents amounting to € 18.7 million at the December 31, fically addressing niche markets where we can succeed as a system partner to major industrial 2012 reporting date. This is ample to be able to finance current business in all group companies. clients. As part of the process of opening up those markets, we exhibit for example at shows for technotrans in addition has unutilised borrowing facilities which, together with the surplus financial the relevant target industries. Exhibition appearances planned for 2013 include at the Southern resources, provide considerable flexibility for following up strategic options where appropriate. Manufacturing in the UK, and in Germany at the 5th Stamping Technology Congress, the KSS show, Investment spending continues to be restricted to maintenance investment. The intention is to the EMO and the BlechExpo. keep financing this from cash flow. It is the declared intention of the Board of Management to continue seizing suitable opportuniRisk: The more unknowns (market, customer, technology) there are, the greater the possibility ties to accelerate the company’s growth through further acquisitions. Depending on the size of the that efforts to launch new products will not be a success. We tackle this risk by conducting a acquisition targets, the use of both external funding and equity instruments would be ­considered. careful analysis of the underlying conditions before developing new products, and by carrying out Our banks have expressed an interest in supporting us if required; on the other hand, in the a meticulous selection process of prototypes; we therefore rate it as low. ­absence of other additional takeover targets at the time of compiling this report there are as yet no firm pledges. We are also continually examining suitable opportunities for acquisitions in order to accelerate the pace of growth. In view of their strategic importance we are investing considerable resources Risk: A marked deterioration in the financial performance, financial position and net worth, in in developing these markets of the future and are convinced that this approach will bring us closer a departure from the plans for the 2013 financial year, could result in the credit clauses on certain to achieving our growth targets. financial ratios (covenants) being broken and in the worst case loans being called in. Based on our plans for 2013, we rate this risk as low. Risk: There are a number of risks involved in taking over companies that could impact our financial performance, financial position and net worth. We limit these risks by generally first The prospects for the distribution of a dividend for the 2013 financial year are good: the comagreeing a partnership so that we can assess our expectations in practice over a certain period. pany has a sound balance sheet structure and the profitability trend is positive. As matters stand We also shore up the acquisition’s success by then securing the close involvement of the existing we would make a distribution of dividend dependent on plans for any major investment projects management and offering them the motivation of incentive payments as part of the agreed purthat would have a priority claim on financial resources, e.g. a major acquisition, at the time that chase price. We therefore rate this risk in general as low. decision needs to be reached. It remains our intention to resume our dividend policy provided the conditions are right, and distribute half of our consolidated net profit. We place the spotlight of our Research & Development activities on innovations and optimising our technologies, both for the printing industry and for other sales markets. Projects take shape Miscellaneous risks: There are fundamentally procurement and purchasing risks such as price both in the business units and as independent initiatives in the development department. In adstability, availability and quality. This risk is limited by careful management of business processes. dition, our development engineers are in close contact with our customers in an effort to identify There is furthermore the risk that customer expectations with regard to punctuality of delivery or immediate needs directly in their everyday production operations, and then to act upon those quality will not be met. A large number of processes and mechanisms, such as the quality managerequirements. ment system, are intended to anticipate and eliminate such shortcomings. We classify a possible There is a steady stream of developments for our major customers in the printing industry. shortage of know-how carriers, for example due to shortages of suitable recruits on the labour However in the immediate aftermath of the drupa, the printing industry’s biggest industry exhibition, market, as personnel risks. A large number of key processes in the company are handled with IT and in view of the prevailing economic environment, the slight decline in development projects is support. This creates typical IT risks, which are countered by means of appropriate processes and expected to continue in 2013. Capacity will instead be used to promote specific projects outside precautionary measures. the printing industry. All in all, we do not expect any significant increase in research and development We rate these risks overall as low. spending in 2013. No major purchase price increases are expected for 2013. On the contrary, the enlarged group Future Sales Markets of consolidated companies means we can if anything expect more favourable terms for some groups At the time of compiling this report, technotrans has activities not only in the printing industry, of materials. We also have the goal of realising even better purchase prices through optimisation but also e.g. in the laser market and the machine tool industry, which all come under the umbrella projects e.g. to link up to manufacturers’ electronic catalogues. We will also involve suppliers in the of the Technology segment. These markets exhibit a spread of growth rates, which helps to stabilise process at an even earlier stage, in order to enhance the quality of procurement activities. technotrans’ business performance. As part of the strategy redrafted in 2009, three goals (milestones) were defined. The first mileFuture Projects to Increase Efficiency and Optimise Processes stone specified that the share of revenue from outside the printing industry is to rise to 30 percent 2013 will see us adhere to the optimisation processes that we have been practising as a within three to five years. The revenue share in the non-print area will already exceed 30 percent regular feature of our company in recent years. Over and above that, we will continue to review our in 2013, not least thanks to targeted acquisitions that are accelerating the company’s move into structures and modify them wherever advisable. No measures comparable in scale to those taken those markets. The second milestone envisages returning to “pre-crisis levels of revenue and during the crisis are currently planned, but can be implemented if necessary. earnings in the medium term”. The benchmark figures here are from the 2007 financial year. Ultimately, the objective of our various activities is to increase revenue in the long term. In addiRisk: Changes to structures or processes harbour the risk of losing employees and their tion to these, appropriate measures have been taken to align volume growth with a corresponding expertise if they are unable to identify with the measures taken and therefore look to move. We improvement in profitability. counter this risk by involving employees at an early stage, by providing them with comprehensive information, briefings and training, and by spreading individual skills among teams. Overall, we therefore rate this risk as low. 92 Group Management Report / Opportunities and Risks Report Opportunities and Risks Report / Group Management Report 93 Overall Statement At the start of 2013 the indications are that the business cycle will be subdued in the first half of the year. Hopes are pinned on a recovery in the second half. We nevertheless start the 2013 financial year with bright prospects. Through the takeover of KLH Kältetechnik GmbH we have significantly extended our base for supplying cooling systems for laser applications and aim to tap further potential in that field, for instance in the markets of the machine tool industry and medical technology. We therefore expect revenue to increase by around 25 percent in 2013, to € 110 million – give or take 5 percent. These activities will be rounded off by a large number of internal projects that will contribute ­towards organic growth that could offset a further possible slight contraction in the printing industry. The Services segment should also have a stabilising effect on business in 2013. The growth of our subsidiary gds AG should be sufficient to compensate for a slight drop in revenue from customers in the printing industry, which is likely to undergo further consolidation. We moreover anticipate that the profitability of many group companies will continue to improve in the course of the year. In integrating KLH, high priority will be given to exploiting the synergy potential that has already been identified in the sales and service areas, but also for purchasing and production activities, so that all measures to improve the profitability of the new companies are implemented swiftly. We are planning to achieve an overall EBIT margin of 6 to 7 percent for the group on the basis of the anticipated revenue volume. Compared to 2012, this would represent an increase in the operating result of around 35 percent. Earnings continue to be eroded by the costs of new projects. The overall risk situation has not changed significantly compared with the previous year and remains manageable. The Board of Management is not aware of any potential economic or legal threat to it as a going concern. Disclaimer The Group Management Report contains future-related statements. Considerable variation between anticipated developments and actual results is possible due to any aforementioned or other element of uncertainty, or if the assumptions on the basis of which the forecasts are made prove to be incorrect. 94 Group Management Report / Opportunities and Risks Report Opportunities and Risks Report / Group Management Report 95 Figures are contents the most reliable means of financial statement Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Income Statement 98 100 evaluating reality. Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 102 Statement of Movements in Equity 104 Notes 108 Corporate Bodies 150 further Information Proposal of the appropriation of profit 152 Responsibility Statement 153 Independent Auditors’ Report 154 Report of the Supervisory Board 156 The Success Story 158 Corporate Calendar 160 Consolidated Balance Sheet Assets Note 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 Equity and liabilities Note 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Non-current assets Equity 11 Property, plant and equipment 1 14,208 15,782 20,349 Issued capital 6,908 6,908 6,908 Investment property 2 0 4,016 0 Capital reserve 12,928 12,928 12,928 Goodwill 3 3,134 2,549 0 Retained earnings 30,231 27,394 27,040 Intangible assets 4 1,681 1,862 2,053 Other reserves – 12,296 – 12,958 – 14,509 Income tax receivable 8 224 276 327 Net profit for the period 3,094 3,019 1,517 Financial assets 5 119 384 651 Total 40,865 37,291 33,884 Deferred tax 27 3,021 3,716 4,311 Non-current liabilities Total 22,387 28,585 27,691 Borrowings 12 6,395 6,819 9,599 Current assets Provisions 16 925 1,127 1,112 Inventories 6 13,490 14,030 14,929 Other financial liabilities 13 1,271 1,857 212 Trade receivables 7 8,651 9,985 10,140 Deferred tax 27 18 18 10 Income tax receivable 8 356 394 380 Total 8,609 9,821 10,933 Financial assets 9 613 332 727 Current liabilities Other assets 9 493 1,091 787 Borrowings 12 2,933 9,742 8,309 Cash and cash equivalents 10 18,715 12,798 13,125 Trade payables 14 2,142 3,123 3,138 Total 42,318 38,630 40,088 Prepayments received 15 2,321 1,019 2,457 Total assets 64,705 67,215 67,779 Provisions 16 4,874 4,404 6,085 Income tax payable 17 201 181 909 Financial liabilities 18 1,064 641 359 Other liabilities 18 1,696 993 1,705 Total 15,231 20,103 22,962 Total equity and liabilities 64,705 67,215 67,779 98 Financial Statements / Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Balance Sheet / Financial Statements 99 Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Recognised ­Income and Expense Note 2012 2011 2010 Note 2012 2011 2010 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Revenue 19 90,662 97,265 85,887 Net profit for the period 3,094 3,019 1,517 of which Technology 53,733 61,673 51,388 Other result 11 of which Services 36,929 35,592 34,499 Exchange differences from the translation of foreign group companies 729 178 819 Cost of sales 20 – 59,010 – 66,486 – 60,430 Gross profit 31,652 30,779 25,457 Exchange rate differences from net investments in a foreign business – 382 109 64 Deferred tax 90 – 43 0 Distribution costs 21 – 13,459 – 14,419 – 13,390 Change in the amount recognised within equity – 292 66 64 Administrative expenses 22 – 10,813 – 11,469 – 10,154 (net investments in a foreign business) Development costs 23 – 2,241 – 2,046 – 2,467 Other operating income 24 2,101 4,240 5,646 Change in the market values of cash flow hedges – 153 – 38 4 Other operating expenses 25 – 1,883 – 2,298 – 2,056 Amount transferred to the Income Statement 10 0 0 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) 5,357 4,787 3,036 Deferred tax 43 11 –1 Change in the amount recognised within equity (cash flow hedges) – 100 – 27 3 Financial income 39 37 30 Other profit after tax 337 217 886 Financial charges – 720 – 925 – 1,192 Overall result for the financial year 3,431 3,236 2,403 Net finance costs 26 – 681 – 888 – 1,162 of which: Profit before tax 4,676 3,899 1,874 Profit/loss attributable to technotrans AG shareholders 3,431 3,236 2,403 Income tax expense 27 – 1,582 – 880 – 357 Profit/loss attributable to non-controlling interests 0 0 0 Net profit for the period 3,094 3,019 1,517 of which: Profit attributable to technotrans AG shareholders 3,094 3,019 1,517 Profit/loss attributable to non-controlling interests 0 0 0 Earnings per share (€ ) 28 (basic) 0.48 0.47 0.24 (diluted) 0.48 0.47 0.24 100 Financial Statements / Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Recognised ­I ncome and Expense / Financial Statements 101 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Note 2012 2011 2010 Note 2012 2011 2010 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Cash flow from operating activities 29 Cash flow from investing activities 30 Net profit for the period 3,094 3,019 1,517 Cash payments for investments in property, plant and equipment and in intangible assets – 1,427 – 1,405 – 1,254 Adjustments for: Cash payments for the acquisition of consolidated companies – 762 – 1,016 0 Depreciation and amortisation 2,962 3,193 3,349 Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 4,382 159 123 Impairment loss acc. to IAS 36 0 0 200 Net cash used for investing activities 2,193 – 2,262 – 1,131 Share-based payment transactions 143 184 194 Income tax expense 1,582 880 357 Cash flow from financing activities 31 Gain (-) / loss (+) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment – 108 – 109 – 39 Cash receipts from the raising of short-term and long-term loans 3,300 0 3,000 Foreign exchange losses (+) / gains (-) 465 25 – 190 Cash payments for the acquisition of non-controlling interests 0 – 316 0 Financial income – 39 – 37 – 30 Cash payments from the repayment of loans – 10,533 – 3,831 – 6,765 Financial charges 720 925 1,192 Net cash used in financing activities – 7,233 – 4,147 – 3,765 Cash flow from operating activities before working capital changes 8,819 8,080 6,550 Net effect of currency translation in cash and cash equivalents – 22 214 329 Change in: Net increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents 5,917 – 327 2,851 receivables and other current assets 1,903 1,212 715 Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 12,798 13,125 10,274 inventories 540 2,356 1,317 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 10, 32 18,715 12,798 13,125 other non-current assets 959 267 – 30 liabilities – 152 – 2,388 – 1,040 provisions 215 – 1,843 – 531 Cash from operating activities 12,284 7,684 6,981 Interest income 27 22 30 Interest expense – 638 – 820 – 896 Income taxes paid / income tax rebates – 694 – 1,018 1,303 Net cash from operating activities 10,979 5,868 7,418 102 Financial Statements / Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Consolidated Cash Flow Statement / Financial Statements 103 Statement of Movements in Equity (see Notes, Section 11) Issued capital Capital reserve Retained earnings Other reserves Group equity Exchange differences Reserve for Hedging reserve Treasury shares exchange rate differences from the financing of investments € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 01/01/2010 6,908 40,322 – 136 – 5,996 – 1,219 – 12 – 8,580 31,287 Overall result for the financial year Net profit for the period 0 0 1,517 0 0 0 0 1,517 Other result Exchange differences from the translation of foreign group companies 0 0 0 819 0 0 0 819 Exchange rate differences from the net investment 0 0 0 0 64 0 0 64 in a foreign business Change in the fair value of cash flow hedges 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 3 Other result 0 0 0 819 64 3 0 886 Overall result for the financial year 0 0 1,517 819 64 3 0 2,403 Withdrawal from the capital reserve of technotrans AG 0 – 27,394 27,394 0 0 0 0 0 Transactions with shareholders of technotrans AG Issuance of treasury shares 0 0 – 218 0 0 0 412 194 Transactions with shareholders of technotrans AG 0 0 – 218 0 0 0 412 194 31/12/2010 / 01/01/2011 6,908 12,928 28,557 – 5,177 – 1,155 –9 – 8,168 33,884 Overall result for the financial year Net profit for the period 0 0 3,019 0 0 0 0 3,019 Other result Exchange differences from the translation of foreign group companies 0 0 0 178 0 0 0 178 Exchange rate differences from the net investment in a foreign business 0 0 0 0 66 0 0 66 Change in the fair value of cash flow hedges 0 0 0 0 0 – 27 0 – 27 Other result 0 0 0 178 66 – 27 0 217 Overall result for the financial year 0 0 3,019 178 66 – 27 0 3,236 Acquisition of minority interests not leading to a change 0 0 – 285 0 0 0 0 – 285 in control Transactions with shareholders of technotrans AG Issuance of treasury shares 0 0 – 878 0 0 0 1,334 456 Transactions with shareholders of technotrans AG 0 0 – 878 0 0 0 1,334 456 31/12/2011 6,908 12,928 30,413 – 4,999 – 1,089 – 36 – 6,834 37,291 104 Financial Statements / Statement of Movements in Equity Statement of Movements in Equity / Financial Statements 105 Statement of Movements in Equity (continued) (see Notes, Section 11) Issued capital Capital reserve Retained earnings Other reserves Group equity Exchange differences Reserve for Hedging reserve Treasury shares exchange rate differences from the financing of investments € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 31/12/2011 / 01/01/2012 Overall result for the financial year 6,908 12,928 30,413 – 4,999 – 1,089 – 36 – 6,834 37,291 Net profit for the period 0 0 3,094 0 0 0 0 3,094 Other result Exchange differences from the translation of foreign group companies 0 0 0 729 0 0 0 729 Exchange rate differences from the net investment in 0 0 0 0 – 292 0 0 – 292 a foreign business Change in the fair value of cash flow hedges 0 0 0 0 0 – 100 0 – 100 Other result 0 0 0 729 – 292 – 100 0 337 Overall result for the financial year 0 0 3,094 729 – 292 – 100 0 3,431 Transactions with shareholders of technotrans AG Issuance of treasury shares 0 0 – 182 0 0 0 325 143 Transactions with shareholders of technotrans AG 0 0 – 182 0 0 0 325 143 31/12/2012 6,908 12,928 33,325 – 4,270 – 1,381 – 136 – 6,509 40,865 106 Financial Statements / Statement of Movements in Equity Statement of Movements in Equity / Financial Statements 107 Notes I. Application of IFRS – Basic Notes technotrans AG is a publicly traded corporation domiciled in Sassenberg, Germany. These C ­ onsolidated Financial Statements of technotrans AG and its subsidiaries (the “group”) at Decem­ ber 31, 2012 were approved for presentation to the Supervisory Board by resolution of the Board of Management of March 1, 2013. The task of the Supervisory Board is to examine the Consolidated Segment Report Technology Services Consolidated/ Group Financial Statements and declare whether it will sign off the Consolidated Financial Statements. by Division not allocated The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of Section 315a of € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 German Commercial Code (“Consolidated financial statements to international financial reporting standards”) in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the External revenue 2012 53,733 36,929 0 90,662 ­accompanying interpretations of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). All standards 2011 61,673 35,592 0 97,265 the application of which is mandatory, as adopted by the European Union, were applied. 2010 51,388 34,499 0 85,887 The Consolidated Financial Statements are based on standard recognition and measurement principles. They are expressed in € thousand. Internal revenue 2012 6,027 7,011 – 13,038 0 2011 7,456 6,904 – 14,360 0 2010 8,378 7,343 – 15,721 0 II. Group Inter-segment revenue 2012 0 1,049 – 1,049 0 2011 0 957 – 957 0 a) Consolidated Companies 2010 0 874 – 874 0 technotrans AG and all companies (17 subsidiaries) that technotrans AG controls directly or Segment result 2012 – 762 6,119 0 5,357 indirectly are included and fully consolidated in the Consolidated Financial Statements. techno­ 2011 – 897 5,684 0 4,787 trans AG is deemed to exercise control over a company if it holds more than half the voting rights in it or is able to determine the financial and business policy of a company in other ways, such as 2010 – 2,554 5,590 0 3,036 to derive benefit from its activity. The balance sheet date for all companies included in the Conso­ Segment assets 2012 28,901 13,311 22,493 64,705 lidated Financial Statements is December 31. 2011 33,338 16,693 17,184 67,215 2010 31,402 18,234 18,143 67,779 Company Domicile Interest Equity* Revenue* Profit Investment 2012 1,214 213 0 1,427 after tax* 2011 959 446 0 1,405 % € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 2010 750 504 0 1,254 Depreciation and amortisation 2012 2,243 719 0 2,962 technotrans AG Parent 2011 2,093 1,100 0 3,193 (Sassenberg and Gersthofen) D Sassenberg company 36.925 60.519 1.817 Termotek AG D Baden-Baden 100 1,732 9,172 685 2010 2,080 1,269 0 3,349 gds AG D Sassenberg 100 2,692 4,289 225 Impairment loss acc. to IAS 36 2012 0 0 0 0 gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH D Hünfeld 51 242 540 81 2011 0 0 0 0 gds Schweiz GmbH CH Regensdorf 51 24 429 1 2010 200 0 0 200 ISD GmbH CH Regensdorf 100** – 24 21 – 16 technotrans graphics limited GB Colchester 100 2,608 3,542 150 technotrans france s.a.r.l, (Saint-Maximin + Madrid) F Saint-Maximin 100 1,358 4,665 80 technotrans italia s.r.l. I Legnano 100 861 2,309 76 technotrans scandinavia AB S Âkersberga 100 8,058 0 – 88 technotrans america, Inc. USA Mt. Prospect 100 3,460 8,694 506 technotrans américa latina ltda. BR Sao Paulo 100 – 2,323 1,634 – 126 technotrans Asia pacific limited (Hong Kong + Tokyo) PRC Hong Kong 100 – 1,652 2,291 – 25 technotrans printing equipment, (Beijing) co. Ltd. PRC Beijing 100 – 316 1,904 20 technotrans trading ­(Shanghai) co. Ltd. PRC Shanghai 100 – 35 630 22 technotrans technologies pte ltd. (Singapore and Melbourne) SGP Singapore 100 465 1,804 23 technotrans middle east FZ-LLC V.A.E. Dubai 100 421 1,052 32 technotrans india pvt ltd IN Chennai 100 – 20 273 2 *  Equity, revenue and profit after tax have been taken from the IFRS packages **  Indirect interest held via of each subsidiary (prior to consolidation). gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH 108 Financial Statements / Notes I. Application of IFRS – Basic Notes / II. Group / Financial Statements 109 b) Consolidation Methods On September 1, 2012 gds AG acquired 51.0 percent of the shares or voting rights in – and therefore control of – the translation services company Sprachenwelt GmbH, Hünfeld. At the same The Consolidated Financial Statements are based on the group companies’ annual financial time gds AG acquired an indirect interest in the fully owned subsidiary of the acquiree, ISD GmbH. statements (Commercial Balance Sheet II based on IFRS) prepared in accordance with standard By way of counter-performance, gds AG granted the sellers a fixed payment of € 428 thousand. The recognition and measurement principles at December 31, 2012. acquisition of the company broadens the range of services that gds AG is able to offer. Capital consolidation for the subsidiaries is performed according to the purchase method A call/put option with an expiry date of December 31, 2017 was agreed at the time of acquisition pursuant to IFRS 3. The costs of acquisition of the business combination in each case correspond for the remaining 49 percent of the shares. The call/put option contains identical rights for both to the cash components paid and the liabilities arising and acquired at the time of acquisition. buyer and seller. The purchase agreement contains a potential, measurable payment obligation These costs of acquisition are distributed between the identifiable assets, liabilities and con­ for these shares. This conditional purchase price payment was discounted and the amount of tingent liabilities of the acquiree by their recognition at the respective fair values at the time of € 295 thousand recognised as a liability at the time of acquisition because exercise of the option acquisition. The positive differences remaining after purchase price allocation are recognised as is considered probable. goodwill. Goodwill is recognised as an asset and subjected to an impairment test annually. The The acquired companies contributed € 360 thousand towards consolidated revenue. Their costs associated with the business combination are recognised as an expense when they arise. contribution to the net profit for the period was € 65 thousand. The companies were included in All intra-group receivables and liabilities, revenues, expenses and income as well as balances consolidation from the date of their acquisition. Over the full financial year, the companies generated from intra-group supplies are eliminated on consolidation. Where necessary, deferred taxes are revenue of € 1,610 thousand and net income of € 108 thousand. stated for consolidation processes affecting income. The goodwill of € 585 thousand is based on the company's profitability and the non-identifiable intangible assets, which were not recognised separately. Purchase price allocation has been com­ C) Recognition and Measurement Principles pleted. The goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes. The incidental costs of € 7 thousand were recognised in the Income Statement. The receivables With the exception of certain financial instruments that are reported at fair value, the Consolidated at the time of acquisition essentially comprise trade receivables with a fair value of € 156 thousand, Financial Statements are prepared based on historical cost. which are expected to be fully recoverable. Estimates and Judgments Made for Financial Reporting Purposes The acquisition of this company had the following effects on the Consolidated Financial Statements The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS requires of technotrans AG: the Board of Management to make estimates and assumptions which exercise influence on the Carrying Adjustments Fair value amounts reported and the disclosures made on them in the Notes. All estimates and assumptions amount before are made to the best of our knowledge, in the interests of providing a true and fair view of the net acquisition worth, financial position and financial performance of the group. Such estimates and assumption€ ’000 € ’000 € ’000 based policies involve uncertainty and may change in the course of time. The actual results may deviate from these assessments. Intangible assets 22 0 22 The assessments and underlying assumptions are examined on a regular basis. If a reassess­ Property, plant and equipment 27 0 27 ment results in a difference, that difference is reported in the accounting period in which the reassessment was made if it relates to that period only. It is recorded in the accounting period Receivables and other assets 161 0 161 in which the reassessment was made, as well as in subsequent periods if it also influences the Cash and cash equivalents 110 0 110 subsequent periods. Liabilities – 182 0 – 182 Assessments made by the Board of Management that are subject to a significant degree of Identifiable assets and debts 138 0 138 uncertainty and bring with them the risk of significant adjustments in future financial years concern the following matters in particular: Goodwill 585 Cost of acquisition 723 1) Accounting of Acquisitions of which paid 428 Goodwill is reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet following acquisitions. Upon the i­nitial of which not paid (call/put option) 295 consolidation of an acquisition, all identifiable assets, liabilities and potential liabilities are s­ tated at their fair value at the date of acquisition. Assets such as land, buildings, and plant and e ­ quipment Total 723 are normally measured on the basis of independent appraisals, while the fair value of an i­ntangible asset is determined internally according to its nature and the complexity of its measurement, Cash and cash equivalents acquired – 110 ­applying an appropriate measurement technique. The assumptions made here are regularly ­subject Net cash outflow 318 to forecasting uncertainty. Sprachenwelt GmbH was acquired in the 2012 financial year. Fair values for its assets and liabilities were established as part of the initial consolidation process. The balance remaining after purchase price allocation is reported as goodwill. There is in addition The shares of technotrans rus OOO were disposed of on October 1, 2012. The company was goodwill as a result of the investment in Termotek AG in 2011. Goodwill is tested for impairment deconsolidated in the financial year under review. In connection with its deconsolidation a loss of once a year or whenever any basis for impairment is identified. With regard to “key exercises of € 32 thousand was realised and is reported under other operating expenses. judgment in the context of financial reporting for 2012”, see the Notes, Section 3 “Goodwill”. On December 12, 2012 and with effect from January 1, 2013, technotrans AG acquired 65 percent of the shares in each of KLH Kältetechnik GmbH, Bad Doberan (Germany), KLH Cooling International Pte., Singapore (Singapore), and Taicang KLH Cooling Systems Co. Ltd, Taicang (PR China). A fixed purchase price of EUR 4,000 thousand was contractually agreed, along with a purchase price component that is dependent on the earnings performance for the years 2013 to 2017. The value of the conditional payment obligations discounted at the reporting date is € 743 thousand. At the time of writing, drafting of the companies’ opening balance sheets had not yet been completed. Purchase price allocation will be completed in the 2013 financial year. 110 Financial Statements / II. Group II. Group / Financial Statements 111 2) Assessment of the Value of Assets Where there is a basis for impairment, property, plant and equipment are examined for im­ At each balance sheet date the Board of Management is to assess whether there is any indi­ pairment pursuant to IAS 36. Insofar as necessary, the carrying amount for property, plant and cation that the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment or an intangible asset equipment is adjusted to the recoverable amount. If the circumstances which led to this measure might be impaired. In that case, the recoverable amount of the asset in question is estimated. The subsequently cease to apply, this impairment is reversed at most by the net carrying amount that recoverable amount corresponds to the higher of the fair value less the costs of disposal, or the would have applied if no such reductions for impairment had been made. value in use. In order to determine the value in use, the discounted future cash flows of the asset Investment property pursuant to IAS 40 is recognised at amortised cost. This is a property in question need to be determined. This estimate involves key assumptions about the underlying that is not used for operational purposes and serves exclusively as a source of rental income and economic situation and future cash flows. Changes to these assumptions or circumstances could capital gains. This property is depreciated according to the straight-line method in accordance with result in additional reductions for impairment in the future, or in reversals. With regard to “key its useful life, over 33 years. The property was disposed of in the year under review. exercises of judgment in the context of financial reporting for 2012”, see the Notes, Section 1 The reported goodwill constitutes the difference between the purchase price and the estimated “Property, plant and equipment” and Section 2 “Investment property”. market value of the net assets acquired through business combinations. Pursuant to IAS 36, good­ will is to be examined for impairment once a year or if any basis for a reduction for impairment is 3) Recognition and Measurement of Provisions established, by performing an impairment test at the level of the cash-generating unit. Insofar as The determination of all provisions, and in particular of provisions for warranties and for impen­ necessary, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount . Pursuant to IAS 36.124, ding losses from long-term rental agreements, inherently involves estimates. With regard to “key such impairment is not reversed where the circumstances which led to it subsequently cease to apply. exercises of judgment in the context of financial reporting for 2012”, see the Notes, Section 16 Intangible assets, namely concessions and industrial and similar rights and values acquired “Provisions”. for consideration, are carried at cost. They are amortised by the straight-line method, according to their useful life. The residual value, useful life and method of depreciation are reassessed annually. 4) Income Tax Expense Self-constructed intangible assets are recognised at cost. Development expenditure on the Because the group has operations and generates income in many different countries, it is fundamental reengineering of a product is capitalised if the product is technically and econo­ subject to widely varying tax laws in a large number of tax regimes. Although the management be­ mically realisable, the development is saleable, the expenditure can reliably be measured and lieves it has made a reasonable estimate of fiscal imponderables, there can be no assurance that the group possesses adequate resources to complete the development project. Pursuant to IAS the outcome of such fiscal imponderables will correspond to the original estimate. Any differences 38.65 ff, it comprises the directly allocable prime costs as well as the production overheads that could have an impact on the tax liabilities and the deferred taxes. At every balance sheet date, the can be allocated directly to the creation, manufacture and preparation of the asset, where they Board of Management assesses whether the realisability of future tax benefits is sufficiently pro­ arise between the start of the development phase and its conclusion. The conditions for capitali­ bable for the reporting of deferred tax assets. This requires the management among other things sation as laid down in IAS 38.21, 38.22 and 38.57 are met. Amortisation of development expen­ to assess the tax benefits that arise from the available tax planning strategies and future taxable diture recognised as an intangible asset commences as soon as the asset is available for use. income. The deferred tax assets reported could decrease if the estimates of planned taxable income This usually coincides with the start of its commercial use. All self-constructed intangible assets are reduced or if changes to current tax laws restrict the realisability of future tax benefits. acquired for consideration have a finite useful life. The application of a specific IFRS is indicated in the notes to the individual items of the financial The notes on property, plant and equipment apply analogously to any necessary impairment of statements. The following methods of recognition and measurement were fundamentally applied: intangible assets to the “recoverable amount”. Property, plant and equipment are reported at historical cost less depreciation and accumu­ The taxes for the period comprise current and deferred taxes. Taxes are recognised in the lated impairment losses. Retrospective costs of acquisition are capitalised where they increase Income Statement unless they refer to items that are recognised directly within equity or the the value of the property, plant and equipment. In the case of self-constructed assets, the cost of other result. In such cases, the corresponding taxes are likewise recognised within equity or conversion is calculated on the basis of prime costs as well as the systematically allocable fixed the other result. In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are accounted for using the balance and variable production overheads, including depreciation. Regular maintenance and repair costs sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts in the are recorded as an expense after they have occurred. Commercial Balance Sheet and the Tax Balance Sheet (liability method) and in respect of tax loss Apart from land, items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated according to the carryforwards for creditable tax. Deferred tax assets for temporary differences as well as tax loss straight-line method, on the basis of their useful life. The useful life and method of depreciation carryforwards are only reported to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable income will are reassessed annually. Components of property, plant and equipment with a significant purchase be available in the future to make use of these. The deferred taxes are measured on the basis value in relation to the total value are depreciated separately as appropriate. Upon sale or retire­ of the locally applicable tax rates that apply or have been announced at the balance sheet date. ment, the costs and the corresponding accumulated depreciation for the assets are derecognised Deferred tax assets and liabilities are also recognised on temporary differences arising from from the Balance Sheet; any gains or losses arising are recognised in the Income Statement. business combinations, except for temporary differences on goodwill where the latter are fiscally disregarded. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a right to perform offsetting exists and the item relates to income taxes levied by the same taxation authorities and for the same Useful life of property, plant and equipment Years company. The inventories recognised are always measured at cost of acquisition or cost of conversion, Buildings 25 to 50 using the weighted average cost method, or at the net realisable value if lower. In accordance with Land improvements, fixtures and fittings 10 to 15 IAS 2, cost of conversion includes the direct costs of material and direct costs of labour, as well as allocable fixed and variable production overheads arising in the manufacturing process, by way Tools, plant and equipment 3 to 10 of target costing. Hardware, vehicle fleet 3 to 5 The net realisable value is the anticipated sales proceeds less the estimated costs of com­ pletion and the costs necessary to make the sale. If the reasons which have led to downward valuation cease to apply, a reversal is made. 112 Financial Statements / II. Group II. Group / Financial Statements 113 Trade receivables and other current receivables are fundamentally reported at amortised cost, Currency translation: The financial statements of all foreign group companies prepared in using the effective interest rate method. Reductions for impairment that are applied in the form foreign currency are translated according to the concept of the functional currency (IAS 21). The of individual and group portfolio-based valuation allowances take adequate account of the credit local currency of the country in which they are based is fundamentally recognised as the func­ risk. Objective failures result in the derecognition of the receivable in question. Non-current, nontional currency of the companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. However, in interest-bearing receivables are discounted. the case of the Singapore subsidiary the euro is considered to be the functional currency, as its Cash and cash equivalents are reported at face value and converted into euros at the closing primary economic environment (revenues and expenses) is determined predominantly by the euro. rates. They comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, as well as financial assets that can be Business transactions conducted by a group company in a currency other than its functional converted into cash at any time. currency are translated into and reported in the functional currency for the first time at the spot Issued capital (no par value shares) is reported at the nominal amount. exchange rate on date of the business transaction. At each subsequent balance sheet date, If the company acquires treasury shares, these are offset against equity. The purchase and monetary items (cash, receivables and liabilities) that were originally in a currency other than the sale, issuance and retirement of treasury shares are not recognised within income, but as an functional currency are translated at the closing rate; the resulting exchange rate differences are ­addition to equity. Differences between the cost of the issued shares and their fair value upon recognised in the Income Statement. Non-monetary items are translated at the historical rate. their sale or issuance are offset against retained earnings. The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the mean rate at the balance Liabilities are fundamentally recognised at amortised cost. Liabilities in foreign currency are sheet date (closing rate), and included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Expenses and in­ translated in accordance with IAS 21.21 and 23 (a). Borrowings are not recognised in the Income come are translated at the current rate, approximating to the mean rate for the year; the resulting Statement at fair value. When initially recognised, they are therefore measured at fair value inclu­ differences are netted against equity, with no effect on income. Exchange differences compared ding the transaction costs and subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest method. with prior-year translation are likewise netted within equity, with no effect on income. Provisions are created to cover obligations to third parties if obligations existing at the repor­ Exchange rate differences from the net investment in a foreign business (group company) are ting date are likely to result in a future outflow of resources and the latter amount can reliably be reported within equity with no effect on income; they are only recognised in the Income Statement estimated. They are measured at the likely amount at which settlement will take place. Long-term upon disposal of the net investment. provisions are discounted. Provisions for warranties are created at the time of sale of the goods in question. Their level is The following rates were applied in currency translation: based on past developments in warranties and on a consideration of all possible future warranty claims, weighted according to probability. Provisions for impending losses from unfavourable contracts are formed if the economic benefit rates for currency Mean rates Mean rates expected to result from the contract is less than the unavoidable costs for the fulfilment of the translation for the financial year at balance sheet date contract. 2012 2011 2010 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 Provisions for pensions and provisions for similar obligations are measured according to the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised as income within adminis­ USD 1.2850 1.3923 1.3257 1.3194 1.2937 1.3362 trative expenses in the year in which they occur. Derivative financial instruments are recognised at market value. At technotrans, derivative JPY 102.4903 110.9696 116.2400 113.6100 100.1000 108.6500 financial instruments were used exclusively for hedging interest rate risks at December 31, 2012. GBP 0.8110 0.8679 0.8578 0.8161 0.8369 0.8607 Where they qualify as cash flow hedges, the correspondingly effective adjustments to the market SEK 8.7048 9.0305 9.5373 8.5820 8.9210 8.9655 price are recognised within equity, with no effect on income. Financial instruments are reported if CNY 8.0905 9.0010 8.9712 8.2207 8.2162 8.8220 technotrans is a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. Financial assets are reported at the settlement date except in the case of derivative financial instruments, which HKD 9.9671 10.8390 10.2994 10.2260 10.0510 10.3856 are reported at the trade date. CHF 1.2053 1.2329 1.3803 1.2072 1.2164 1.2504 Revenues from the sale of goods are recognised in accordance with IAS 18.14 as soon BRL 2.4930 2.3205 2.3314 2.7036 2.4188 2.2177 as the significant risks and rewards associated with ownership of the products sold have been AED 4.7441 5.1536 4.9113 4.8428 4.7974 4.9615 transferred to the buyer. Revenues from services are recognised as soon as the service has been performed. RUB 39.9349 40.8927 40.2629 40.3295 41.7050 40.8200 Revenue is reported less reductions in proceeds such as bonuses, rebates and trade discounts. INR 68.6051 65.0803 60.5878 72.5600 70.4508 59.7580 Financial income and charges are reported on an accrual basis in line with the effective interest method. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or manufacture of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset pursuant to IAS 23. No financing costs were capitalised in the 2012 financial year. 114 Financial Statements / II. Group II. Group / Financial Statements 115 Changes in Recognition and Measurement Principles During the 2012 financial year the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the The Consolidated Financial Statements of technotrans AG at December 31, 2012 include all I­nternational Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) published further standards, standards and interpretations adopted by the European Union, the application of which is mandatory interpretations and amendments to existing standards, the application of which was not yet from January 1, 2012. manda­tory in the 2012 financial year. The following standard was to be applied for the first time: The following standards as adopted by the European Union by December 31, 2012 have not yet been observed in these accounts: Standard/interpretation Applicable from Content Effects on Standard/interpretation Applicable from Content Effects on (financial years ­Consolidated (financial years ­Consolidated ­s tarting on or after …) Financial ­s tarting on or after …) Financial ­Statements ­Statements Amendment to IFRS 7: July 1, 2011 The amendments to IFRS 7 concern enhanced disclosures No significant Amendment to IAS 1: July 1, 2012 The amendments to IAS 1 concern the presentation Minor changes Financial Instruments about transfers of financial assets. presentation of matters in other of other comprehensive income within the Statement of to presentation ­comprehensive income Recognised Income and Expense. Amendment to IFRS 7: January 1, 2013 The amendments to IFRS 7 concern disclosures regarding No significant Financial Instruments the netting of financial assets and financial liabilities. IFRS 13: January 1, 2013 This standard provides a standard framework for measuring No significant Fair Value Measurement fair value measurement in IFRS financial statements. IAS 19: January 1, 2013 The amendments to IAS 19 concern the disclosure No significant Employee Benefits ­standards and how to account for the actuarial gains and losses. Amendment to IFRS 1: January 1, 2013 The amendment contains rules for enterprises whose None Hyperinflation and Amendment of Fixed currency was subject to hyperinflation. Transition Dates for First-time Adopters Amendment to IAS 12: January 1, 2013 The amendments deal with how temporary fiscal differences No significant Recovery of underlying assets in connection with investment property are reversed. IFRIC 20 January 1, 2013 This interpretation seeks to standardise the accounting None of stripping costs for a surface mine. IFRS 10: January 1, 2013 This standard comprehensively redefines the concept No significant Consolidated Financial Statements of control. IFRS 11: January 1, 2014 IFRS 11 redefines the accounting of joint arrangements. None Joint Arrangements IFRS 12: January 1, 2014 This standard regulates the disclosure requirements No significant Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities for interests in other entities. Amendment to IAS 27: January 1, 2014 The amendments to IAS 28 transfer the rules on the No significant Separate Financial Statements ­principle of control and the requirements for the prepa­ ration of consolidated financial statements to IFRS 10 Amendment to IAS 28: January 1, 2014 The amendments contain disclosures on the application None Accounting for Investments in of the equity method. ­Associates and Joint Ventures Amendment to IAS 32: January 1, 2014 The addition to IAS 32 clarifies the conditions for No significant Offsetting Financial Assets offsetting financial instruments. and Liabilities 116 Financial Statements / II. Group II. Group / Financial Statements 117 III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet 1 Property, Plant and Equipment Property* Other assets, Construction Property, Property* Other assets, Construction Property, plant and in progress plant and plant and in progress plant and other equipment equipment other equipment equipment € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Cost at Accumulated depreciation at January 1, 2010 8,260 10,851 0 19,111 January 1, 2010 25,474 15,598 24 41,096 Foreign currency translation differences 22 109 0 131 Foreign currency translation differences 57 192 0 249 Depreciation for the year 803 1,626 0 2,429 Additions 22 921 21 964 Disposals – 65 – 571 0 – 636 Disposals – 68 – 657 0 – 725 Impairment loss acc. to IAS 36 200 0 0 200 Transfers 0 23 – 23 0 Accumulated depreciation at Cost at December 31, 2010/January 1, 2011 9,220 12,015 0 21,235 December 31, 2010/January 1, 2011 25,485 16,077 22 41,584 Foreign currency translation differences 10 51 0 61 Foreign currency translation differences 6 54 0 60 Depreciation for the year 754 1,481 0 2,235 Additions from corporate acquisition 0 887 0 887 Disposals due to reporting change to investment property – 2,635 0 0 – 2,635 Additions 170 746 0 916 Disposals 0 – 834 0 – 834 Disposals due to reporting change to investment property – 6,719 0 0 – 6,719 Disposals 0 – 884 0 – 884 Accumulated depreciation at Transfers 0 22 – 22 0 December 31, 2011/January 1, 2012 7,349 12,713 0 20,062 Foreign currency translation differences – 19 –8 0 – 27 Cost at Depreciation for the year 709 1,234 0 1,943 December 31, 2011/January 1, 2012 18,942 16,902 0 35,844 Disposals – 43 – 1,442 0 – 1,485 Foreign currency translation differences – 22 – 15 0 – 37 Accumulated depreciation at December 31, 2012 7,996 12,497 0 20,493 Additions from corporate acquisition 0 27 0 27 Additions 48 633 0 681 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2010 16,265 4,062 22 20,349 Disposals – 53 – 1,761 0 – 1,814 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2011 11,593 4,189 0 15,782 Cost at December 31, 2012 18,915 15,786 0 34,701 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2012 10,919 3,289 0 14,208 * Land, land rights and buildings, including buildings on land owned by others * Land, land rights and buildings, including buildings on land owned by others The disposals within other assets, plant and other equipment mainly comprise replacement As in previous years, no self-constructed assets were capitalised in the 2012 financial year. purchases as well as disposals in connection with the sale of the property in Gersthofen. No write-downs or reversals were performed in the year under review. Property amounting to € 10,919 thousand belonging to the group is used as collateral for long-term loans (cf. Section 12 “Borrowings”). 118 Financial Statements / III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet / Financial Statements 119 2 Investment Property The following table shows the residual carrying values of technotrans goodwill at December 31, 2012: € ’000 2012 2011 2010 Cost € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Position at January 1, 2011 0 Additions due to reporting change to investment property 6,719 Technology segment: laser cooling 2,549 2,549 0 Position at December 31, 2011/January 1, 2012 6,719 Services segment: translation services 585 0 0 Disposals – 6,719 Total 3,134 2,549 0 Position at December 31, 2012 0 Accumulated depreciation The goodwill amounting to € 2,549 thousand for the Laser Cooling cash-generating unit in the Technology segment results from the acquisition of the shares in Termotek AG with effect from Position at January 1, 2011 0 January 7, 2011. Additions due to reporting change to investment property 2,635 An additional goodwill amount of € 585 thousand was recognised as an asset in connection Depreciation for the year 68 with the acquisition of Sprachenwelt GmbH on September 1, 2012. This goodwill is allocated to Position at December 31, 2011/December 31, 2012 2,703 the Translation Services cash-generating unit in the Services segment. Both cash-generating units were tested for impairment according to IAS 36.10 in the 2012 Additions 0 financial year. For this, the carrying amount of a cash generating unit is compared with the reco­ Depreciation for the year 70 verable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the two amounts of the fair value less Position at December 31, 2012 0 proceeds of disposal, and the value in use. At technotrans, the recoverable amount corresponds to the value in use. The key assumptions Residual carrying amount at December 31, 2011 4,016 made for this value in use were as follows: The starting point for the cash flow forecasts for Residual carrying amount at December 31, 2012 0 goodwill was the budget for 2013 and revenue trends for the 2014 to 2017 financial years of the ­respective cash-generating units. For the Laser Cooling cash-generating unit an average growth trend of 10.0 percent (revenue) and 11.7 percent (EBIT) was assumed for the years 2014 to As a result of the concentration of manufacturing activities at Sassenberg, the industrial property 2017, and for the Translation Services cash-generating unit a trend averaging 8.5 percent (reve­ in Gersthofen was no longer used for the group’s own business activities. From January 1, 2011 nue) and 10.9 percent (EBIT). No separate revenue plans for the cash-generating units in question the property was therefore classified as a financial investment as defined in IAS 40. The property were drawn up for subsequent financial years; instead, further average revenue growth rates of a was disposed of on November 30, 2012. At the time of disposal the carrying amount calculated constant 1.5 percent (long-term market trend for the laser industry and for translation services) at amortised cost was € 3,946 thousand. were assumed for both cash-generating units. Furthermore, the costs (materials, personnel and Pro rata rental income totalling € 151 thousand was realised from the investment property in other costs) for each cash-generating unit were estimated on the basis of assumptions for the the 2012 financial year. On the other hand there were expenses of € 138 thousand. forecasting period; cost increases were suitably taken into account. Discounting of the anticipated cash flows is based on a weighted pre-tax cost-of-capital rate of 10.9 percent. 3 Goodwill A 2 percent increase in the weighted pre-tax cost-of-capital rate and a simultaneous halving of the growth rates means there is no need for amortisation. Nor is there any need for amortisation € ’000 in a scenario where both revenue and EBIT do not exhibit any growth. Cost at January 1, 2011 0 Additions from corporate acquisition 2,549 Cost at December 31, 2011/January 1, 2012 2,549 Additions from corporate acquisition 585 Cost at December 31, 2012 3,134 Accumulated impairment at December 31, 2011 0 Accumulated impairment at December 31, 2012 0 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2011 2,549 Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2012 3,134 120 Financial Statements / III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet / Financial Statements 121 4 Intangible Assets Investment in intangible assets increased as planned in the 2012 financial year. Compared to Concessions, Development Intangible 2010, amortisation was relatively stable and consisted primarily of amortisation of the SAP software. industrial and expenditure assets Intangible assets arising from development activities are capitalised pursuant to IAS 38 if it similar rights recognised as is probable that future economic advantage will accrue from the use of the asset and the costs an intangible asset of the asset can be reliably determined. technotrans AG and Termotek AG capitalised intangible assets which are the result of development activities amounting to € 610 thousand in the ­financial € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 year (2011: € 189 thousand, 2010: € 0 thousand). The items capitalised were predominantly ­development projects for products outside the printing industry. The priorities were the development Cost at January 1, 2010 14,224 6,370 20,594 of a new control unit for cooling equipment, filtration techniques for application in the machine Foreign currency translation differences 70 0 70 tools industry and a newly developed spray lubrication technique for use in forming technology. Due to nonfulfilment of the requirements for recognition as stated in IAS 38.57, costs amoun­ Additions ting to € 2,241 thousand (2011: € 2,046 thousand, 2010: € 2,467 thousand) were recognised acquired separately 175 0 175 as an expense. from internal development 115 0 115 The spotlight of activities in 2012 was on optimising the energy efficiency of various products Disposals 0 0 0 from the ranges of dampening solution circulators and ink roller temperature control units and with a view to realising cost savings in their designs and production technology. Another major area Cost at December 31, 2010/January 1, 2011 14,584 6,370 20,954 involved defining and creating customer-specific applications using the established technologies, Foreign currency translation differences 19 7 26 and revising and optimising the current product range’s refrigeration and control technology. Additions Projects in technotrans’ traditional sales markets are being pursued, along with a large number from corporate acquisition 20 185 205 of projects for its new markets. For example various temperature control solutions for digital prin­ ting presses have been developed; as in the previous year, development work also focused on acquired separately 300 0 300 applications for machine tools and laser applications. Systems in the area of filtration technology from internal development 0 189 189 were successfully developed and have already positioned in the relevant market. Disposals – 1,254 0 – 1,254 Adapting technology from printing industry applications for use in other areas that are new to Cost at December 31, 2011/January 1, 2012 13,669 6,751 20,420 technotrans underlines the company’s hard-and-fast plans to generate future growth outside the printing industry. Foreign currency translation differences –4 –4 –8 There are no concessions, industrial and similar rights or development expenditure recognised Additions as an intangible asset with an unlimited useful life. The useful life taken as the basis for the from corporate acquisition 23 0 23 amortisation of software and development expenditure recognised as an intangible asset is three acquired separately 136 0 136 to five years. In the Income Statement, the amortisation of development expenditure recognised as an intan­ from internal development 0 610 610 gible asset is allocated to the cost of sales using the function of expense method, according to Disposals – 155 – 29 – 184 the principle of causation. The amortisation of concessions, industrial and similar rights has been Cost at December 31, 2012 13,669 7,328 20,997 allocated to the cost of sales, distribution costs, general administrative expenses and development costs by means of cost centre accounting. Accumulated amortisation at January 1, 2010 11,574 6,370 17,944 Foreign currency translation differences 37 0 37 5 Financial Assets Amortisation for the year 920 0 920 Accumulated amortisation at December 31, 2010/January 1, 2011 12,531 6,370 18,901 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 Foreign currency translation differences 13 7 20 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Amortisation for the year 853 38 891 Disposals – 1,254 0 – 1,254 Partial retirement bankruptcy cover 80 211 448 Accumulated amortisation at December 31, 2011/January 1, 2012 12,143 6,415 18,558 Rent deposits 39 173 102 Foreign currency translation differences –3 –4 –7 Other 0 0 101 Amortisation for the year 854 95 949 119 384 651 Disposals – 155 – 29 – 184 Accumulated amortisation at December 31, 2012 12,839 6,477 19,316 To provide cover in the event of bankruptcy pursuant to Section 8a of German Partial Retire­ ment Act, corresponding funds totalling € 80 thousand were invested as fixed-term deposits and Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2010 2,053 0 2,053 pledged in the employees’ favour. The terms reflect the arrangements of each individual contract; Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2011 1,526 336 1,862 the pledgee is obliged to release the credit balances over and above the total amount of its claims to be covered. The furnishing of security takes effect in the even of insolvency of the pledger pur­ Residual carrying amounts at December 31, 2012 830 851 1,681 suant to Section 8a of German Partial Retirement Act. 122 Financial Statements / III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet / Financial Statements 123 6 Inventories 8 Income Tax Receivable This comprises ongoing income tax assets as well as a corporation tax credit balance from 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 previous years. € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 At December 31, 2012 technotrans AG still had a corporation tax credit balance of € 318 thou­ sand from previous years. This rebate (Section 37 (5) of German Corporation Tax Act) has been ­capitalised at the present value of € 288 thousand (2011: € 340 thousand, 2010: € 389 thousand). Raw materials and supplies 6,407 7,327 6,696 The rebate is being paid in eight equal annual instalments between 2010 and 2017; the income Work in progress 2,125 1,925 3,359 tax receivable has correspondingly been allocated pro rata to current and non-current assets. The Finished goods and merchandise 4,958 4,778 4,874 interest for determination of the present value is 3.75 percent. 13,490 14,030 14,929 9 Other Assets Of total inventories, the amount of € 2,500 thousand (2011: € 4,377 thousand, 2010: 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 € 3,271 thousand) is reported at the fair value less production costs still to be incurred and distribu­ € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 tion costs. Impairment of inventories totalling € 1,356 thousand (2011: € 1,257 thousand, 2010: € 758 thousand) was recognised as an expense in the 2012 financial year. In the same period, Financial assets reversals led to an income of € 1,043 thousand (2011: € 467 thousand, 2010: € 273 thousand), as higher net realisable values could be assumed than in the previous year. Receivables from suppliers 226 201 387 Reinsurance for pensions 56 52 72 7 Trade Receivables Other 331 79 268 Total 613 332 727 In the Technology segment, receivables outstanding are owed mainly by major printing press manufacturers. Other assets In the year under review, additions to the impairment on receivables totalling € 123 thousand (2011: € 1,618 thousand, 2010: € 607 thousand) were booked to distribution costs in the Income Prepaid expenses 320 770 495 Statement. There was no default interest invoiced but still outstanding at the balance sheet date. Creditable input tax 67 50 224 Impairment was applied in order to measure the receivables at fair value. This impairment reflects Other 106 271 68 the actual credit risk. Impairment is applied in particular if the debtor is experiencing considerable Total 493 1,091 787 financial difficulties. The amounts stated for trade receivables are fundamentally adjusted via a value adjustment account. Receivables are only derecognised once the debtor has opened insolvency 1,106 1,423 1,514 proceedings or the receivable has become uncollectable. The impairment at December 31, 2012 of € 2,321 thousand includes the impairment of receivables from manroland AG applied in the previous year. 10 Cash and Cash Equivalents The following table provides an overview of impairment of receivables: Cash and cash equivalents comprise balances with banks and cash on hand. This item in ad­ dition includes fixed-deposit credit balances with an original term of up to three months. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents corresponds to the carrying amount. There were no marketable impairment of receivables 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 securities at the balance sheet date. € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 11 Equity Opening level 2,512 1,277 1,605 The development in equity is shown in the Statement of Movements in Equity. The equity of Allocated 123 1,618 607 the group totalled € 40,865 thousand at December 31, 2012 (2011: € 37,291 thousand, 2010: Derecognition of receivables – 118 – 20 – 407 € 33,884 thousand). Cash receipts for receivables written off – 189 – 369 – 526 Issued Capital Exchange differences –7 6 –2 At December 31, 2012 the issued capital (capital stock) of technotrans AG comprised Closing level 2,321 2,512 1,277 6,907,665 issued no par value registered shares, of which 6,455,404 were outstanding. The shares outstanding are fully paid. Each no par value share represents a nominal amount of € 1 of the share capital. All shares carry identical rights. No special rights or preferences are granted to individual shareholders. The same applies to dividend entitlements. 124 Financial Statements / III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet / Financial Statements 125 Shares issued Shares outstanding The other reserves include retained earnings, profit carried forward and additional other re­ 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 serves. Of these, an amount of € 691 thousand relates to the legal reserve of technotrans AG pursuant to Section 150 (2) of German Stock Corporation Act. Position at January 1 6,907,665 6,907,665 6,907,665 6,432,775 6,340,035 6,311,415 The difference of € 182 thousand between the cost of the shares and their fair value at the time of issuance, resulting from the issuance of treasury shares, was offset against retained earnings. Issued to employees (as Christmas bonus) 0 0 0 22,629 43,740 28,620 Pursuant to Section 268 (8) of German Commercial Code, an amount totalling € 3,021 thousand Issued for the acquisition of Termotek AG 0 0 0 0 49,000 0 of the other retained earnings of the parent company may not be distributed due to the capitali­ Position at December 31 6,907,665 6,907,665 6,907,665 6,455,404 6,432,775 6,340,035 sation of deferred taxes. Other Reserves Approved Capital The Shareholders’ Meeting on May 6, 2010 authorised the Board of Management to raise the 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 share capital, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, by the issue of new shares on one or € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 more occasions by April 30, 2015, against contributions, by up to a total of € 3,450,000. No use was made of this authorisation in 2012. Hedging reserve – 136 – 36 –9 Conditional Capital Reserve for exchange rate differences from financing of investment – 1,381 – 1,089 – 1,155 At the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 8, 2009 the Board of Management was, with the consent Exchange differences – 4,271 – 4,999 – 5,177 of the Supervisory Board, authorised to issue bearer and/or registered bonds with a term of a maxi­ Treasury Shares – 6,508 – 6,834 – 8,168 mum of 5 years on one or more occasions up until May 7, 2014 of an aggregate nominal amount – 12,296 – 12,958 – 14,509 of up to € 10 million and to grant the bearers of bonds conversion options on up to 690,000 no par value registered treasury shares in accordance with the respective terms of the bonds (con­ vertible bond terms). The conversion options granted to the bearers of the bonds may cover shares in the company Pursuant to IAS 39, the negative market value of the interest rate swaps used was recog­ representing an amount of up to € 690,000.00 of the share capital. As well as in euros, the nised in the hedging reserve with no income effect, following deduction of deferred taxes (cf. convertible bonds may be issued in the legal currency of an OECD country, limited to the corres­ Section 33 “Financial instruments”). In the 2012 financial year, a loss of € 153 thousand (2011: ponding euro countervalue. € 38 thousand loss, 2010: € 5 thousand gain) was reported within equity with no effect on income The shareholders have a fundamental right to subscribe to bonds. The bonds may also be and the sum of € 10 thousand was realised. In return, deferred tax of € 43 thousand (2011: accepted by a bank or a consortium of banks with the obligation to offer them to the shareholders € 11 thousand, 2010: € 2 thousand) was booked with no effect on income. for subscription. In addition, however, the Board of Management is, with the consent of the Super­ technotrans scandinavia AB extended loans to technotrans america inc., and technotrans AG visory Board, authorised to exclude the statutory subscription right of the shareholders to the extended loans to technotrans américa latina ltda. and to technotrans Asia pacific limited, which bonds within the limits laid down individually and specifically by the authorisation. are to be regarded as net investment in foreign operations. In addition, technotrans america inc. in The Board of Management is authorised, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, to ­specify turn extended a loan to technotrans AG. Pursuant to IAS 21.32 and IAS 12.61A, the accumulated the further details of the issuance and features of the convertible bonds and their terms ­itself, translation differences up to the balance sheet date and any taxes on these are netted directly meaning in particular the currency, interest rate, issuing amount, term and denomination of the within equity. In the 2012 financial year, currency translation losses of € 382 thousand (2011: conver­tible bonds, the conversion price and period, the exchange ratio and payment of the counter­ losses of € 109 thousand, 2010: losses of € 64 thousand) were netted directly within equity; the value in money instead of exchange for treasury shares. This authorisation was not used in the deferred tax on these amounts likewise netted within equity amounts to € 90 thousand (2011: 2012 financial year. € 43 thousand, 2010: € 0 thousand). The exchange differences include differences from the translation of the subsidiaries’ equity Capital Reserve to be consolidated at the historical rate and at the rate on the balance sheet date. This item fur­ The premium from the past share issues from the issuance of shares under conversion op­ thermore includes the differences resulting from the translation of the assets and liabilities of the tions from conditional capital and from the issuance of ordinary shares from approved capital international subsidiaries at the closing rate and from the translation of the expenses and income (capital increase for cash) was paid into the capital reserve. The costs of the share issues were at the average rate for the year. deducted. Treasury Shares Retained Earnings At the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 6, 2010 the shareholders authorised the Board of The reported retained earnings comprise ­Management to buy back treasury shares in accordance with Section 71 (1) No. 8 of German Stock Corporation Act. This scope of this authorisation is for the buying back of a portion of up to 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 € 690,000.00 of the share capital (690,000 no par value shares, corresponding to 9.98 percent € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 of the share capital at the time of the resolution) and is valid until April 30, 2015. No shares were bought back during the period January to December 2012. Pursuant to IAS 32.33 the shares bought back are deducted from equity at their cost (including incidental costs). The buy-back is in Other reserves 30,231 27,394 27,040 line with the strategic objectives of the company. In the 2012 financial year, 22,629 no par value Net profit for the period 3,094 3,019 1,517 shares with a fair value of € 143 thousand were issued to employees by way of a Christmas bo­ 33,325 30,413 28,557 nus. At the reporting date of December 31, 2012 the total treasury shares amounted to 452,261 ordinary shares. They represent 6.55 percent of the share capital. 126 Financial Statements / III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet / Financial Statements 127 A substantial portion of borrowings is collateralised by land charges totalling € 10,750 thousand Capital Management on the company premises in Sassenberg. At December 31, 2012 the equity ratio was 63.2 percent (2011: 55.5 percent, 2010: 50.0 per­ A collateral trust contract was concluded with participating lenders for the credit facilities under cent). One of the most important financial objectives for technotrans AG is to assure its solvency the borrowing base financing arrangements. In specific, this trust contract encompasses nonat all times, and increase the long-term value of the group. accessory security of technotrans AG (global assignment of trade receivables – carrying amount at The creation of adequate liquidity reserves is very important in this respect. The aim is always December 31, 2012: € 2,464 thousand – and assignment of ownership of inventories – carrying to have liquidity reserves amounting to at least 10 percent of annual revenue. This objective is amount at December 31, 2012: € 9,440 thousand). achieved by implementing various measures in order to reduce capital costs and optimise the Borrowings of € 981 thousand (2011: € 1,971 thousand) relate to Termotek AG. The credit is capital structure, alongside practising effective risk management. predominantly secured by means of collateral furnished by Termotek AG such as global assignment, Methodologically, technotrans’ capital management approach is based on financial market assignment of ownership and guarantees. oriented indicators, such as the rate of return (long-term target margin for EBIT: 10 percent), the equity ratio (target: > 50 percent) and gearing. technotrans is not subject to capital requirements 13 Other Financial Liabilities laid down in the articles of incorporation. A sound capital structure provides technotrans with the stability that serves as the basis for a business model focusing on sustainability, and thus in the long term meets both the requirements of customer and supplier relations and serves the needs 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 of the employees and shareholders. € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 A portion of borrowed capital carries the obligation to adhere to certain financial indicators (financial covenants). The financial ratios (equity ratio, gearing and EBITDA margin) are to be Conditional purchase price of Termotek AG 849 1,607 0 calculated for the Consolidated Financial Statements on a rolling 12-monthly basis. The financial covenants were adhered to in the 2012 financial year. Conditional purchase price of Sprachenwelt GmbH 295 0 0 Conditional purchase price of gds Schweiz GmbH 121 111 82 12 Borrowings Liabilities to employees 0 130 130 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 Other 6 9 0 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 1,271 1,857 212 Short-term borrowings 2,933 9,742 8,309 Based on the current planning horizon, no significant changes in the conditional purchase prices Long-term borrowings 6,395 6,819 9,599 are expected. Total borrowings 9,328 16,561 17,908 14 Trade Payables There were no hedged liabilities at the balance sheet date. Interest rate hedges exist only in the All trade payables have a term of up to one year. They relate predominantly to technotrans AG. case of borrowings. 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 Maturities of up to 1 to 5 over Total Interest p.a. Collateral € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 ­Borrowings 1 year years 5 years € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 % Trade payables 1,566 3,006 2,296 Outstanding purchase invoices 576 117 842 € fixed rate credit 334 832 0 1,166 3.50 % Land charge 2,142 3,123 3,138 € fixed rate credit 667 1,667 0 2,334 4.98 % Land charge € fixed rate credit 400 1,000 0 1,400 4.92 % Land charge € fixed rate credit 245 980 675 1,900 3.45 % Land charge 15 Prepayments Received € fixed rate credit 100 350 0 450 5.99 % Global assignment, assignment of ownership, The prepayments received originate in the main from project business for technotrans AG, guarantee technotrans america, inc., technotrans middle east FZ-LLC, technotrans technologies pte ltd. and € fixed rate credit 6 0 0 6 4.81 % Global assignment, technotrans france s.a.r.l. They are used for financing the finished goods included in the inventories assignment of ownership, but from which no revenue has yet been realised. guarantee € fixed rate credit 25 0 0 25 8.77 % Global assignment, assignment of ownership, guarantee Variable € credit 656 750 141 1,547 3-month EURIBOR Land charge cover via interest rate swap (fixed rate: 2.81%) Variable € credit 500 0 0 500 3-month EURIBOR None (currently 2.99%) Summe 2,933 5,579 816 9,328 128 Financial Statements / III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet / Financial Statements 129 16 Provisions A direct pension pledge has been made to three employees of the former BVS Beratung Verkauf Service Grafische Technik GmbH. The “defined benefit obligation” (DBO) for purposes of Obligations Payments to Other Provisions Total calculating the provisions for pensions was determined on the basis of an actuarial report, using to personnel be made under provisions for pensions the 2005 G reference tables published by Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck. The calculation was based on warranty an interest rate of 3.74 percent (previous year: 4.78 percent) and a pension trend of 2.0 percent € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 (previous year: 2.0 percent). The development in pay levels and employee fluctuation were not taken into account, as those eligible for pensions have since left the company. The interest costs Opening level at January 1, 2012 2,666 1,147 1,504 214 5,531 for the DBO in 2012 amount to € 10 thousand (previous year: € 10 thousand), and the actuarial Exchange rate movements –8 –3 –3 0 – 14 loss comes to € 5 thousand (previous year: € 19 thousand gain). All expenses are recognised within administrative expenses. Pension payments amounting to € 3 thousand (previous year: Used 2,052 268 931 3 3,254 € 1 thousand) were made in 2012. Reversed 123 384 176 0 683 Two of the pension obligations are backed by capital-forming life assurance policies, which Allocated from corporate acquisition 16 4 13 0 33 constitute non-qualifying insurance policies pursuant to IAS 19.7. Their fair value is € 56 thousand Allocated 2,878 234 1,059 15 4,186 (2011: € 52 thousand, 2010: € 72 thousand) and is reported under financial assets (Section 9). The anticipated return on these policies is 3.5 percent p.a. The actual income in the 2012 financial Closing level at December 31, 2012 3,377 730 1,466 226 5,799 year was € 4 thousand. Long-term provisions 600 0 99 226 925 Short-term provisions 2,777 730 1,367 0 4,874 17 Income Tax Payable In the year under review, income tax payable relates substantially to Termotek AG and technotrans graphics limited. The obligations to personnel consist largely of gratuities, bonuses and performance-related pay for employees, as well as time credits. It is in the first instance uncertain when these obliga­ 18 Other Liabilities tions will have to be met. At December 31, 2012, 4 employees had partial retirement employment 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 contracts. The obligations from existing partial retirement employment contracts were measured € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 on the basis of an actuarial appraisal and the provision amounts to € 123 thousand (2011: € 282 thousand, 2010: € 441 thousand). Under the current remuneration system of technotrans Financial liabilities AG, employees who have passed their 57th birthday now no longer have an enforceable right to a partial retirement employment contract. Please refer to Section 5 with regard to bankruptcy cover. Conditional purchase price of Termotek AG 761 444 0 Provisions for warranties are created for current statutory, contractual and constructive war­ Current liabilities from derivative financial instruments 210 61 13 ranty obligations towards third parties. The provisions were measured taking experience as the Debtors with credit balances 83 86 221 starting point, incorporating the circumstances at the balance sheet date. Based on the estimate Other financial liabilities 10 50 125 of obligations at December 31, 2012 and the provisions used in the previous year, an amount of € 384 thousand was reversed in 2012. Total 1,064 641 359 The other provisions comprise costs for the preparation of the annual accounts, ­commission payments and other costs. The factor of uncertainty both in this case and for payments to be made Other liabilities under warranty is principally the amount in question. At December 31, 2012 provisions for impen­ Sales tax 486 462 878 ding losses from long-term rental agreements amounting to € 13 thousand (2011: € 166 thou­ Operating taxes 348 282 295 sand, 2010: € 425 thousand) are also reported. These have arisen following the decision taken in Liabilities in respect of social insurance 148 164 440 the 2009 financial year to transfer production operations from the USA (Mt. Prospect) to the techno­ trans AG location in Sassenberg and correspondingly include a component for tenancy obligations. Other 714 85 92 Total 1,696 993 1,705 2,760 1,634 2,064 130 Financial Statements / III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet III. Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet / Financial Statements 131 21 Distribution Costs IV. Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement The distribution costs include costs for the Distribution Department and for in-house services, and also the costs of advertising and logistics. This item also includes sales-related expenditure for commissions and impairment of receivables. 19 Revenue Revenue is recognised if the risks and rewards associated with ownership of the products 2012 2011 2010 sold have been transferred to the buyer. For deliveries, revenue is realised in accordance with the € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 agreed terms of delivery; for services, it is realised when the service has been performed. Revenue is shown broken down by division in the segment report. The geographical compo­ Cost of labour 8,582 8,589 8,191 sition of revenue in 2012 was Germany € 48.7 million, rest of Europe € 20.8 million, America € 10.9 million and Asia € 10.3 million. Logistics costs 1,720 1,783 1,813 Promotional and exhibition costs 943 511 783 20 Cost of Sales Travel expenses 787 721 797 Rent and leasing costs 372 311 288 The cost of sales comprises the cost of traded products and the cost price of merchandise sold. In accordance with IAS 2, it includes both costs which can be directly allocated, such as cost Depreciation and amortisation 160 239 260 of materials and cost of labour, and also overheads, including pro rata depreciation and amorti­ Impairment of receivables 123 1,618 607 sation on property, plant and equipment used for production and on intangible assets. The costs Other 772 647 651 of the field service and the expense arising in connection with warranty obligations are likewise 13,459 14,419 13,390 reported under cost of sales. The other cost of sales mainly comprises translation costs and maintenance expense. The other distribution costs for the financial year consist primarily of expenses for commissions 2012 2011 2010 and entertainment expenses. € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 22 Administrative Expenses Cost of materials 33,123 38,939 34,115 The administrative expenses comprise personnel and material costs for management and adminis­ Cost of labour 17,254 18,068 16,883 tration, insofar as not charged to other cost centres as internal services. Subcontractors, personnel leasing 2,880 2,304 2,328 Travel expenses 1,378 1,406 1,570 2012 2011 2010 Depreciation and amortisation 717 841 854 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Rent and leasing costs 692 641 426 Operating requirements 459 505 530 Cost of labour 5,650 5,258 4,584 Warranty 288 999 1,396 Depreciation and amortisation 1,992 2,058 2,063 Impairment loss acc. to IAS 36 0 0 200 Consultancy, audits 1,100 1,344 1,311 Other 2,219 2,783 2,128 IT costs 977 1,013 891 59,010 66,486 60,430 Rent and leasing costs 507 443 410 Other 587 1,353 895 10,813 11,469 10,154 In the 2012 financial year, the fees for the auditors recorded as an expense pursuant to Sec­ tion 319 (1) first and second sentences of German Commercial Code amounted to € 264 thousand (2011: € 332 thousand, 2010: € 394 thousand), including € 17 thousand for the audits of pre­ vious years. 132 Financial Statements / III. Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement III. Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement / Financial Statements 133 25 Other Operating Expenses Fees for 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Auditing of the financial statements 237 251 311 Tax consultancy services 25 48 46 Expenses unrelated to the accounting period Other services 2 33 37 Other expenses unrelated to the accounting period 85 70 109 264 332 394 Book losses on the disposal of assets 30 4 10 Total 115 74 119 The figures for the 2012 financial year include the fees and expenses of the auditors of the Other operating expenses Consolidated Financial Statements, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, for the auditing Foreign currency losses 1,213 1,488 1,642 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the auditing of the annual financial statements of technotrans AG. Litigation risks 0 290 0 Other operating taxes 129 172 126 23 Research and Development Costs Other 426 274 169 Total 1,768 2,224 1,937 No research costs were incurred. Development costs are charged as ongoing expenses until the criteria of IAS 38.57 are satisfied cumulatively. From that point on, development costs are 1,883 2,298 2,056 recognised as an intangible asset (cf. Section 4 “Intangible assets”). Exchange rate losses mainly constitute unrealised changes in the measurement of intragroup assets and liabilities. 24 Other Operating Income 26 Net Finance Costs 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Income unrelated to the accounting period Financial income 39 37 30 Reversal of provisions 175 1,322 2,173 Financial charges – 720 – 925 – 1,192 Other income unrelated to the accounting period 104 505 652 Net finance costs – 681 – 888 – 1,162 Book profits on the disposal of assets 138 113 48 The interest income relates predominantly to bank credit balances. Interest income of € 12 thou­ Total 417 1,940 2,873 sand (2011: € 16 thousand, 2010: € 16 thousand) from the compounding of the corporation tax credit balance was in addition recognised. Other operating income The interest expenses comprise mainly interest charged on the group’s borrowings. It also Foreign currency gains 593 1,238 1,832 includes interest expense from the compounding of the conditional purchase price payment for Personnel-related revenue 111 113 102 Termotek AG amounting to € 77 thousand (2011: € 98 thousand) and the compounding of the Insurance payments 125 79 194 partial retirement credit balance amounting to € 5 thousand (2011: € 8 thousand). No borrowing costs were capitalised in the reporting period. Other 855 870 645 Total 1,684 2,300 2,773 27 Income Tax Expense 2,101 4,240 5,646 2012 2011 2010 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 The income from the reversal of provisions results mainly from the reversal of provisions for litigation Actual income tax expense risks. Tax expense for the period – 736 – 555 – 345 Tax expenses unrelated to the accounting period – 91 223 0 Total – 827 – 332 – 345 Deferred tax Deferred tax expense – 887 – 867 – 271 Deferred tax income 132 319 259 Total – 755 – 548 – 12 Income tax expense – 1,582 – 880 – 357 134 Financial Statements / III. Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement III. Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement / Financial Statements 135 The following table reconciles the theoretical tax expense with the actual income tax expense. Income tax expense includes corporation income tax and trade earnings tax for technotrans AG, and also comparable taxes on income for the foreign companies. Other operating taxes are 2012 2011 2010 included in other operating expenses. € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 The deferred tax is attributable to temporally divergent valuations in the companies’ tax balance sheets and the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with the balance sheet liability method. Applicable tax rate 30.17 % 30.06 % 29.93 % The reported deferred tax assets also include tax relief claims where it is anticipated that existing tax loss carryforwards will be used in subsequent years. The deferred tax is calculated Consolidated earnings before taxes on income 4,676 3,899 1,874 on the basis of the tax rates applicable or expected at the time of realisation in the individual Theoretical tax expense/income – 1,411 – 1,172 – 561 countries concerned. Impairment (-) or reversal of impairment (+) on deferred tax assets on tax loss The applicable domestic tax rate of 30.17 percent (previous year 30.06 percent) calculated for carryforwards and temporary differences – 24 – 73 150 the year under review is based on a corporation tax rate of 15.0 percent (previous year: 15.0 per­ Expense from the non-recognition of deferred tax assets on tax losses occurring cent), a solidarity surcharge of 5.5 percent (previous year: 5.5 percent) and an effective trade in the financial year and temporary differences – 62 67 – 165 earnings tax rate of 14.3 percent (previous year: 14.2 percent). Tax effect from the use of deferred taxes on temporary differences and from tax loss carryforwards following impairment 163 298 0 The following capitalised deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to recognition and measure­ ment differences for the individual items on the Balance Sheet and to loss carryforwards which of non-deductibility of business expenses and tax-exempt income – 152 – 176 – 81 can be used in future. Differences compared with local tax rates – 13 – 44 12 Tax effect from the use of unrecognised loss carryforwards 0 0 274 deferred tax 2012 2011 2010 Changes to deferred tax resulting from tax rate changes 8 –3 – 16 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Other taxes not relating to the period – 91 223 30 Actual and deferred income tax expense/income – 1,582 – 880 – 357 Non-current assets 680 192 736 53 810 2 Inventories 321 18 408 26 375 17 Deferred tax that was directly allocable to equity arose in the year under review, including Receivables 112 109 130 31 73 0 € 43 thousand (2011: € 11 thousand, 2010: € 1 thousand) as a result of the change in cash Provisions 153 105 126 107 93 112 flow hedges and € 90 thousand (2011: € 43 thousand, 2010: € 0 thousand) from exchange rate Liabilities 66 14 31 19 63 0 differences from net investments in a foreign business. Loss carryforwards 2,109 0 2,503 0 3,018 0 Total 3,441 438 3,934 236 4,432 131 28 Earnings Per Share The figure for basic earnings per share is obtained by dividing the net profit for the period by the Offsetting 420 420 218 218 121 121 weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding in the financial year: 3,021 18 3,716 18 4,311 10 2012 2011 2010 The deferred tax assets from inventories in essence stem from the elimination of intercompany Net profit for the period € ’000 3,094 3,019 1,517 profits, and the deferred tax assets from non-current assets result largely from temporary differences Average number of ordinary shares outstanding in the year 6,433,581 6,364,150 6,312,748 for intangible assets purchased. The deferred tax assets from liabilities include deferred tax assets from cash flow hedges. Basic/diluted earnings per share € 0.48 0.47 0.24 There are tax loss carryforwards amounting to € 21,988 thousand for 2012. Deferred taxes amounting to € 2,109 thousand were recognised as an asset on an amount of € 6,985 thousand in agreement with IAS 12.34. No deferred tax assets were recognised on the remaining loss carry­ In the 2012 financial year there were once again no stock options that would have had a dilutive forwards of € 15,021 thousand and on deductible temporary differences of € 3,761 thousand. effect on earnings per share pursuant to IAS 33. The loss carryforwards may be carried forward for 20 years in the USA (€ 7,923 thousand), for seven years in Japan (€ 328 thousand), for five years in China (€ 658 thousand), for three years in Singapore (€ 238 thousand) and for an unlimited period in other cases. In view of the uncertain earnings expectations of the companies in Asia, of technotrans america inc., technotrans américa latina ltda. and technotrans scandinavia AB, no or only pro rata deferred taxes were created on the loss carryforwards. 136 Financial Statements / III. Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement III. Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement / Financial Statements 137 V. Notes to the Segment Report VI. Notes to the Cash Flow Statement Segment information is provided on the basis of the business segments for internal reporting The Cash Flow Statement is structured according to cash flows from operating activities, inves­ purposes. Segmentation according to the Technology and Services Divisions is performed in ting activities and financing activities. agree­ment with the internal reporting structure of the technotrans Group. The Technology segment generates revenue through sales of equipment in the area of liquid 29 Cash Flow from Operating Activities technology. The Services segment generates revenue through after-sales service activities, instal­ lation, maintenance, servicing and the supplying of spare parts, as well as through compiling The cash flows from operating activities (net cash) amounted to € 10,979 thousand technical documentation and producing and selling software for the compilation of documentation. (2011: € 5,868 thou­sand, 2010: € 7,418 thousand) in the past financial year. This includes The revenue generated by gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH from translation services is equally allocated cash from operating activities amounting to € 12,284 thousand (2011: € 7,684 thou­ sand, to the Services segment. 2010: € 6,981 thousand) as well as interest and income tax received and paid amounting to The revenue amounting to € 90,662 thousand (previous year: € 97,265 thousand) comprises € – 1,305 thou­sand (2011: € – 1,816 thousand, 2010: € 437 thousand). The change in working € 48,714 thousand (previous year € 68,010 thousand) generated in Germany and € 41,948 thousand capital in 2012 resulted overall in a positive cash flow contribution. (previous year: € 29,255 thousand) internationally. The method of allocating revenue has changed compared with the previous year. Whereas the domicile of the group company realising the revenue 30 Cash Flow from Investing Activities was previously the basis for classification, the domicile of the customer now determines to which ­region the revenue is allocated. According to the method used in the previous year, € 62,580 thou­ The cash flows from investing activities comprise cash payments for investments in property, sand of revenue was generated in Germany and € 28,082 thousand internationally. plant and equipment and in intangible assets (property, plant and equipment € 683 thousand The non-current assets allocable to the segments amounting to € 19,026 thousand (previous and intangible assets € 744 thousand) and for the acquisition of consolidated companies year: € 24,869 thousand) can be broken down by region as follows: Germany € 18,185 thou­sand (€ 762 thousand). € 318 thousand of this amount was for the acquisition of gds-Sprachenwelt GmbH (previous year € 24,479 thousand) and international € 841 thousand (previous year € 390 thou­ during the financial year and € 444 thousand for the first conditional purchase price payment in sand). connection with the acquisition of Termotek AG in 2011. The investment volume for the year under The Segment Report itself is presented at the start of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial review tallied with the target level for 2012. Statements. The sales proceeds from the business premises in Gersthofen produced a cash flow of The delivery prices for transactions between the segments are generally agreed on the same € 4,250 thousand. The cash flows from investing activities were thus positive for the year under basis as transactions between a group company and a third party. review. The Segment Report provides an analysis of earnings figures, assets and other key v­ alues. The segment information comprises both directly allocable amounts and amounts that can r­ easonably 31 Cash Flow from Financing Activities be split. The assets are distributed among those segments, the corresponding expenses and income for which likewise influence the segment result. The assets of € 22,493 thousand not a ­ llocated Repayments amounting to € 10,533 thousand on short-term and long-term loans were made to the individual areas therefore refer to cash and cash equivalents (€ 18,715 thousand), current during the year under review. These included scheduled repayments to German banks. No repay­ and non-current income tax receivable (€ 580 thousand), deferred tax assets (€ 3,021 thousand) ments of liabilities from credit were made ahead of schedule. The capital repayments compare and other assets (€ 177 thousand). with € 3,300 thousand in newly raised long-term loans. No reconciliation between the segment and consolidated data is required, as the figures in the segment information coincide with those in the Consolidated Income Statement, Balance 32 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period Sheet and Cash Flow Statement. The result for the segments corresponds to the earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) in the Income Statement. The accumulated result for both segments Cash comprises cash on hand, demand deposits and fixed-term deposits with a term of less of € 5,357 thousand, reduced by the net finance costs reported in the Income Statement of than three months. It corresponds to the cash and cash equivalents shown on the Balance Sheet. € – 681 thousand, produces the profit before tax (€ 4,676 thousand). The share of external revenue generated by technotrans’ principal customer group (OEM prin­ ting press manufacturers) represented more than 10 percent of consolidated revenue in 2012. The revenue was earned in both segments. There were no other customers with which more than 10 percent of revenue was generated. 138 Financial Statements / V. Notes to the Segment Report VI. Notes to the Cash Flow Statement / Financial Statements 139 VII. Other Particulars Net Gains or From interest From subsequent measurement From disposal 2012 2011 2010 Losses on Financial Instruments by At fair value Currency Impairment 33 Financial Instruments Measurement Category translation The financial instruments (financial assets and liabilities) are allocated to the following categories: € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Hedging instruments Section 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 carried at fair value 0 – 143* 0 0 0 – 143 0 0 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Held-to-maturity investments 4 0 0 0 0 4 –3 2 Loans and receivables 11 0 94 – 123 0 – 18 – 1,224 – 590 Hedging instruments carried at fair value Financial liabilities – 673 0 0 0 0 – 673 – 822 – 1,262 • Market value of interest rate caps / interest rate swaps 18 – 210 – 61 – 13 measured at amortised cost Total – 658 – 143 94 – 123 0 – 830 – 2,049 – 1,850 Held-to-maturity investments * of which € 10 thousand recognised in the Income Statement • Reinsurance for pensions 9 56 52 72 Loans and receivables Nature and Extent of Risks Associated with Financial Instruments • Rent deposits 5 39 173 102 The credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a loss for the other party as a result of not meeting its obligations. The market risk is based on the fact that the fair • Partial retirement bankruptcy cover 5 80 211 448 value or future cash flows from a financial instrument fluctuate as a result of changes in the market • Other non-current assets 5 0 0 101 prices. The market risk assumes a more specific form in interest rate risks and exchange rate • Trade receivables 7 8,651 9,985 10,140 risks. The liquidity risk denotes the risk of crystallising difficulties in fulfilling financial obligations, • Receivables from suppliers 9 226 201 387 e.g. the risk of being unable to prolong loans or secure new loans to repay loans due. • Other current assets 9 331 79 268 Credit Risks • Cash and cash equivalents 10 18,715 12,798 13,125 A substantial part of the credit risk for technotrans relates to the risk of defaulting on trade 28,042 23,447 24,571 receivables and theoretically also the risk of the banks with which technotrans has credit balan­ ces declaring bankruptcy. There are credit risks equivalent to the reported carrying amounts of Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost € 28,098 thousand. The trade receivables are to some extent covered by credit insurance; the • Borrowings 12 9,328 16,561 17,908 insured volume at the reporting date was € 1,341 thousand. • Other financial liabilities 13 1,271 1,857 212 The bad debt risk entails a concentration of risk because the major printing press manufac­ • Trade payables 14 2,142 3,123 3,138 turers worldwide account for a substantial portion of technotrans’ receivables. Significant bad • Debtors with credit balances 18 83 86 221 debt losses had been incurred from two printing press manufacturers in the previous year. Corre­ sponding impairment was applied in 2011. No significant bad debt losses were incurred from this • Other current liabilities 18 771 494 125 customer group in the financial year. 13,595 22,121 21,604 In the case of new customers, technotrans endeavours to limit the bad debt risk by obtaining credit information and monitoring credit limits with IT assistance. Here too there exists a degree of credit risk because customers operate largely within the printing sector. In addition to observing credit limits, technotrans regularly agrees retention of title until goods or services have been paid for in full. technotrans does not usually demand security from customers. 140 Financial Statements / VII. Other Particulars VII. Other Particulars / Financial Statements 141 The credit risks from trade receivables can be broken down by region, customer group and age The following table shows the contractual due dates of financial liabilities, including any interest structure as follows: payments. Carrying Con31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 amount tractual/ Due within expected 6 6 – 12 1–2 2–5 over € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 payment months months years years 5 years By region € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Germany 2,328 3,578 4,750 At December 31, 2012 Other eurozone countries 3,274 2,328 1,956 Borrowings 9,328 10,118 1,961 1,276 2,147 3,884 850 Rest of Europe 232 1,153 563 Other non-current liabilities 1,271 1,400 n/a n/a 897 382 121 North America 768 1,202 880 Trade payables 2,142 2,142 2,142 n/a n/a n/a n/a South America 273 190 249 Other current liabilities 854 854 854 n/a n/a n/a n/a Asia & Middle East 1,776 1,534 1,742 Interest rate swaps 210 210 28 12 24 50 96 Total 8,651 9,985 10,140 Total 13,805 14,724 4,985 1,288 3,068 4,316 1,067 By customer group At December 31, 2011 OEM 3,322 6,469 3,593 Borrowings 16,561 17,543 2,713 7,603 2,438 3,877 912 End customers 5,329 3,516 6,547 Other non-current liabilities 1,857 1,976 n/a n/a 1,865 n/a 111 Total 8,651 9,985 10,140 Trade payables 3,123 3,123 3,123 n/a n/a n/a n/a Age structure of receivables (without impairment) Other current liabilities 641 641 641 n/a n/a n/a n/a Carrying amount 8,651 9,985 10,140 Total 22,182 23,283 6,477 7,603 4,303 3,877 1,023 of which: neither impaired nor overdue 5,248 6,640 5,998 At December 31, 2010 of which: not impaired and Borrowings 17,908 19,330 1,975 6,948 3,637 6,223 547 overdue by up to 30 days 2,017 1,921 2,032 Other non-current liabilities 212 212 n/a n/a 135 n/a 77 overdue by between 31 and 60 days 577 641 608 Trade payables 3,138 3,138 3,138 n/a n/a n/a n/a overdue by between 61 and 90 days 238 357 355 Other current liabilities 359 359 359 n/a n/a n/a n/a overdue by more than 90 days 571 426 904 Total 21,617 23,039 5,472 6,948 3,772 6,223 624 With regard to the trade receivables that are neither impaired nor overdue, there is no indication Market Risks at the balance sheet date that the debtors will not meet their obligations to pay. At technotrans, only the fair values of the interest rate swaps agreed (carrying amount and fair value € – 210 thousand) and fixed-interest borrowings (carrying amount € 7,281 thousand) are Liquidity Risk fundamentally exposed to an interest rate risk. Potential interest rate fluctuations affect the car­ technotrans AG uses rolling financial and liquidity planning to determine its liquidity require­ rying amount in the case of interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and reinsurance. technotrans ments. It ensures that sufficient cash and cash equivalents are available at all times to settle pursues the objective of only being exposed to interest rate risks to a limited degree. Long-term, ­liabilities. The cash and cash equivalents available are kept exclusively with banks with a very variable-rate loans are therefore hedged by the use of interest rate swaps or interest rate caps, good credit rating. Continuing credit facilities amounting to up to € 13.2 million (2011: € 7.8 million, which are not needed in the case of short-term loans. 2010: € 6.8 million) also existed at the balance sheet date. The trade receivables as well as cash and cash equivalents are exposed to foreign currency As a result of the restructuring of external financing, formerly short-term loans were converted risks. At December 31, 2012 the trade receivables were denominated for the most part in euros; into long-term loans, thus reducing the risk of a short-term liquidity bottleneck. other noteworthy components were denominated in US dollars (USD 0.9 million, equivalent to € 0.7 million) and Sterling (GBP 0.5 million, equivalent to € 0.6 million). At December 31, 2011 there had been foreign-currency receivables of USD 1.3 million (€ 1.0 million) and GBP 0.4 million (€ 0.5 million), and at December 31, 2010 of USD 1.2 million (€ 0.9 million) and GBP 0.4 million (€ 0.5 million). 142 Konzernanhang / VII. Other Particulars VII. Other Particulars / Financial Statements 143 Bank credit balances are held predominantly in euros. At December 31, 2012 the group held Nominal Repaid Balance Fixed rate Variable Interest Maturity Fair value significant foreign-currency accounts in US dollars (USD 4.0 million, equivalent to € 3.0 million) amount and Sterling (GBP 1.9 million, equivalent to € 2.4 million). The foreign currency amounts quoted € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 % p. a. € ’000 are held essentially by technotrans AG and the local national companies within the group. At De­ cember 31, 2011 there had been foreign-currency credit balances of USD 3.7 million (€ 2.8 million) PayerSwap 3,688 2,141 1,547 2.81 3-month-EURIBOR Sep. 2018 – 58 and GBP 1.9 million (€ 2.3 million), and at December 31, 2010 of USD 2.5 million (€ 1.9 million) and GBP 1.6 million (€ 1.9 million). PayerSwap 4,000 0 0 2.00 3-month-EURIBOR Jan. 2020 – 58 Financial liabilities are denominated exclusively in euros. PayerSwap 1,500 0 0 2.70 3-month-EURIBOR June 2017 – 79 Foreign currency risks are limited within the technotrans Group by the fact that production PayerSwap 3,000 3,000 0 1.48 3-month-EURIBOR May 2013 – 15 takes place principally within the eurozone, and that the currency of production usually corres­ ponds to the currency in which the customer is invoiced. Where significant discrepancies occur, this exchange risk is usually hedged against by means of derivative financial instruments. There were no currency hedging transactions at December 31, 2012. The fair values are obtained from the measurement of the outstanding items, disregarding any counter-cyclical trends in value from the positions. The fair values are calculated by major German Sensitivity Analysis banks on the basis of discounted cash flows (level 2 according to IFRS 7.27 A). A potential 10 percent appreciation in the euro compared with the principal foreign-exchange closing rates throughout the group would have had the following effects on equity and profit after Interest Rate Swap tax, assuming that all other variables, and in particular interest rates remain unchanged: The nominal amount or principal amount, terms, interest payment dates, interest rate adjust­ ment dates, due dates and currencies of the hedged item and hedging instrument are the same. In cases where a hedge exists for a future transaction, it was accounted for as a hedging relation­ship Effect on Effect on only if it was considered very probable that this transaction would occur. The efficiency of the hedge equity profit after tax pursuant to IAS 39.88 (b) is high, reaching almost 100 percent. The requirements of IAS 39.88 € ’000 € ’000 are moreover satisfied. The interest rate swaps are recognised as a cash flow hedge at the market price; measure­ ment gains and losses from changes in the market price are recognised in the hedging reserve, At December 31, 2012 under equity, with no effect on income. The fair value of the hedging instruments at the balance USD 315 43 sheet date is recognised at € 195 thousand under the current “Other liabilities” (Section 18). The GBP 237 13 underlying loan transactions are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method. The deferred tax on the negative market prices of € 43 thousand was netted against the At December 31, 2011 hedging reserve with no effect on income, with the result that the negative balance of the hedging reserve was increased to € 136 thousand. USD 275 59 There is moreover an interest rate swap that was not qualified as a cash flow hedge because GBP 238 6 the loan being protected (underlying transaction) was repaid prematurely in the year under review. Along with the redemption of the loan, an amount of € 10 thousand was reclassified from equity At December 31, 2010 to the result for the period. The fair value is recognised at € 15 thousand under the current “Other USD 204 10 liabilities” (Section 18). GBP 224 7 € ’000 The figures reflect the impact on the period under review of changes in both the closing rate and the average rate, in each case based on a 10 percent change compared with the translation Opening level at January 1, 2012 – 36 rates applied in the respective consolidated financial statements. A corresponding weakening of Additions the euro would have had the opposite effect. Additions – 153 Hedging Instruments Deferred tax on these not affecting income 47 At the balance sheet date, there existed the following derivative financial instruments for Reversals in the Income Statement hedging against the interest rate risk for variable interest-bearing loans denominated in euros Reversals 10 (cf. Section 12); including these derivative financial instruments as well as the concluding of the deferred tax on these not affecting income –4 two underlying transactions with a nominal value of € 4,000 thousand and a nominal value of Closing level at December 31, 2012 – 136 € 1,500 thousand for 2013, the financial assets and financial liabilities are not exposed to any significant interest rate risk. The PayerSwap with a nominal amount of € 3,000 thousand and the variable interest bearing bank liability of € 500 thousand are subject to an interest rate risk. 144 Financial Statements / VII. Other Particulars VII. Other Particulars / Financial Statements 145 34 Potential Liabilities and Other Financial Commitments Interest Rate Caps The interest rate cap reported in the previous year expired in September 2012. The fair value of the interest rate cap was € 0 thousand, as in the previous year. This meant that neither mea­ 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 surement gains nor measurement losses were realised in the financial year. Interest expense of up to 1 to 5 over Total Total Total € 1 thousand (2011: € 1 thousand, 2010: € 1 thousand) was recognised as an expense in the 1 year years 5 years past financial year. € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Hedging transactions are concluded only with banks with the highest credit rating. There exist binding rules on the use of such derivative financial instruments, in the form of scopes of action, Tenancy and operating lease agreements 870 1,353 1,193 3,416 4,465 1,688 spheres of responsibility and internal guidelines. There is a theoretical credit risk only in the event of Maintenance agreements 684 442 0 1,126 1,162 665 the market price being positive. As the hedging transactions are concluded exclusively with banks with a top-class credit rating, it is improbable that these financial instruments carry a credit risk. Conditional purchase price 4,000 602 141 4,743 0 0 Other 88 0 0 88 359 335 Compared to the carrying amounts, the financial assets and financial liabilities are attributed the Total 5,642 2,397 1,334 9,373 5,986 2,688 following fair values: 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 Potential liabilities and other financial commitments are measured at their nominal amount; amounts in foreign currency were measured at the closing rate. Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair The future obligations from tenancy and lease agreements relate primarily to tenancy obliga­ amount value amount value amount value tions for the business premises of subsidiaries and to the vehicle leasing agreements concluded. € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 The increase in the previous year results mainly from the existing rental agreement of Termotek AG, which runs until 2022. The expenditure for tenancy and lease agreements (minimum lease pay­ Reinsurance for pensions 56 56 52 52 72 72 ments) in the year under review amounted to € 1,610 thousand (2011: € 1,433 thousand, 2010: Rent deposits 39 39 173 173 102 102 € 1,126 thousand). technotrans has not concluded any lease agreements that constitute finance leases pursuant to IAS 17. Partial retirement bankruptcy cover 80 80 211 211 448 448 The maintenance agreements relate in the main to the ERP data processing system. Other non-current assets 0 0 0 0 101 101 On December 12, 2012 and with effect from January 1, 2013, technotrans AG acquired 65 per­ Trade receivables 8,651 8,651 9,985 9,985 10,140 10,140 cent of the shares in each of KLH Kältetechnik GmbH, Bad Doberan (Germany), KLH Cooling Receivables from suppliers 226 226 201 201 387 387 International Pte., Singapore (Singapore), and Taicang KLH Cooling Systems Co. Ltd, Taicang (PR China). A fixed purchase price of EUR 4,000 thousand was contractually agreed, along with a Other assets 331 331 79 79 268 268 purchase price component that is dependent on the earnings performance for the years 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 18,715 18,715 12,798 12,798 13,125 13,125 to 2017. The value of the conditional payment obligations discounted at the reporting date is Borrowings – 9,328 – 9,445 – 16,561 – 16,609 – 17,908 –17,868 € 743 thousand. Other non-current liabilities – 1,271 – 1,271 – 1,857 – 1,857 – 212 – 212 Trade payables – 2,142 – 2,142 – 3,123 – 3,123 – 3,138 – 3,138 35 Personnel Expenses Market value of interest rate cap/interest rate swap – 195 – 195 – 61 – 61 – 13 – 13 Debtors with credit balances – 98 – 98 – 86 – 86 – 221 – 221 2012 2011 2010 Other current liabilities – 771 – 771 – 494 – 494 – 125 – 125 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Total 14,293 14,176 1,317 1,269 3,026 3,066 Wages and salaries 27,016 27,467 26,899 Gains (+) or losses (-) not entered – 117 – 48 40 Christmas bonus (Christmas shares) 143 184 194 Social insurance 4,759 4,961 3,217 Expenses for retirement benefits and maintenance payments 733 612 533 The carrying amounts for the financial instruments (for example, cash and cash equivalents, Total 32,651 33,224 30,843 trade receivables and payable and other receivables and liabilities) fundamentally reflect their fair values. For receivables with a maturity of up to one year, their nominal value less the reductions for impairment applied provide the most reliable estimate of the fair value. The fair value of recei­ The item wages and salaries also includes payments made in connection with the termination vables with a maturity of over one year is indicated by their discounted cash flows. of employment amounting to € 108 thousand (2011: € 416 thousand, 2010: € 1,006 thousand). The borrowings are an exception, because differences exist between the carrying amounts and Social insurance comprises expenditure for defined contribution plans (employer contributions fair values. The fair value of interest-bearing liabilities is indicated by the discounted cash flows to the compulsory state pension scheme) totalling € 2,325 thousand (2011: € 2,133 thousand, from repayments and interest payments. The fair values of derivative financial liabilities were cal­ 2010: € 2,019 thousand). culated by a major German bank on the basis of discounted cash flows. In the reporting period 22,629 (2011: 43,740, 2010: 28,620) ordinary shares in technotrans AG The current reference interest rates of banks at the balance sheet date were requested and were distributed to employees, by way of a Christmas bonus; these shares had previously been used in determining fair values. In accordance with the term, the reference interest rates were acquired on the market under the share buy-back arrangements. At the time of their issuan­ between 2.75 percent and 3.39 percent. An appropriate risk premium was added. ce on December 17, 2012, the total fair value of these shares was € 143 thousand (2011: € 184 thousand, 2010: € 194 thousand). This represents a market value of € 6.30 per share. 146 Financial Statements / VII. Other Particulars VII. Other Particulars / Financial Statements 147 36 Total Employees, Yearly Average Directors’ Holdings Shares Board of Management and Supervisory Board Members 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 2012 2011 2010 Board of Management Average number of employees 646 659 620 Henry Brickenkamp 40,000 40,000 40,000 of which in Germany 498 501 455 Dirk Engel 10,000 5,200 5,200 of which abroad 148 158 165 Dr. Christof Soest 3,764 444 0 Technicians/skilled workers 424 407 406 Supervisory Board Academic background 123 146 138 Klaus Beike 636 579 494 Trainees 46 48 40 Dr. Norbert Bröcker 250 250 250 Other 53 58 36 Heinz Harling 64,854 64,854 64,854 Matthias Laudick 1,273 1,216 1,131 37 Related Parties Helmut Ruwisch 1,500 1,500 0 Dieter Schäfer 0 0 0 “Related parties” include the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of technotrans AG, as well as their close family members. Family members Since the 2011 financial year the remuneration system for the Board of Management has met the latest standards and the statutory requirements of the Act on the Appropriateness of Manage­ Marian Harling 1,000 1,000 1,000 ment Board Compensation (German VorstAG). Please refer to the “Report on the Remuneration System of the Board of Management” in the Management Report for the group for information on 38 Corporate Governance the payment components. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board submitted the Declaration of Conformity pursuant to Section 161 of German Stock Corporation Act in September 2012 and p ­ rovided payments 2012 2011 2010 permanent access to it for shareholders and interested parties on the company’s website to Members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board (www.technotrans.de). € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 Board of Management 39 Events Occurring after the Balance Sheet Date Regular payments 612 539 451 The date for release of the annual financial statements by the Board of Management pursuant of which fixed 381 305 135 to IAS 10.17 is March 1, 2013. These Consolidated Financial Statements are subject to approval of which variable 0 0 125 by the Supervisory Board (Section 171 (2) of German Stock Corporation Act). After the end of the 2012 financial year, other than the acquisition of majority interests in Termination benefits 993 844 711 KLH Kältetechnik GmbH, Bad Doberan (Germany), KLH Cooling International Pte. Ltd., Singapore (Singapore) and Taicang KLH Cooling Systems Co. Ltd., Taicang (PR China) there were no events Supervisory Board of particular significance affecting the financial performance, financial position and net worth of Regular payments the company. of which fixed 80 77 78 of which variable 41 41 19 40 disclosures of Interests Reported Pursuant to Section 21 (1) or (1a) Total 121 118 97 of German Securities Trading Act Reported development In addition to the remuneration paid in the financial year, the members of the Board of Threshold* Date on New interest Disclosures ­ anagement are entitled to a profit share of € 306 thousand that is conditional on the attainment M which in voting on attribution of future targets focusing on sustainability. exceeded or power The regular payments to the Board of Management (fixed) include payments by the company for undercut defined contribution plans totalling € 45 thousand (2011: € 45 thousand, 2010: € 30 thousand). Reporting party % Date % No employer’s pension commitment has been made towards the members of the Board of Management, nor have loans been granted to them or surety obligations accepted on their behalf. Objectif Small Caps Euro, Paris, France > 5 17/05/2010 5.28 Lazard Frères Gestion SAS, Paris, France The members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are listed separately in the section “Corporate Bodies”. technotrans AG, Sassenberg > 5 12/03/2008 5.02 – There exists a tenancy agreement running until 2022 between Domnick/Ehl GbR, Scheibenhardt, Erste Abwicklungsanstalt, Düsseldorf > 3 17/09/2012 4.77 – as the landlord and Termotek AG, Baden-Baden, as the tenant. The annual rental expense in 2012 Lupus alpha Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH, came to € 247 thousand (2011: € 247 thousand). Mr Frank Domnick is Chairman of Termotek AG Frankfurt > 3 29/03/2012 3.16 – and Mr Thomas Ehl is a member of the Supervisory Board of Termotek AG. Midlin NV, Maarsbergen, Teslin Capital Management BV, the Netherlands > 3 15/01/2010 3.02 Maarsbergen, the Netherlands * value exceeded (>) or undercut (<) 148 Financial Statements / VII. Other Particulars VII. Other Particulars / Financial Statements 149 Corporate bodies Board of Management Members of the Supervisory Board Dipl. Wirtsch.-Ing. Henry Brickenkamp Klaus Beike, MBA & Eng. Board of Management Spokesman technotrans AG, Sassenberg (employees’ representative)  ales Director since 2005, deputy Board member from 2006, full Board member S Dr. Norbert Bröcker since 2007 and Board of Management Spokesman since May 2008. Responsible for Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board Products and Markets (Sales and Service world-wide, Business Units, tt industrial Partner in Hoffmann Liebs Fritsch & Partner, Düsseldorf system solutions and Marketing) Dipl.-Ing. Heinz Harling Dipl.-Kfm. Dirk Engel Chairman of the Supervisory Board of technotrans AG Finance Director Matthias Laudick  ead of Group Accounts since April 2004, Finance Director since 2006, with r­esponsibility H technotrans AG, Sassenberg (employees’ representative) for ­F inance and Administration (Finance/Controlling, Human Resources, IT, Legal Support and I­nvestor Relations) Helmut Ruwisch Chairman of the Board of Managment of MFO AG, Elsdorf Dr. Ing. Christof Soest Member of the Supervisory Board of Conpair AG, Essen Member of the Board of Management Member of the Advisory Board of Emons Spedition GmbH, Köln Member of the Advisory Board of Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal T echnical Director since January 2011, Member of the Board since June 2011, responsible Member of the Supervisory Board of Thyssen’sche Handelsgesellschaft mbH, Mülheim a.d.R. for Technology and Operations (Production and Quality Management world-wide, Procurement, Member of the Supervisory Board of Cloppenburg Automobil SE, Düsseldorf ­Logistics, Research & Development, Controls and CPS) Dieter Schäfer Chief representative of the Werner & Pfleiderer Bakery Group, Bielefeld Chairman of the Audit Committees of technotrans AG Committees Audit Committee: Messrs Schäfer, Harling, Ruwisch Nominating Committee: Messrs Harling, Bröcker, Ruwisch, Schäfer Personnel Committee: Messrs Harling, Bröcker, Ruwisch 150 Financial Statements / Corporate Bodies Corporate Bodies / Financial Statements 151 Proposal for the appropriation of profit Responsibility Statement by the Management The Board of Management and Supervisory Board propose to the Shareholders’ Meeting that the To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles for accumulated profit of technotrans AG be distributed as follows: finan­cial reporting, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the group, and the management report of the € group includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with Distribution of a dividend of € 0.12 per no par value share the expected development of the group. on the dividend-bearing share capital 774,648.48 Profit carried forward 1,080,897.26 Sassenberg, March 11, 2013 Accumulated profit 1,855,545.74 The shares held by the company do not qualify for dividends pursuant to Section 71b of German Stock Corporation Act. Based on the dividend-bearing share capital of technotrans AG of € 6,455,404.00 at the date of release of the annual financial statements by the Board of ­Management, the amount to be distributed is thus € 774,648.48. The number of dividend-bearing technotrans AG shares may increase or decrease up to the time of the Shareholders’ Meeting as a result of the The Board of Management acquisition or sale of treasury shares. In that instance, a correspondingly modified resolution on the amount of profit to be appropriated will be put to the Shareholders’ Meeting, based on an unchanged dividend of € 0.12 per dividend-bearing share. 152 Further Information / Proposal for the Appropriation of Profit Responsibility Statement by the Management / Further Information 153 Independent Auditors’ Report We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared by technotrans AG – com­ prising the Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Statement of Movements in Equity and Notes – as well as the Group Management Report for the financial year from January 1 to December 31, 2012. The preparation and the content of the Consolidated Financial Statements and Group Management Report in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, and in accordance with the supplementary requirements under commercial law pursuant to Section 315a (1) of German Commercial Code, are the responsibility of the company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Group Management Report on the basis of our audit. We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Section 317 of German Commercial Code, observing the German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that we can establish with reasonable assurance whether the representation of the financial position and financial performance, as reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in keeping with the applicable accounting standards, as well as in the Group Management Report, contains any material misstatements and irregularities. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the group and evaluations of possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the internal accounting controls system and the evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements and Group Management Report are examined predominantly on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the individual financial statements included in the Consolidated ­F inancial Statements, the definition of the group, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and Group Management Report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Our audit has not led to any reservations. In our opinion, formed on the basis of our audit, the Consolidated Financial Statements are in accor­dance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, as well as with the supplementary requirements under commercial law pursuant to Section 315a Para. 1 of German Commercial Code and, on the basis of those requirements, give a true and fair view of the financial position and financial performance of the group. The Group Management Report is in agreement with the Consolidated Financial Statements, on the whole provides a suitable understanding of the group’s position and suitably presents the risks of future development. Bielefeld, March 11, 2013 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Hunke Schröder Independent Auditor Independent Auditor 154 Further Information / Independent Auditors’ Report Independent Auditors’ Report / Further Information 155 Report of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board of the company again regularly advised the Board of Management on To enable it to fulfil its duties more efficiently, the Supervisory Board formed three committees. the running of the company and monitored its activities in the 2012 financial year, in accordance The Nominating Committee (members: the shareholders’ representatives on the Supervisory Board) with the statutory provisions and articles of incorporation. We were involved directly and at an proposes suitable candidates for elections to the Supervisory Board. The Nominating Committee early stage in all decisions that were of considerable significance to the company. did not meet in 2012. The Board of Management regularly briefed us orally and in writing, both promptly and comAn Audit Committee has in addition been formed (members: Dieter Schäfer; Helmut Ruwisch; prehensively, on the situation of the company and its subsidiaries, in particular on the business Heinz Harling) as well as a Personnel Committee (members: Heinz Harling; Dr Norbert Bröcker; and financial position and on fundamental issues of corporate planning and strategy. Deviations Helmut Ruwisch). The Audit Committee met twice, in the presence of the auditors and the members in business progress from the plans and targets and the corresponding countermeasures were of the Board of Management, and concerned itself with matters relating to the annual financial explained to us in detail and the strategic direction of the company was coordinated with us. In statements, the presentation of the accounts, controlling and risk management, fiscal matters, addition to myself, other Supervisory Board members maintained regular contact with the Board compliance, assuring the independence of the auditors, mandating the auditors to perform the of Management, both outside the context of meetings and after the end of the financial year, in audit task, identifying the priority areas for the audit, and agreeing the fee. The interim reports to order to become acquainted with the current progress of business and to support the Board of be published were discussed by the members of this committee. Management in an advisory capacity. In addition, I held separate discussions with the Board of The audit reports and documents for the accounts as well as the Board of Management’s proManagement on the prospects for and future direction of the divisions. I was informed in a timely posal on the appropriation of profit for the 2012 financial year were sent to all Supervisory Board manner by the Spokesman of the Board of Management of important occurrences that are of members in good time. They were discussed in depth by the Audit Committee and at the Supervi­material significance for evaluating the situation, progress and management of the company. sory Board meeting on March 11, 2013. The firm of auditors, represented by the two independent During the 2012 financial year the Supervisory Board considered the economic position and auditors appointed to carry out the task, attended both meetings. They reported on the principal operational and strategic development of the company and its divisions at length in four meetings, findings of their audit and were available to answer further questions and provide supplementary which took place on March 12, May 23, September 25 and December 11, 2012, on the basis of information. The annual financial statements of the parent company and the Consolidated Financial the written and oral reports by the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board was informed of Statements for the 2012 financial year have both been granted an unqualified audit certificate. and discussed significant business occurrences within the company, as well as its strategy and Following our own examination of the annual financial statements, the Consolidated Financial Statethe implementation thereof, and also its approach to risk management. The economic development ments, the management report for the parent company and the Group Management Report, we of the company and of its subsidiaries was discussed in depth. All members of the Supervisory approved the auditors’ findings and signed off the annual and Consolidated Financial Statements at Board and Board of Management were present at all meetings. the meeting on March 11, 2013. The annual financial statements are thus established. The Super­ The Supervisory Board approved those transactions which require its approval in accordance visory Board endorses the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of profit. with the statutory provisions and the articles of incorporation. These include decisions and meaIn accordance with the corresponding recommendation In the German Corporate Governance sures which are of fundamental significance for the financial position and financial performance Code, the Supervisory Board members of technotrans AG disclose any conflicts of interest to of the company. the Supervisory Board without delay. The Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dr Norbert Bröcker is partner in the law firm Hoffmann Liebs Fritsch & Partner. The law firm Hoffmann Liebs Important topics in 2012 were: Fritsch & Partner provided legal advice for technotrans AG on a variety of topics in the past finan• The revenue and earnings performance of the company and possible measures to shore up cial year. The Supervisory Board of technotrans AG approved the involvement of Hoffmann Liebs earnings in view of the risks from the financial and economic crisis as well as the structural Fritsch & Partner as well as the consultancy fees arising. To avoid any conflicts of interest, Dr Bröcker problems of the printing industry abstained from these votes. No other potential conflicts of interest that are to be disclosed to the • The financial statements for 2011 Supervisory Board and would need to be reported on to the Shareholders’ Meeting arose in the • The resolutions and agenda items for the Shareholders’ Meeting year under review. • The strategic positioning and development of the company’s divisions The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Board of Management and all employees of • Liquidity planning and financing the group for their commendable dedication. Together they showed great commitment in shaping • The consequences of the insolvency of manroland AG and Kodak’s filing for creditor protection, the company’s development in the 2012 financial year. Our particular thanks are due to the emas well as the general solvency of customers in the printing industry ployees’ representatives, who yet again cooperated constructively and openly with the company’s • The disposal of the property in Gersthofen corporate bodies, and to the shareholders, many of who have now been involved in technotrans • The future composition of the Supervisory Board AG for quite a number of years. • The general acquisitions strategy and especially the majority interest in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH, its integration and its anticipated development in 2013, as well as the acquisition of a majority On behalf of the Supervisory Board interest in Sprachenwelt GmbH by gds AG • Budgeting for the 2013 financial year, which encompassed revenue, cost, earnings, investment and personnel targets, as well as rough targets for subsequent years • Aspects of risk management, compliance and corporate governance The members of the Supervisory Board are sufficiently independent and have sufficient time to act as non-executive directors. No conflicts of interest arose during the period under review. PursuHeinz Harling ant to Article 5.6 of the German Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board conducted an Chairman of the Supervisory Board efficiency audit by means of a structured approach. It reached the conclusion that the Supervisory Board exercises its role efficiently, though it is to be noted that this examination regularly suggests details that could be improved upon. 156 Further Information / Report of the Supervisory Board Report of the Supervisory Board / Further Information 157 The success story 1970 Founding of the company 2004 Start of development work on the new cleaning systems product area Opening a further sales and service office in Yokohama, Japan 1973 Initial contacts with the audio media and printing industry 2005 Constuction of new production plant at Gersthofen 1977 Production of the first dampening solution equipment 2006 Merger of the two American production locations in Chicago 1981 Development of a seperate product line for dampening solution preparation systems Establishment of the subsidiary in Brazil Opening of a further sales and service office in Madrid, Spain 1987 Launch of the first ink temperature control systems 2007 Entry into the new product area of cleaning systems, with the first of the contex.c 1990 Management Buy-out blanket cleaners installed at end customers technotrans graphics ltd. is founded in Colchester, Great Britain Establishment of the subsidiary in Dubai (UAE) Launch of the new system component concept for ancillary equipment on Establishment of the subsidiary in Moscow (Russia) printing presses Opening of a further sales and service office in Shanghai (China) technotrans is one of the world’s three largest suppliers of Opening of a further sales and service office in Melbourne (Australia) dampening solution preparation systems 2008 Two employees’ representatives are elected to the Supervisory Board (One-Third 1992 technotrans becomes original equipment supplier for the Heidelberg Speedmaster ­Employee Representation Act) and MAN-Roland 700 presses Transfer of the cleaning systems product area to Sassenberg 1993 technotrans france s. a. r. l. is founded 2009 Production operations are halted at the Mt. Prospect (USA) and Gersthofen (Germany) locations and transferred to Sassenberg, and the structures in Asia are consolidated 1995 technotrans america inc. is established in Atlanta, Georgia, USA 2010 Transfer of technical operations for ink supply systems from Gersthofen to Sassenberg 1997 Transformation into a stock corporation Partnership with Termotek AG, resulting in entry into the laser market Founding of technotrans printing equipment (Beijing) Co. Ltd., People’s Republic of China Business Units define and evaluate 30 projects outside the printing industry 1998 Takeover of BVS Grafische Technik GmbH, which is renamed 2011 Acquisition of Termotek AG technotrans systems GmbH technotrans becomes serial supplier of the toolsmart (for cooling lubricant preparation) Initial public offering to Sauer GmbH 1999 Founding of technotrans technologies pte. ltd. in Singapore 2012 Partnership with KLH Kältetechnik GmbH resulting in increased presence in the market Founding of the subsidiary technotrans italia s.r.l. in Milan for laser cooling systems Merger with the subsidiary technotrans systems GmbH to form technotrans AG Merger of Chinese production operations at the KLH location in Taicang Spray lubrication for forming technology makes debut at the Euroblech show 2000 Takeover of the American company Ryco Graphic Manufacturing, Inc. (Chicago) Acquisition of a majority interest in Sprachenwelt GmbH by gds AG and merger with technotrans america inc. 2013  Acquisition of majority interests in KLH Kältetechnik GmbH and its sister companies 2001 Takeover of the American Steve Barberi Company Inc. and its subsidiary, in Singapore and PR China Farwest Graphic Technologies LLC, of Corona, near Los Angeles, California, USA, renamed technotrans america west, inc. Takeover of the Electroforming Division of Toolex International N.V., which now operates as technotrans scandinavia AB, Tåby, Sweden Establishment of technotrans japan k.k., Kobe, Japan, as a sales and service company Establishment of technotrans china ltd., Hong Kong, as a sales and service company 2002 Transfer of activities from Atlanta to the principal American location in Chicago 2003 Consolidation of international production capacities and relocation of assembly from technotrans graphics ltd., Colchester, Great Britain, to Sassenberg 158 Further Information / The success story The success story / Further Information 159 Corporate calendar Annual Report 2012 March 12, 2013 Analyst Meeting and Annual Press Conference March 12, 2013 Interim Report 1-3/2012 May 14, 2013 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting May 16, 2013 Interim Report 1-6/2011 August 13, 2013 Interim Report 1-9/2011 November 5, 2013 Annual Report 2013 March 11, 2014 160 Further Information / Corporate Calendar Concept and Design cyclos design GmbH, Münster Print Rasch Druckerei und Verlag GmbH & Co. KG, Bramsche printed with Heidelberger XL 105 10P6 with the following technotrans equipment: combination unit beta.c 400G for dampening solution c­ irculation, ink roller temperature control system, alcosmart AZR; beta.PS-C2-10/50: pump station, glycol cooling printed climate-neutrally Id-No. 1327157 technotrans AG Robert-Linnemann-Straße 17 · 48336 Sassenberg Phone +49 2583 301-1000 · Fax +49 2583 301-1030 info@technotrans.de · www.technotrans.de
