PRIMEX Global Compact 2012 To date, PRIMEX has completed over 200 projects, most of which adopt the10 principles of the UN Global Compact to protect human rights, uphold ethical labor conditions, preserve the environment, and combat corruption. Human Rights. PRIMEX affirmed the rights of ethnic minorities to education by assisting the Ministry of Education and Training (MOET) through its Lower Secondary Education (LSE) in Viet Nam in creating opportunities and providing support for Vietnamese children to obtain education relevant to their needs and to improve the quality of their lives as Vietnamese citizens. New initiatives have been introduced to improve access and equity to LSE for ethnic minorities and girls. This project output has four subcomponents: (i) a four-year scholarship program for the neediest 800 students from the 18 smallest ethnic minority groups to enable them to complete LSE; (ii) public awareness campaign targeting parents, students, commune and village leaders, and education planners to emphasize the importance and value of secondary schooling, especially for girls; (iii) pilot semi-boarding school feeding program to provide rice (3 kg of rice per month during the pre-harvest months) over four years at LSE; and (iv) four research studies to assess the impact of the pilot innovations. In one of its health projects, a Reference Guide on Legal and Human Rights was developed for community outreach workers (ChOWs) and peer educators (PEs) working among people who inject drugs (PWID). This reference guide is crafted for public health agencies, community health workers and peer educators alike, to further understand and know the context and legal impediments and perspectives that revolve around HIV and AIDS and drug use. We hope that with this guide, will help community workers and peer educators alike, in further pursuing their roles in curbing HIV in their own respective communities. Labor. It is the policy of PRIMEX to encourage fair and efficient processes to resolve disputes arising out of the employment relationship and to meet the requirements of the Philippine Labor law. These policies and procedures are applicable to conduct or job performance of a classified employee that results in a decision to impose a disciplinary penalty of demotion, suspension without pay, or dismissal. PRIMEX provides equal opportunity for all qualified persons and not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of religion, sex, age, disability, or any other protected status. Environment. PRIMEX has worked with multilateral organizations and government agencies in the conduct of environmental assessment and in the planning and implementation of environmental management, biodiversity conservation measures, and climate change. PRIMEX’s growing attachment to climate change is getting a lot of attention from various funding institutions. Anti-Corruption. PRIMEX has never been convicted of an integrity-related offense or crime related to theft, corruption, fraud, collusion or coercion. It recognizes that doing business with integrity is the only right way of doing business. PRIMEX actively pursues ethics, compliance, and corporate responsibility training internally. It is currently working on putting systems and procedures on anti-corruption in place. It will be introduced to supplement its ISO Quality Management and designed to ensure that each part of the Company applies appropriate steps to comply with the Company's ethical standards and the law.
