West Atlantic AB (publ) UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 2013 Communication on Progress 2012-2013 2 Statement for continued support from the CEO of West Atlantic AB (publ). Gothenburg, Sweden September 30th, 2013 As of early August, 2013, West Air Europe AB has changed its registered corporate name to West Atlantic AB (publ), marking the completion of the merger between the former West Air Group and Atlantic Airlines. “I am pleased to confirm that West Atlantic AB (publ) continues to support and encourage the ten principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our Group, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. West Atlantic will continue to make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy.” Yours sincerely, ___________________ Gustaf Thureborn Chief Executive Officer West Atlantic AB (publ) Communication on Progress 2012-2013 3 Human Rights Principles  Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights;  and make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy & Goals The West Atlantic Group employs over 450 employees within the European Community, comprising many different nationalities with different religious and cultural backgrounds. The Group policy is included within a strict “code of conduct” on respecting human rights at all times, in line with European Union legislation that are in parity with the United Nations stipulations. Reports of any human rights abuse are dealt with in cooperation with law enforcement. Labour Principles  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  the effective abolition of child labour;  the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals As a Group of cargo airlines it is imperative to us that our staff and human capital are well taken care of as we are heavily reliant on these for our production. Following our highly regulated business, many positions offered in the West Atlantic Group organisation require substantial education, certification and in most cases plentiful previous experience (e.g. pilots & engineers). Consequently, we follow nationwide collective working agreement (CWA) or better and we are in continuous discussions with committees representing different unions/workgroups. Also, we have our own CWAs in place for staffgroups in certain countries. These agreements cover all relevant labour principles above. We support all employees and their freedom of association. We continuously work to make our culture and working environment as safe, satisfying and productive as possible therefore we do not approve of any discrimination of any kind and highly discourage such activities. Communication on Progress 2012-2013 4 Environmental Principles  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility;  and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals The West Atlantic Group has a policy of minimising its environmental impact and we strive to be the best possible corporate citizen that we can. We actively support the development of social and economic infrastructure to simplify and improve society’s connectability and efficiency.  Fuel Emissions Fuel Efficiency monitoring on flight level thru EU ETS including emission regulation within the ‘cap and trade’ CO2 market in intra-EU aviation. Designing optimal flight performance, i.e. adjust climb & descent to maximise cruise length. Raising awareness between pilots to analyse fuel efficiency and possible savings.  Research & Development Continued implementation and development of the second generation cockpit with full EFIS displays that makes us more productive with less diverted flights and wasted fuel. This also lowers consumption of energy dense semiconductors and circuitry from the old cockpit. Continued development of a potential new propeller that could grant up to five per cent lower fuel burn, based on evaluations performed in cooperation with Cranfield University.  Management of Petroleum based products West Atlantic, through its subsidiaries, deals with oils and other petroleum based products. We strive to minimise consumption and waste as well as always complying with environmental regulation. Naturally also fulfilling our responsibility to notify authorities if any incident occurs. No incident has been reported during the period covered in this report.  Noise emissions Given upgrades made in our aircraft fleet we are also continuing on our strategy to lower the overall noise signature in the environment surrounding us. We are always reviewing modifications and other option to improve aircraft performance. Communication on Progress 2012-2013 5 We support the continued development of the Single European Sky project and participate mainly through our participation in the European Regional Airlines association. We expect that it can increase efficiency and lower cost of navigation for both airlines and society, while also lowering fuel burn due to fewer delays and flying closer to optimal vectors. Anti-Corruption Principle  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Following European legislation, The West Atlantic Group has a zero-tolerance towards any form of corruption and actively controls the compliance through audits and controls. During 2012 the Group developed a new anti-corruption and anti-mafia policy that is more firm and stricter, following the Global Compact framework as is does not only forbid corruption, it also sets a policy that we actively shall work against it. The Group financial department is tasked with watching for corruption and our quality department perform audits on operational resources. The Group is proud to have no incident during the period covered by this communication. We expect this to continue and we are still evaluating the possibility to include the UN fight against corruption learning films in a training program. Any reports of corruptions or initial investigations are reported to CEO and any case with substance of fraud or corruption is to be immediately filed with local authorities and law enforcement. We look forward to integrating these principles in our business further. Last year, we planned to include a sustainability report in our annual report covering the fiscal year 2012 and we successfully integrated an executive summary on our sustainability development. Next year we strive to further this analysis and also include a risk evaluation of our operating environment. In addition, we are also actively participating in the Global Compact Nordic Network. Prepared on the September 30th 2013 by ______________ Roderick Nilsson Business Analyst West Atlantic AB (publ)
