2012 Digest Version f o r l i f e e c a r e n t l e G Overview of the Unicharm Group Company Profile Primary Consolidated Subsidiaries and Affiliates Corporate Name Unicharm Corporation UNICHARM CORPORATION Japan Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. Date of Establishment February 10, 1961 Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. Capital 15,992 million yen (as of March 31, 2012) Cosmotec Corporation Number of Shares Issued 206,944,773 (as of March 31, 2012) Unicharm Mölnlycke K.K. Headquarters Sumitomo Fudosan Mita Twin Bldg. West Wing, 3-5-27 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Overseas United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) Registered Headquarters 182 Shimobun, Kinsei-cho, Shikokuchuo-City, Ehime, Japan Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Number of employees 10,287 (on a consolidated basis as of March 31, 2012) Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. Listed Exchange First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange LG Unicharm Co., Ltd. (Korea) Business Lines Manufacture and sales of: PT Uni-Charm Indonesia (Indonesia) Baby and child care products Uni-Charm Mölnlycke B.V. (Netherlands) Feminine care products Unicharm Gulf Hygienic Industries Ltd. (Saudi Arabia) Health care products Uni-Charm Corporation Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia) Cosmetic products Unicharm India Private Ltd. (India) Household products Unicharm Australasia Pty Ltd. (Australia) Pet care products The Hartz Mountain Corporation (United States) Food-packaging materials, etc. URL http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ Other 27 companies (as of March 31, 2012) http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/index.html Production and Sales Bases Netherlands Russia Korea China(Tianjin) United States United States China(Shanghai) Japan (New Jersey) India (Kentucky) Egypt Taiwan Thailand Philippines Vietnam Saudi Arabia Malaysia Singapore ★ Production and Sales Indonesia Australia ★ Sales Main Business Indicators ■ Consolidated net sales ■ Consolidated operational profit ■ Number of group employees (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: person) 5,000 550 519 12,000 4,283 500 465 10,287 450 10,000 4,000 3,769 540 Other 450 3,568 2,064 3,368 3,478 394 400 Other 348 7,317 469 454 401 350 337 8,000 6,904 7,108 3,000 1,184 1,453 6,461 799 960 Asia 300 1,225 1,277 1,410 724 6,000 1,092 250 5,196 2,000 2,778 2,887 Asia 200 4,000 2,349 2,650 2,290 150 1,000 2,175 2,225 2,207 2,191 Japan 100 2,000 3,020 3,029 3,053 3,020 3,027 50 Japan 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2 unicharm CSR report 2012 Editorial Policy Contents In editing the CSR Report 2012 Overview of the Unicharm Group ................. 2 This document has been prepared as Unicharm Groupʼs Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. This report reafEditorial Policy / Contents ............................. 3 ﬁrms that our CSR is the implementation of our corporate philosophy “NOLA & DOLA”* itself, and presents how we practice it through our business activities. We report in detail Message from the President ......................... 4 on our activities in regards to the social problem of the superaging society and our responses to featured global issues. Unicharm Group s CSR ................................ 6 Furthermore, as for our global report, we refer to the UN Global Compact, the UN Millennium Development Goals, Introduction of Business Activities ................ 8 ISO26000 and GRI Guidelines throughout the whole report. We will continue to accommodate the requests of our Feature stakeholders to the greatest extent possible. We welcome Topic 1 Supporting the Super-aging Society your frank opinions and comments. with Gentleness ― Activities of Lifree .................. *NOLA&DOLA: “Necessity of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities”. From newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that 10 provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulﬁll their dreams. ― Activities of Humany ............... 14 Feature Contents Topic 2 Supporting Women and Children in Asia with Gentleness ................ 16 Areas Covered Business operations, CSR vision, activity goals, organizational structure, business performance, accounting data, etc. Stakeholder Engagement .......................... 18 This report presents details of results for FY2011 as well as the latest information for the early part of FY2012. Organizations Unicharm Group's CSR Major Activities Unicharm Group companies are shown on a consolidated basis. and Indicators (KPI) .................................. 20 Details of companies mentioned in the environmental activity report can be found on the Unicharm website. Along with the Environment ....................... 24 Intended Audience All Unicharm stakeholders inclusive of customers, employees, business partners, shareholders, and society in general Along with Our Customers ......................... 26 Period April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 (including some activities prior to and after the above period, as well as future targets) Along with Our Business Partners ............. 27 Reference Guidelines ● GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 Reconstruction Assistance for the ● 2007 Environmental Reporting Guidelines of the Ministry of the Great East Japan Earthquake ................... 28 Environment ● ISO26000 Date of Issue List of Contents / June 22, 2012 Next date of issue: June 2013 List of Awards and Commendations Available at Received in FY2011 .................................. 29 ● CSR & Environmental Information on the Unicharm website (all items reported) ● PDF “CSR Report 2012” (Detailed Report) ● Booklet “CSR Report 2012” (Digest Report） Role of this Report For more information about our CSR activities, Interest of stakeholders CSR Report please contact: Corporate Social Responsibility Department Print version TEL: +81-3-6722-1041 (Direct Line) FAX: +81-3-6722-1018 PDF version For general corporate information, please contact: Web version Public Relations Group, Corporate Planning Division Importance to Unicharm Group TEL: +81-3-6722-1019 (Direct Line) ・For investor relations, please visit: This report places great importance on stakeholdersʼ interests, and presents selected information that Unicharm would like to http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ir/index.html emphasize this year in response to stakeholdersʼ concerns. Please http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/ir/index.html refer to our website for the full report. unicharm CSR report 2012 3 Message Our Business Activities Provide Solutions for from the President Social Issues Globally We extend our condolences and deepest sympathy to all those aﬀected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. We sincerely hope for the earliest possible recovery of the aﬀected regions. Our CSR is based on the implementation of our corporate philosophy of “NOLA & DOLA” In contrast with the 20th century, an age that demanded unlimited development, current society has become aware that resources, energy, environment, scientiﬁc technology, and diversiﬁed values must all coexist harmoniously, and that a paradigm shift toward a “sustainable” future society is necessary. In our modern era of expanding globalization, this is a problem common to all humankind; we acknowledge the demands of corporate social responsibility more than ever. Using our core technologies, we aim to solve various social issues including declining birth rates and aging populations in mature countries like Japan, growing global environmental issues, and poverty and hygiene issues in developing countries through our business̶this is Unicharmʼs CSR, and the basis of our corporate philosophy of “NOLA & DOLA”: Necessities of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities. From newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulﬁll their dreams. We pioneered the worldʼs ﬁrst successful disposable diapers with three-dimensional shape, “Moony”, ﬁrst sold in 1981, the ﬁrst pull-on pants-type disposable diapers, “Moony Pants”, ﬁrst sold in the early 90s, and the adult incontinent diapers, “Lifree Rehabili-Pants”, which brought the new idea of “rehabilitation” to adult diapers, ﬁrst sold in 1995. As these examples show, we have been continuously President and CEO providing our customers with new values through our own research and development. We will continue Unicharm Corporation to seek an answer to the question, “what is best for Takahisa Takahara society and for our customers?” 4 unicharm CSR report 2012 Modeling an ideal super aging Aiming to be a stronger organization society in order to become the in order to be active globally standard of Asia About 50 years ago Unicharm started selling What can we do as a company providing continencefeminine hygiene products with the aim of support products? The answer is that we can provide the “transforming womenʼs discomfort into comfort.” market with products that support the independence Since then our business of encouraging women's of senior citizens and promote industries aimed at participation in society has been developed and them. We have been the leading company in elderly expanded to ﬁve business divisions to make peopleʼs continence-support in Japan since the introduction of life more comfortable. Our business activities support the adult diapers “Lifree” in 1987. We place high value daily life in diﬀerent ways in about 80 countries and on the idea of “Social Continence.” By working to reverse regions in the world. We expressed our support for the negative image of adult diapers and developing the “UN Global Compact” in 2006 and have been easy-to-use products like reading glasses, we are making eﬀorts to follow the UN practices, and we simultaneously engaged in public awareness activities. continue to improve our CSR activities according to Independence of the elderly will reduce burdens on the international standard ISO26000 as we expand our caregivers and will increase the “will to live”, “dignity”, business even more globally. and “happiness” of the elderly themselves. In order to As a consumer-products company manufacturing build a cheerful super-aging society, we consider it our and selling disposable diapers and feminine hygiene social mission to encourage both social development products, among our various CSR eﬀorts we are most and industry by working to achieve an “extension of passionate about the environment. We will continue healthy life expectancy” that will result in increased to promote the expansion of environmentallynumbers of active and healthy elderly. friendly “Eco Charming mark” products. We are also As the average life expectancy in Japan exceeds undertaking new endeavors, such as opening a factory 85 years old, the super aging of society will continue employing only female workers in Saudi Arabia. to accelerate. Other countries in Asia such as Korea, Mindful of the latest CSR trends, we aim to implement Thailand, and China are also experiencing the problems local business activities. of an aging society, and the speed of aging in those Unicharm continues to build a strong organization countries may be even quicker than that of Japan. We with “management with resonance”, and we are believe that if Japan can model for these countries as an moving forward to solve global social issues through ideal super-aging society, we can spread such an ideal our business activities. We will continue to contribute model̶the care standard from Japan̶throughout to the realization of a comfortable daily life for Asia. In order to achieve this, we want to make the humankind by providing ﬁrst-class products and greatest contribution by focusing on “continence services that provide comfort and pleasure for the support”, which is one of three major areas of care people all over the world. giving to the elderly, along with eating and bathing. We recognize that stakeholder engagement “Normalization” is the concept that society should is essential to the improvement of CSR. To function without distinguishing between healthy understand the expectations and requirements of people and those who have disabilities. Our deﬁnition our stakeholders, and incorporate these into our of “normalization” is that regardless of your life stage, business activities, we aim to further strengthen “normalcy” should equal “being yourself”. We believe communication with our stakeholders in each ﬁeld. that it is important to “be yourself” in every stage of Your continued understanding and support will be life, and we want to make contributions toward this greatly appreciated. goal. Our hope is to continue to oﬀering close support to peopleʼs wish to “remain being themselves”. unicharm CSR report 2012 5 Unicharm Group s CSR Unicharm Group s CSR is to Implement the Framework of Unicharmʼs CSR Unicharmʼs corporate philosophy is “NOLA & DOLA”. Our concept of NOLA & DOLA: Necessities of Corporate Philosophy Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities, NOLA& DOLA contains our hope that “from newborn infants to From newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with to provide people with products that provide physical and products that provide physical and psychological psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulﬁll their dreams. support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulﬁll their dreams”. It is our CSR to implement and achieve this aspiration. The Unicharm Ideals It is important to create products utilizing Unicharmʼs core technology in order to fulﬁll our Manufacturing “Beliefs and Pledges” and corporate philosophy. In support of our everyday Corporate Principles of Action activities, we practice “Unicharm Ideals”, “ʻBeliefs and Pledgesʼ and Corporate Principles of Action” “Five Great Pillars” and and “ʻFive Great Pillarsʼ and Employee Code of ConEmployee Code of Conduct duct”. Relationship with Stakeholders No.1 product, new value creation Customers Shareholders Society Contribution to economic and Industry leader in return on psychological well-being investment Unicharm To all of our stakeholders, we, Unicharm, pledge to practice correct corporate management. Realization of happiness of our Contributing to our mutual employees and their families development Business Partners Employees The Guiding Framework We Follow At Unicharm, we operate our global business activities in awareness of the voices of our stakeholders and by referring to various international guidelines. We support the ten principles of the “UN Global Compact”, and have participated in the compact since May 2006. GRI Guidelines ISO26000 UN Global Compact UN Millennium Development Goals ISO26000 GRI Guidelines 6 unicharm CSR report 2012 Unicharm Philosophy CSR Promotional Structure Established cross◆ Cross-organizational structure to support and promote Unicharm s CSR organizational CSR committee Chairman of the CSR committee: President Unicharm has established a Committee's secretariat: CSR Department structure to implement and promote smooth CSR activities in orQuality Assurance Task Force Environmental Task Force CSR Promotion Task Force der to meet our stakeholdersʼ ex● Maintaining quality assurance ● Maintenance of environmental ● Corporate Governance pectations. Our “CSR Committee” structure management systems ● Compliance & Risk Management ● Promotion of safety assurance ● Promotion of energy conservation ● Friendly working environment is a cross-organizational structure measures ● Promotion of waste recycling ● Communication with stakeholders ● Improvement of quality control ● Development of environmentally● Social contribution for the support of CSR, chaired ● Endorsement of appropriate friendly products content labeling ● Mitigation of environmental risk by our president. The committee ● Response to customer complaints meets four times a year to discuss CSR Department, Corporate Planning Division, Global Marketing Division, Global R&D Division , Global Human and share CSR-related activities. Resources and General Aﬀairs Division, Intellectual Property and Legal Division, Accounting and Finance Division, Global Quality Assurance Division, Customer Service Center, Management Auditing Department, Business Reform Division, Unicharm Product Co., Ltd., Unicharm PetCare Company (Operations Department) CSR Domain ● Contribution to super-aging society Creation ● Decreasing everyday burdens of people in Asia of New Value Management Foundational Organizational governance, Compliance, Quality CSR and Product safety, Environmental management, Social activities, Customer satisfaction, CSR procurement, Work safety, and etc. Organizational climate Management with Resonance* and Culture of Pride *Management with Resonance: To realize our corporate philosophy of “NOLA & DOLA”, we practice business management in which each employee can be a focal point of innovation through her or his own labors, each and every movement more greatly resonates and inﬂuences others company-wide, and each employeeʼs vision can be actualized. This is the type of corporate culture we foster. We challenge ourselves to make a higher level of social contribution In 2011, in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake and the massive ﬂooding in Thailand, as a maker of such daily necessities as diapers we felt keenly that our social responsibility was to “deliver our products to customers”. In other words, at that time we realized that “our main business = CSR”. Our main business activities include providing comfort and delight by delivering our prodShinya Takahashi ucts in regions which lack even the daily necessities and supporting the comfortable life for Senior Executive Oﬃcer, elderly people and their caregivers by proposing new continence-support models. Unicharm Director, Business Reform Division, CSR Division can promote uniﬁed CSR activities only when a climate of “management with resonance” is Staﬀ, Management Auditing cultivated and each company member is aware that our business activities are directly conDepartment, Unicharm Corporation nected to the solutions of social issues. We will continue to strive to make a higher level of Unicharm Humancare social contribution in consideration of ISO26000 and the UN Millennium Declaration. Corporation unicharm CSR report 2012 7 Introduction of Business Activities Comfort and Affluence for People All Over Unicharmʼs five business divisions deliver gentleness Baby and Child Care Business Feminine Care Business Best lineup of products for fastWe support womenʼs positive We hope that people lead sound and growing babies and children activities healthy lives from the day they born Business Child-rearing life Business We make womenʼs comfort a science, so philosophy improvement company philosophy that we may create freedom for women into this world. To realize this hope, Launch of the Launch of the Unicharmʼs ﬁve business divisions of business 1981 business 1963 Baby and Child Care, Feminine Care, Our Baby and Child Care Businessʼ philosoOur business philosophy is “making a Health Care, Clean & Fresh, and Pet phy is to make social contributions by improvwomenʼs comfort a science so that we may ing our customersʼ child-rearing experiences create freedom for women”. Our Feminine Care deliver a wide range of products through deep understanding of parent-child Care Business always identiﬁes womenʼs and services for various generations relationships and to continue to provide prodneeds of each era from womenʼs standpoint, ucts with new value. In Japan, we receive wide and continues to oﬀer high-value hygiene by utilizing the technologies we have support for two brands: “Moony”, with products and services incorporating advanced developed in the manufacturing of functional innovations to accommodate technology and ideas. In Japan, we produce non-woven fabrics and absorbent growth, and “Mamy Poko”, focused on fun. We feminine products with an understanding of also provide diapers of our global brand “Mamy womenʼs minds and bodies under the brand materials. Poko” for babies overseas from East/Southeast names of “Sofy”, “Center-in”, and “Charm”. We Asia to Middle Eastern countries. actively develop “Sofy” as a global brand overseas, which has received high evaluations from women in various countries including East and Southeast Asia. Product lineups Product lineups Moony ©DISNEY Sofy Center-in Charm Mamy Poko ©DISNEY Mamy Poko Sofy 8 unicharm CSR report 2012 the World Health Care Business Clean & Fresh Division Pet Care Business For a society of joyful living, for Creating a comfortable environment for Making peopleʼs life with their the elderly and for everyone people, things, and places pets more comfortable Business Business Creating a comfortable environment Business Making your petsʼ life comfortable philosophy Pursuing the joy of living philosophy philosophy for people, things, and places through health and cleanliness Launch of the Launch of the Launch of the business 1987 business 1974 business 1986 Our Health Care Business includes two Our Clean & Fresh Business oﬀers cleanliSo that your pet can live a long, healthy and business areas: the AI (Adult Incontinence) ness, hygiene, and a fresh feeling, and creates active life in a clean environment, among our Business and the mask & medical business. Our a comfortable environment with non-woven numerous pet-related businesses Unicharm AI business respects the dignity and independfabric processing technology as our core techPet care focuses especially on “pet food for ence of people who experience incontinence, nology. “Wave” is a surprisingly easy cleaning good health” and “pet toilet products for a and oﬀers the best products and care system sheet for living rooms, and our “Silcot” brand clean living environment”. We aim to provide services under the “Lifree” brand in order to features highly functional pre-moistened new satisfaction for dogs and cats. We provide improve the QOL (Quality of life) of all people wipes, perspiration absorbing sheet pads, and various products to contribute to your cominvolved in nursing care, whether at home or high quality cosmetic products. Our products fortable life with pets, including pet foods with in a hospital/nursing home. Our mask & mediare loved by many for their function and qualgood taste and nutrition, “Aiken Genki” and cal business oﬀers products with non-woven ity. “Neko Genki”, and pet toilet care sheets and fabric as the core technology to protect peopet disposable diapers utilizing our nonwoven pleʼs health and contribute to public hygiene, cloth and absorbent material technologies. from household use to hospital/nursing home and industrial use. Product lineups Product lineups Product lineups Gin no (Silver) Spoon Wave Lifree Silcot cosmetic puffs Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Aiken (Dog) Neko (Cat) Mask and Chokaiteki UltraGenki Genki Lifree for institutional use Comfort Mask Deo-Sheet Silcot wet tissues, perspiration absorbing Lifree pads, perspiration wipes Deo-Toilet unicharm CSR report 2012 9 Feature Topic 1 Supporting the Super-aging Society with Gentleness Our role is to make a contribution to creating a cheerful super-aging society. We continue to challenge ourselves as professionals in continence-support Satoru Kiuchi, General Manager of the Health Care Business, talked about our contribution to society through our continence-support. Rehabili-Pants defied existing common nence-support, which can lead to improvement in their ADL (Activities of Daily Living). The healthy life expectancy of the knowledge elderly can be extended by appropriate continence-support It was 1995 when Unicharm started selling the worldʼs ﬁrst so that they do not become weak and bedridden. adult diapers, “Lifree Rehabili-Pants”. Before that time, standard diapers were fastened with tape, and so they had to be changed in a lying position. When illness or injury required Making society aware of the importance the use of adult diapers, many patients remained in bed, of continence-support leading to muscle weakness and, before long, many would become bedridden. Aging will rapidly progress in Japan. The working populaIn reality, however, by encouraging and tion, in other words those who support the social security assisting bedridden patients to use the toilet system, will decrease. It is projected that one senior citizen on their own, 90% of bedridden patients will be supported by one working person, while the current recover the ability to sit by themselves and ratio is one senior being supported by three working people. 30% of them become able to walk again. There is a strong sense that it is the duty of younger people “Rehabili-Pants” enables both to take care of the elderly in Japan. It is a concern of society patients and caregivers to as a whole, therefore, to extend senior citizensʼ mobility and work comfortably on contiindependence, and to decrease the needs of nursing care. Japanese people seem to feel uncomfortable about continence-support, while it is not unusual to see elderly people buying diapers for themselves in the United States and Europe. Satoru Kiuchi Unicharm successfully changed the stigma of feminine General Manager Health Care SBU hygiene products in Japan, and we now hope to spread the Global Marketing Division, idea that using “Rehabili-Pants” is nothing to be ashamed of. Unicharm Corporation Through television commercials and the like, Unicharm will Supporting an active social life with our Ultra-thin Diaper Briefs “We want to oﬀer thin pull-on diaper briefs with minimum discomfort. We also want to develop small packages of diapers so that customers can bring them home in their bicycle baskets”. These two strong wishes led to the development of our “Ultra-thin Diaper Briefs”. Before we created our Ultra-thin Diaper Briefs, we received such feedback as “I wish the diapers could be thinner and more comfortable. I am afraid someone will notice that I am wearing diapers” and “The current packages are too big to ﬁt in the basket of my bicycle”. In response, through research and development we succeeded in making our new product 50% thinner than previous “thin” diapers. We hope that this product will encourage people who tend to stay at home due to their incontinence to go out again, little by little, and live happier social lives. Yusuke Kawakami Chief Technologist, Product Development Division, Global Development Department, Unicharm Corporation 10 unicharm CSR report 2012 Our hope is that everyone can continue to live in a way that remains true to themselves We support normalization , allowing each individual to always live true to oneself. break down the stigma associated with adult diapers with the Challenges as continence-support message that using diapers is simply a natural part of aging, professionals just like using reading glasses or wearing dentures. In 2012, Unicharm launched our “Elderly Care Innovation Development Division” to advance current research projects Decreasing rate of patients becoming on continence-support and to develop our “Lifree-style bedridden and extending healthy life continence care model”. We are also participating in the establishment of nursing care and health care social programs, expectancy and are fully committed to contributing to elderly health care Unicharm will continue to aim to decrease the rate of through the entire range of “continence-support”, not merely patients becoming bedridden and to extend healthy life focusing on leakage prevention and price-cutting. expectancy. To prevent patients from becoming bedridden, it is essential to practice careful continence-support combining exercise, diet, and rehydration, with the aid of “Rehabili-Pants” and “Nyotori Pads” according to each patientʼs continence functions and physical condition. We have held seminars and workshops for nursing home staﬀ and counseling workshops for drug store staﬀ so that they can adequately give light counseling for those at home. “Thanks to good continence-support, bedridden elderly patients got up on their feet and began to show more smiles. Their families and caregivers also became happy”. When we We will continue to challenge ourselves as continence-support hear such reports, we feel delighted and rewarded. professionals Light Counseling Declaration of our intention to The purpose of light counseling is “to help customers to make contributions through choose appropriate products through services oﬀered at continence-support retail stores, so that they will be able to enjoy more comTakahisa Takahara, President and CEO of Unifortable and untroubled elderly care”. Unicharm holds light charm, participated as a speaker and panelist in counseling workshops to help retail employees underAging Forum 2011 (sponsored by The National stand customersʼ conditions and needs. We also provide Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology), held in retail employees with the opportunity to experience the November 2011, the forum aimed to construct diﬀerences between products so that they can give their a model based on Japanʼs experience as the customers appropriate advice for choosing adult diapers. worldʼs forerunner in longevity. Takahara made In 2011, we held 373 workshops with a total of 10,444 a speech on the roles of corporations in the secparticipants. tion on “growth strategies of the super-aging society”. Takahara stated that “our mission is to promote the industry through the improvement of mobility and healthy life expectancy in order to increase the number of active seniors. We would like to focus on ʻcontinence careʼ to Experiencing disposable diapers fulﬁll our mission”. unicharm CSR report 2012 11 Feature Topic 1 Supporting the Super-aging Society with Gentleness We spread cheerful smiles through continence care with the aid of Lifree Making necessary preparations for continence-support Walking together with patients, at their own pace Lifree Care Activities Making efforts to rehabilitate bedridden To realize “lifelong independent support” for the patients through continence-support elderly in nursing homes, we send our professional care sales representatives and dedicated area care advisors to “We try to make our patients understand that there is no ﬁnd problems and needs, and to oﬀer the best solutions. need for them to apologize or feel sorry when it is time for us 1．Analysis of present state of aﬀairs and discovery of to change their diapers, but we canʼt completely erase their problems (hearing and proposals) sense of shame”, said Ms. Kobayashi, who provides daily care 2. Sharing awareness of problems (discussions of for Samukawa Home residents. Although it is diﬃcult to impossible solutions with caregivers) agine when you are young and healthy, whether or not you 3. Validation of solutions (validation of solutions with caregivers) can use the toilet on your own is an issue of dignity. That is 4. Sharing validation results (analyzing and sharing why it is important to support elderly patients in their needs validation results) and abilities to use the toilet. In daily life, some people go to 5. Striving for continuous improvement of continence the toilet ﬁrst thing in the morning and others might drink care (support for improved continence care) tea ﬁrst, but it is a common practice at nursing homes to have a regular schedule for changing diapers without regard for patientsʼ own schedules. At Samukawa Home, we donʼt think that following the same regimented schedule for every Unicharm has been very helpful Together with staﬀ members at by consulting with us and oﬀering person can be called “life”, therefore, we practice continenceSamukawa Home, we are coming sincere advice, and sometimes up with ways to make everyoneʼs support according to each personʼs daily rhythms. improving their products life at Samukawa Home more according to our requests. comfortable. Continence-support had a greater impact than expected Kyoko Misawa Executive Board Member and Prior to the introduction of the continence-support project, Director, Samukawa Home Samukawa Home experimented with taking some residents Rie Ito Care Advisor, Unicharm out of diapers, and worked with those residents through Corporation individualized diets, exercise, and assistance in going to the 12 unicharm CSR report 2012 Together with nursing home staff, Unicharmʼs professional care sales representatives and dedicated area care advisors work to support the independence of elderly people in nursing homes. We interviewed staff members at Samukawa Home about the importance of continence-support in nursing care. Staﬀ of Samukawa Home Social Welfare Corporation, Kissho-kai, Samukawa Home Kyoko Misawa, Executive Board Member and Director of Samukawa Home (front row, left) My fatherʼs stroke made me keenly aware of Japanʼs lacking social care system, and established Samukawa Home in 1993. I dedicate myself to the operation of the nursing home for the realization of eldercare that gives priority to the wishes of patients and their families. Hajime Kikuchi, Assistant Manager, Division of Elderly Long-Term Care (front row, second from left) I became interested in nursing care after talking with a high school Staﬀ of Samukawa Home and Sales Representatives and Care Advisors from Unicharm colleague working at a nursing home, and decided to attend a vocational college for nursing care. I found employment at Samukawa Home, where I was impressed by the cheerfulness of the elderly when I visited the Home. Akiko Kobayashi, staﬀ member, Division of Elderly Long-Term Care (front row, second from right) I was aspired to become a caregiver since junior high school, when I was impressed by the smiling faces of care staﬀ at a day-care facility I went to pick my grandfather with my grandmother. I wanted to work at Samukawa Home because I was impressed by their enhanced training program. Professional Care Sales, Sales Division, Unicharm Corporation Jun Ikeda, Branch Manager of the Metropolitan Branch (back row, left) Tsunao Kawasaki, Manager, Second Sales Department, Metropolitan Branch (back row, right) Rie Ito, Lifree Care Advisor, Kanagawa area, Second Sales Department, Metropolitan Branch (front row, right) toilet. The impact was much greater than expected. Two of improvement of care for a long time. They conducted the “out formerly bedridden female patients were able to get up on of diapers” experiment by using diﬀerent pads and diapers their feet and one of them recovered the ability to reply from such as Lifree pads and Rehabili-Pants, according to the situaher former condition of only replying with nods when she tions and time of the day. was spoken to. Misawa said that they hope to continuously improve their In addition, the goal of “recovering the ability to go to the residentsʼ ADL and QOL, in cooperation with Unicharm advitoilet for a bowel movement even if continuing to use pads sors. She expects even more cooperation with Unicharm in for urination” was accomplished within a month. Muscle the future. strength recovered in this process, which made the recovery of continence possible. What is more, being able to stay Extending the know-how of continence sitting up during the day improved their sleep rhythms and care among home-care providers reduced their levels of care requirement from ﬁve to three, which is a remarkable result. It is necessary to spread the knowledge and know-how of continence-support, acquired through years of experience at Lifree essential for improvement in nursing care facilities, among home-care providers. “Appropriate diet, rehydration, and exercise, as well as ADL appropriate usage of the products, will improve continence It was 1999 when Samukawa Home switched from cloth functions, which will lead to maintenance and recovery of diapers to disposable diapers. Since the switch, the improvevital functions”, said Mr. Kikuchi. He hopes to make maximum ment in continence-support can't be compared to the time use of the know-how acquired in practice at nursing homes when they used cloth diapers. in home-care. “We appreciate the quality of Unicharm products, and, Now more than ever, it is necessary to devise ways to even more so, the opportunities to consult with their care deliver the necessary information to those providing care at advisors and the improvements they made when we told home. He noted that Unicharm should play a major role as a them what was inconvenient about their products”, said Ms. company which has a wealth of knowledge and know-how Misawa, the Director of Samukawa Home, who has been on nursing care. supportive to the Lifree-Care activities and in charge of the unicharm CSR report 2012 13 Feature Topic 1 Supporting the Super-aging Society with Gentleness Free yourself from sleepless continence care with the nursing-care robot Humany Unicharm has developed and conducted trials of “Humany” in collaboration with professionals active in the nursing-care ﬁeld in NPOs, nursing-care providers, and colleges of social welfare. We interviewed two people involved with the development and trials of “Humany”: Ms. Oyama, nurse and Executive Director of the NPO Welfare Equipment Net, and Ms. Nakao of Aso Care Service Co., Ltd., an attendant service provider. provider oﬀering new forms of conWe were skeptical at first tinence care to their customers, have been working together. “I was completely against it at ﬁrst. I thought it was lazy. I Continence-support is one of the was so angry, thinking ʻare you going to let people become primary burdens of nursing care. “I was bedridden!?ʼ” said Ms. Oyama, who has been working with us talking with other caregivers, dreaming since the development of “Humany”. about a machine that could automatiContrary to her initial reaction, she cally vacuum away the urine. I was only was surprised at the improvement in joking, but it showed up in front of us bedsores when she used “Humany” as ʻHumanyʼ”, said Ms. Nakao. for her elderly patients. Leaving the buttocks wet results in a higher rate of bedsores. A built-in sensor in a special Sound sleep for both care givers and pad allows “Humany” to quickly detect receivers urination and send urine to a tank, to prevent the skin from getting wet. As With Humany, changing pads once a day is enough, as a result, many elderly patients with long as the patientsʼ buttocks are also cleaned once a day. bedsores have improved. This is exceedingly good news for caregivers who previously had to wake up few times each night, as they are now able to What we only wished for suddenly sleep through the night. But itʼs not only caregivers who beneﬁt by sleeping appeared before our eyes! through to the morning; many care-receivers are also freed It was around 2007 when Ms. Oyama started working on from the burden of waking their family up in the middle of the development of Humany. Ms. Oyama, who has been the night. For the majority of patients using Humany, they teaching caregivers and home-visit helpers how to use now exclaim, “I can have an uninterrupted night's sleep now”. Humany, and Ms. Nakao, who works for an attendant service Features of Humany How it works “Humany” quickly detects urination with a sensor built into The sensor built into Humanyʼs dedicated urine suction pad the special urine suction pad, and sends urine to a tank to prequickly detects urination and automatically sucks the urine vent the skin from getting wet. As a result, people who formeraway. Urine that accumulates in the tank can be easily disposed ly were not able to sleep through the night due to changing of in the toilet. diapers or helping with frequent trips to the toilet will now be Operation panel able to sleep soundly through the night as Humany eliminates Main body of the Urine suction pad the need for frequent diaper changes. urine suction robot Suctioned urine travels through the tube and stored ■ Amount of urine remaining on the surface of the pad in the tank. (Unit: cc) 70cc 70 ■Humany 60 50 ■Other existing urine absorption pads 40 30cc 30 20 Urine tank *Pads are disposable 10 0.5cc 0.5cc 0.5cc 0.5cc Connection case 0 1st time 2nd time 3rd time 14 unicharm CSR report 2012 Life-changing continence care So that home-visit helpers and family caregivers can make full use of Humany, Ms. Oyama provides individual instruction based on each familyʼs situation. She explains her devotion as follows: “I must be serious about my guidance for each family, because it can be life-changing whether they can have comfortable life or not”. People like Ms. Oyama who work in earnest at care sites make it possible to bring Humany into the world. Michie Oyama (right), Executive Director of NPO Welfare Equipment Net Mieko Nakao (left), Sales Division, Aso Care Service Co., Ltd. Aiming at relief from sleepless nights of continence-support ~ Promotion and educational activities of Unicharm Humancare Corporation ~ We aim for ideal continence care of the 21st century Through development of our “Lifree Nyotori Pad” and “Rehabili-Pants”, Unicharm has been a leading company in elderly continence-support in Japan. We challenge ourselves with the goal to “create new common practices of continence care in the 21st century”. We developed “Humany”, a urine-suction robot, in accordance with the principle of “innovating nursing care through harmonious coexistence of humans and robots”. Continence-support is considered to be one of the heaviest burdens in nursing care. There has been a lot of “patience” and “resignation” in the practice of nursing care. One of the typical examples is “resignation about sleepless nursing-care”. People think that “we have no choice but to change diapers in the middle of the night”, and “sleepless nights canʼt be avoided” when taking care of the elderly. Basically, all humans need sleep for a healthy life. Over time, “sleepless nursMitsuhiro Shirai ing care” will harm the physical and psychological health of both care givers Representative Director, President and their patients. Unicharm Humancare Corporation Unicharm has not overlooked this problem, as we have been working on aging issues through continence care. Our urine-suction robot “Humany” was developed to solve the major problem of “sleepless continence-support”, and aims for the ideal of continence care of the 21st century. In April 2012, rental service covered by long-term care insurance became available ■ Users as of November 2011 (Unit: %) Automatic urine treatment devices were previously desLong-term care level 3 and under Long-term care ignated as “specialty urine collectors” under long-term care 60 level 4 and over 24％ insurance, and were designated as Equipment for In-Home 50 76％ 45% 40 Long-Term Care Covered by Public Aid. As such, they could be 31% 30 purchased for an individual payment of 10%, up to 100,000 yen 20 per year. However, many users requested rental service which 12% 10 7% would oﬀer easier access. As a result, in April 2012, with the of3% 2% 0 ﬁcial name change to “automatic urine treatment devices” they Requiring Long-term Long-term Long-term Long-term Long-term became items rentable under long-term care insurance. help level 2 care level 1 care level 2 care level 3 care level 4 care level 5 ■ Survey results Results of questionnaire survey on Humany usage Number of diaper-changes Toilet usage during Users of home visit care We conducted “usage survey by questionnaire” among 187 during the night the night during the night Humany users (100 females and 87 males) from across Japan. Before With Decreased by Decreased by Humany Humany 1.8 times 0 times 89 ％ 46 ％ *All data collected by Unicharm Humancare Corporation unicharm CSR report 2012 15 Feature Topic 2 Supporting Women and Children in Asia with Gentleness Our business activities contribute to finding solutions to international social issues, including the advancement of women and the reduction of poverty Based on our corporate philosophy of “NOLA&DOLA”, Unicharm conducts business activities for the sake of the well-being of women all over the world. In our overseas business activities, we support the vision of the UN Millennium Development Goals and hope to contribute to the achievement of these goals, such as the advancement of women in Asia and the reduction of poverty there. Creating jobs and supporting social were not openly displayed in stores. We made great eﬀorts to advancement for women change the image of feminine hygiene products. Thanks to our eﬀorts, today they are available whenever and wherever Removing the stigma on feminine hygiene products and you need them. contributing to the social advancement of women We take pride in our contributions to the social advances It was the early 1960s, the middle of the rapid economic of Japanese women, through over-the-counter sales by the growth period in Japan, when Unicharm entered into the recommendation of our female employees and hiring many sanitary napkin business. At that time hygiene products were women at manufacturing plants, for example. Based on these stigmatized, existing only “in the shadows”. That is to say, they experiences, we think that we can also make eﬀective contributions in Asia and the Middle East, which are currently at the stage of social development for women and the poor. By UN Millennium Development Goals increasing wages at our various areas of business operations, (MDGs) we believe that we can contribute not only to the advancement of women but to freeing people from poverty. The MDGs originated from the Millennium Declaration of the UN Millennium Summit held in New For the sake of women in Asia and the Middle East York in September, 2000. The Millennium Declaration Unicharm started production and sales of feminine hydescribes 8 goals to be achieved by 2015. giene products and disposable diapers in Taiwan in 1984. We Unicharm particularly hopes to contribute to the have been making contributions to the direct expansion of achievement of Goals 3 and 1 (furthermore 2 and 4) job opportunities by hiring women in each section of prothrough our business activities. duction and sales, and to the social advancement of women by the diﬀusion of feminine hygiene products and dispos8 Goals able diapers. We practice “NOLA&DOLA” in Taiwan as well as in Japan, and have expanded it to various countries in Asia Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and and the Middle East including Korea, Thailand, Saudi Arabia, hunger China, and Indonesia. As the result, the percentage of women in production-line Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education work has reached 80% in various countries in Asia, and more Goal 3: Promote gender equality and than 4,000 female store personnel have been making great empower women contributions to the transmission of accurate knowledge as well as accurate explanations of products in stores. With Goal 4: Reduce child mortality 10,000 female employees* in these areas, the percentage of female employees has reached 60%. Goal 5: Improve maternal health All of our employees in all countries share in our corporate philosophy and support the independence of women Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other through the development of business activities. diseases * Including employees of subcontracting companies Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability All-female factory in Saudi Arabia Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for In May 2012, we started production at an all-female factory development in Saudi Arabia. We believe that we can make contributions to the issue of job security for local people in Saudi Arabia 16 unicharm CSR report 2012 Unicharm sponsored the highly-praised diaper-changing facility At womenʼs colleges and universities in various cities in Indonesia, In Vietnam, our female promotional staﬀ conducts “baby lounge” at Saudi Arabiaʼs Janadriyah Festival, the largest annual Unicharm held seminars providing accurate knowledge about feminine educational activities about diapers in hospitals, public heritage and folk culture festival in Saudi Arabia, in May 2011. hygiene products and their correct use. health centers, and sometimes at customersʼ homes. Saudi Arabia Across Asia Vietnam Our all-female factory ■ Employment in the sales promotion division: about 500 women work for sales implements the local 4,000 women and delivery divisions employment initiative ■ Employment of women at factories (80% women) Thailand High percentage of female workers (about 65%) Women work on production lines (Thailand) A Vietnamese woman working Indonesia for the delivery division In Indonesia, many women work in factories as packagers Women work on production lines (Indonesia) by promoting the employment of women at our production Future plans for the liberation of women facilities. We expect to be of major importance in providing opportunities for the social advancement of women. and the realization of their even bigger dreams Unicharm, as the only global manufacturer fully dedicated Diffusion of disposal baby diapers and in hygiene products, believes that it is our responsibility to feminine hygiene products improve our support for women who havenʼt been able to leave the home or work during their menstruation periods Good products for more children: we developed aﬀordable because they have not had opportunities to use sanitary products for people unable to obtain our widespread highnapkins, for example, or mothers facing risks for both mother quality diaper brand in Asian countries, “Mamy Poko”, for and child due to unsafe birthing environments and lack of either their ﬁnancial diﬃculties or undeveloped distribution access to medical care. We set the following items as our core reasons. In product development, we repeatedly conducted business activities in Asia in order to promote the continuous surveys of standard households in Indonesia, created trial support for women and children in the region. products, and made eﬀorts to keep the cost down in order to oﬀer aﬀordable, simpliﬁed products without sacriﬁcing the 1. Expansion of product development for lower-income groups leak-proof function. As a result of the eﬀorts made at every stage, from material sourcing to shipping, in December 2007 2. Promotion of gender equality and advancement of women we launched “Mamy Poko Pants Standar” in Indonesia. This ● Providing correct/factual information about product receives No.1 support from people in Indonesia. menstruation in elementary and junior high schools We currently produce and sell 10 billion disposable baby ● Communication with women and society diapers and 12 billion sanitary napkins a year in Asia, and oﬀer various products to respond to the needs of each country. 3. Expansion of social advancement of women ● Further promotion of direct employment of women 4. Improvement of health and hygiene for mothers and children 5. Thorough implementation of our corporate philosophy by sharing and spreading “NOLA&DOLA” unicharm CSR report 2012 17 Stakeholder Engagement Unicharm pledges to undertake honest and trustworthy corporate activities toward its customers, shareholders, business partners and society under its “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action, and encourages two-way communication with its stakeholders by providing a wide range of dialogue opportunities. Going forward, we stand firmly committed to deepening our connections with stakeholders through our dynamic stakeholder engagement program. Communication with Stakeholders Customers Pledge We pledge to earn the full support of customers by always doing everything we can. Primary communication methods ● Information dissemination using ● Miscellaneous ● Consumer the Internet and the media exhibitions and events monitoring surveys ● Customer service center ● Group interviews Shareholders Society Pledge We pledge to distribute Pledge We pledge to contribute to the industry-leading returns to economic and emotional shareholders. fulﬁllment of the entire population Primary communication methods through our corporate activities. ●General shareholdersʼ meetings Primary communication methods ●Financial presentations ● Disaster relief assistance ●Small meetings Unicharm ● Contribution activities in the local community ●Information dissemination using the Internet and (factory tours and events, etc.) investor relations tools ● Collaboration with NPOs and NGOs ● Activities in industry organizations ● Dialogue with stakeholders ● Company visits by students Business Partners Employees Pledge We pledge to achieve mutual growth by Pledge We pledge to achieve the happiness of maintaining a fair and equitable relationship. associates and their family members by ﬁlling each of them with conﬁdence and pride. Primary communication methods Primary communication methods ●Quality Policy Briefing Session ●Unicharm Kyoshinkan (Resonance Hall) ●CSR procurement (self checks and investigations of actual ●Information dissemination using in-house intranet and inconditions) ●Quality and environmental audits house newsletter ●CSR report reading sessions and employee questionnaires ●New product presentation conference ●Employee Satisfaction Survey ●Miscellaneous exhibitions and events ●Employee Consultation and Counseling Hotline ●Family visit day at factories Unicharm Kyoshinkan (Resonance Hall) – Passing on Unicharmʼs DNA In February 2011, Unicharm Kyoshinkan, an employee training facility, was opened at the site where Kinsei Plant once stood, the original site of the feminine care business, in commemoration of the Exterior view of Unicharm Companyʼs 50th anniversary. At the center of the facility stands a Kyoshinkan display showcasing a replica of the manufacturing equipment used to produce feminine hygiene products at the time. Kyoshinkan also houses other exhibits with actual uniforms, tools and materials from Unicharmʼs early beginnings. In FY2011, a total of 3,510 people, including retired employees, currently employees and their families, Employees touring Unicharm visited Kyoshinkan. Since its opening, the facility has been used as a Kyoshinkan focal point for passing on the Unicharm DNA to employees, which emphasizes tradition, innovation, and challenge. 18 unicharm CSR report 2012 2011 Dialogue with Stakeholders In November 2011, Unicharm hosted its 2011 Dialogue rights, labor practices, and community involvement and with Stakeholders Session in which it invited persons from development, participants provided a wide range of recomNPOs, academia and corporate Japan to attend. mendations and proposals for the Company. The theme of this yearʼs session was Unicharmʼs ResponWe value the feedback provided from our stakeholders at sibilities to Society as a Global Company. Following the core the meeting and plan to incorporate this into future initiasubjects of ISO26000, which include the environment, human tives, wherever possible. Overview of Unicharmʼs 2011 Dialogue with Shareholders Session Unicharmʼs Responsibilities to Venue: Unicharm Headquarters in Tokyo Theme Society as a Global Company Date: November 22, 2011 Participating Stakeholders (alphabetical order) Kenji Takaku (Executive Oﬃcer and General Manager of the Global Kaori Kuroda (Managing Director, CSO Network Japan) Marketing Division) Mitsuo Ogawa (President, Craig Consulting Co., Ltd.) Yasushi Akita (Executive Oﬃcer and General Manager of the Accounting Mari Kataoka (Deputy General Manager, CSR Department, Shiseido and Finance Division) Company Co., Ltd.) Shinobu Seki (Director & Senior Executive Oﬃcer and Shikoku Plant Norihiro Itsubo (Associate Professor, Faculty of Environmental and Manager, Unicharm Product Co., Ltd.) Information Studies, Tokyo City University) Tadashi Nakai (General Manager, SBU, Global Marketing Division)\ Attendance from Unicharm Tetsuya Shite (Assistant General Manager, Global Human Resources and Eiji Ishikawa (General Manager of Global R&D Division, and Representative General Aﬀairs Division) Director, President, Unicharm Product Co., Ltd.) Kiyoshi Miyazawa (General Manager, Global Quality Assurance Masakatsu Takai (Director & Senior Executive Oﬃcer, General Manager of Department) the Global Human Resources and General Aﬀairs Division, Takashi Masuda (Vice Manager, CSR Department) General Manager of the CSR Department, and Oﬃcer in Naoyoshi Kurita (General Manager, CSR Planning Oﬃce, CSR Department) Charge, Customer Service Center) *Job titles of participants and attendees are as of the date of the session. ◆ Stakeholder Feedback and Unicharmʼs Response Main Feedback from Stakeholders Response by Unicharm Unicharm has linked its core business and social contributions, and We will continue to actively disseminate information on our activities its initiatives are ﬁrst-rate. We were able to fully understand that and promote initiatives through our core business that contribute to Unicharm helps resolve international social issues, such as those the resolution of various social issues, including declining birthrates General associated with aging society and poverty, through its core business. and aging, poverty, employment and the environment, with the We believe that sharing these ﬁrst-rate and unique Unicharm ultimate goal of fulﬁlling our corporate philosophy of NOLA & DOLA. initiatives more broadly with society will help build trust with stakeholders. The materiality map in Unicharmʼs 2011 CSR report was well created We began formulating and implementing important CSR activities and disclosed good information, but we believe that making the and KPI together with related departments internally. Going results of speciﬁc activities more visible and implementing the PDCA forward, we will disclose the speciﬁc results of these company-wide General (plan, do, check, action) cycle will be important going forward. CSR activities, seek to enhance the quality of these initiatives by implementing the PDCA cycle, and in turn, build greater trust with our stakeholders. We believe a future challenge for Unicharm will be how it can link In addition to managing results using LCA evaluations, we also LCA* evaluation results with its future actions. One eﬀective means began implementing LCA evaluations involving joint eﬀorts from will be promoting environmental communication utilizing the carbon the research and development stage for new environment-related Environment footprint. conceptual projects. *Life cycle assessment: A method of identifying and evaluating a productʼs We will move forward with a review of carbon footprint labeling, environmental impact during each stage of its life cycle, from materials based on a clear understanding of social conditions and global procurement and manufacturing to transport, sales, usage and disposal. trends. We consider this an ongoing challenge. Global companies ﬁnd themselves needing to prepare more for risks We will collaborate with related departments internally and continue related to human rights and labor practices. We ﬁnd it very beneﬁcial to strengthen our risk management system both in Japan and Human rights that Unicharm, which has operations around the world, is actively overseas. and labor promoting CSR procurement through collaboration with its locally practices incorporated subsidiaries in Asia. We believe a new challenge for the future is how the company engages with local communities around the world. We believe that clear targets should be made and shared on how In Japan, we will focus on the declining birthrate and aging Unicharmʼs sales of Mamy Poko Pants Standar in Indonesia or its population, while overseas we will emphasize achieving the UN overseas expansion is making contributions to resolving the unique Millennium Development Goals. Speciﬁcally, we will promote Community challenges faced by emerging countries. By doing so, Unicharm will initiatives aimed at resolving social issues such as encouraging involvement and be able to better convey its worldwide social contribution activities gender equality, raisingthe status of women, improving the health of development to its stakeholders. expectant mothers, reducing infant mortality rates and eliminating poverty. We will also actively disseminate information on our activities. unicharm CSR report 2012 19 Unicharm Group's CSR Major Activities and Indicators (KPI) Related Item Items Where Unicharm is Making Efforts Ideal Vision (Goal) Major Activity Plan for FY2011 Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth with Continuously promote Group-wide environmental impact reduction Initiatives to reduce environmental impact environmental protection by applying proprietary and ambitious environmental standards to all activities as well as the reduction and more efficient use of resources. corporate activities. Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth Environmentally friendly product development with environmental protection by promoting environmentally friendly manufacturing and Consider the environmental during the product development stage. Along with the activities providing world-first, and world-leading products and services in terms of safety and Environment quality that deliver comfort, impression, and satisfaction to people around the world. Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth with Continually measure / record environmental impact, disclose correct Environmental management environmental protection by building and implementing a PDCA cycle for environmental information and reduce environmental impacts. activities and by reducing environmental impacts. Biodiversity conservation activities Contribute to biodiversity conservation. Improve the Company's biodiversity initiatives. Promote marketing that captures changes in society and the QOL improvements environment, market trends, and customer needs. Provide world-first and world-leading products and services in terms of safety and Promote safety management initiatives. quality that deliver comfort, impression, and satisfaction to people around the world, and contribute to a better quality of life for everyone. Improve product quality and ensure product Promote quality control initiatives. safety Along with Our Customers Promote initiatives to reflect customer feedback in products. Leave a lasting impression on customers, deepen relationships with customers and Promote initiatives aimed at enhancing customer service Improve customer satisfaction provide satisfaction to customers. satisfaction. Promote initiatives to ensure proper product labeling practices are followed. Support customers' independent decisions and selections by correctly and proactively Promote disclosure of corporate and product information using the Fair marketing and information disclosure providing appropriate information to customers. Company's website. Disclose CSR activities in the CSR report. ● Continue to properly hold board of directors' and board of auditors' meetings Achieve company growth, ensure employee happiness and fulfill social responsibilities ● I mplement Corporate governance internal control for sites in both Japan and overseas by maintaining transparent corporate management and actively disclosing information. ●C  ontinue to properly disclose information based on amendments to disclosure ordinances Ensure the Unicharm Way, a systemized specific mechanism for all employees and ● Set up global intranet system Sound corporate culture executives to take action in accordance with the corporate philosophy and corporate ● Hand out booklets to employees and stream president messages ethics, is practiced Group-wide. (weekly) to ensure better penetration of the Unicharm Way Promotion of CSR Promote CSR activities in cooperation with suppliers and achieve co-existence with Conduct supplier questionnaires using the CSR procurement self-check procurement suppliers by enhancing CSR activities in the overall supply chain. list Fair procurement practices Fair and equal trade with Achieve co-existence with suppliers by building fair and equitable business dealings with Promote company-wide procurement strategy and hold the Quality Policy suppliers suppliers. Briefing Session for suppliers Ensure the Company uses its intellectual properties by protecting the intellectual property rights Fairly articulate innovations based on objective evidence and (important company assets) of the Company and making sure employees protect and respect the Protection of intellectual properties build a structure for consumer communication that maximizes intellectual properties of other companies and the Company, as noted in the Unicharm Group Action freedom of expression Guidelines. Conduct legal affairs training on violations of the Unfair Competition Comply with laws on competition and trade, and promote correct corporate management by Fair competition and trade Prevention Act and Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract undertaking fair and equitable trade. Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors Management Promote correct corporate management by educating Group companies and affiliates Develop and thoroughly implement various guidelines Compliance about the Unicharm Way and guidelines to complying with the Unicharm Way (including insider trading prevention rules and affiliate management rules, etc.). Conduct risk and compliance training at local incorporated subsidiaries overseas Internal control based on Promote correct corporate management by properly analyzing forecast risks and ensuring Strengthen risk management structure and internal control J-SOX-compliance the internal control system functions to prevent and avoid such risks. Compliance and risk management ● Promote and thoroughly practice information security, including at Earn the trust of customers, business partners and society by strictly and securely Group companies Information security managing received information and building a systems infrastructure that ensures the ● Develop structure to succeed systems operations in Japan and Company can continue to operate as a going concern in the event of a fire or disaster. overseas 20 unicharm CSR report 2012 Unicharm Group began formulating and implementing important CSR activities and KPI together with related departments internally. Going forward, we seek to enhance the quality of these initiatives by implementing the PDCA cycle. Indicators and Results Location Main Indicators for Achieving Ideal Vision SelfResults of FY2011 Activities Major Activity Plan for FY2012 Mentioned in (Goal) Target*1 Results Unit assessment CSR Report*3 [Domestic] Total CO2 emissions Install energy-saving facilities in conjunction with ancillary -21 -22 % ○ Implemented operations using a multi-site ISO14001-compliant EMS. *compared to 2000 facility upgrades. P36-37 [Domestic] Total waste emissions (3 main sites) Implemented UTMSS improvement activities (Reduce product waste and Promote waste reduction and recycling within the Group （P25） -12 -11 % △ *compared to 2000 effectively utilized materials during the production process). centered on UTMSS improvement activities. Re-examine operations of the Environmental Task Force and [Domestic] Ratio of environmentally friendly Continually deliberated review items for environmentally friendly solutions P34-35 55 56 % ○ examine ways to systemize improvements made to multi-site products at the Environmental Product Working Group. （P24） EMS operations. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of countries Promote streamlining systems, including re-examination of 6 6 countries ○ LG Unicharm (South Korea) acquired ISO14001 certification. P31-33 with ISO14001-compliant EMS multi-site EMS operational methods. [Domestic and Overseas] Participation rate Participated in corporate networking events and lectures to create specific in corporate networking events to gather 100 100 % ○ Formulate policy on biodiversity. P37 indicators, exchange information and learn about good practices. information Engage in marketing that maximizes customer satisfaction [Domestic and Overseas] Product likability Implemented manufacturing that improves customer satisfaction. by capturing changes in society and the environment, market indicator 100 105 % ○ Strived to stabilize the supply of products following the Great East Japan P29 trends, and customer needs in the countries the Company *compared to 2010 Earthquake and worked to enhance customer trust. operates. Obtain information on laws and regulations in the countries [Domestic] Implementation rate of product Performed safety checks on all products prior to release regarding 100 100 % ○ the Company operates and perform proper safety check pre-safety checks compliance with laws and regulations and industry standards. testing. P30 Implement improvement measures based on information Implemented improvement measures based on information concerning [Domestic] Complain reduction rate -5 -11 % ○ concerning faulty products and activities to ensure faulty products. improvements are maintained. [Domestic] Implementation rate of customer Shared customer feedback in monthly meetings and reflected customer Convey customer feedback in a timely manner and reflect feedback reports (by business division / once 100 95 % △ feedback in product modifications or new product releases. customer feedback in products in a speedy manner. per month) P26-27 Continue to perform customer service satisfaction surveys （P26） [Domestic] Customer service satisfaction Responded quickly, fairly, and faithfully, and as a result received strong 88 90 % ○ and further improve the quality of our responses to survey: Percentage of satisfied customers customer satisfaction evaluations for the Company's response. customers. [Domestic] Number of cases involving product Implemented product labeling confirmation activities based on laws and Continue to abide by laws and regulations, industry standards 0 0 cases ○ P27 labeling problems regulations, industry standards and other relevant information. and other relevant information. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of countries Made preparations for the launch of a new corporate website in Saudi P29 7 7 countries ○ Launch new corporate websites in Saudi Arabia and India. with website presence Arabia. （P26） [Domestic] Number of times CSR report P18 1 1 times ○ Published CSR Report 2011 (print and web editions). Publish CSR Report 2012 (print and web editions). published （P18） [Domestic] Implementation rate of board of Held board of directors' and board of auditors' meetings according to the Hold board of directors' and board of auditors' meetings 100 100 % ○ P46 directors' / board of auditors' meetings annual plan. according to the annual plan. [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation Launched the global internal intranet (i-navi) in August 2011 and rate for promoting environment to use the Establish environment where all overseas subsidiaries can 100 73 % △ established environment where 8 of 11 countries can access the Unicharm Unicharm Way through establishment of global access the Unicharm Way in English. Way in English. P46 intranet system (English / Japanese) [Domestic and Overseas] Distribution rate of Distributed paper-edition of the Unicharm Way to newly hired college Distribute paper-edition of the Unicharm Way to newly hired 100 100 % ○ the Unicharm Way to employees graduates and mid-career hires. college graduates and mid-career hires. Conformance rate with the CSR procurement [Overseas] Supplier self-check and status survey conducted in South [Overseas] Continue to implement corrections based on the self-check sheet 90 91 % ○ Korea (LG Unicharm). Checked corrections that were made in Taiwan, results of status surveys. *Target country for FY2011: South Korea China, Thailand and Indonesia. [Domestic] Publish CSR procurement guidelines P44 Held the Quality Policy Briefing Session involving 161 representatives （P27） Expand quality improvement initiatives implemented in Japan [Domestic] Number of times Quality Policy from 65 companies. Quality improvement initiatives over the last 10 years 1 1 times ○ to overseas sites. Hold Quality Policy Briefing Session in Briefing Session held for suppliers were reviewed and suppliers were asked to continue improving quality China. going forward. Hold label screening study sessions in the marketing [Domestic and Overseas] Label screening Held label screening study sessions at marketing departments of domestic departments of domestic and overseas subsidiaries, for study session implementation rate (number of 100 100 % ○ and overseas subsidiaries, for employees being dispatched overseas and P47 employees being dispatched overseas and newly hired times implemented / number of times planned) newly hired college graduates. college graduates. Held legal affairs training in marketing departments, development Continue to hold legal affairs training in marketing [Domestic and Overseas / Group companies] 100 100 % ○ departments, for employees being dispatched overseas and newly hired departments, development departments, for employees being P47 Legal affairs training implementation rate college graduates. dispatched overseas and newly hired college graduates. [Domestic] Insider trading prevention rules Held e-learning training session on insider trading prevention rules for Publish portal learning ox legal affairs on insider trading 100 100 % ○ training implementation rate (those targeted) executive officers and senior managers. prevention rules for all employees. [Domestic / Group companies] Affiliate Held training session on changes to affiliate management rules at all Confirm and collect reporting matters to the head office management rules training implementation 100 100 % ○ affiliates. stipulated in affiliate management rules. (affiliates) [Overseas] Implementation rate of legal affairs 100 100 % ○ Conducted legal audit at the subsidiary in Malaysia. Revise legal audit plan and further expand target locations. audit plan P46-47 [Domestic and Overseas] Number of serious ● Formulate BCP covering new risks and set company-wide flaws or series deficiencies found in the ● Formulated BCP covering new risks and set company-wide risk items. 0 0 cases ○ risk items. company-wide management evaluation of ● Evaluated company-wide internal control (covering entities accounting for ● Evaluate company-wide internal control (covering entities internal control 95% of consolidated sales). ● Evaluated operating process internal control (covering entities accounting accounting for 95% of consolidated sales). [Domestic] Number of serious flaws or series ● Evaluate operating process internal control (covering deficiencies found in the operational process 0 0 cases ○ for 2/3 of consolidated sales). entities accounting for 2/3 of consolidated sales). management evaluation of internal control ● Managed customer information on a separate server. ● Continue to manage customer information on a separate ● Established system to immediately terminate the ID of lost or stolen [Domestic] Number of information divulgation server. 0 0 cases ○ information equipment. ● Continue running system to immediately terminate the ID incidents ● Formulated the Unicharm Group Social Media Policy and distributed it of lost or stolen information equipment. to employees in written format. Constructively change the format of the meeting involving P47 [Domestic] Implementation rate of companyall information security managers and improve security 100 100 % ○ Held meeting involving all information security managers. wide Information Security Committee organization functionality by holding meetings on the frontlines. ●E  xpand the number of systems requiring back-up [Domestic and Overseas] Number of incidents Established new back-up center. Expanded the number of systems 0 0 cases ○ assurance to 4. where systems failed during a disaster requiring back-up assurance from only 1 before the earthquake to 3. ● Implement training exercise for a system failure. unicharm CSR report 2012 21 Related Item Items Where Unicharm is Making Efforts Ideal Vision (Goal) Major Activity Plan for FY2011 Unicharm Group Earn the trust of stakeholders by establishing and operating a system to implement the Continue to hold CSR Committee meetings and promote important CSR CSR management CSR PDCA cycle for CSR activities, and disclosing the details of such activities. themes Build a relationship of trust with stakeholders by recognizing stakeholder needs through Promote activities that encourage communication with various General stakeholder engagement and continually reflecting these needs in corporate activities. stakeholders and hold the stakeholder dialogue session Stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement engagement ●M  aintain growth that will earn the trust of shareholders and maintain industry-leading shareholder returns. Proactively disclose important information in a timely manner and ●S  trive to clarify accountability and improve management competencies in order to continue to hold dialogue in which senior management and persons Shareholders promote correct corporate management. in charge of investor relations meet with people working in the capital ●A  ctively disclose management information and strive to promote trustworthy corporate markets. management. Contribute to the realization of a bright society without discrimination by striving to Respect for human rights and prohibition of Continue to utilize and promote the employee consultation and Human Rights educate workplaces about human rights awareness and by promoting a workplace culture discrimination counseling hotline that respects the individual personalities and capabilities of each and every employee. Promotion of employment of persons with Continue to promote the employment of persons with disabilities disabilities Employees working together with respect for and trust of one another regardless of age, Respect for diversity Promotion of rehiring gender, nationality, employment format, or disability. Continue to promote the rehirement of employees after mandatory employees after retirement mandatory retirement ●C  ontinue to conduct the employee satisfaction survey (every year), ● F oster a corporate culture that provides opportunities for equal self-realization and to identify issues and create policy develop self confidence and pride, based on respect for each and every employees' ●P  rovide workplace environments where diverse human resources can Improved workplace environment autonomy. actively contribute ● Foster the creation of a diverse and open group of persons that respect the values and ●M  ake efforts to reduce the amount of overtime work (hold companytime of one another in all situations. wide no-overtime days and implement summer time schedule) ● I mplement suggestion system and eradication of meaningless work Along with Our Employees Guarantee of safe workplace Conduct Health & Safety Committee meeting environment Occupational health Give utmost priority to employee health and safety, and guarantee comfortable workplace and safety environment. Promote employee health and Implement mental health care training and return-to-work program mental care Foster employees that are never satisfied with the status quo and always strive for Human resource development / utilization Implement global human resources development training personal development and to tackle new challenges. Under foundation of mutual trust between labor and management, achieve corporate Dialogue between labor and management growth together as well as maintain / improve employee labor conditions and ensuring a Hold discussions with the labor union stable lifestyle. Promote measures across the entire Unicharm Group (Japan: pink ribbon activities, carbon offset initiatives, education in first Take part if in activities based on the needs of local communities, build a relationship Along with the menstruation, child raising support project, provision of paper diapers Social contribution activities of trust with the community and society, and contribute to improved health and hygiene Society to Shikokuchuo City, factory tours for employee family members, standards of people to make society more sound and dynamic. implement volunteer leave program, etc.) (China: pink ribbon activities, etc.) Take part in disaster relief activities (company-wide activities that Reconstruction Assistance Contribute to the safety of people and restoration of disaster-affected areas by providing combine the provision of relief supplies, matching donations, and for the Great East Japan Disaster relief activities assistance to every extent possible as a manufacturer that provides daily essentials. assistance to disaster-affected areas with super cool biz summer dress Earthquake code). 22 unicharm CSR report 2012 Indicators and Results Location Main Indicators for Achieving Ideal Vision SelfResults of FY2011 Activities Major Activity Plan for FY2012 Mentioned in (Goal) Target*1 Results Unit assessment CSR Report*3 Held CSR Committee meetings (Quality Assurance Task Force, [Domestic] CSR Committee meeting P7 100 100 % ○ Environmental Task Force, CSR Promotion Task Force) according to the Hold CSR Committee meetings according to the annual plan. implementation rate （P7） annual plan. Held stakeholder dialogue session involving several external specialists [Domestic] Stakeholder dialogue session P19 100 100 % ○ in academia under the theme Unicharm’s Responsibilities to Society as a Continue to hold the stakeholder dialogue session. implementation rate （P19） Global Company. [Domestic and 5 Countries Overseas] Held employee CSR report reading sessions in 5 countries overseas Continue to implement employee CSR report reading P18 Employee CSR report reading session 100 100 % ○ (China, Thailand, Taiwan, Indonesia, South Korea) and small group sessions both in Japan and overseas. （P18） implementation rate meetings at all domestic business divisions/departments. [Domestic] Financial presentation Senior management presented performance results to investors at 100 100 % ○ Hold financial presentation briefings (in Japan). implementation rate financial presentations (in Japan). [Overseas] Implementation rate of dialogue Senior management used overseas investors relations roadshows to hold 100 100 % ○ Hold investor relations roadshows overseas. with overseas investors dialogue with major overseas institutional investors. P45 Persons in charge of investor relations met individually with investors on [Domestic and Overseas] Small meeting more than 300 occasions both in Japan and overseas to explain about the 100 100 % ○ Hold individual meetings with investors. implementation rate business operations of the Company to persons working in the capital markets. [Domestic] Employee consultation and Responded to all consultations received by the employee consultation and Continue to respond to consultations received by the 100 100 % ○ P47 counseling hot line response rate counseling hotline. employee consultation and counseling hotline. Promoted workplaces where employees with disabilities can contribute Continue to promote workplaces where employees with [Domestic] Employment rate of persons with 1.8 1.8 % ○ their skills and expertise, and making workplaces barrier-free. Continued disabilities can contribute their skills and expertise, and the disabilities to promote employment of persons with disabilities. employment of persons with disabilities. Had a 100% rehirement rate of employees after mandatory retirement. P41 Continue to implement current initiative and consider holding Interviews held between future retirees and their supervisors on future [Domestic] Rehirement rate after mandatory life planning training sessions for employees 57 years of 60 64.7 % ○ career options one year prior to mandatory retirement. System established retirement age. Continue to actively increase the number of employees to promote rehirement after mandatory retirement based on feedback seeking rehirement after mandatory retirement. received from the individual, providing them the choice and seat. Conducted employee satisfaction survey. Confirmed employees' [Domestic] Number of times employee Continue to implement the employee satisfaction survey and 1 1 times ○ current situation and satisfaction with work and reflected this in various satisfaction survey conducted reflect results in management initiatives policies. management policies. Uploaded maternity and parenting leave guidelines on the intranet. P39 [Domestic] Ratio of employees taking parental Provided an opportunity at the back-to-work interview for persons on 90 238※2 % ○ Continue to implement current initiatives. leave leave to discuss their work format after returning and their childcare needs. Implemented once per month according to annual plan. Employees [Domestic] No-overtime day implementation 100 100 % ○ notified by audio announcements and email. Summer time schedule rolled Continue to hold once per month according to annual plan. rate out beginning in May 2011. P40 Each and every one of the 1390 employees submitted one proposal to Utilize proposals to eradicate meaningless work in operational [Domestic] Submission rate of proposals for 100 100 % ○ eradicate meaningless work based on a rethinking of their work and its reforms and link these with solutions to organization-wide eradicating meaningless work true essence. themes. Held once per month according to the annual plan. Held health [Domestic] Health & Safety Committee meeting 100 100 % ○ management lecturers led by industrial physicians and worked to reduce Hold once per month according to the annual plan. implementation rate employee working hours. Implement employee health check-ups during the fiscal year. Implemented employee health check-ups during the fiscal year. Also Provide information on health-check up options and results P39 [Domestic] Health check-up screening rate 100 100 % ○ provided post-exam care and recommendations for employees requiring via e-learning. Also, continue to provide post-exam care and second screening. recommendations for employees requiring second screening. [Domestic] Mental health care training Held mental health training for manager-level employees and self-care 100 100 % ○ Continue with training programs and re-examine curriculum. implementation rate (for those applicable) training for general employees. In addition to induction, professional development, training programs aimed at different ability levels and areas, and training for newly appointed [Domestic] Theme-based and rank-based managers and officers, also provided leadership training programs for training program implementation rate (for 100 100 % ○ Continue to hold current training programs. P40 managers through the Unicharm Business College, which has a strong those applicable) management focus, and overseas business trip accompanying the president. [Domestic] Number of discussions held with Held a wide range of discussions on employment issues and rules 12 12 times ○ Continue to hold discussions once per month. P41 the labor union deliberations, etc. Promoted measures across the entire Unicharm Group (● Japan: pink ribbon activities, child raising support project, provision of paper diapers to Shikokuchuo City, factory tours for employee family members, [Domestic and Overseas] Number of activity Continue to implement activities promoted on a company15 18 items ○ conclusion of disaster prevention agreement with Shizuoka Prefecture, P42-43 items promoted company-wide wide level. etc. ● China: pink ribbon activities ● Indonesia: donations provided to orphanage ● Taiwan: donations provided to social welfare group, etc.) Provided assistance to disaster-affected areas (● Great East Japan Earthquake: company-wide activities that combine the provision of relief supplies, matching charitable donations, and assistance to disaster[Domestic and Overseas] Implementation rate affected areas with super cool biz summer dress code, introduced Continue to provide assistance to those areas affected by the P20-21 100 100 % ○ of relief to disaster-affected areas. summer time work schedule, newly launched 2-pack Chorittai Ultra 3D Great East Japan Earthquake. （P28） Shape Mask that donates 1% of sales to disaster relief efforts, ● Floods in Thailand: Provided relief supplies, employees took part in volunteer activities, etc.) *1: Qualitative goal is set as 100%. *2: Value based on General Entrepreneur Action Plan of The Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. *3: The first line corresponds to the PDF version and second line in brackets to the print version. Self Evaluation Standards: ○ = Goal achieved △ = Mostly achieved × = No Progress unicharm CSR report 2012 23 Along with the Environment Initiatives for the environment through business activities Ideal Vision We will contribute to the sustainable development of a society which maintains a balance between conservation of the environment and economic growth through the creation of environmentally friendly manufacturing. Initiatives through our products Unicharm has established a basic environmental policy Humany Urine Aspirator Pad became which states it will strive to create environmentally friendly manufacturing. We are committed to achieving the target the newest product to be given the Eco ratio for environmentally friendly products established in our Charming mark in FY2011 environmental goals. In FY2011, we achieved a ratio of 56% Humany helps reduce the number of pads used in a day environmentally friendly products, compared to our goal of from between ﬁve and seven to one to two, which contrib55%. We have set a goal of 60% for FY2012 to further expand utes to the eﬀective utilization of resources and reduction our environmentally friendly product line. of waste. In comparison to the “combined use of pads and Since the inception of our unique environmental label, paper diapers”, the “combined use of Humany and paper the “Eco Charming mark” in 2008, a total of 18 products have diapers” results in an approximately 35% reduction in CO2 come to bear this label. In FY2011, Humany Urine Aspirator emissions. Pad became the latest product to be given the Eco Charming mark. ● Comparison of total CO2 emissions with the existing system What is Eco Charming mark? Only products that satisfy strict standards for both “reduced -35% environmental impact” and “product value enhancements” are eligible to bear the Eco Charming mark. Decisions on applying the Eco Charming mark to a product are based on the Unicharm factor, an envi■ Electricity, etc. Electricity, etc. ronmental standard established in our Eco Eco Charming ■ Pads Pads Label Guidelines. mark ■ Paper diapers Paper diapers Example of product with Eco Charming mark Existing system Existing system Humany Humany ＊Comparison based on daily usage, excluding eﬀects from the manufacturing of the equipment. Realizing improved comfort and environmental efficiency, Lifree Rehabili-Pants Light (Institutional Use) “Lifree Rehabili-Pants Light” released in 2011 was developed to weigh half of the existing product through the use of a super slim absorbent that measures just 1 mm thick. This VOICE new light weight product not only improves comfort for users but also drastically reduces waste of resources. Takehisa Kabeya ● Weight comparison with existing product Director LCA Development Office, Department of Product and Weighs Environmental Aspects, Japan about Environmental Management Association For Industry 1/2 Eco Charming mark implements methods of LCA and 58g environmental eﬃciency wisely and looks at the product Existing from wider view point, not limiting to the reduction of environmental impact. It also has a positive factor of product 29g functionality and other usability of the product, making it an appealing initiative. I hope that the number of certiﬁed products to increase and also for the customers to get to Rehabili-Pants Rehabili-Pants know about them. Regular Size M Light Size M 24 unicharm CSR report 2012 WEB Unicharm TOP＞CSR＞Along with the Environment Initiatives at production sites and offices To reduce CO2 emissions Energy conservation activities in offices Along with the CO2 is emitted in various stages of Unicharm's business According to Article 27 of the Electricity Business Act, the activities including material manufacturing, product manufacMita Headquarters became subject to energy consumption Env i r o n m e n t turing, shipment, usage, and disposal. The CO2 emitted during controls during nearly its entire business hours following the material manufacturing and the ﬁnal waste disposal the Great East Japan Earthquake. As a result, eﬀorts were stages is being reduced through the development of environmade to achieve the goal of a “30% year-on-year reduction mentally friendly products that feature lighter weight designs in energy consumption”, including cutting usage during and other innovations. Factory emissions, which comprise times of peak power demand. A 25-item energy conservation about 20% of total emissions, are derived from electricity activity standard including the implementation of summer usage as well as use of heavy oil and city gas as fuels. Of the time and thinned-out schedule for ﬂuorescent light usage factory emissions in FY2011, 90% came from electricity usage. was established, and seminars on this standard were held for As such, Unicharm is promoting CO2 emission reductions the employees. This standard was thoroughly implemented, through energy conservation initiatives. yielding a 37% reduction from last summer, which greatly exceeded the goal. In comparison to FY2010, CO2 emissions ● Breakdown of CO2 emissions in various stages of our business activities were reduced by 167 tons. Our energy conservation eﬀorts 1. Petroleum mining to material production 2. Production sites were not limited to the Mita Headquarters as we promoted measures at all of our business sites as a whole. 54% 17% ● Energy Consumption in Mita Area by Month (Unit: kWh) 153,918 4. Household to incineration disposal 3. Shipping from factory to distributor 150,000 142,390 138,276 25% 4% 110,332 119,614 107,743 96,793 99,673 100,000 94,685 83,730 83,73 77,232 66,28 66,280 Energy conservation activities at production sites In FY2011, overall energy consumption increased by 0.9% 50,000 101,149 91,819 91,000 over the previous year as production volume increased fol79,191 lowing the Great East Japan Earthquake. However, the base 56,101 55,057 unit per net sales decreased by 3.4%. The Energy Conservation Working Group led a number of initiatives in this eﬀort. 0 Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. As a result of upgrading incidental facilities at the Fukushima Factory, including its cooling machine, the factory's eﬃciency ■ FY2010 Results ■ FY2011 Results FY2011 Goals was improved. In addition, due to the continuous implementation of production facility improvements as part of the Furthermore, business vehicles are gradually being UTMSS＊1 improvement project, a reduction equivalent to replaced by hybrid cars. The ratio of new hybrid cars de2,719 tons of CO2 was achieved. ployed in FY2011 increased by 15.9 points from previous ﬁscal year to 24.4% ● CO2 emission reduction through energy conservation (Unit: ton) 5,000 4,227 Zero Emissions 4,000 In FY2011, 10 out of 17 locations in Japan (division in terms 3,000 2,719 of environmental management) achieved zero emissions＊2. The recycling ratio for all locations combined was 96.1%. 2,000 1,387 1,235 1,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 *1 UTMSS: Unicharm Total Management Strategic System (Fiscal Year) *2 Zero emission: Recycling rate of 99.0% or higher unicharm CSR report 2012 25 Along with Our Customers Ideal Vision Unicharm will contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone in the world by offering worldʼs first and world-leading product and service of the finest quality and safety that will bring comfort, excitement, and joy to its customers around the world. Communicating with customers Initiatives of the Customer Service Center Communication with customers using At the Customer Service Center, we strive to improve various media customer satisfaction by responding to the valuable feedback As a specialized manufacturer, Unicharm provides informawe receive from our customers in a prompt, fair, and sincere tion on continence care, ﬁrst menstruation, and parenting to manner. In FY2011, the Customer Service Center received customers within Japan. In March 2012, a Facebook page for Along with Our approximately 77,000 calls. We also conduct surveys by Moony was established to provide a platform for new moms interviewing customers when they make inquiries at the Custo communicate with one another. In conjunction with “Baby tomer Service Center regarding their level of satisfaction and Town”, which boasts approximately 500,000 members, this Customers opinions concerning our customer service. In FY2011, 90% of social media page disseminates parenting information to cuscustomers responded that they were satisﬁed with our servtomers. In addition, we have developed corporate websites ices. The feedback we receive was in turn shared within the for overseas locations aimed at strengthening Internet comcompany and used to help further improve customer service. munication with the customers both in Japan and abroad. In July 2006 we made a voluntary declaration of conformity in our complaint response management system in line with ISO10002. At our customer service centers overseas in countries such as China, Thailand, Taiwan, and Indonesia, we have been promoting the horizontal deployment of a complaint response management system that complies Continence Care Navi First Body Navi with ISO10002. This is one of http://www.carenavi.jp/ http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ our initiatives for improving girls/index.html customer satisfaction across the entire Group. Customer Service Center Reflecting customer feedback in our products Feedback received from customers is shared in a timely manner among relevant departments through the customer information management system, or “SMILE System”, as well Moony on Facebook Pre-Mama Town as through daily, weekly, and monthly reports and meetings http://www.facebook.com/ http://www.premama.jp for enhancing existing products and developing new prodmoonyjapan Baby Town ucts. In addition, a Customer Service Center seminar is held http://www.babytown.jp for employees, to which 348 employees attended in FY2011. The company as a whole is committed to enhancing its focus on the customer and the quality of products it providesto meet customer satisfaction. ● Example of customer feedback reflected in our products Unicharm China Uni-Charm Thailand http://www.unicharm.com.cn/ http://www.unicharm.co.th/ Customer requesting the release of Hadaomoi for light flow Release of “Hadaomoi Gokuusu Ultra In April 2012, we released a new and improved Moony Slim for Light Flow” in March 2012 featuring an all-new material that is gentle for sensitive baby skin. The new TV commercial for “Moony” stars actress Koyuki, who gave birth to her ﬁrst son In response to a customer's request to release “Hadaomoi for this January, and dissemilight ﬂow, in addition to the currently available “Hadaomoi” nates the view and ideals product, because of their sensitive skin, we released “Hadaomoi of Unicharm. Gokuusu Ultra Slim for Light Flow” in March 2012 as a new product. New Moony TV commercial presentation event 26 unicharm CSR report 2012 WEB Unicharm TOP＞CSR＞Along with Our Customers Along with Our Business Partners Ideal Vision We will collaborate with suppliers in implementing CSR activities and promote CSR throughout the entire supply chain, in an effort to produce better products. Approach to materials procurement At Unicharm, we share our philosophy on safety and the In addition to promoting procurement activities with a environment through close cooperation with our suppliers. particular emphasis on crisis management, going forward, we At our overseas sites, where we are expanding our opaim to establish a sound understanding of Unicharmʼs stance erations, we strive to establish business relationships with and view on compliance with laws and social imperatives and partners that meet our standards in terms of quality, function, extending due consideration to human rights in labor when safety, environment, and services, in product lines of varywe commence trading with new overseas partners. We will ing prices in growth markets. In promoting these eﬀorts, we also seek the cooperation of existing partners in environmenmake use of our approaches to successful supplier relationtal and ethical areas. ships that we have established in Japan. Along with Our Promoting CSR procurement in cooperation with supplier Unicharm established CSR procurement guidelines and Business Partners implemented them in 2009. CSR procurement guidelines The guidelines incorporate provisions relating to applicable laws, human rights, industrial relations, environment, １. Compliance with laws and social imperatives and product safety, as stated in the Global Compact. We held (1) Comply with related laws and social imperatives in purchasing activities. brieﬁng sessions for suppliers in China in 2009 and in Thai(2) Provide fair and equitable competitive opportunities in land, Indonesia, Taiwan, and Korea in 2010 and 2011 to share purchasing activities, regardless of nationality, size, or track record. our CSR procurement guidelines. In addition, we committed (3) Strive for the appropriate management of information obtained to promoting CSR throughout the supply chain as a whole by in purchasing activities. conducting site visits, procurement status investigations, and ２. Procure safe products and materials that provide a correctional actions based on peace of mind (1) Choose products and materials in purchasing activities for the result of analysis conductwhich safety has been conﬁrmed. ed on each supplier's procure(2) Choose economical and high quality materials and products in ment status using a self-check purchasing activities. (3) Emphasize the ability to manufacture and supply products that sheet completed by suppliers. meet requirements in purchasing activities. ３. Give due consideration to human rights and labor (1) Engage in purchasing activities with corporations who respect Investigation of CSR human rights. procurement status in Taiwan (2) Engage in purchasing activities with corporations who give due consideration to inhumane labor practice. (3) Emphasize engaging in purchasing activities with corporations who promote appropriate employment practices. ●Condition of CSR procurement promotion ４. Responsibility to the environment (1) Value corporations who understand the importance of, and Taiwan Thailand China Indonesia Korea promote environmental conservation in purchasing activities. (2) Emphasize environmentally friendly raw materials in purchasing activities in an eﬀort to achieve a recycling-oriented society. Self-check 2010 2010 2009 2010 2011 ５. Development of relationships of mutual trust (1) Cultivate a relationship and trust with business partners within the scope of social norms. Status investigation (2) Strive to enhance business performance mutually through / Veriﬁcation of 2011 2010 2010 2011 2011 exchange of essential information with business partners. correctional actions Quality Policy Briefing Session In July 2011 we held our 10th Quality Policy Brieﬁng achieved outstanding results over the past decade. We closed Session with 161 participants from 65 companies in attendthe session by asking our suppliers to continue their eﬀorts ance. During the session, we shared the results of eﬀorts to on our behalf. improve quality through the year and awarded the suppliers Going forward, we will shift the focus of our eﬀorts toward who contributed to the improvement. We also presented a overseas, and we ask our suppliers to assist us in achieving “10th Anniversary Special Award” to those suppliers who had further improvements in quality. WEB Unicharm TOP＞CSR＞Along with Our Business Partners unicharm CSR report 2012 27 Reconstruction Assistance for the Great East Japan Earthquake Unicharm once again extends its heartfelt sympathies to those affected by the earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on March 11, 2011. The following section provides a report on Unicharmʼs assistance efforts in the wake of this large-scale disaster. Main initiatives following the earthquake and tsunami Matching Fund established combining disaster relief assistance with Super 2011 Cool Biz employee dress code March 11 The Great East Japan Earthquake strikes ● Crisis Management Team (CMT) established. Unicharm established a second matching fund in order to ● Whereabouts and safety of all employees conﬁrmed, including those at the Fukushima Factory and North assist disaster-aﬀected areas and promote electricity conservaJapan Branch. tion. We designed an original polo shirt and pin that attaches March 12 ● Disaster response framework established to a personal polo shirt for employees to purchase and wear ● Assistance eﬀorts launched in collaboration with administrative agencies, other companies in the to work during the summer. An amount of merchandise (26 industry, and municipalities Humany urine-aspirating robots and 112 cases of specialty ● First convoy of vehicles loaded with relief supplies pads totaling 7,168) equivalent to the proceeds from employee departs for the disaster zone March 13 ● Five trucks loaded with relief supplies arrive in the purchases was donated to 12 hospitals in three prefectures, Tohoku region. First relief supplies delivered to the including Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima. Donated goods are disaster zone being used for toilet care in the disaster-aﬀected areas. March 18 ● Establishment of “Matching Fund” for charitable donations March 25 ● Product speciﬁcations of Mamy Poko Pants partially modiﬁed (temporary changes made because of damage suﬀered by raw materials manufacturer) March 26 ● Production partially restarted at the damaged Fukushima Factory May 2 ● “Summer Time” work schedule introduced as means to conserve “Blue Sky” ‒ designed after a smiling Promoting employee-led activities electricity during the summer face in hopes that the disaster-aﬀected areas will return to normal as soon as possible (calligrapher: Soun Takeda; media: paper) Poster “Promoting the Best Use Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask donated of the Summer Time” to the children of Fukushima Prefecture May 9 ● Fukushima Factory becomes fully operational again ● A portion of disposable diapers for adults were Unicharm donated 2,540 childrenʼs masks to Tanagura Town, temporarily imported from overseas aﬃliates June 30 ● A total of 2,540 “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask for Kids” which suﬀered damage in the earthquake, and where the donated to Tanagura Town, location of the Fukushima Fukushima Factory is located. In addition, as part of our eﬀorts Factory to continually assist those in need in disaster-aﬀected areas, we July 1 ● ”Matching Fund” established combining “disaster relief assistance” with “Super Cool Biz” employee dress code donated a total of 7.68 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Masks” August 31 ● Launched new “Two-pack Version of Chorittai Ultra to children attending day care, kindergarten, elementary, junior 3D Shape Mask”, with 1% of sales donated to disasterhigh, and high schools in Fukushima Prefecture. Many of these aﬀected areas September 1 ● Donated 2.68 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask” to children have sent us letters of appreciation for our donations. children attending day care, kindergarten, elementary, junior high, and high schools in Fukushima Prefecture 2012 January 16 ● Held campaign in support of the earthquake and tsunami reconstruction eﬀort together with Tsuruha Holdings in which Unicharm purchased domestic emissions credits generated from Tsuruha using part of the proceeds from the campaign (ran until March 16) March 6 ● Donated 5 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Masks” to children attending day care, kindergarten, elementary, junior high, and high schools in Iwaki City, Fukushima Prefecture May 7 ● Commenced “Super Cool Biz” employee dress code two months in advance ◆ Breakdown of relief supplies provided to those in need (As of March 31, 2012) Disposable diapers for babies .....................................................270,000 Disposable diapers for adults ......................................................140,000 Sanitary napkins ..............................................................................750,000 Masks .............................................................................................12,290,000 Nursing pads .....................................................................................220,000 Imported diapers .............................................................................110,000 (As of April 24, 2012) Pet food / Pet mats ..................................... 18.7 tons (160,000 pieces) Letter of appreciation from an elementary school student from Hanawa Town, Fukushima Prefecture 28 unicharm CSR report 2012 WEB Unicharm TOP＞CSR＞Assisting the Earthquake Reconstruction Effort List of Contents Web PDF Print Web PDF Print Chapter Title Topic Chapter Title Topic version version version version version version Production and Sales Bases ● ● ● Approach to Human Resources and Respect For ● ● Overview of the Human Rights Unicharm Group Company Profile ● ● ● Main Business Indicators ● ● ● Occupational Health and Safety ● ● Editorial Policy ● ● ● Creating Comfortable Workplaces ● ● Editorial Policy Along with Our Contents ● ● ● Employees Human Resource Development and Utilization ● ● Message from the Message from the President ● ● ● Employee Commendations ● ● President Respect for Diversity ● ● Framework of Unicharm’s CSR ● ● ● Relationship between Unicharm and its Personnel Related Data ● ● ● ● Stakeholders Social Contribution Initiatives ● ● Unicharm Group CSR Guiding Framework ● ● ● Contributing to Society Through Our Core Along with the ● ● Unicharm’s CSR Promotional Structure ● ● ● Society Business Unicharm’s CSR Domain ● ● ● Social Contribution Activities Closely Rooted in ● ● the Local Community Introduction of Business Activities Unicharm’s Five Business Divisions ● ● ● Approach to Materials Procurement ● ● ● Along with Our Supporting the Super-Aging Society with ● ● ● Business Partners Promoting CSR Procurement ● ● ● Gentleness Feature Topic Briefing Session on Quality Policy ● ● ● Supporting Women and Children in Asia with Gentleness ● ● ● Industry-leading Return on Investment ● ● Along with Our Stakeholder Communication with Stakeholders ● ● ● Shareholders and Information Disclosure for Our Investors ● ● Engagement ● ● ● Investors Dialogue with Stakeholders 2011 Inclusion in SRI Index ● ● ● Reconstruction Corporate Governance ● ● Assistance for the Reconstruction Assistance for the Great East Great East Japan Japan Earthquake ● ● ● Management Compliance ● ● Earthquake Risk Management ● ● Unicharm Group's CSR Major Activities ● ● ● Third Party Auditor’s ● ● and Indicators (KPI) Report Initiatives of the Customer Service Center ● ● ● List of Contents/ List Reflecting Customer Feedback In our Products ● ● ● of Recognition from ● ● ● Third Parties Customer Service Center Training for Improving ● ● Customer-oriented Approaches CSR Accounting ● “Unicharm Iki-Iki Dial” Nursing Care Consultation Service ● ● CSR Report 2012 ● Questionnaire Communication with Customers Using Various Along with Our ● ● ● CSR Report 2011 Customers Media Questionnaire Results ● Marketing / R&D ● ● Quality Assurance Approaches and Structure ● ● Ensuring Product Safety ● ● Unicharm Product Initiatives ● ● Global Safety Activities ● ● Promoting Proper Product Labeling Practices ● ● Environmental Activity Promotion Framework ● ● Environmental Impacts and Targets ● ● Initiatives for the Environment Through Our Business Activities ● ● ● Unicharm has been included in prominent worldwide socially responsible Along with the Initiatives to Reduce Our Impact on the investment indexes, including the “FTSE Good Index Series” and Environment Environment ● ● “Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI)”. Environmental Accounting ● Activity Results for FY2011 ● Site Data ● List of Awards and Commendations Received in FY2011 Month and year Name and description Recipient Takayuki Matsushima, Shizuoka Factory, Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Distinguished Creativity Award from the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology for productivity improvements April 2011 Masahiro Tabuchi, Toyohama Works, Shikoku Factory, made for the manufacturing of “Lifree Rehabili-Pants” and “Silcot Wet” Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. “Best Equity-Linked Offering: Euroyen Convertible Bonds due 2013 and 2015” from Thomson Reuters Marketing’s “Dealwatch Awards April 2011 Unicharm Corporation 2010” Letter of appreciation from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for the provision of relief supplies to areas affected by the Great May 2011 Unicharm Corporation East Japan Earthquake July 2011 “Silver Award of Merit” from the Japanese Red Cross Society for activities encouraging blood donations Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. September 2011 Letter of appreciation from the Mayor of Shirakawa City, Fukushima Prefecture for the donation of masks Unicharm Corporation September 2011 Nikkei BP’s “Eco Brand Survey”: 98th Unicharm Corporation September 2011 Nihon Keizai Shimbun’s “Best Workplaces” in Japan 2011: 36th Unicharm Corporation September 2011 FY2011 “Minister’s Animal Rights Merit Award” Toshio Takahara, former Chairman of Unicharm Pet Care Company November 2011 Nihon Keizai Shimbun’s “FY2011 NICES Corporate Ranking”: 9th Unicharm Corporation December 2011 Audience granted with Her Royal Highness Maha Chakri Sirindhorn (Thailand) for the provision of relief supplies to flood ravaged areas Uni-Charm（Thailand）Co., Ltd. “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask” selected for inclusion in “Case Studies of Great Japanese Products – Design Strategy and Intellectual December 2011 Unicharm Corporation Property Rights” published by the Patent Office under the Economy, Trade and Industry Ministry January 2012 Nihon Keizai Shimbun’s 15th “Environmental Management Survey”: 113th Unicharm Corporation February 2012 Interbrand’s “Japan’s Best Global Brands 2012”: 26th Unicharm Corporation “Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award” in the Overseas Division of the “4th Japan Manufacturing Awards” for the technology February 2012 Unicharm Gulf Hygienic Industries Ltd. (Saudi Arabia) transfer of disposal diapers and sanitary napkins to Saudi Arabia and the promotion of manufacturing management Letter of appreciation from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan for providing disposable diapers and sanitary March 2012 Unicharm Corporation napkins in response to request from the ministry following the Great East Japan Earthquake Letter of appreciation from the Japan Foundation for contributions to the assistance of reconstruction effort of areas affected by the Great March 2012 Unicharm Corporation East Japan Earthquake March 2012 Toyo Keizai’s “CSR Ranking 2012”: 67th Unicharm Corporation March 2012 World Intellectual Property Organization’s “2011 Corporate Ranking of International Patent Applications”: 76th Unicharm Corporation unicharm CSR report 2012 29 http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/index.html
