Communication on Progress Year: 2013 Hindustan Platinum Pvt. Ltd. has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 17th July 2008. We are committed to the ten principles of the compact which promote better corporate responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Summary of the progress made in these principles is attached Shashikant Choksi Managing Director. Contact: 022 27683006 Email: Shashikant.choksi@hp.co.in P 1/5 Commitment/ Policies, Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans Global Compact Principle for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and Commitment/ Policies : We are following the international declaration of Human Rights. respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Action Taken : We have two separate Human resource and Employee relation departments. rights Managing Director is the head of these departments. Employee concerns are discussed and addressed on a one to one basis. . Outcomes : Employee grievances, if any are addressed on priority. 2: and make sure that they are not Commitment/ Policies : We have separate working committees to address these issues. complicit in human rights abuses. Action Taken Our company has a strict policy of registration of all employees with the provident fund, Employees state insurance. We follow guidelines of the workers minimum wages act. Company provides conveyance to all employees from all parts of the city. Mediclaim policy for all the employees and their family member is provided. We have conducted third party audit for all factors related to sustainability even in this year. Outcomes The working committee discusses all issues related to the employees with the employee relation team and finds a solution. If required the issue is brought to the notice of Managing Director for a solution. 3: Businesses should uphold the Commitment/ Policies Our company has a recognised employees union. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Action Taken Office bearers of the employees union discuss with company management on collective bargaining; various issues including wages. Wages are revised in discussion with the union. Outcomes Smooth conduct of day to day activity. Plans for the Upcoming Year : Employees union has submitted their demands, which will be negotiated. Agreement will be signed by union and management, on mutually agreed terms. P 2/5 4: the elimination of all forms of Commitment/ Policies : Our recruitment policy is defined and our HR team recruits based on forced and compulsory labour; application received. Action Taken : Above policy is strictly followed. We have conducted third party audit. Outcomes : No forced labour. It was found by third party auditor that we are fully complying with this policy. 5: the effective abolition of child Commitment/ Policies : The policy on selection, recruitment and confirmation of employment labour; includes only person above 18 years to be recruited. Action Taken The company recruitment policy ensures that no child is recruited. We have conducted third party audit. Outcomes : The age of all employees is more than 18 years. Plans for the Upcoming Year : Continue to strictly follow this guideline for all future recruitment as well. 6: and the elimination of Commitment/ Policies : The policy on selection, recruitment and confirmation of employment discrimination in respect of includes no discrimination on account of age, sex, nationality or religion. employment and occupation. Action Taken : The company recruitment policy ensure that there is no discrimination on account of age, sex, nationality and religion. We have conducted third party audit. Outcomes: We have women working as Manager, and General Manager. There is no discrimination in our organisation. This year we have also recruited deaf and dumb in our production facility. They are presently under training. 7: Businesses should support a Commitment/ Policies : Company has an environment policy. precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Action Taken : 1. Our company has made a procedure to check aspect and impact on environment of new activity. If it exceeds beyond certain value, precautionary measures will be taken to P 3/5 reduce its impact on the environment. 2. Company has installed scrubber for melting furnace, 3. Installed exhaust system for plating plant 4. Company has its own effluent treatment plant, where water is treated before releasing it to the common industrial ETP. 5. Company has rain water harvesting system, the water collected by rain harvesting system is used for plantation and gardening. 6. Company has sewage treatment plant, after treating sewage water, it is released to root zone. 7. Third party testing of our water is done periodically. Air samples are also checked by third party periodically. Noise level in the company’s premises is also checked periodically. 8. Mass transportation is being provided to our staff as well as our workers to reduce pollution. 9. We have maintained green garden in our premises and also maintain garden outside our compound wall. 10. Company has installed Organic Waste Converter System to convert Biomass / Waste into bio-organic soil enricher and conditioner. 11. Obtained ISO: 14001certificate. 12. Finalised Environment Management Program like reduction in consumption of water, electricity, reduction in generation of hazardous waste and set the target to reduce the adverse effect on environment due to our operation. 13. Started sending Hazardous Waste to Government Authorised disposer for proper disposal of waste. 14. We have started monitoring ambient air, noise level and air emission from our company. 15. We have procured noise level checking instrument and noise level is monitored periodically. 16. E-Waste is disposed through government approved agency. 17. We have installed lip exhaust system for collection of fumes in plant. Outcomes : We reduced adverse impact of our activities on environment. We have maintained ISO : 14001 : 2004 certification Plans for the Upcoming Year : We will monitor all Environmental data and will try to achieve the target. 8: undertake initiatives to promote Commitment/ Policies : To reduce water / power consumption. greater environmental responsibility; Action Taken : 1. We have changed water distribution system 2. We have installed overhead tank to save consumption of power. 3. We monitor water and power consumption every month. P 4/5 4. We have kept targets to reduce water consumption and power consumption without affecting production. 5. We have purchased equipments consuming less power. Outcomes : Reduction in power consumption. Plans for the Upcoming Year Appointment of consultant for OHSAS. 9: and encourage the development Commitment/ Policies To reduce use of natural resources by using eco-friendly technology, and diffusion of environmentally To reduce adverse effect on environment by using advance machines , friendly technologies. reducing scrap Action Taken 1. We have started using silicon carbide heaters instead of kanthal A1 (Cr, Fe and Al alloy) heaters for our furnaces 2. Used Belt Polishing instead of open air hand brushing to reduce air pollution. 3. Used multiple punch tooling to reduce scrap percentage. Outcomes : Lower scrap thereby increasing sustainability. Plans for the Upcoming Year 1. We are planning to install more melting furnaces having less power consumption. 2. We have installed wet scrubber for melting furnace to reduce power consumption and air pollution. 3. We have changed some of our TFLs and ACs to reduce power consumption. 10: Businesses should work against Commitment/ Policies : Code of conduct for suppliers has been developed. all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Action Taken : Code of conduct has been sent to suppliers, which also covers corruption and bribery. Outcomes: No incidence of bribery in our company. P 5/5
