2 This is the third Communication on Progress Report issued by the EIL Group and is intended to communicate our sustainability efforts and performance to stakeholders. At our company, we firmly believe that we can deliver positive value by protecting the environment and improving the social conditions of the communities in which we operate while generating economic performance. This Report for 2012-2013 highlights our performance and achievements during the period. 3 Letter from our Executive Chairman 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation I am humbled to make this report on our performance against the standards and principles 7 CSR at EIL set by the UN Global Compact. The concept of sustainable operations continues to be a great challenge for us, lifting our capacity for finding innovative solutions to old and new 8 Realised Benefits problems alike. 9 Human Rights We have an ambitious vision for our future that culminates in us becoming a respected business leader in our region. Five Pillars help to guide us to this vision, one in particular Respect for Fundamental 10 reminds us that corporate social responsibility is as much an internal requirement as it is an Human Rights external one. We will continue to promote sustainable management under a strategic pillar of “developing our human capital” as it contributes to both personal and organisational growth. 12 Labour Practices Our success rests on our employees’ ability to create and innovate and we support them by cultivating a safe, ethical and respectful 13 Child Labour environment that enables employees to thrive. I am honoured to work with the employees of the EIL Group, as they continue to deliver extraordinary results every day and make our organisation’s vision, a reality. We have much to learn and far to travel, but we 13 Civil and Political Rights are on the right road and so perseverance will take us the rest of the way. 13 Conditions of work and As we continue from 2013 into 2014, we have focused our strategy and are taking steps to bring our workforce in line with a new way Social Protection of working and developing. The establishment of an “Innovation and Leadership Centre”, serving as a Corporate University was created Employment & Employment to support a culture of learning, creativity and growth. 14 Relationships We also promoted compliance management with a firm belief that integrity management is key to maintaining a healthy society and a 15 Human Development & strong market-based economy. We implemented the Supplier Code of Conduct and Evaluation System and strengthened training Training in the Workplace programs to raise awareness of the importance of business ethics through our Whistleblowing and Code of Ethics Programme. This, we 16 Health & Safety at Work will strengthen even further as we move forward into our new financial year. 17 Environment As our journey continues , we are focused on implementing an Integrated Management system (IMS) that will streamline our organisation’s efforts towards achieving our vision. Our IMS Programme is one of sustainability and is a common thread that impacts 18 Sustainable Resource Use our people, our communities, our environment and our planet. We’re proud of what we’ve all accomplished together and look onwards as we strive to do things even better. 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption Dave Mr. Dave Ramkissoon Ramkissoon CEO 22 Fair Operating Practices Executive Chairman EIL Group of Companies 4 Our Responsibilities 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities Stakeholders Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation The EIL Group manufactures a wide range of  Customer Information and Relationship Management Customers Products from Electrical Cables and Lighting Fixtures  Enhancing Customer Satisfaction 7 CSR at EIL to PVC Pipes, Water Tanks and Switchgear, allowing  Providing a Quality Product us to maintain a diverse range of customers, 8 Realised Benefits  Providing appropriate and accurate production information including residential, commercial, industrial and  Providing excellent Customer Service and Support governmental bodies. 9 Human Rights  Respecting Human Rights and Diversity Approximately 600 employees are employed within Respect for Fundamental Employees  Developing Human Capital 10 the EIL Group, including those dispersed across the Human Rights  Conducting fair assessments and providing fair treatment Caribbean Subsidiaries.  Providing a safe working environment With 11 Consolidated Subsidiary Operations 12 Labour Practices Global scattered across the Caribbean Region, the EIL Environment Group actively promotes the preservation of our  Conservation of our limited resources 13 Child Labour resources within these territories, as we continue to be good corporate citizens of Planet Earth. 13 Civil and Political Rights Government & Through our expanding regional operations, the EIL 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Government Group remains a true citizen in whichever country we  Complying with Laws and Regulations of the Land Employment & Employment Agencies are present. 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Through our regional presence, we continue to carry  Engaging in social responsibility within the local communities Training in the Workplace Local out our business operations while respecting the in which we operate 16 Health & Safety at Work Communities various cultures, history and customs of the people in  Protecting and Preserving the surrounding environment each country.  Respecting the Customs and Traditions of the local people 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use NGO’s We continue to engage and draw from the  Continue to offer support in addressing social, environmental 19Promoting Social knowledge, experience and strengths of the NGOs and global issues 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence within our country of operations.  Collaborate in our activities geared towards priority issues 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices The EIL Group has over 640 Suppliers, 400 of which  Select suppliers fairly and engaging in fair 5business Suppliers are local to the Group's home country. practices. EIL Foundation 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL 8 Realised Benefits 9 Human Rights Respect for Fundamental 10 Human Rights 12 Labour Practices 13 Child Labour 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Employment & Employment 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & The establishment of the EIL Charitable Foundation as a registered company was a critical stepping stone in driving the Training in the Workplace organisation's CSR efforts and can therefore be viewed as the Charitable Arm of the EIL Group. It is established with 16 Health & Safety at Work financial resources donated by the Group and supported by the CSR Committee’s Fund-raising initiatives. The Foundation is 17 Environment committed to dedicating its resources as it pertains to the four pillars that govern our CSR activities. 18 Sustainable Resource Use During the year 2012-2013, a CSR Committee was established to implement a Corporate Volunteering Programme whilst 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere undertaking activities in support of the Group’s CSR efforts. Moving into 2013-2014 however, the Committee’s vision and of Influence 21 Anti-corruption efforts will be re-directed towards the organization and execution of a core CSR initiative for each quarter of the year., with support from Corporate Volunteers across all our locations. 22 Fair Operating Practices 6 CSR at EIL 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities Our Community 6 EIL Foundation We will work to engage and support the sustainable development of local communities. 7 CSR at EIL Our Workplace 8 Realised Benefits We want to be recognized as an employer of choice; offering fair employment practices and remuneration, a safe working 9 Human Rights environment, providing training and support for skill enhancement while ensuring a work-life balance. Respect for Fundamental Our Environment 10 Human Rights We will work to embed an environmentally-friendly management system in our operational process to reduce our environmental impact while utilising our corporate volunteer programme to execute environmental initiatives. Marketplace 12 Labour Practices We are committed to building a sustainable, innovative and competitive marketplace which is receptive to the needs of our stakeholders while upholding the highest local and international standards of corporate governance and corporate ethics. 13 Child Labour 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Employment & Employment 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace 16 Health & Safety at Work 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 7 Realised Benefits 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL 8 Realised Benefits 9 Human Rights Respect for Fundamental 10 Human Rights 12 Labour Practices 13 Child Labour 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Employment & Employment 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace 16 Health & Safety at Work 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 8 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL 8 Realised Benefits 9 Human Rights Respect for Fundamental 10 Human Rights 12 Labour Practices 13 Child Labour 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Employment & Employment 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace 16 Health & Safety at Work 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices Human Rights 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL 8 Realised Benefits The Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights endorsed by the United Nations, set out the responsibilities corporations have in respecting human rights. As part of the EIL Group’s commitment to upholding these principles, we 9 Human Rights have developed and continue to develop policies to proactively identify and address various issues related to human rights. Respect for Fundamental The Group maintains compliance with the Minimum Wages Act, respecting minimum wages and terms and conditions of 10 Human Rights employment. The introduction of our Suppliers Code of Conduct Programme also sets forth performance, compliance, management systems and assessment requirements across key areas of social responsibility and environmental stewardship. It covers human rights issues and labour standards related to child labour, forced labour, collective bargaining, working hours, minimum wages, ethical practices and health and safety. We expect all our Suppliers to comply with 12 Labour Practices applicable laws and to maintain progressive employment practices that promote fair labour standards and respect human rights. 13 Child Labour As part of EIL’s holistic approach to Health and Safety, the OSH Act provides the foundation for us as an employer, to 13 Civil and Political Rights provide a workplace free of recognized safety hazards that are likely to cause injury or death. Our goal is to cultivate a safe and respectful work environment where employees can thrive and innovate. 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Our approach to Health and Safety is aligned to Workman’s Compensation Legislation as the Group also maintains Employment & Employment compliance with legal requirements as it relates to payment for compensation to workmen for injuries suffered during the 14 Relationships course of their employment. 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace The Group also recognizes that there is importance in not only implementing our human rights policies but also in communicating it and this is done though our Employee Handbook and Employee Code of Conduct, the latter of which is 16 Health & Safety at Work reviewed on an annual basis through a training programme and will include an employee consent document, indicating their agreement to abide by the terms and conditions contained within the document. 17 Environment The Group also supports the health and wellbeing of our employees through Optimal Health Sessions covering various 18 Sustainable Resource Use topics on healthcare. 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 10 Human Rights 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL 8 Realised Benefits The EIL Group continues to support various Community, Educational and NGO initiatives especially those that are aligned to human and community development . 9 Human Rights In 2011-2013, some major projects can be mentioned. 29 Graduate Engineers from the University of Cambridge visited our 10 Respect for Fundamental Manufacturing facilities in Trinidad and were able to learn about our production and operating processes. Human Rights In 2012, some members of our Executive Team assisted an NGO in creating a business plan for a project they were embarking on. The SOCIAL JUSTICE FOUNDATION (TSJF) is a registered not-for-profit organisation involved in the alleviation of crime and poverty through its direct intervention with 'at risk' and rural youth. 'The Good News media (TGN) is run for and by 'at risk' and 'rural youth' 12 Labour Practices who have graduated from TGN's training and who have successfully performed on media projects for BGTT, UWI, FIFA, Ministry of Sports & Youth Affairs, Ministry of the People & Social Development. Our Company was able to create Budget Forecasts and a 13 Child Labour Business Proposal for a program to offer IT courses to rural youth and which is being considered by the Ministry of Science and Technology. 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Employment & Employment 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace 16 Health & Safety at Work 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 11 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL 8 Realised Benefits 9 Human Rights Respect for Fundamental 10 Human Rights 12 Labour Practices 13 Child Labour 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Employment & Employment 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace 16 Health & Safety at Work 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 12 Labour Practices 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation The EIL Group Policies address key labour issues identified in the UNGC, including prohibition of child labour, forced labour, 7 CSR at EIL and discrimination. EIL strictly prohibits the employment of child labour and will continue to identify and encourage the abolition of child labour within our own supply chain. In fact, upon employment all individuals must submit their personal 8 Realised Benefits documents and the Human Resource Department verifies the person’s age during recruitment and ensures that provision regarding child labour is not violated. 9 Human Rights Respect for Fundamental 10 Human Rights Our Group recognises that in the locations where we operate, employees have the right to freely associate or not with thirdparty labour organisations, along with the right to bargain or not, collectively in accordance with local laws. All our employees have the right to collective bargaining with the TEMCO Staff Association and TIWU with collective bargaining taking place 12 Labour Practices every 3 years. The Company also maintains members with the Employers’ Consultative Association which provides an invaluable resource in addressing Human Rights Issues. Their advice is sought after almost on a monthly basis in order to 13 Child Labour promote fair Industrial Relations Practices. 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection One way to help abolish forced and compulsory labour is through controlled and legal employment and employment Employment & Employment relationships. EIL therefore ensures that no employee enters into an employment contract without first understanding that 14 Relationships they are not being employed under anything other than free and fair terms and conditions and that they are free to terminate such employment at any time, of their own volition, with appropriate notice. 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace During an employee’s course of employment, EIL recognises that there are times when personal problems can affect the 16 Health & Safety at Work employee’s well-being and performance. Due to this concern, EIL has established an EAP to provide assistance to employees and their immediate family during times of need. The Employee Emergency Fund and Soft Loans have newly 17 Environment established procedures that requires two members representatives to sit on the award committee, both of whom are elected through a voting process. 18 Sustainable Resource Use The Company continues to enhance systems that allow employees increased flexibly to select working styles according to 19Promoting Social their personal circumstances. Flexible working hours are intended to support the employee in maintaining a healthy balance 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence between work and family life. EIL believes that only when the employee has struck an effective work-family balance, can they achieve their best at work 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 13 Labour Practices 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities General Health and Wellness are critical aspects of our employees’ lives and the Company continues to support the Sports Club and Gym Facilities which is accessible to all employees in order to promote health and general well-being. In keeping 6 EIL Foundation with this theme, a Wellness Programme was developed to expose employees to various training sessions aimed at equipping them with the knowledge and tools to manage their everyday lives as well as how to utilise the health and medical 7 CSR at EIL plans effectively. 8 Realised Benefits The Company also offers choice through three different medical plans with each offering an appropriate level of coverage, suitable for each individual employee. EIL contributes a minimum of 50% of the total premium for Group Health and the 9 Human Rights entire premium for Group Life and a 5% contribution to the Employees’ Pension Plan. Supplementing the Medical Plans is the company’s Life Insurance and Pension Plans. Insurance Policies form part of our employee’s total compensation and are Respect for Fundamental 10 Human Rights intended to provide protection for the employee and their dependents in the event of serious illness, retirement, disability or death. 12 Labour Practices The EIL Group supports the principle of elimination of any form of forced and compulsory labour by establishing a 40-hour work week. While the hours of work will be determined by the employee’s departmental requirements, every effort will be 13 Child Labour made to ensure that an employee’s normal hours of work are maintained. 13 Civil and Political Rights The Company also supports the principle of eliminating discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our policy clearly defines the procedure of personnel planning, search and selection. Our Policy states that employees are selected in 13 Conditions of work and accordance with their education, competence, professional qualifications, advancement potential and character without Social Protection reference to race, colour, class, or gender. Employment & Employment 14 Relationships During the selection period, priority is given to EIL employees if they meet the requirements for the vacant position. If no 15 Human Development & adequate employees are found inside the Company, an external search is conducted. Job ads do not specify sex or age of Training in the Workplace the potential candidate, only qualification requirements. 16 Health & Safety at Work As employees are recruited and continue in their daily activities, their career development and compensation for achievements are linked through a semi-annual performance review. The Performance Appraisal system is used as a guide 17 Environment to offer special incentives and also to direct management’s decisions in promoting employees and awarding salary increases. This appraisal system required the development of employees’ personals goals, whilst documenting and 18 Sustainable Resource Use communicating this to them to ensure that all employees have a clear understanding of their roles and responsibilities as well as their contribution to achieving our corporate strategy. 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence EIL greatly values its people, and therefore makes every effort to foster a work environment that is based on respect and 21 Anti-corruption open communication. Every year we conduct our Employee Opinion Survey in order to understand and respond to some of the views of our employees. In 2009 the results of the Survey was 74%, falling to 69% in 2010, rising again to 72% in 2012. 22 Fair Operating Practices There are a number of reasons for this level of employee satisfaction and a full analysis of these issues was conducted 14 with a comprehensive action plan being rolled out in 2012-2013. Labour Practices 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL The EIL Group’s ability to achieve its corporate objectives depends heavily on our ability to recruit, motivate and retain top talent. Essentially, it’s about identifying the right people with the right skills for the right job. It was therefore clear that a 8 Realised Benefits critical HR Strategic objective was the development of our human capital to facilitate the achievement of corporate growth. We therefore had to look to the future and develop a Strategic Resourcing Plan that sought to meet future business needs 9 Human Rights for the long-term benefit of the organization. 10 Respect for Fundamental It was concluded that in order to promote individual career development and build potential across the organization, it Human Rights meant that the learning curriculum at EIL needed to be reviewed and improved upon so that a comprehensive learning and development programme could be developed. A strategic development training programme was developed to assist in improving the knowledge, skills and abilities of the strategic job-holders in the organization in order to better equip them to meet the future demands of the organization. This strategic developmental plan is meant to provide routes to enhance 12 Labour Practices employees’ knowledge, skills and abilities as they progress in their career through our Corporate University environment. 13 Child Labour Our Company’s continued expansion efforts require its executive management and leadership positions to evolve and develop in synchronicity with the needs of the organization. Such leadership that is required by the organization transcends 13 Civil and Political Rights any individual but is exemplified by the words and actions of all members of the leadership team. The leadership programme developed at EIL aims to equip our leaders with the skills and techniques to manage complexities and 13 Conditions of work and competing interests in the workplace; to develop their emotional intelligence; to enable their understanding of their roles in Social Protection strategy execution; to conduct effective root cause analysis as well as other self-awareness, mentoring, team-building and Employment & Employment coaching-type training sessions. While this plan was developed in 2010-2011, it is scheduled for implementation in 2011. 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace 16 Health & Safety at Work 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 15 Labour Practices 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL The EIL Group currently undertakes an annual Risk Assessment, conducted by an Independent Certified Party, the results of which are available to stakeholders. In 2011-2012, Workplace Hazard Observation & Occupational Risk Assessments 8 Realised Benefits were conducted and specific recommendations were made with respect to preventive measures and controls to be implemented for the mitigation of risks. These preventive measures and controls were included as part of a larger action 9 Human Rights plan for Health, Safety and Awareness across all our locations. Respect for Fundamental As part of our HSE System and in conformance with regulatory requirements, Laboratory testing is conducted by a certified 10 Human Rights Party, who assesses all industrial effluent, as well as Indoor Air Quality, Heat Stress & Noise. To date, all our locations have passed the required testing and is in full compliance with all relevant Statutory and Environmental & Health Regulations. 12 Labour Practices At each of our Production facilities, a Safety Committee has been established with responsibility for review and oversight of the Corporate QHSE Policy. The Safety Committee communicates the Risk Assessment to all Stakeholders as well as 13 Child Labour submits monthly Statutory Reports to OSHA and the EMA. Overseeing the Safety Committee is the Health and Safety Department who engages in continuous training sessions with various groups of employees in order to bring awareness 13 Civil and Political Rights and continuously educate on safety requirements both at the workplace and at home. 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Employment & Employment 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace 16 Health & Safety at Work 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 16 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL 8 Realised Benefits 9 Human Rights Respect for Fundamental 10 Human Rights 12 Labour Practices 13 Child Labour 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Employment & Employment 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace 16 Health & Safety at Work 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 17 Environment 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation The EIL Group maintains compliance with the following environmental Acts of Trinidad and Tobago: 7 CSR at EIL • Water Pollution Rules • Noise Pollution Control Rules 8 Realised Benefits • Trinidad & Tobago Waste Water Management Act 2001 9 Human Rights We have the necessary environmental permits and authorisations to operate, from the relevant authorities and has a systematic approach in place to ensure knowledge and compliance of new environmental legislation and any other legal Respect for Fundamental 10 environmental requirements. Human Rights The Company is an active member of the National Technical Committee a joint Committee of the Board of Engineering of Trinidad & Tobago and the Trinidad & Tobago Bureau of Standards, mandated to the continuous monitoring and revision of 12 Labour Practices standards within our twin island Republic. 13 Child Labour We have also partnered with the Government’s National Highways Beautification Program, geared towards upgrading the appearance and aesthetics along the main transport corridors of the country. 13 Civil and Political Rights The EIL Group has not been blind in our assessment of the global changes and we are very aware of our corporate responsibility to always act for the preservation of our environment and efficient use of resources. At the beginning of 201013 Conditions of work and Social Protection 2011, EIL started a process of analyzing our energy usage and as part of this initiative, we have Power Factor Correction Equipment at our facility which has resulted in savings of 15% on our monthly electric bill. The savings are equivalent to Employment & Employment 14 Relationships annual greenhouse gas emissions from 11 passenger vehicles or CO2 emissions from 140 barrels of oil consumed or carbon sequestered by 1,533 tree seedlings grown for 10 years every month. 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace We have been so impressed with the savings being generated and its impact on our environment, that we have launched a 16 Health & Safety at Work new business line focusing on energy management, leveraging on our first-hand technical expertise and experience gained with our own installation. This business line is directly related to our values of innovation and social responsibility and we are pleased to be at the forefront in our drive to help preserve our environment. 17 Environment During 2012, our corporate volunteers supported the Nature Seekers NGO in their Beach Cleanup, in preparation for turtle 18 Sustainable Resource Use nesting season. It was an enjoyable experience for our employees and supported the company’s environmental initiatives. 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 18 Environment 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL 8 Realised Benefits 9 Human Rights Respect for Fundamental 10 Human Rights 12 Labour Practices 13 Child Labour 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Employment & Employment 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace 16 Health & Safety at Work 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 19 Environment 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities Also forming part of our product and service portfolio is the Retrofitting Programme. Through an effective Lighting Audit, our 6 EIL Foundation Company helps business owners upgrade lighting fixtures and controls to more energy efficient Technologies. Lighting Retrofit technology helps achieve environmental synergy through energy-efficient lighting fixtures installed at commercial 7 CSR at EIL centers, industrial sites, schools and homes. The realized benefits are substantial and can be summarized as follows: 8 Realised Benefits • Energy-savings Through the use of energy-efficient Lamp and ballast technology. 9 Human Rights • Pollution reduction – A Lighting Retrofit Project consumes less electricity and thus helps reduce CO2 emissions associated with power generation. Respect for Fundamental 10 Human Rights We continue to make additions to the product portfolio, aligned to the principles of sustainable environmental practices. Our new SmartBox, gives a higher yielding garden, with less effort and less time. Because of the SmartBox’s unique design, water poured into the reservoir, moves up into the soil. The water moves naturally from wet to dry areas so that all Plants in the SmartBox are wet evenly. This product is being marketed to the agricultural and residential sector, encouraging the 12 Labour Practices creation of sustainable home garden. EIL is an active member of the National Technical Committee a joint Committee of the Board of Engineering of Trinidad & Tobago and the Trinidad & Tobago Bureau of Standards, mandated to the 13 Child Labour continuous monitoring and revision of standards within Trinidad and Tobago. 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Employment & Employment 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace 16 Health & Safety at Work 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 20 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL 8 Realised Benefits 9 Human Rights Respect for Fundamental 10 Human Rights 12 Labour Practices 13 Child Labour 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and Social Protection Employment & Employment 14 Relationships 15 Human Development & Training in the Workplace 16 Health & Safety at Work 17 Environment 18 Sustainable Resource Use 19Promoting Social 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 21 Anti-Corruption 4 Letter from our CEO 5 Our Responsibilities 6 EIL Foundation 7 CSR at EIL The EIL Group recognizes that corruption is a major hindrance to the sustainable development of an organization and its communities. The development of rules for corporate governance around the world has prompted us to focus on anti8 Realised Benefits corruption measures as part of our need to protect the reputation and interests of our stakeholders. 9 Human Rights The Group’s Code of Conduct Policy provides employees with a set of standards meant to promote honest and ethical behavior in the conduct of the Company’s business. Employees, in discharging their duties, have a legal obligation to act 10 Respect for Fundamental honestly, ethically, in good faith and with the best interests of the Company in mind. Human Rights To this end, the HR Department conducts a Code of Conduct/Ethics session with new recruits during their orientation period as well as outlines all policies relevant to employees in the Employee Handbook, which is revised on an on-going basis. 12 Labour Practices The issue of conflict of interest is addressed as part of the Code of Conduct Policy as well as incorporated into the Employee Handbook. The Policy recognises that although employees’ have the right to engage in activities outside of their 13 Child Labour employment, such activities should not, in any way, conflict with the Company’s business. It then proceeds to identify activities from which the employee must refrain. 13 Civil and Political Rights 13 Conditions of work and We also hold a positive commitment and open approach to whistle blowing and encourage employees to raise concerns Social Protection about a dangerous or illegal activity that they are aware of in the organisation. This Policy is in line with our commitment to Employment & Employment Integrity and Social Responsibility. Employees are able to raise concerns about illegal activities that they are aware of in the 14 Relationships workplace, such as malpractice, criminal offences, non-compliance etc. 15 Human Development & Our Group’s continued success locally, regionally and internationally depends on our ability to compete aggressively, but Training in the Workplace we will do so fairly and in full compliance with the law. We are committed to ensuring that the highest standards of ethics 16 Health & Safety at Work are upheld wherever our products and the components that comprise them are made. Our Suppliers (Suppliers of Raw Materials, Component Parts and Service Providers) therefore play a critical role in enabling our sustainable growth and 17 Environment continued success. 18 Sustainable Resource Use In support of this goal, the EIL Group has set forth the principles that are relevant to dealing with business partners in the areas of human rights, labour practices, environment and anti-corruption. We therefore insist that our suppliers, which 19Promoting Social includes service providers, maintain safe working conditions, that they treat their employees with dignity and respect, that 20 Responsibility in the Sphere of Influence they use environmentally responsible manufacturing processes and that they conduct their operations in line with the highest ethical standards. 21 Anti-corruption 22 Fair Operating Practices 22
