Communications on Progress Report 2012 0 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 Table of Contents A Statement from the Managing Director ....................................................................... 2 Our Approach to Sustainable Development ...................................................................... 3 1.0 Definition of Sustainable development ......................................................................... 3 2.0 What's sustainable development got to do with Intrepid? .......................................... 3 3.0 How do we tie it all together? ........................................................................................ 3 3.1 Our Core Values ................................................................................................. 4 3.2 Our Core Purpose ............................................................................................... 4 3.3 Our BHAG (Big Hairy Audacious Goal) ................................................................. 4 3.4 Our Strategy ....................................................................................................... 4 4.0 So what are our sustainability objectives? .................................................................... 4 4.1 United Nation Global Compact ........................................................................... 5 4.2 Sustainable Development Policy ......................................................................... 5 4.2.1 ENVIRONMENT............................................................................................ 5 4.2.2 SOCIAL ........................................................................................................ 8 4.4.3 ECONOMIC ................................................................................................ 14 4.4.4 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL ...................................................................... 16 5.0 Stakeholders ................................................................................................................. 18 6.0 Communication............................................................................................................. 21 1 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 A message from our Managing Director Intrepid Travel Pty Ltd signed up to the United Nations Global Compact on 16 December 2008 and continues to support the principles outlined in the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Since becoming a signatory, Intrepid have been working on integrating the Global Compact principles into the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. We recognise that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten guiding principles. In order to fulfil this requirement and support public accountability and transparency, we have produced this Communication on Progress Report. Over the past few years we have been preparing the company for a GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) compliant Sustainability Report that will further detail our progress on addressing the Global Compact principles. Unfortunately, due to the organisational changes that Intrepid Travel has undergone in the last couple of years, we have had to delay a release of a public sustainability report. Nonetheless, last year we did manage to publish our first internal Sustainability Report. This was a big task and a proud achievement for us. However, the process of producing our internal GRI Sustainability Report highlighted to us that we still have some way to go in preparing the company for public reporting. In the meantime, whilst we ensure our systems are producing quality and reliable data for GRI Reporting, our third Communication on Progress Report will build on our previous COP reports and provide an update on the initiatives we’ve rolled out during the 2012 financial year. We look forward to deepening our commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and further embedding them across our business operations. James Thornton Managing Director 2 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 Our Approach to Sustainable Development 1.0 Definition of Sustainable development Intrepid adopts the definition created in 1987 at the World Commission on Environment and Development (Brundtland Commission) for Sustainable Development: 'development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.' We see Intrepid Travel working toward sustainable development by incorporating environmental, social, economic and ethical considerations in our business practices and in our decision making processes. 2.0 Sustainable development and Intrepid Intrepid recognises that tourism impacts local communities and the environment and we believe that all tour operators must be responsible in the way they operate their business to ensure the welfare of people and conservation of the environment. We recognise the need for sustainable tourism and we believe in the principles of responsible travel; respecting the people, cultures and local environments; in the distribution of wealth; in good will and cross-cultural sharing and in balanced development. Although our company impact is largely indirect and through our travel products, we acknowledge that our direct business operations (our offices and retail stores) also have an impact on the environment, people and local communities where we are located. Given that we have an understanding of the responsibilities we have as a business, we are committed to maintaining our integrity, living out our values and ensuring that we are fulfilling the purpose of our business by operating in a responsible manner. We are committed to incorporating the principles of sustainable development (outlined in this document) in the way we go about giving Intrepid travellers 'real life experiences…' 3.0 How do we tie it all together? Intrepid has been built on the principles of Responsible Travel, so the principles of sustainability are not a foreign concept to our business. Sustainability is in our company's DNA: 3 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 3.1 Our Core Values Integrity Passion Growth Fun Innovative Responsible 3.2 Our Core Purpose Intrepid’s core purpose is to enrich people’s lives by creating unique, interactive travel experiences. We provide fun, affordable and sustainable travel that is profitable for Intrepid and beneficial to local communities. 3.3 Our BHAG (Big Hairy Audacious Goal) To be the world's most inspiring and innovative travel company. 3.4 Our Strategy Position: To focus on the “experiential” segment of the travel industry. How:  By supplying a diverse range of remarkable products;  By distributing these products broadly;  By developing Intrepid as a strong global brand;  By growing our resources of exceptional staff and developing best practice systems;  By developing a vertically integrated business model Our strategy is being executed with consideration to our environmental, social, economic impacts and objectives. 4.0 What are our sustainability objectives? In order to embed sustainability into our operations, we feel it's important to take a holistic view of our business and its impacts. This means looking beyond the health of our balance sheet and to the areas of which our business is intrinsically linked; the environment, society, economy and governance/ethics. We want to ensure that we are taking responsibility for our impacts in these areas and contributing to, rather than diminishing, their health and value through operation of our business. It is for these reasons that Intrepid decided to join other businesses and organisations in over 130 countries to tackle global sustainability issues and become a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. 4 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 4.1 Sustainable Development Policy The Sustainable Development policy sees Intrepid working toward its sustainability objectives in the social, environmental, economic and governance areas, to ensure the longevity of our business. The following section of the Report will outline Intrepid's responsibility under each area (as stated in our Sustainable Development Policy), examples of policies we have to help us manage these responsibilities and some of the actions taken to address these responsibilities. 4.1.1 ENVIRONMENT Our Environmental Responsibility To ensure we are working toward protecting the environment and using resources in an efficient, fair and responsible way. We want to ensure that our trips are designed in a way that limits the physical impact on the destinations we visit so that they may be enjoyed by many generations to come Example of policies and guidelines addressing environmental impact at Intrepid  Sustainable Development Policy  Responsible Travel Policy and Code of Conduct  Responsible Travel guidelines for passengers  Carbon Management Plan  Purchasing Policy Examples of environmental actions: Intrepid travel achieved Carbon Neutral status in late 2010. The three-year process Intrepid undertook to become carbon-neutral was the result of careful planning and execution which led to significant monetary contributions (over $970,000 AUD across the 3 years) on behalf of our sector, travellers, suppliers and staff to 7 different internationally certified carbon abatement projects. This in turn, contributed to;  the development of local communities through infrastructure development around the carbon abatement projects  improvement of the environment of the local communities by providing an alternative to fossil fuels and therefore produce less pollution  generation of employment for locals  increased energy availability and accessibility to communities and therefore improving quality of life 5 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 Our Carbon Management program continues to create awareness of the importance of addressing Climate Change among our stakeholders including staff, passengers and suppliers by engaging them in addressing the issue through the Intrepid business. Business Emissions (Offices/Stores): Intrepid travel adopts the following principles to manage our environmental footprint of our offices and stores globally;  Measure eg. measure emissions from electricity, gas, waste, business travel, etc.  Avoid eg. Avoid emissions by adopting energy efficiency measures such as automatic computer shut off at 8pm for head office staff, skype conferencing rather than travelling for face to face meetings  Reduce eg. reducing number of business trips we take, reducing paper we use and waste to land fill we generate  Offset whatever we can't avoid we offset by investing in high quality renewable energy projects Trips: A majority of Intrepid Travels trips are Carbon Offset (that’s over 800 trips). We measure and offset the main sources of the emissions created on our trips by our passengers:  Transport  Accommodation  Waste Our trips are also low impact by design. How? We try to use public transport where possible, stay in locally owned and simpler styles of accommodation and eat at locally owned eateries where the food has been locally sourced therefore reducing food mile emissions. Flights: We offer customers an opportunity to offset the most carbon intensive portion of their trip – their flight. When customers book their flight through Intrepid, we offer an offset component to their airfare. Renewable Energy Project investments Intrepid Travel currently offsets our carbon by investing in internationally accredited Voluntary Carbon Standard (VCS) compliant projects that are based in our biggest destinations. These include:  Bargaran Mini Hydro project, INDIA  Macahoe Hydro project, CHINA  Rice Husk Biomass project, THAILAND  Biomass Project, BRAZIL  Hydro project, VIETNAM  LFG Project, THAILAND 6 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 2012 Update: Addressing our Environmental Impact 2012FY Carbon Management: With a company-wide sustainability goal to reduce business emissions, we implemented a number of emission reduction initiatives into our offices and stores in the 2012FY. Our head office went from operating out of several smaller offices to moving into one central office space, which resulted in less energy consumption per full time employee. The head office also switched to using 100% Green Power, implemented a new waste management system and ran a number of staff education pieces on more sustainable practices within the workplace. These initiatives resulted in a 20.9% reduction in our business emissions, a 31% increase in the amount of paper we recycle and the waste management system that was implemented has doubled the amount of food waste we compost and save from going to landfill. Our trips produced 28,313.09 tonnes of carbon, which was offset into renewable energy projects. This equated to more than $250,000 being invested into clean energy projects in the developing world. A stronger focus on our flight offset program in the past year resulted in the amount of passengers choosing to offset the emissions from their flights more than double. This has been achieved with a concerted effort that has focused on staff training and re-establishing an incentive program for the best ‘offset sellers’. Other annual environmental initiatives:  We participate in many International and National Environmental Days, including Ride to work day, and Earth Hour.  In November 2011, TRAFFIC Southeast Asia conducted training on the illegal wildlife trade for our group leaders as part of their leader training in Hanoi.  Plastic water bottle waste reduction we include information in all our trip notes about how Intrepid travellers can obtain safe drinking water in our destinations and avoid the purchase of plastic water bottles.  We provide travellers in many locations with a cloth bag made by a fair trade supplier, which we encourage travellers to use and 'say no to plastic bags' when they shop.  The Intrepid Head office hosts an annual tree planting day, where staff and Intrepid travellers plant around 1000 indigenous trees and shrubs in Melbourne's Yarra River corridor. This activity has been happening since 2000.  Our Waste Management system includes our very own worm farm and bokashi bins that composts all our fruit and vegetable scraps, tea bags and coffee grounds. 7 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 4.1.2 SOCIAL Our Social Responsibility To protect human rights within our sphere of influence and ensure that all our people including our staff, travellers, suppliers and local communities as well as other stakeholders who are impacted by our business, are treated with fairness and respect. We endeavour to engage our stakeholders on issues around responsible practices in order to promote justice and equity across our global community and protect our most vulnerable societies. Example of Policies addressing our Social Responsibility  Sustainable Development Policy  Responsible Travel Policy and Passenger Code of Conduct  Responsible Travel guidelines for passengers  Purchasing Policy  Porter policy  Global Human Rights Policy Examples of actions  Provide support for many grass root organisations globally to help advance local communities through The Intrepid Foundation. Our projects can be found on http://www.theintrepidfoundation.org/  All Intrepid companies have specific annual goals to increase annual donations to the Intrepid Foundation  Visit community projects tackling social issues on trips to raise awareness and engage passenger support for the projects  We provide training to all our leaders on safety and social issues in the areas they operate. This helps them educate our passengers on issues such as cultural etiquette, prostitution and child safety  Provide HIV/AIDS training to our staff and leaders in Kenya  Work in partnership with ChildWise, ChildSafe, Child Safe Tourism (World Vision) to stamp out child exploitation in the areas we travel  Organise guests to speak at our Australian stores to help raise awareness on various social sustainability topics  Adopted a Global Human Rights Policy in 2011 The aim of the policy is to: o formalise our commitment outlined in our Global Sustainable Development Policy 8 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 o commit our support to the principles contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights o give guidance to our staff on Intrepid's stance in relation to human rights issues o protect, respect and remedy human rights within our sphere of operations and supply chain as outlined in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: The “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework o assist in the monitoring of our management of human rights issues within our business 2012 Update: Addressing our Social Impact Global Human Rights Policy Implementation Process: This policy was formally adopted in September 2011. To ensure that we are addressing Human Rights issues across our sphere of influence, we undertook the following actions;  Held Human Rights Policy training sessions for all Intrepid staff (over 70% of staff trained so far)  Included a clause around Human Rights in our agreements with our Destination Management Companies globally. The next phase of the Global Human Rights policy rollout is to integrate the monitoring and evaluation of policy into our existing feedback systems, such as our Annual Responsible Travel Evaluations (ARTEs), as well as creating Human Rights material to be made available for our passengers and potential customers. Intrepid Employee Volunteer Program The volunteer program was introduced as a staff incentive program during the 2012 FY. The program offers full time staff, the equivalent of 1 paid work day a year to participate in a voluntary activity with an organisation or cause they deem important. The program was designed to facilitate the sharing of knowledge and skills, as well as engagement and networking between staff and our local communities, with the aim to create greater community awareness, fulfilment and personal growth to employees. Unfortunately, only one employee took up the opportunity during the 2012 FY, (volunteering at 'Plan' for one day). Several employees have expressed interest, but cited the demands of their regular role have made it challenging to take out a day to volunteer. The scope of the program is being re-examined in hope of making it making it more accessible. 9 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 Intrepid joins the fight for Gender Equality – Introducing Project Sama As a global company, with roots in several developing countries, Intrepid decided it was time to roll up the sleeves and join the fight for gender equality. Why Gender Equality?  Women perform 66% of the world’s work, but earn a meagre 10% of the world’s income and own only 1% of the world’s property.  In developing countries, 53 million girls are denied access to primary school education.  Out of the one billion people living in extreme poverty, 70% are women and girls.  A girl without an education has a 90% chance of being poor and raising children who will also live in poverty. These are just a few of the inequalities that women and girls face. And why Intrepid wants to promote gender equality around the world. How are we doing this? In 2012 Intrepid created Project SAMA. SAMA means ‘equal’ in the Bahasa language. Project SAMA is Intrepid’s three year global gender initiative that aims to improve the lives of communities and help bridge the gender gap through education. Why focus on Early Education? Project SAMA is supporting projects around the world that contribute to Intrepid’s overall aim of tackling gender inequality. In 2012 we focused on the importance of early childhood education in Laos, where up until 4 years ago preschools didn’t exist. Research has proven that girls who participate in early education projects are:  more likely to enrol in primary school  less likely to repeat grades or to drop out of school  begin school at the right age and complete the primary schooling cycle Early education projects also have positive ripple effects on the entire community by:  Creating vocational opportunities for women, as many of the facilitators of Early Education programs are women.  Women who have children attending the programs have time freed up to pursue income generation activities or improve their own education.  Keeps older siblings in school instead of being responsible for caring for their younger siblings as is usually the case for mothers who work outside the home.  Support parents by providing resources, knowledge and skills to stimulate, nourish and encourage their children’s development and education in the home. 10 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 Project SAMA’s accomplishments for 2012 Project SAMA has two major goals:  Raising funds for its supported projects and raising awareness amongst the Intrepid community about the issues around gender inequality.  Raising awareness amongst the Intrepid community around the inequalities women face around the world. Raising funds: Project SAMA achieved its fundraising goal for the 2012FY of $60,000 dollars to support Plan’s early education program in the rural areas of the Bokeo region of Laos. This was achieved through a number of fundraising activities organised, including a Winter Gala event and a social media campaign that asked our community to ‘High 5’ Project SAMA with a $5 donation. The $60, 000 went towards Plan’s work which has seen enrolment rates for early education class’s rise steadily in all three districts of Bokeo. Children attending the classes have enjoyed a range of learning outcomes, including a greater understanding of the Lao language (for ethnic children), the development of early literacy skills and socialisation/readiness for the routines of primary school. Teachers at the school have also enjoyed a significant improvement in their competencies, while orientation sessions have resulted in a greater understanding among parents, both mothers and fathers, of the importance of developing their children's learning capacities early and the link between early education and primary school attendance. At a national level, early education is now a prominent issue and Plan have been instrumental in assisting the Laos Government in the development of a National Holistic Early Childhood Development Policy. The key role of early education programs is to promote a more positive attitude towards girls, and to show parents and communities that girls can succeed at school and have a role beyond traditional gender roles. The outcomes of these early education programs align well with Project SAMA’s overall aim of addressing gender inequality through education. As such we are extending our support in 2013 to Plan’s early education programs in Uganda, where only 23% of children have access to pre-school, and where primary school drop-out and repetition rates are high. Raising awareness: Project SAMA’s reach was extended out to our staff, contractors, suppliers, and online community through educational training sessions, newsletters, speaker events, blog stories, surveys, the creation of a SAMA webs site and SAMA dedicated facebook page. 11 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 The Intrepid Foundation th The Intrepid Foundation celebrated its 10 Anniversary in 2012 and disbursed a record high amount of $427,332.74 for our various projects, partners and appeals. The total amount represents contributions received from Intrepid travellers, staff and matching funds contributed by Intrepid Travel. The funds are distributed between; On average approximately 80% of our funds raised through the Foundation go to support non-government organisations in the places Intrepid visits. We support Community Projects projects working in the areas of healthcare, education, human rights, child welfare, sustainable development and in environmental and wildlife protection. In the 2012 financial year, we raised funds for 40 community projects. See below for examples. Donations made to this fund are divided in half. One half is used to conserve and grow capital for the future support of the Foundation and the other half goes Perpetual Fund Partners toward supporting the work of respected international non-government organisations such as Amnesty International, Medecines Sans Frontiers, Plan and Greenpeace. The Foundation often approves one off grants (rather than on-going support) to different initiatives looking to support environmental or social causes. In the One-Off Grant Submissions 2011 financial year, a grant went to Forest Restoration Research Unit at Chang Mai University in Thailand. The funds were to be used to plant 1,000 trees in the Doi Suthep National Park These funds go to organisations who are assisting in emergency relief from natural disasters. Over the last year, The Foundation supported; • Queensland Premiers Disaster Relief Appeal and the Red Cross Emergency Appeal Contributions Victorian Floods appeal to help those impacted during the floods • Japan Earthquake for the purchase of 200 Mandarin solar lamps for the residents affected by the quake • New Zealand Red Cross Christchurch Earthquake Appeal 12 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 Some of our Community Projects and Perpetual fund partners include: 13 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 4.1.3 ECONOMIC Our Economic Responsibility To ensure our wealth is distributed in a way that is beneficial to our staff, host communities, suppliers, and other key stakeholders while achieving responsible and sustainable growth of Intrepid and our associated companies. Example of Policies addressing our Economic Responsibility  Sustainable Development Policy  Responsible Travel Policy and Code of Conduct  Responsible Travel guidelines for passengers  Risk Management Policy  Global Remuneration Process Examples of actions that address our Economic Responsibility Our trips are designed to ensure that we support the local communities by;  Hiring local leaders and staff where Intrepid operate, therefore contributing directly to local employment and ensuring competitive local remuneration  Using locally owned ground transportation and accommodation  Recommending local eateries and stores to our passengers  Incorporating local public transport on our trips where possible  Investing in renewable energy projects that support the local economy through temporary and permanent employment as well as building on the communities’ infrastructure. 14 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 2012 Update: Addressing our Economic Impact Our travellers economic impact: Taking travellers on Intrepid trips to more than 120 countries around the globe, brings significant economic benefits into these countries through the local procurement of transport, accommodation and activity services as included in our trips. In the 2012 FY, this direct investment in local economies equated to in excess of AUD $60 million. In addition to travellers direct trip cost, travellers also make very significant economic impacts indirectly through their discretionary spending money. For each trip, Intrepid recommend an amount per trip or per day that travellers should allow for, to cover the costs of meals not included, drinks, optional activities, shopping and other purchases that aren't included in their trip cost. We have estimated these indirect economic impacts by calculating the recommended daily spending money by the average trip length in a region, by our passenger numbers during the 2012 FY. This amount equated to over AUD$19 million. Responsible Hotels Forum: Our operating company in Morocco, PEAK Marrakech, hosted a ‘Responsible Hotels Forum’, in conjunction with The Ministry for Tourism and The Travel Foundation in March 2012. The aim of the forum was to bring local tourism operators together for both networking opportunities and the opportunity to learn and hear about current industry sustainability initiatives. The 2 day forum successfully communicated more responsible practices amongst Intrepid Travel’s hotel supply chain in Morocco, and showcased hotels and groups who are leading the way in responsible practices. 15 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 4.1.4 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Our Governance & Ethical Responsibility To live out our core values, achieve our purpose and work toward our Big Hairy Audacious (BHAG) goal by being accountable for the impacts that we have on our planet and also have effective systems and good governance in place to help us understand and manage these impacts. We endeavour to implement best practices in everything we do and fight corruption in all its forms. Example of Policies addressing our Governance and Ethical Responsibility  Sustainable Development Policy  Responsible Travel Policy  Risk Management Policy  Leader Code of Conduct  Performance Management Policy Examples of actions that address our Governance and Ethical Responsibility  Intrepid Travel conducts independent audits on our financials (including our Foundation disbursements), on an annual basis  Currently designing a global anti corruption and anti fraud policy  Risk Management framework Ethical Network membership Intrepid Travel has also joined Ethical Tour Operators Group (operated by Tourism Concern) in the UK where we join our colleagues in understanding our impacts on the destinations we visit and looking at ways we can address sustainability issues together. 16 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 2012 Update: Addressing our Governance & Ethical Impact Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy Intrepid adopted an Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy in the 2012FY. The implementation of this policy formalises our commitment to stamping out bribery and corruption within our own operations as well as in our dealings externally. The rollout of this policy was coordinated by our parent company PEAK. All PEAK Group businesses formally undertook risk assessment procedures after the rollout of our anti-bribery and corruption policies and processes. The primary tool to assist with this process is the Company Incident Register, where all risks are recorded by the management team, sent to the PEAK Central team quarterly, and reviewed on an on-going basis. The anti-bribery and corruption training is mandatory for all Intrepid staff and 85% of Intrepid staff globally completed the training, with the remainder of staff in the process of completing the training. Elephant Welfare Intrepid has partnered and promoted animal friendly travel with WSPA (World Society Protection of Animals) for many years. In the 2012FY Intrepid sponsored WSPA’s major research project on the welfare of captive elephants in Asia. The research looked at wildlife entertainment venues and assessed the welfare of elephants in these establishments. In summary, the results of the research found:  Elephants are not domesticated animals and can’t be kept adequately in captivity,  The initial training of elephants for entertainment of tourist is extremely cruel and unethical,  Many of the activities elephants are made to do are physically and psychologically damaging and stressful,  Captive breeding must be seen with scepticism and as potentially counter-productive for conservation purposes, as well as totally disregarding the basic principles of animal welfare,  The existing captive elephant populations need action to improve their welfare. These findings led us to take an ethical stance on the treatment of elephants for entertainment. We implemented several changes to our itineraries, including transitioning away from performance venues and elephant rides. We have undergone staff and leader training around the issue and also produced ‘Elephant Welfare Guidelines’ for our travellers so that they can make informed decisions around elephant activities. 17 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 Customer Satisfaction We monitor and evaluate our trip performance on an ongoing basis through our passenger feedback system. In our endeavour to implement best practices in everything we do, our good practices on ground are illustrated by our consistently high customer satisfaction and responsible travel ratings. In the 2012FY we had over 27,000 feedback forms submitted from our travellers and our 2012 results saw us achieve our highest ever overall passenger enjoyment score. 2012 Results: Overall Experience Average 4.70/5 Leader RT Average 4.59/5 RT Average 4.53/5 * RT = Responsible Travel 18 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 5.0 Stakeholders Intrepid sees a stakeholder as any party who can affect or be affected by our company's operations. We believe that it's important to listen, understand and respond to the views of our stakeholders and exceed their expectations of our business. Our stakeholders include (but are not limited to):  Our staff  Our travellers  Potential travellers  Associated companies  Joint venture partners  Suppliers  Contractors  Local communities  Government bodies in destinations visited by Intrepid  Distributors/Travel Agents  The Intrepid Foundation  Media  Travel Industry Associations 2012 Update: Stakeholder Engagement Engaging our Stakeholders We conducted a survey through our e-newsletter Intrepid Express, where we asked readers to give their feedback in relation to what they think about responsible and sustainable travel practices. In total, 255 people completed the survey. Participants were mainly those who have travelled with us or those who were interested in travelling with us. Key findings:  88.7% believe Intrepid live up to its commitment as a sustainable and responsible travel company  Responsible Travel is one of the top 3 reasons people choose to travel with Intrepid  93.7% believe it’s important to travel with a company who adopt responsible travel practices 19 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012  98.1% believe it’s important that Intrepid continue to tackle climate change as part of its sustainability commitments  90% believe it’s important that Intrepid is stepping up and addressing gender inequality issues in the destinations we visit and in our global offices. Staff Engagement Each year, Intrepid sets goals around key areas to ensure the sustainability and ongoing success of our business. One of these key areas is staff engagement. In the 2012FY, overall staff engagement results improved on previous years: Measure 2012 2011 2010 Staff Survey 4.05 3.98 3.85 Given Intrepid’s strong emphasis on staff engagement, there is also a strong focus around engaging staff on sustainable development issues and as such, the Responsible Business Department has goals and targets in place to increase staff sustainability engagement. One initiative to boost staff engagement in the 2012FY was Responsible Business (RB) Week. RB week was designed to bring a range of sustainability issues to life that effect staff in both their personal lives and in the workplace. We had experts come into the Head Office and talk to us about a range of topics ranging from eradication global poverty, choosing ethical paper, sustainable seafood, sustainable beer, to a bike maintenance session and a ‘Sustainability Quiz’ night. Building a Responsible Culture At Intrepid, we’re genuine about engaging in responsible, sustainable operations and management at all levels. We’ve integrated respect for people and environment into our company culture in a variety of ways, most notably through the company's core values. Staff are also rated on their competency on being able promote sustainable development as well as their efforts in contributing to environmental and social sustainability in their annual Performance Reviews. Other smaller initiatives to engage staff include the Intrepid Annual Sustainability award for staff, as well as an incentives program to reward and encourage staff to offset client flights. All these little initiatives help to build a culture around respecting people and environment and working toward its preservation. 20 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012 6.0 Communication We intend to communicate our sustainability performance to our stakeholders through a number of different methods; • Annual Communications on Progress Report • Sustainability Report • Our website • Our social media channels • Induction sessions • Public speaking events • Intrepid Express newsletters as well as internal newsletters such as the management updates as well as OneIntrepid newsletter Awards and Recognition 7.0 Awards and Recognition Intrepid Travel was honoured to receive the following awards and recognition in 2012 FY for our responsible business approach and our environmental management; • Winner 2012: Conde Nast World Savers Award – Preservation Category • Winner 2012: Green Lifestyle Awards – Travel Category • 2012 Moroccan Government Responsible Travel Award Environment/International category Past Awards include: • Winner 2011 : World Travel and Tourism Council: Tourism for Tomorrow Awards Global Tourism Business • Winner 2011: Australian Business Awards for Environmental Sustainability • Winner 2011: Flight Centre Environmental Award (Canada) • Winner 2011: Wanderlust Paul Morrison GOLD Guide Award (Bruno Dawson) • Voted #1 2011: Social Media Examiners Small Business Facebook Pages • Finalist 2011: Virgin Holidays Responsible Travel Award • In 2011 Intrepid Travel was also included in the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia’s Integrating Sustainability into business practices; a case study approach 21 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2012
