2012 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2012 Pulmuone Sustainability Report Intro Stakeholders World of Joy 03 Overview of 2012 Report Hope for Tomorrow A World for 04 CEO Message 10 Stakeholder Engagement Everyone’s Happiness 06 Company Overview 11 Expert Interviews 37 Consumer Happiness 14 Materiality Assessment & Major Issues 41 Employee Satisfaction by Cidis Associates 43 Pulmuone Corporate Culture Authentic Wholesome Food 47 Partner Satisfaction Authentic Wholesome Foods 49 Community Satisfaction for the Health and Happiness of All Green Management 18 Pulmuone’s Authentic Wholesome Food Healthy with Nature 55 Healthy Nature, Healthy Pulmuone Sustainability Management Sustainable Growth into Lush Green Tree 25 Disclosure on Management 27 Sustainablility Management Framework 33 TISO Management Design & Illustration by Cidis Associates Images and illustration in this report are copyrighted by Pulmuone and Cidis Associates respectively, where the photographs and pictures are protected by Pulmuone. Pulmuone Sustainability Report may not be copied or reproduced in any form prior to authorities’ approval. 2012 Overview The sustainability report for 2012 is the 7th of its kind since Pulmuone first released its sustainability report in 2006. The 2012 Pulmuone sustainability report represents a comprehensive group-wide perspective capturing performances of all of its subsidiaries. Since 2008, Pulmuone has taken a holistic approach to show its efforts for sustainability management and the resulting group-level performances as a LOHAS (Lifestyle of Health and Sustainability) company that deeply cares for both humans and nature. Reporting principles Prepared in compliance with the G3.1 guidelines of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and the BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline. Reporting scope Pulmuone Holdings, subsidiaries (Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Health and Living, Foodmerce, ECMD, and Pulmuone Waters), and affiliates (ORGA Whole Foods) *NHO, the affiliate of ORGA Whole Foods, was excluded from the report as its business was closed down. Reporting period January 1 – December 31, 2012. For time series analysis, this report includes data for the recent 3 years (2010 to 2012). The time horizon is extended to 5 years, however, for some of the environmental performances. Reporting frequency Annually Report verification Reviewed by the Pulmuone management and verified by an independent 3rd party, IPS (The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies). For further information, contact the following numbers 724 Suseo-dong, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Holdings Strategy Office, Pulmuone Holdings Tel. 82-2-2040-4400 Fax 82-2-6499-0137 Pulmuone website www.pulmuone.co.kr Improvements from the 2011 Report Categorized per major issue The highest-priority issues in 2012 are highlighted per category (i.e. economy, society, environment) with titles to help readers understand what is important in each category during 2012. Emphasis on authentic wholesome foods The ‘authentic wholesome foods’ section has been newly added to capture the Pulmuone spirit committed to providing authentic wholesome foods with ‘love for neighbors’ and ‘respect for life’. * ‘Pulmuone’ refers to Pulmuone Holdings, and all of its business subsidiaries and affiliates in this report. 03 CEO Message Dear valued stakeholders, Last year was marked by tumultuous events in Korea with the presidential election redefining our country’s political landscape and its economy going through rapid changes. As a consequence, the economic democratization, which means a balanced growth in a fair competition, and inclusive growth have emerged as major social issues, emphasizing the importance of corporate social responsibility more than ever. Amid growing uncertainties both in domestic and global economic environments, Pulmuone’s sales increased 7% to reach KRW 1.46 trillion from last year, but its operating profit showed rather a lackluster result declining 13% to KRW 41 billion. However, despite such difficulties, Pulmuone has consistently practiced sustainability management centered on ethical, green, and socially responsible principles to realize its mission of becoming a LOHAS company caring for both humans and nature. Fair and transparent management is placed at the center of Pulmuone’s ethical management, but the overarching guiding principle for Pulmuone people above all is TISO management. TISO stands for Trust, Integrity, Solidarity and Openness, the core values of Pulmuone. For effective implementation of such core values in everyday business, Pulmuone has been providing TISO trainings across the company for all employees and executives while developing action principles for employees. The core values will continue to be spread across the company through various campaigns including the best TISO practices contest which has been in place since 2011. And starting from this year, a book on collected best practices will be published and various media will be leveraged to spread the core values further. Pulmuone, the first food company in Korea that joined the UN Global Compact in 2007, has upheld and championed the values and goals expressed in the UNGC’s 10 principles for human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Pulmuone is deeply committed to fair management. Since its implementation of the Compliance Program(CP) in 2007 for fair and transparent corporate activities, Pulmuone Foods, Foodmerce, and Pulmuone Health & Living have achieved a noteworthy milestone of attaining the A-class grade or higher. Last year, Pulmuone Health & Living and Foodmerce received grade AA in the CP grade assessment. ORGA Whole Foods followed in their footsteps by introducing the CP this year. To promote inclusive growth based on fair transaction, Pulmuone held ‘Pulmuone Best Partners’ Day’ in last March attended by 57 suppliers and partners of Pulmuone Foods and Foodmerce. The Partners’ Day will be also held this year by inviting upwards of 60 suppliers and partners to reinforce Pulmuone’s commitment to inclusive growth and the initiatives to make it possible. 04 Pulmuone has been driving its business initiatives which are aligned with its environmental management goal of offering ‘authentic wholesome foods that make both humans and nature healthier’. Our mid-to long-term goal for the environment is to reduce CO2 emissions by 15% and water consumption by 10% by the year of 2015 vs. 2007 as base year. Last year, Pulmuone developed water-based adhesives for processed foods packaging for the first time in Korea, thereby reducing residual chemicals in packaging film for all types of tofu products and lowering greenhouse gas emissions. Pulmuone established Pulmuone Foundation, a non-profit entity for public interest, in an effort to implement socially responsible management practices in a systemic and professional manner that is currently in full operation. The foundation is leading initiatives in 4 areas including authentic and wholesome foods, the environment, contribution to communities and Mecenat. To operate the ‘authentic wholesome foods campaign’ in full swing, the foundation supported the establishment of Food for Change, a social enterprise to provide the right foods. The enterprise has so far offered education to more than 5,000 children on how to confirm authentic wholesome foods. It also composed the ‘Healthy Food Song” that raises awareness about the importance of foods for health so that children can establish the right dietary habit in the early stage of their lives. In 2013, Pulmuone plans to substantially increase the number and range of participants involved in the trainings to grow the authentic wholesome foods campaign into a nation-wide social movement. In parallel to this, the campaign titled ‘foods temperature at 5℃’ will be also implemented to stress the importance of temperature when producing and distributing fresh foods. Pulmuone has strongly reinforced its image as the best food company trusted most by its consumers with its sustainability management practices. This year, Pulmuone was included in the rankings of ‘All Star’ companies for 7 years in a row, recognized as one of the most respected companies in Korea selected by Korea Management Association. Respectable shareholders, consumers and our partners and stakeholders of communities! Pulmuone, going forward, will strictly follow its basic principles in food business and be fully committed to producing authentic wholesome foods. The company will spare no efforts in practicing sustainability management through ethical, green and socially responsible practices to realize its mission, ‘LOHAS company caring for both humans and nature’. Please join us with your encouragement and support in our journey toward a truly global LOHAS company. Thank you March 2013 Nam, Seung-Woo, Chairman & CEO of Pulmuone Holdings 05 Company Overview [Pulmuone History] Corporate Profile Healthy food-centered growth Food biz-driven growth with advancement in Growth driven by business diversification Growth into a global player by expanding overseas business distribution Won, Gyung-Sun, the founder and director Starting off with organic food store business in 1981 to have developed KRW 1.5 trillion sales (’12) ● of Pulmuone, established and led a farming into a big business with annual sales of KRW 1.5 trillion in 2012 KRW 1.4 trillion sales (’11) ● KRW 1.3 trillion sales ( 10) ’ community called the Pulmuone farm for KRW 1.1 trillion sales (’09) ● ● longer than 40 years, employing organic KRW 900 billion sales (’08) ● KRW 700 billion sales (’06) ● farming methods based on principles of ‘love KRW 550 billion sales (’03) ● for neighbors’ and ‘respect for life’. Inheriting KRW 100 billion sales (’92) ● such spirit, Pulmuone follows in his footsteps to grow into a company that faithfully serves the ’81 ’82 ’84 ’86 ’91 ’95 ’00 ’03 ’04 ’08 ’09 ’11 Pulmuone Pulmuone community. For Pulmuone, love for neighbors Organic Health & Launched Pulmuone Established Green Juice Food Restructured Acquired Shifted to Acquired Entered grocery Living tofu Waters Pulmuone merce into a Wildwood the pure MGF of the the represents the commitment to safe and healthy Pulmuone business USA ECMD operating holding of the US holding company US Chinese market enzyme Company structure foods freshly coming from nature as well as a Foods Exofresh beautiful and firm pledge for humans, and respect MGF Monterey Gourmet Foods, Inc. for life should be seen as the company’s devotion Holding Company-Based Governance Structure to love and preserve nature, the source of all life, [Pulmuone Governance Structure] as a means to deliver its love for neighbors. Pulmuone IC Pulmuone Holdings Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Company name Pulmuone Holdings HQ address 80-1 Samho-ri, Daeso-myun, Pulmuone ECMD Foodmerce Pulmuone Pulmuone Pulmuone Health ORGA Whole Eumseong-gun, Choongbuk Foods Co., Ltd. CO., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Danone Co., Ltd. Waters Co., Ltd. & Living Co., Ltd. Foods Co., Ltd. Worksite address 724 Susuh-dong, Gangnam-gu, Seoul CEO Nam, Seung Woo Pulmuone Exofresh Pulmuone Beijing Pulmuone Shanghai Pulmuone Pumeiduo food production Logistics U.S.A, Inc 2) Green Foods Pulmuone Foods Duskin Co., Ltd. Health and Sales KRW 1.5 trillion subsidiary group 1) Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Living Date of stablishment May 12, 1984 1) The group includes PPEC Chuncheon, PPEC Eumseong Sprouts, PPEC Uiryeong, PPEC Eumseong Noodles, Myungga Food and Shinsunatto. No. of employees 4,968 people 2) Pulmuone Foods USA, Inc. is its subsidiary 06 Pulmuone Group Business Summary Business Category Business Unit Business Content Brand NFB Natural Foods & Beverage Pulmuone Foods Produce and distribute fresh foods, e.g. tofu, vegetables and chilled noodles Provide cold chain logistics service Foodmerce Offer brands and food ingredients to meal service, restaurants and food ingredient markets as distributor specialized in food ingredients Pumeiduo Foods 1) Produce and sell fresh foods(chilled noodles, soy products, etc) in China 1) Beijing Pulmuone Green Foods Co., Ltd., Shanghai Pulmuone Foods Co., Ltd. Pulmuone Waters Produce and sell drinking spring water in partnership with the global company, Nestle Waters Pulmuone Danone Produce and sell fermented milk products in partnership with the global company Danone FLS Foods ECMD Operate contract meal service, concession & Life Service and restaurants at resting stops along highways as specialized food service provider Pulmuone Duskin Offer dust particle cleaning service in partnership with Japanese company, Duskin DTC Direct To Pulmuone Produce and sell health functional foods, functional Consumer Health & Living drinks, and formulas for infants or low-calorie diets ORGA Whole Foods Operate organic/eco-friendly retail food store business (company-run stores / Shop-In-Shop, Franchisor) Pumeiduo Produce and sell health functional foods in China Health & Living 2) 2) Pulmuone China Co., Ltd. GBM Global Business Pulmuone U.S.A Produce and sell fresh foods (tofu, meat alternative, Management chilled/frozen pasta, sauce, etc) in the US 07 Pulmuone’s Whisper 1_ Award Grand Prize at 2012 Premium Foodmerce, Awarded as excellent Brand Award Chosen by Women Company in Green Transport Pulmuone Health & Living’s Babymeal ranked To practice Pulmuone’s LOHAS value of caring no. 1 in the premium baby food category at the for both humans and nature, Foodmerce 2012 Premium Brand Award. Pulmuone Health has consistently improved air quality with & Living will strictly follow its principle of using various programs leading green growth of the only authentic wholesome food ingredients and industry. Thanks to such endeavor, Foodmerce maintaining the highest quality going forward was selected as the excellent company in the to provide food products and services befitting environment at the 3rd Green Transport Award. the image of the premium brand. ORGA Whole Foods, Award at the 1st Low-Sodium Eumseong Tofu Plant Recognized <Best Green Brand> at 2012 Korea Recipe Contest for Its Excellency at 2012 Top Brand Award ECMD received the Best Award at the 1st LowWorkplace Innovation Contest ORGA Whole Foods won <Best Green Brand> Sodium Recipe Contest organized by the Pulmuone Eumseong tofu plant won the at 2012 Korea Top Brand Award. The grand Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. The recipe excellent award at WorkPlace Innovation prize is given only to those who make great of honor is Tofu Mixed with Rice which reduces Contest. Eumseong tofu plant was highly contribution in preserving the environment sodium in the food by adding tofu, the most recognized for significantly enhancing job through green corporate management for representative Pulmuone product, to Bibimbap satisfaction of employees by introducing human life and nature. while enhancing the taste. innovative work practices and realizing mutually beneficial development. 08 Stakeholders Hope for Tomorrow Pulmuone stakeholders share the commitment to the sustainable values defined by the company. Pulmuone attentively listens to their opinions to open a bright tomorrow together. 09 Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Categories & Communication Pulmuone stakeholders are grouped into shareholders, employees, consumers, partner companies, and local communities. Stakeholders are partners throughout the journey embarked by Pulmuone to achieve sustainability management. Pulmuone seeks their inputs and insights, and share results with them. Shareholders Employees Consumers Partner Companies Communities Those who purchase and 4,968 internal partners All consumers who use Partners involved in Public entities including own Pulmuone stocks as a working together to products and service procurement, production, the government, local means to share Pulmuone accomplish Pulmuone offerings of Pulmuone sales, delivery and facilities communities, volunteer values mission and vision subsidiaries and affiliates required to produce goods groups, etc and offer services of Pulmuone · Open shareholders’ meeting · The Knowledge Worker · CS Center · Meetings with partner · Periodic meetings with social · Board of Directors Platform · E-fresh monitoring companies volunteer groups · Sustainability reports · The labor-management · Housewives monitoring · Sustainability reports · Sustainability reports council meetings · Customer satisfaction survey For more information, please visit · Informal gatherings with CEO · ‘One Big Bowl Full of Nature’ www.pulmuone.co.kr · company newsletters (company magazine for PR) · The Occupational Safety · Sustainability reports & Health Committee · The grievance redress mechanism · Interoffice memos for communication · The Employee Assistance Program · C-cubic · Sustainability reports 10 Stakeholders Interview Pulmuone 01 Sustainability Management For Pulmuone, 2012 was the year to create many opportunities by pushing for business diversification and the authentic wholesome foods campaign. There was a decline in sales and profit in the process of consolidating production plants overseas, but I am sure we will see more growth for 2013 as red meat continues to be replaced by authentic wholesome foods and other products for nutritional balance, and the overseas plant consolidation project is completed for business stabilization. Expert What counts more than ever for sustainability management is to march toward its mission. Pulmuone is strongly committed to sustainability management, which can be called the company’s ultimate aspiration, in an effort to create change and innovation for Pulmuone people. Other initiatives to show the importance of authentic Interviews wholesome foods will be also reinforced. Pulmuone always seeks to communicate its internal/external values to stakeholders through various channels including the authentic wholesome foods campaign, public advertisements and sustainability reports. Pulmuone conducts interviews with experts to gather their valuable opinions to better sustainability management activities. In any rooms of improvement or response that are Pulmuone TISO Management Division, found through stakeholder group surveys, Division Head Weon-Mu Yu Pulmuone turns to the expert opinions to find the root cause and appropriate response. Going forward, the company plans to have more expert interviews in a range of areas to pay particular notice to the opinions of stakeholders. 11 Stakeholders Interview Pulmuone’s Authentic 02 Wholesome Foods Food for Change is a non-profit organization whose main business is provision of dietary lifestyle while waging a campaign to check for authentic wholesome food ingredients under the sponsorship of Pulmuone. It offers lectures on smart diet and how to choose healthy and natural food ingredients. The authentic wholesome foods campaign has been designed to boost interest of pre-schoolers in new foods and lessen their resistance to new diets while encouraging behavior change for primary schoolers to check food labeling for ingredients before making decisions to purchase healthy foods. The ‘Healthy Food Song’ has been composed to have children sing along, be reminded of the authentic wholesome food concept unconsciously and understand its importance more naturally. The campaign’s effectiveness was confirmed with surveys afterwards that they encouraged behavioral change in children. Clean environment, above all, is the most important factor when it comes to providing authentic wholesome foods. We cannot obtain fresh and healthy food ingredients from nature unless the environment is preserved against pollution. This means we have to undertake our business with focus on the green environment throughout the process from production to consumption. Also, to create a system where all stakeholders from partner companies to consumers can enjoy the win-win relationship and to provide authentic wholesome foods in a sustainable manner, Pulmuone has to stick to its philosophy with strong determination. I hope Pulmuone can continue to strike a fine balance between its noble philosophy and obligation to create profits and push for sustainable business in a consistent and steady manner by adding new social missions to its agenda. Food for Change, Permanent Representative Min-Young No 12 Stakeholders Interview 03 Pulmuone’s Strategic CSR Pulmuone is the company that should be highly recognized as the best practice company for its effective practicing of the strategic CSR initiatives which makes corporate activities closely aligned with corporate social responsibility as well as the full understanding on responsive CSR activities. Pulmuone’s CSR activities for planning and producing products are definitely quite active and effective, but we can regrettably say there is still a room for improvement when it comes to CSR activities for distribution, purchasing, usage and disposal. More recently, there were significantly positive developments on the part of partner companies, and the efforts to recruit good partners while leveraging the capabilities of partner companies to the greater extent than just using the company’s plants. I hope Pulmuone to continue to expand its CSR perspective while improving upon where it is not up to Pulmuone’s standards to raise the company’s influence further down the road. I also have a highly positive take on the authentic wholesome foods campaign of Pulmuone, the main lynchpin of the company’s business since the authentic wholesome food culture of Pulmuone is what supports the entire Pulmuone business. Korea still lags behind in raising the consumer awareness about how to find out the product ingredients by reading the labels of food products. We have to make further efforts to raise such awareness further, encouraging participation of more companies so that we can have a nationwide campaign for food education. Pulmuone should put a priority on keeping true to its sustainability management philosophy. Any company can make one-off or short-term efforts at some point of its history for sustainable business but staying in that firm commitment is rare to be seen. Pulmuone has its own high standing as a quality food company. If it makes really ‘sustainable’ efforts for its sustainability management and perseveres in its track, it can surely earn an image as commendable company with equally laudable sustainable practices. Business Administration Dept, Catholic University of Korea, Professor Dong-Hyun Lee 13 Stakeholders Materiality Assessment & Major Issues Methodology Results Pulmuone has conducted materiality assessment by utilizing internal policies, The major issues identified in the materiality assessment were categorized as stakeholders, surveys, benchmarking and media search results to identify per appropriate types to see priority issues that Pulmuone needs to focus on issues that matter for stakeholders. The identified issues per priority were for its sustainability management. A total of 64 issues were again grouped selected and incorporated into the sustainability report, which will be into ‘ Very High’, ‘High’ and ‘Medium & Emerging’ based on their level of referred to the future business activities for ongoing issue management. priority. [Materiality assessment methodology & description] • General & Sustainability management • Authentic wholesome foods TEST 1. Corporate policies and strategic • TISO management Corporate Very High direction for 2012 • Economy policies • Innovation / creation Issue 26 TEST 2. Undertaken in Dec 2012, on/offline surveys Stakeholder answered by consumers(128 people) survey /employees (600 people)/partner companies (110 entities)/ communities(59 entities) High Issue 20 TEST 3. Unilever, Danone, Nestle, Coka-Cola Benchmarking • Consumers • Employees • Partner companies TEST 4. Medium Issue 18 Press reports from Jan 1 to Dec 31, 2012 Media • Local communities search & Emerging • Environment 14 Stakeholders General & Sustainability management Authentic wholesome foods TISO management Economy Innovation/creation Customers Employees Very High Partner companies Local communities Environment · CEO leadership · Health & nutrition · Ethical · New product · Product safety · Human resource · Fair & transparent · Social contribution · Green · Management management development & quality cultivation selection strategy management principles & vision · Transparent · New market · Consumer · Fair personnel · Win-win · Social contribution strategy · Sustainability management development satisfaction management & partnership initiatives · Initiatives management Compensation · Local communities to reduce strategy · Family-friendly development environmental · Sustainability management · Communication footprint management policies with local · Environment performance · Employee welfare communities protection monitoring · Stakeholder High opinion gathering · CSR through products · Corporate · Society · Fair transaction · Business strategy · Product · Information · Talented employee · Transaction with · Employee governance & win-win · Brand values competitiveness provision recruitment those practicing engagement growth reinforcement · Consumer · Respect for human sustainability · Marketing communication rights management strategy · Labor-management · Communication · Innovation of communication with partners distribution · Mutually beneficial Medium labor-management relations · Differentiated & Emerging corporate culture · Employee satisfaction · Workplace safety · Engagement · Eco-friendly · Compliance · Risk management · Strategic · Support for · Investment in in global initiatives / anticorruption framework partnership cultural environment · Non-financial risk · Process development · Response management innovation · Collaboration with to climate · Financial · Technology the government change performance development · Biodiversity · Value creation · Investment & distribution Expansion · Market competition · Price competitiveness 15 Pulmuone’s Whisper 2 _ Product <Blue Crab Champon>, <Sichuan Napjak Jijim <Right Cheese Hotdog>, Non-Fried Ramen Dumpling>, Dumpling with Popular Snack <Blue Crab Champon> is non-fried Spicy and Refreshing Taste for Kids ramen in seafood broth that has deep <Sichuan Napjak Jijim Dumpling> offers Pulmuone hotdog has acquired ‘quality and rich flavor. Pulmuone worked with an eating experience that starts with assurance for kid foods’ provided by genuine and passionate efforts to refreshingly spicy taste and then leaves the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. make great taste only with natural food deep flavor. Napjak Jijim (flat and fried) Right Cheese Hotdog tastes very sweet ingredients in order to deliver tastier Dumpling looks like fried pancakes, and soft because it is made of cheese and healthier ramen. easy and fast to cook as the dumpling sausage and bread with parmesan skin, with its flat shape, is not easily cheese that are free of chemical broken during cooking. additives. <Snow & Fruit Granité>, Healthy & Tasty Global <Half&Half>, Italian Ice Dessert Noodle Recipes Fusion Tofu Brand Granité is the French word for granite. Pulmuone launched a chilled noodle Responding to the growing interest <Snow & Fruit Granité> is an ice dessert brand for families to enjoy easy-to-cook in tofu, the traditional healthy food, in the shape of ice crystal which looks noodle recipes from across the globe. Pulmuone launched tofu hamburg like granite. It is traditional Italian ice Pulmuone Foods has a variety of healthy steak, tofu neobiani(Korean beef steak), dessert originated from Sicilly Island. and authentic noodle products based tofu sausage, tofu seon(traditional on traditional recipes of Italy, China, Korean dish) and other fusion dishes Japan and Korea. based on tofu. 16 Authentic Wholesome Foods Authentic Wholesome Foods for the Health and Happiness of All Pulmuone always remains faithful to its commitment to authentic wholesome foods. Since its inception, Pulmuone has invested tremendous efforts in making the right foods for consumers and carried out a range of initiatives to promote the values of authentic wholesome foods. 17 Authentic Wholesome Foods For Family Health & Happiness Pulmuone’s Authentic Wholesome Foods Authentic Wholesome Foods Pulmuone Efforts for Authentic Wholesome Foods Foods are absolutely essential element for survival of the mankind. They have a range of values in the aspects of survival, nutrition, taste, function, Healthy Foods Song for the authentic and psychological, emotional and social state. There is no fixed definition wholesome foods campaign or categorization as to what constitutes authentic wholesome foods, but Pulmuone has composed the Healthy Foods song that can be easily Pulmuone has come up with criteria of authentic wholesome foods that can remembered and sung along to raise awareness about authentic wholesome be widely accepted for health and happiness. foods not just for trust and safety but also for nutritional balance. The Healthy Foods song has been spread through mass media, education, [How We Define Authentic Wholesome Foods ] online, Pulmuone shops in retailers and employees. [Healthy Foods Song] 1 Foods free from harmful ingredients or additives, providing nutritional values coming from nature, helping prevent chronic disease, and resenting pleasure and happiness of the act of eating itself The right foods, taste from nature 2 Foods in consideration of health, nutrition, and the environment, The healthy foods, taste for health and therefore, worthy of trust and consumption A joy for my body good and right foods for us, hooray! 3 Foods that can promote physical/emotional Like’em all, round and cute soybeans Tofu, eggs, well-being and satisfaction crispy and munchy bean sprouts We get taller when eating them all Chew and eat’em, yum yum, so delicious! We can start for ourselves good and right foods Since its inception, Pulmuone has invested much time in thinking about what are authentic wholesome foods with determination to provide them for family health and happiness. Pulmuone will exert its best efforts, going forward, to measure up to the consumer expectation by producing ‘authentic wholesome foods’ with good taste and nutritional balance. 18 Authentic Wholesome Foods Nationwide campaign for authentic wholesome foods UCC contest & expedition project for authentic Pulmuone has worked to spread the campaign for authentic wholesome wholesome foods foods nationwide by leveraging a range of channels including mass media, Pulmuone has worked to build awareness about the importance of authentic education, online, retail shops and employees to wherever it needs to wholesome foods among the public by engaging consumers in diverse communicate the concept of authentic wholesome foods. projects. One of the best examples is ‘The Right Foods Expedition’, a project to reach children through expert trainers(e.g. fooducators, recreation lecturers) giving lectures on how to select healthy and wholesome foods. The curriculums are tailored to the taste of children such as reading fairytales with Broadcasting pop-up books on authentic wholesome foods, singing together the Healthy Foods song, and taking pictures with an right hotdog mascot. The UCC contest for the Healthy Foods song was to select the winners among those who had submitted their UCCs with unique vibe and character. Contestants showed their own rendition of the song with a newly arranged version and choreography. The contest aimed to spread the awareness of authentic TV broadcasters (KBS, MBC, SBS) wholesome foods by enabling the public to really think about and apply their Cable TV (drama/entertainment channels) own interpretation of what makes healthy foods. Education Online Shop Pulmuone worksites · Homeplus Culture · Promotion through · LCD at tofu · PDP at Pulmuone HQ, Center Pulmuone SNS channel /Muesli selves Pulmuone Health · Food for Change · Displayed at Pulmuone · LCD at 9 ORGA & Living, plants education website/e-shop directly operated shops · Corporate colorring · Education for Ministry · Campaign in · PDP ads at GS · Authentic wholesome of Edu/Nat’l Institute partnership with Daum convenience stores foods campaign and for Lifelong Edu · Mobile service /GS supermarkets corporate events for · Foodmerce worksite partnership · Radio ads at e-mart employees childcare center stores 19 Authentic Wholesome Foods Authentic wholesome Food diet Authentic Wholesome Foods for Pulmuone designs authentic wholesome food diets to make consumers Better Health & Nutrition healthier and offers them through Pulmuone e-shop, the online shopping mall of the company. By showing good examples of authentic wholesome ‘Nature is Delicious’Pulmuone non-fried healthy ramen food diets, it went beyond shouting empty slogans without actually Its noodles are not fried so compared to traditional fried counterparts they delivering it and offered concrete examples of healthy diet so that consumers have 90% less oil, 100kcal less and 0% saturation fat. Instead of making can easily understand the concept and come up with their own ways of spicy taste out of 7 synthetic additives(L-monosodium glutamate, artificial st having such diets every day. From December 3-16, 2012, ‘the 1 authentic flavor, silicon dioxide, sodium hydrogen carbonate, vitamin B1 hydrochloride, wholesome food diet’ was offered for 3 to 5-year-old kids. It displays healthy tricalcium phosphate, D-sorbitol), Pulmuone carefully selected and used only diets and recipes, and shows the foods list on the bottom so that when users natural food ingredients such as shiitake mushrooms, radish, onion, cabbage click on the items, they can be directed into the Pulmuone e-shop right away. and pepper to make the right flavor and taste for the ramen soup. Thanks to such efforts, the company’s sales went up 40% compared to the sales increase from special promotional events thrown at E-mart stores. Upon consumers’ request for additional information on fresh, healthy diet/recipe, Pulmuone is currently working on introducing the 2nd authentic wholesome food diet targeting one or two-member families. ‘Half&Half’ good food for nature & neighbors Half&Half products are based on tofu, low-fat and low-calorie chicken breast and vegetables high in dietary fiber and vitamin to replace high-fat and highcalorie beef or pork. Regular hamburger steak for one-person serving has 19g fat but one-person serving of Half&Half(160g) has fat as low as 2.1g, which is just one-ninth of regular hamburger. 1-person portion=160g Regular hamburger steak Half&Half Tofu Steak Calorie 310kcal 176kcal Fat 19g 2.1g Saturated fat 9g 0g Cholesterol 60mg 32mg Sodium 830mg 688mg CO2 2,376g 540g 20 Authentic Wholesome Foods E-fresh system Processed tofu Pulmuone has developed the E-fresh system which can create and Pulmuone has developed ‘authentic wholesome tofu nuggets’ based on tofu automatically control the most optimum environment to grow bean sprouts with less calorie compared to the conventional chicken nuggets to expand and green bean sprouts. The system has been designed to control the the range of tofu recipes. The authentic wholesome tofu nuggets also have oxygen/CO2 level within the airtight growing house for safe, fresh and surimi and shrimp added for superb taste while reducing calorie 15-45% and healthy (green) bean sprouts. It filters the air going into the growing house saturated fat 50-70% compared to the regular chicken nuggets. To further in order to maintain oxygen and CO2 at the most optimum level fit for the expand the market for processed tofu, Pulmuone has launched ‘Tofu Seon’ growth stage of the sprouts. It naturally removes the green bean sprout head which faithfully follows the traditional tofu-seon(a tofu dish variety by mixing so that consumers can enjoy green bean sprouts without any concern. tofu with beef, pepper, mushroom and egg, usually cooked for the royalty) recipe based on ‘Jeonsun mussang sinsik yorijebup(the Unparalleled Recipe Pulmuone Natural Egg healthy eggs from happy hens Book for Chosun Dishes)’, which had been transmitted by word of mouth. Pulmuone has adopted the animal welfare system for safe and clean 1) The Unparalleled Recipe Book for Chosun Dishes A recipe book for Korean dishes written by Uikwan Yong-Ki Lee, published in 1924 breeding of hens. The animal welfare system has been designed to create an environment where animals can live with humans in healthy and happy co[Calorie/saturated fat contents in 100g of major nugget products in Korea] existence. Thanks to such efforts, Pulmuone’s natural eggs have all acquired Calorie(Kcal) Saturated Fat(g) the animal welfare accreditation from the Animal and Plant Quarantine 180 Pulmuone 1.9 Agency. 251 Company A 3.9 210 Company B 4.9 Describe a chicken coop built by Pulmuone. What is it like? 329 Company C 7 Chicken coop structure Have one perch per hen to accommodate hens’ behavior with sand, rice hulls and GAP(Good Agricultural Practices) for agricultural sawdust on the floor for them to enjoy a sand bath. product safety In 2012, the farm products collection and delivery center of Foodmerce was Hen density Make sure the number of chickens per 3.3㎡ does not exceed 15 designated as GAP. After that, Foodmerce improved its internal product to reduce claustrophobic stress. traceability tracking system, and reinforced the scheme to manage GAP by grouping GAP farms into clusters. The GAP operation team of Foodmerce Ratio of female to male plans to provide only the verified agricultural products by progressively Grow hens along with roosters at the ratio of 15:1 applying GAP accreditation criteria. to produce natural fertile eggs. 2) GAP(Good Agricultural Practices): A scheme to manage risk factors including residues of pesticide, heavy metal, or organisms with adverse effects in agricultural products throughout the cycle from production and harvesting to packaging in order to provide safe and sanitary agricultural products 21 Authentic Wholesome Foods Complete labeling of ingredients Alien substance management Pulmuone has introduced a new complete labeling of ingredients system As one effective way to provide authentic wholesome foods, Pulmuone which mandates to disclose all additives and multiple food materials on collects information on metal/non-metal alien substances per production the product labels to enhance consumer understanding, and also displayed plant in order to prevent alien substances from getting into products and the information on its website and products. This is to facilitate an intuitive enhance product safety. Metal detectors and X-ray detectors were installed understanding on the ingredients and their contents, while explaining the in each production plant, and a separate inspection is undertaken to detect usage of unfamiliar ingredients and additives. At its website, Pulmuone metals and non-metals that can get into the products at the production sites. also offers an updated food materials dictionary to give an easy access to The inspection results are included in the Pulmuone database. If any process information on additives and food materials. is revealed to have the risk of contaminating products, Pulmuone immediately get off to improve the production process to block alien substance at the source. These are some of the strenuous efforts Pulmuone exerts to ensure Before After only the authentic wholesome foods in a safe and reliable manner. Encyclopedic Together with information only explanation on usage ORGA Whole Foods – cooking class ORGA Whole Foods has opened classes on eco-friendly recipes cooked with in-season food materials. Fresh seasonal foods and eco-friendly materials of ORGA without additives are used during cooking classes where customers can taste and get to enjoy healthy foods. The cooking classes of ORGA Whole Foods are given on a regular basis where a professional lecturer teaches culinary know-hows so that class takers can make easy and simple dishes at home. In last April, there was a class named ‘a taste bud journey to Italy with eco-friendly ORGA foods’ where traditional Italian recipes were shared, and in May ‘plum cooking class’ was organized to make dishes based on plums. In addition to that, ORGA bakery also held a cooking class in October where both adults and children can make muffins and breads together. 22 Pulmuone’s Whisper 3 _ Women/Youth Talk Concert for Health Lecture on Menopause Happy Turn of Life Pulmuone Health & Living led the campaign Greenche Rose & bean soo, Pulmuone’s for healthy menopause in partnership with health supplement brand for menopausal the Korean Society for Menopause. The women, sponsored a talk concert for middlehealth lectures were held in November, the aged women dreaming for beautiful and month of menopause, to root for women healthy life. The concert gave 30 women having hard time due to menopause and who had wanted to be singers in their youth introduce healthy right foods to help them the moment when their wildest dream cope with the emotionally draining challenge comes true by giving them an opportunity to better. perform on a stage like a professional singer. <Eatsslim> for Weight Loss LOHAS Academy, Authentic Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome & Good Diet Wholesome Food Summer Camp Pulmuone sponsored <Stop Metabolism Pulmuone has introduced a healthy diet LOHAS Academy which offers Pulmuone Syndrome Zero Zero Metabolism Syndrome> program that helps people lose weight people trainings and various camps organized campaign which was first designed by the without the need of skipping a meal or a camp for community youths during summer Korean Women’s Environmental Network for snacks. The Eatsslim Package is a customized vacation to educate them on healthy foods. more citizens to experience the campaign diet service with 1,200 kcal in total designed Participating children learned the right and with the aim of raising awareness about for women, especially, who want to lose healthy dietary habit while taking part in what metabolism syndrome is and how weight while maintaining a healthy lifestyle. a farm program where they get to feel the severe it can be. importance and gifts of nature. 23 Sustainability Management Sustainable Growth into Lush Green Tree Pulmuone is a LOHAS leader that pursues healthy life and sustainability of society and environment. LOHAS values which care both human and nature become seeds that make Pulmuone grow into strong lush trees. 24 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Company introduction Pulmuone Foods Pulmuone Foods started off with its packaged tofu business in 1984. The company has been consistently loved ORGA Whole Foods and recognized by consumers with As the leader in Korea’s organic market, almost half of its products including ORGA Whole Foods takes great tofu, vegetables and dressings holding responsibility in employing organic and no. 1 market share in their respective natural farming methods to preserve food category. ECMD the natural nutrients in food materials ECMD operates a wide range of food and produce only the healthy and services spanning from contract meal ‘whole foods’, which can enhance the service to concession, restaurants at dietary lifestyle of its consumers. ORGA resting stops and food delivery. Pulmuone Waters carefully selects foods people can be Pulmuone Waters has been a pioneer reassured to buy and cook for their in the bottled water business in Korea. loved ones. In 1986, it launched its bottled water Pulmuone business for the 1st time in Korea and Health & Living since then, has remained as frontrunner Pulmuone Health in the market with the determination to Foodmerce provide only ‘the honest water for my & Living contributes Foodmerce provides services specialized family’. Recognized for its superb quality greatly to consumer health by in food materials including selection and best service, Pulmuone Waters incorporating Pulmuone principle on of fresh and safe food materials for has entrenched its position as leader authentic wholesome foods with its consumers and provision of sanitary in Korea’s bottled water market after expertise and focus on food functions, safety services to improve foods, health signing a partnership with the worldand wrap those properties altogether to and environmental hygiene. renowned company, Nestle Waters in introduce a range of health functional foods, fresh drinks, and baby foods. January 2004. 25 Sustainability Management Key Performance Index Economy 2012 Plan 2012 Milestone 2013 Plan Champion · New business domains / channels expansion · YoY sales increase · More effective implementation of authentic · Marketing/New Business organizations · Price competitiveness by making sourcing New product and business drive wholesome food principle with Plan/ drive new product/ biz projects more efficient (overseas sourcing, etc) · Diversification of product portfolio and new product roadmaps · Food Culture Research Institute · Stronger brand / communication Expansion of sales through overseas sourcing · New item/channel development and expansion Develop new products with differentiated merits · Establishment of brand structure and · Platform building for further business growth · Strategic Sourcing Division reinforcement of authentic wholesome · Product diversification and price Improve sourcing efficiency / price competitiveness food communication competitiveness by finding new sourcing · Brand Management Committee companies Drive brand value enhancing initiatives · Reestablishment of brand structure · Strategic Planning / Management Support Divisions & further development of brand business Establish strategic direction and business plan · Stronger R&D capability · TISO Management office Establish culture for innovation Society 2012 Plan 2012 Milestone 2013 Plan Champion · Authentic wholesome food initiatives · A social enterprise established to effectively · Better & more effectively integrated · Driven at group level · Contribution to local communities promote authentic wholesome food campaign communication of authentic wholesome food Drive authentic wholesome food campaign · Voluntary fair trade compliance · Authentic wholesome food education provided · Better practicing of LOHAS dietary lifestyle at group level · Consumer satisfaction management (nurseries, kindergartens) · Sustainable employee volunteering · Social Contribution Team · Healthy diets offered (contract meal service worksites) · Trainings for WET(Water Education Teacher) activities (LOHAS designer) Plan/drive social contribution initiatives · Systemic operation of employee volunteering activities · Voluntary fair trade compliance · Management Support office / Audit Team · Fair Trade Commission Chief Award, selected as CP · Consumer satisfaction management · CS center (Compliance Program: voluntary fair trade compliance) · WET program to be expanded nationwide · Pulmuone Waters -grade best practice company · CCM (Consumer Centered Management) accreditation · A total of 67 sessions of water environment class Environment 2012 Plan 2012 Milestone 2013 Plan Champion · Expand low-carbon products · Organic tofu designated as green product · Expand eco-friendly process/products · ES(Environment & Safety) Office · Expand eco-friendly packaging · Registered as KVER · Energy / water consumption reduction Develop environment safety policies · Green accreditation for worksites (Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction) · Proactive reduction of carbon emissions and monitor enforcement · Sanitary project expansion · More product lines certified as organic · More volunteering for the environment · Usage of LED lightings · Designated to measure subway air quality · Zero accident campaign for safe management by Seoul Metropolitan Rapid Transit Corporation · LED lighting used for main signages /menu boards 26 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management Mission & Vision Organization Mission CEO LOHAS(Lifestyle Of Health And Sustainability) represents a lifestyle that strives for health and Head Holdings Strategy Officer sustainability of society and environment. It is Advisory & Manager Head of Finance and accounting the reason for being and the ultimate long-term Validation IPS Coordinator Manager of Coporate Management Team *IPS: The Institute aspiration, and also signifies the determination for Industrial Policy of the company to care for both human and Studies nature, the concept which encompasses not only TISO Economic Environmental consumers but also employees, communities and Introduction anagement performance Social Performance Performance the environment. · Corporate · TISO Management · Corporate Customer Employee Partner company Local community Mangement Office Management · CS center · HR Team · Strategic · PR Team · ES Office Team · Audit Team Team · Food Culture · ER Team Sourcing · Audit Team · Accounting Dept. Research Division Mission · Risk Management · TISO Management Institute Pulmuone Committee Office LOHAS company Holdings caring for both · Food Culture human and nature Research Institute · Brand Management Vision Committee Global DP5 (Defining Pulmuone) Pulmuone MIT, HR Support Team, Corporate Management Dept., Business Support Team(Exofresh Logistics) Vision Foods Pulmuone aims to reap KRW 5 trillion in sales Foodmerce Strategic Planning Team, Management Support Team from its domestic and overseas businesses by redefining its LOHAS business. It aspires to ECMD Strategic Planning Team develop into a true LOHAS company recognized Pulmuone Health & Living Corporate Management Team worldwide after firmly establishing itself as the ORGA no. 1 company in Korea whose brands receive Whole Corporate Management Team Foods full trust from consumers. Pulmuone Waters HR&GA, Marketing Team 27 Sustainability Management Economic Value Creation & Distribution Pulmuone distributes economic value it has created among consumers and local communities through both responsive and strategic CSR. Responsive CSR Carbon reduction activities for the environment ‘We Are Angels’ campaign st Pulmuone, for the 1 time in Korea, developed eco-friendly packaging Pulmuone organized Greenche Health Advisor and launched a campaign materials to be used in its tofu products. The said eco-friendly materials have where it matches one Health Advisor with one child in Korea. The Health 75% less residual chemicals and 9% lighter weight, and will be used for Advisor gives out KRW 60,000 monthly to the child to support his/her daily noodle and green juice products. Pulmuone has also received the low carbon livelihood. Eleven children in various areas (e.g. Gimhae, Samsan, Tongyeong, accreditation for its 4 organic tofu products, which is a noteworthy feat for Joongang, Shinbupyeong, Seobusan) were able to hold a warm and caring the product group. It has been recognized for reducing 165 tons of CO2 tie with supporters during the 1st campaign rollout. emissions per year with the positive impact of planting 58,000 trees on the land whose size is equivalent to 27 soccer stadiums. Strategic CSR SNS campaigns for social contribution ‘Food for Change’ established to support Pulmuone worked hard to fulfill its social responsibilities through sustained the authentic wholesome food campaign social contribution activities in 2012. It leveraged the social networking Pulmuone established a social enterprise named ‘Food for Change’ as a service especially to encourge wider engagement of consumers. Marking the champion to mobilize resources and implement its authentic wholesome World Food Day on October 16th, Pulmuone launched the SNS campaign food campaign. ‘Food for Change’ is a social enterprise in the form of nontitled ‘I ♥ Ghana, the Promise of One Meal!’ profit corporation specialized in food campaign and education for the Those who shared the cause uploaded a right dietary lifestyle. Pulmuone supported its establishment in partnership posting or a picture on the ‘one meal they with the Hope Institute in October 2011. The company commissioned want to share’ with children in Ghana on out the implementation and promotion of its long-term food campaign Facebook, Twitter or their blogs, and when to ‘Food for Change’. For an effective undertaking of the campaign, those pictures and postings reached 500, ‘ fooducators(food+educator)’ were trained to be dispatched to schools where Pulmuone donated KRW 10 million to the they give education to students on the concept of authentic wholesome food supply campaign for children in Ghana. foods, food ingredients/nutrients labeling and expiry dates. 28 Sustainability Management Pulmuone Foundation – establishment & operation 'Donation by Water(水) Guardian Angel' event Pulmuone established the Pulmuone Foundation in order to undertake its at ORGA e-shop CSR/social contribution initiatives in a more professional and structured way. Marking the UN World Water Day, ORGA e-shop held ‘ Water(水) Guardian Authentic wholesome food, environment, contribution to local communities, Angel’ event in association with UNICEF. The event was organized to mecenat have been designated as priority areas for the foundation. Pulmuone encourage people to become guardian angels of water, promoting plans to donate 0.1% of the sales coming from ‘Love for Earth’ products (Love sustainable water consumption and water resources preservation to protect for Earth Fund) along with the money from its Love for Neighbor Fund. the earth running short of water. Around 1% of the company sales was donated to UNICEF, and eco-friendly laundry detergent/water bottles were offered at 30% and 10% discounts respectively to stimulate more purchasing of eco-friendly household items. There was also a luck-draw event where 5 event participants received eco water bottles as gifts. WBD (Well Balance Day) for health-conscious & eco-friendly diets ECMD offers low-sodium diets for better consumer health. When deciding Brand Management food menus, the company uses eco-friendly food materials while providing nutrition information of the diet based on in-season agricultural products Every year, Pulmuone undertakes its brand equity management survey produced in Korea and bean protein. When based on this diet, one meal to measure the brand equity of the company. The survey results have contains no more than 2,000mg sodium, which is significantly lower consistently improved every year up until 2011, which confirms that compared to the typical traditional diet whose sodium amount is usually consumers are feeling more affection and trust toward the Pulmuone brand. higher than 3,200mg. To spread the healthy diets, ECMD designates every Brand loyalty and brand equity of competitors have also risen but the extent rd 3 Friday as ‘ Well Balance Day’ to implement the low-sodium diet. of increase for Pulmuone is far bigger compared to other brands. *The brand equity survey in 2012 did not take place due to Pulmuone’s efforts to redefine its brand structure. The survey is surely scheduled to be taken in March 2013 when the brand restructuring endeavor would be complete. 29 Sustainability Management Innovative & Creative Management Better work efficiency [Best ideas submitted to Irumi innovation]] & performance through Irumi innovation Status Irumi innovation is a channel where ideas for In 2012, Pulmuone focused on reinforcing the authentic wholesome food check campaign, work improvement can be submitted. It was, and as a result, about 110 related ideas were submitted to Irumi for execution. on the first stage, operated only in Pulmuone Holdings and Pulmuone Foods, but was Idea extended to cover the whole company group in For the promotion of the Healthy Foods Song and events 2011 to focus on synergy creation through idea exchange among businesses or work areas. To Description achieve this aim, employees in charge of Irumi What about using Pulmuone e-shop and blogs as channel to upload UCC of singing the Healthy innovation were invited to engage in monthly Foods Song together? If employees and consumers participate in the event, there will be great workshops at the early stage. synergy effects. Contents can show nursery teachers and families singing together the Healthy Outside experts have also been invited to give Foods Song. If a fun factor can be added into the UCCs, then they surely can facilitate interest from creativity education along with internal training consumers while raising awareness about the intent of Pulmuone’s authentic wholesome food for frontline workers every two months. Aside campaign. from these endeavors, quarterly events with various contents were organized to facilitate Execution voluntary engagement by employees. Such Organized an internal UCC production team to generate various contents efforts on various levels paid off with a total of from stories to filming (different versions featuring new employees 10,213 proposals submitted since 2012, which (male/female) / executives / citizens / Korean traditional music or kids) is approximately 125% increase from 4,550 Uploaded the UCCs at online sites to spread the contents ideas submitted in 2011. Among them, ideas The Expedition Project and UCC contest for consumers for execution & management improvement Audio ads at offline stores recorded 1,218 cases, taking up 12% out of the total, and 671 ideas were fully implemented. 30 Sustainability Management Green Meeting, innovative tool to solve CBI When ideas submitted to Irumi are selected as CBI(Critical Business Issues), which means issues that have to be solved first for innovation to take place, at the monthly review, Green Meeting is held as a follow-up to find the optimum solution to the issue. [Best Green Meeting Initiative] Add authentic wholesome foods to camping! Submit Implementation Irumi Green Meeting Sales/promotion for camping people Team name : Endorphing (endorphin + camping) 1 Those who enjoy camping are on the increase with 1 Camping market definition, competitor/company analysis the wider introduction of 5-day work week 2 Research on campers (qualitative / quantitative research) 3 Food needs analysis 2 Foods are just essential for camping, and therefore, 4 Healing camp cooking contest with authentic wholesome foods there can be many opportunities if such trend can be 5 Recipe creation specialized in camping and cooking suggestion fully utilized. by using Pulmuone products 6 Camping product sales via Pulmuone e-shop 3 Have a product category fit for camping with new and online shopping mall products targeting campers in 20s to 30s 4 Review sales channels and consider promotions leveraging younger campers 31 Sustainability Management CR activity results [CR performance for 2012] [CR initiatives in operation for 2012] CR(Cost Reduction) activities in 2012 focused on enhancing product Unit: KRW Mil. cost structure with CR managers proactively taking top-down initiatives 16% 46% and TF(Task Force) initiatives implemented across the company. This has 9,678 111 cases 8,000 96 cases made implementing cross-functional tasks and creating actual financial 6,639 performance. [Excellent tasks and results (KRW 100 mil.)] Improvement in paper Cost reduction by Higher manpower efficiency 2011 Performance Estimate 2011 Performance Estimate box materials, size and improving Muesli mix by consolidating chinese for 2012 for 2012 production process of ratio and production style food and fermented Cup Ice process sauce production lines Box delivery/storage system 6.4 9.3 2.3 The box delivery/storage which was only possible via PDA within Pulmuone’s Umseong Logistics Center can now be handled via smart phone, enabling the logistics service can be properly offered to franchise stores and other retail stores Cost saving Lowering cost by outside the logistics center. Additional benefits include minimum box loss and by improving Cost making sorting process higher box recovery. coagulant spec. Reduction for soybeen simple for tofu curds 2012 4.6 5.4 Introduction/ Efficient Cost reduction PDA ▶SMART PHONE operation of semimanagement of for Half&Half automatic packaging manpower based on hamburger machinery resource analysis steak 3.2 1.9 2.8 32 Sustainability Management TISO Management Overview [TISO charter] TISO, Pulmuone’s core value, as platform for sustainability management TISO management charter TISO represents Pulmuone’s core values: Trust Starting point of the business: Customer for abiding by promises and rules, Integrity for 1. We shall do our best to fulfill customer's satisfaction. professional honesty for the proper performance 2. We innovate our products and services to be more customer-oriented. of one's duty, Solidarity for alignment of one's goal with the goal of the company, and Community: Ground of the Business Opennes for cooperation with an open mind. 1. We realize the spirits of loving our neighbors and respecting lives by spreading Pulmuone employees pledge to practice the the value of LOHAS. followings. To realize the core values, Pulmuone 2. We devote to the sustainability of the community through activities of social contribution and environmental preservation. has currently in place the ‘TISO management provisions’, ‘the employee conduct guideline for Business Partner: Collaborator of Business TISO management’, and ‘the guideline on report 1. We administer fair transaction with our business partners in an equal position. and reward for TISO management’. 2. We are against all types of unfairly obtained objects of bribes. Organization: Body to Drive Business 1. We passionately work with the responsibility of our task and roles. 2. We achieve the best performance through an active cooperation and innovation. Behavior of Pulmuone-people: Member of the Organization 1. We serve with a right mind. 2. We always strive for the best. 3. We maintain a healthy life. 33 Sustainability Management Activities & Outcome Lawsuit Status Pulmuone has been prosecuted by the Supreme Prosecutors’ Office for its Sustainable and practical organization culture by alleged violation of the Customs Act concerning its purchase of organic promoting best TISO practices beans from China, and is currently receiving a trial at the Seoul Central Starting from 2011, Pulmuone has collected best practices on TISO District Court. Pulmuone sourced the Chinese organic beans through a nd implementation through a companywide contest, which marked its 2 time legitimate route in the domestic market from an importer, and therefore, will in 2012. The contest is to build internal consensus for TISO practice and make faithfully go through the legal process to prove its innocence in that matter. the values alive in daily practices, rather than paying just lip services that only exist in documents and principles. The collected best practices serve as a good guideline and model for employees while being developed into employee training contents as a tool to build distinct organizational culture of Pulmuone. In 2012, a total of 72 good practices were gathered and 12 of them were selected as the best practices. In 2013 and onwards, Pulmuone will continue to compile more good practices into a casebook while utilizing a range of media (interviews, video clips) for sustained implementation of such practices. Holiday gift return With the determination not to receive any gifts from stakeholders, Pulmuone has communicated an official notice stating the gift banning policy before holidays since 2004. Gifts delivered against the notice are all returned and those that cannot be returned are put on an auction at less than 50% of their market price whose proceeds go to the ‘Love Neighbor Fund’. [Number of reports & value of returned holiday gifts] Unit : KRW 1,000 Year # of reports Value 2010 28 1,046,000 2011 19 1,439,000 2012 28 1,165,000 34 Pulmuone’s Whisper 4 _Employees The 4th C-Cubic Initiative Special Year-End Employee Dietary Consulting <Let's COHAS with C&U> Launched Sharing Party Program C-Cubic, an initiative joined by Pulmuone executives Pulmuone threw a special year-end party in 2012 with Pulmuone offers dietary consulting and employees to establish a sustainable and healthy unique events as part of its drive for social contribution. services to its employees and executives organizational culture’, commenced its 4th campaign Organized by C-Cubic, the corporate culture team, to prevent them from developing chronic titled <Let’s COHAS with C&U>. Pulmuone people had unforgettable time listening to the diseases such as obesity, hypertension lecture of Lee Jeong-Min, the famous broadcaster, and and diabetics. What’s C-Cubic? C-Cubic is a team established to make having fun at the magic concert. Pulmuone a creative space like a “cubic” where innovation flourishes and brilliant ideas come through. 35 Satisfaction Management Pulmuone dreams of a right world where everyone can find happiness. It strives to make consumers, employees, partner companies and communities happier through a range of efforts. A World for Everyone’s Happiness 36 Satisfaction Management Consumer Happiness Product Safety & Better Quality ECMD consumer safety & health provisions ECMD has bought the PL(Products Liability) insurance to provide indemnity Criteria for food safety management for any physical harm or damage to consumers caused by ECMD foods, and Pulmuone’s underlying principle for food safety management is to provide also the commercial general liability insurance to provide compensation to ‘Authentic wholesome foods for the health and happiness of all’. It has a damaged consumer due to facilities rather than foods and pay for injury defined the safety principles throughout the whole process from materials treatment, consolation and work loss. sourcing to production and distribution, and is making constant improvement Year 2011 2012 of the principles based on the latest research results. Payment from PL insurance 7 cases 4 cases PL coverage value KRW 7,193,300 KRW 4,000,000 Related Initiatives Cases covered by the commercial general liability insurance: None in 2011, 2012 Preventive measures for food safety Pulmuone Food Safety Center undertakes preemptive activities to make sure safety of all products from food materials to finished products. Its preemptive Consumer Communication measures include a hazard test on new hazardous materials, approval on such materials, Pulmuone criteria for approval, and safety check on related Pulmuone has opened its SNS channel to keep abreast with the recent social products and materials in accordance with the latest regulations home and changes such as the ubiquitous usage of social media and smart phones. The abroad. In 2012, the food safety was monitored for 15 times with more than company has opened accounts in Twitter and Facebook. This has enlarged 6 times of internal management process design and monitoring. channels for VOC(Voice of Customer) in addition to phone and the homepage. In 2013, Pulmuone plans to start CEM(Customer Experience Management) Food safety verification during shelf life leveraging SNS to further expand consumer communication channels. To verify product safety before the expiry date, Pulmuone Waters conducts food chemistry/microbe tests annually after categorizing random brands and Pulmuone Waters consumer right to know product groups into 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month products. Products Pulmuone Waters displays its water analysis reports at all of its plants to share over their expiry dates have to be verified for their safety by independent its rigorous quality management efforts and guarantee consumer right to know verification agencies semi-annually. In coordination with such efforts, about its products. In addition to the water analysis test results, results of the Pulmuone also collects its products in the market once a year to verify and radioactive test and the environmental hormone test on containers are also on monitor their safety. display to make sure consumers have a full access to necessary information. 37 Satisfaction Management Pulmuone Holdings VOC(Voice Of Customer) ECMD VOC traffic light system for improvement management ECMD greatly enhanced its frontline customer services through initiatives VOC of Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Health & Living and Pulmuone Waters fully incorporating consumer feedbacks in 2012. The company identifies VOC are all managed by Pulmuone Holdings. The total number of VOCs submitted issues on a weekly/monthly basis to increase the sensitivity of employees to as of the late December 2012 recorded 119,680 cases, which is 2% decline VOCs, which has helped reduce the wait time of consumers at the Gapyeong from 122,355 cases in 2011. A VOC analysis revealed, inquiries about resting stop restaurant. In 2012, 66 sessions of service mind education were distribution, distribution complaints and e-shop distribution increased 4%, offered by the Service Academy along with the Happy Call initiative which 37%, and 3% respectively, whereas product inquiry and product complaints provides feedbacks to all consumers who filed complaints in less than 72 decreased 26% and 16% respectively. hours. The plan for 2013 is to introduce the traffic light VOC management Ongoing efforts for innovation are thought to be the biggest reason for system to preempt complaints of high frequency. the decrease in product inquiry and product complaint. External factors to bring about such decline include change in consumer awareness, consumer [Details of VOC complaints in 2012] education and campaigns by relevant agencies like the Korea Consumer Type Menu Hygiene Service Agency and NGOs. # of complaints 68 cases 10 cases 47 cases Cause of Lack of menu Alien substance Lack of service [Number of filed VOCs] 2010 95,072 complaints diversity and taste, mind, Delayed 2011 122,355 sold-out response to 2012 119,680 consumers Pulmuone Foods consumer communication based on Foodmerce online customer center improvement integrated marketing information To offer customers an information access without constraints of time Pulmuone Foods designated marketing managers as information managers or place, Foodmerce established its online customer center(information to reduce customer grievance and manage increasing customer needs. system) upgraded on a regular basis. For prompt responses to customers, Information managers compile and integrate consumer feedbacks and the company developed a dashboard for efficient handling of work and marketing information on a weekly basis and report a summary to the CEO higher customer satisfaction. It also provides hygiene support services for proactive improvement. Thanks to such efforts, the number of submitted to raise customer awareness and prevent food-poisoning incidents, and VOCs in 2012 posted 14,408, which is a 7.3% decrease from 15,543 in designs differentiated hygiene monitoring points for babies and kids who are 2011. Especially, VOCs for product inquiry and complaints declined 7.2% and especially vulnerable to food-poisoning risk. Its service tool has been digitized 18.2% respectively majorly driven by quality stabilization of newly launched from paper documents to tablet PCs for more prompt feedbacks, which products. VOCs for distribution inquiry, distribution complaints, other helped boost the average hygiene score of customers by 9.5 points from suggestions or inquiries increased 11.4%, 30.0% and 23.4% respectively. 66.9 to 76.4 points. 38 Satisfaction Management Consumer Satisfaction Consumer Info Protection & Compliance CCM accreditation for the 1st time in food industry Personal information protection Pulmuone Foods succeeded in receiving CCM(Consumer Centered Pulmuone deems consumer information protection highly important, and Management) re-accreditation in 2012 after its initial accreditation in 2011, strictly abides by the standard personal information protection offered by the formerly recognized for its dedication to consumer satisfaction. CCM Ministry of Security and Public Administration and the personal information accreditation clearly shows the company’s commitment to consumers in all of protection provision under the Act on Promotion of Information and its management activities, going beyond having them just as formalities. Communications Network Utilization and Information Protection. In accordance with its personal information protocol, Pulmuone informs consumers about the purpose and method of the personal information utilization and the measures the company takes to protect such personal information. CSI(Customer Satisfaction Index) Pulmuone Health & Living internal review on its ads The CSI score for 2012 recorded 84.5 points, 0.6 point higher than Health functional foods have to go through a review by the Korea Health 83.9 points in 2011. Apart from the complaints regarding baby formula Supplements Association as mandated by relevant laws before distributing distribution by Pulmuone Health & Living and slight decline in the online contents, packaging, leaflets and ads on the products. As for packaging connectivity convenience index of Pulmuone Waters, all of the other indexes labeling and promotional leaflets, the ads review committee of the company improved. In 2012, the phone monitoring score of Pulmuone went up by 1.1 conducts an internal review on the ads before they are delivered to consumers. from 95.2 of the previous year to 96.3, recognized for its superb frontline service. Going forward, the company will give a closer and detailed look to capture changes in consumer demographics and their needs to have befitting evaluation standards in place, and better its frontline service capability for online contents higher customer satisfaction. packaging [CSI scores] 2010 2011 2012 Korea Health 87.4 83.9 84.5 Supplements Association leaflets and ads 39 Satisfaction Management Product & Service Info Disclosure Pulmuone Waters mineral contents displayed on the label & Outcome To confirm the mineral contents in products of Pulmuone Waters and the appropriateness of labeled information, Pulmuone waters receives verification Labeling functional properties of products inspection from the Korea Basic Science Institute twice a year in parallel with The functional properties contained in Pulmuone products are clearly another verification by PTC(Production Technology Center) under Nestle displayed on the labels. Pulmuone works to discover functional properties Waters annually. All of its products passed the inspection and were verified of general products and measures health benefits of its products. The to have appropriate and accurate information on the labels. label shows the ‘actual’ test values instead of theoretical value as a way to increase product credibility and deliver accurate product information to consumers. Among the products newly launched or renewed in 2012, We Love Cabbage & Broccoli(sulforaphane), Khan Love Angelica Utilis Makino & Hovenia(polyphenol), Tastier Bean Sprouts(isoflavone) have functional properties clearly written on the products. [Products with functional properties on their labels] Criteria development for sodium, calorie, nutrients Sodium is an essential nutrient for foods but over consumption of salts can have adverse effects. Pulmuone defines criteria for nutrient contents in products so that it can check products with high sodium and calorie at the designing stage. Products that had already been launched but have relatively high sodium/calorie were redesigned to have lower sodium/calorie by improving their production process. This is another way of practicing Pulmuone vision to provide food products with palate pleasure and good nutrients. 40 Satisfaction Management Employee Satisfaction Employment Policy Employment creation & turnover rate The job creation rate for 2012 posted 11.6% with the monthly turnover rate Employment policy & status on average recorded 2.02% which shows employment in Pulmuone has Under the fair and equal employment principle, there is no discrimination been stabilized. Years at work have been on the increase to reach 5.3 years in Pulmuone against women or the physically challenged when recruiting, as of the late 2012 with the top managers accounting for 0.7% out of the hiring and treating its employees, and the company makes strenuous efforts total employees. to protect human rights of its employees. Communication is valued when managing the labor-management relationship to create mutual benefits, Employment status balance between life and work is promoted to stabilize the life of employees, Year 2010 2011 2012 and systemic supports are provided for employees to practice the LOHAS Employment Total number of employees(people) 4,450 4,753 4,968 way of life through a LOHAS program where employees can have a chance Proportion of the management(%) 0.81 0.82 0.7 to experience it. Years in employment(yrs) 5.2 5.2 5.3 Job creation rate 6.9% 6.8% 11.6% Executives & Employees Temporary employment rate 12.2% 12.2% 11.1% As of the late 2012, the number of executives and employees in total is 4,968. Majority of them are working at offices, sales frontline/planning and Turnover Turnover rate(%) 1.92 2.34 2.02 production/logistics. The male and female workers are 2,200 and 2,768 Female Total share(%) 56 55 56 employees Share in office workers / 30 31 34 respectively with female workers accounting for 56% of the total. In the office work and research centers, female employees take up 34%, which researchers(%) shows female workers are fairly distributed across all job posts. Higher than managers(%) 15 14 18 Physically challenged Share in employment 0.6% 0.6% 0.5% Maternity leave # of employees on 85 77 65 maternity leave(people) 2012, the number of executives and Utilization rate(%) 100 100 100 employees female workers Return to work after 92 99 97 in total maternity leave(%) 4,968 56% · Turnover rate (average monthly turnover ÷ average monthly number of employees) X 100 · Job creation rate (employees for the year – employees for the previous year) ÷ employees for the previous year X 100 41 Satisfaction Management Performance management & compensation Employee Education Welfare benefits Talent development & growth Pulmuone offers a range of employee welfare programs to help employees To develop and nurture talents, Pulmuone has introduced the three-track feel fulfillment at work in an exciting work environment. In September 2012, learning process(company-initiated, field work-based, self-initiated) for its Pulmuone started to offer gifts to employees with two more childbirth while employees. In 2012, the company-initiated learning process to help new supporting childcare expense for employees with disabled children, and employees learn about work and new environment, and the field workexpenses of lifecycle events like marriage and funeral. To safeguard health based learning curriculum designed to fit the characteristics of each affiliate of its employees, Pulmuone also support health check-ups of employees were improved to reinforce the training contents of the Service Academy. aged 40 years or higher along with supports for buying insurance riders for Key talents and professionals have opportunities to reinforce their expertise employees. Down the road, the company will continue to increase employee and capabilities through the self-initiated learning track designed for each benefits and develop a distinct welfare system that helps the employees department. Across the Pulmuone Group, approximately 98% of workingenjoy the LOHAS way of life. level employees at business management/operation completed the course for knowledge workers which educates about the organizational values and Performance management & compensation based on culture. communication Pulmuone has CFS(Communication For Success) in place for performance management, which consists of evaluation on achievements and capabilities, reflecting different job characteristics in its evaluation items and elements. 98% The primary objective of CFS is to generate good performance through completed the course proactive communication. for knowledge workers [CFS process] Plan company field work self 1) MBO -initiated -based -initiated Management By Objectives MBO1) Assess Action & Feedback & Monitor 42 Satisfaction Management Pulmuone Corporate Culture self-development such as buying books, traveling, and enjoying leisure and Corporate Culture cultural performance. GWP(Great Work Place) initiatives Starting from 2008, Pulmuone has been engaging in various activities to make the company GWP(Great Work Place). Recognized for its relentless efforts to innovate its organizational culture, the company received a major award for sales/distribution at the Korea’s Great Work Place awards for 3 years in a row including 2012. In 2012, more activities for sustainable social growth were planned and undertaken including the campaign to check for authentic wholesome foods with the internal efforts to bring about more comprehensive and structured cultural initiatives by designating GWP Mentoring manager for each business unit. As part of the on-boarding endeavor for new employees, mentoring is provided every quarter for new entrants. It is open mentoring system where mentees can get to choose their own mentors. Mentees can choose those at different departments only. This is to release the burden when they have their direct superiors as their mentors and facilitate effective communication. For ongoing interaction, the Mentoring Day takes place semi-monthly with grants paid for mentoring activities of the month. The year 2012 had 28 people actively participating in mentoring activities up until the 3rd quarter, LOHAS experience programs and new entrants were able to comfortably settle themselves into the Pulmuone, as the leader of the LOHAS trend, encourage its people to adopt organization by taking part in various hobbies and learning programs. LOHAS values as their lifestyle and offers varied supports to employees. There are 3 types of support for LOHAS: First, Pulmuone eco-friendly products with high quality are offered to employees at discount to help its people and their families maintain healthier life with LOHAS diets. Second, they can go to the LOHAS Academy at least once a year where they can have a refreshing respite from daily grind. And lastly, employee welfare points are supported to be used freely by employees for their recreational activities or 43 Satisfaction Management Family-inclusive events Workplace Safety & Improvement Volunteering activities and plant tours where family members of employees can participate take place 3-4 times per year, and employees can send their Labor-management agreement on occupational safety children to youth camps at the LOHAS Academy where they can experience When new machinery is introduced, new workers are assigned to new jobs by a healthier lifestyle. All of these efforts increase their understanding and rotation, or employees are newly assigned to departments with potential risks, affection toward Pulmuone where their loved ones are working. Pulmuone offers safety education in accordance to the labor-management agreement. All worksites are briefed with safety and health management performances, sharing environment and safety trends or issues and monitoring employee compliance with safety and health rules. With regard to occupational safety, ECMD distributed special cut-proof gloves and slip-proof boots made of specialty rubber to its meal service worksites in order to prevent cuts/falls that can most frequently happen at meal-providing worksites. Safe behavior program To advise against unsafe behaviors and maintain safety awareness, the safe [Family-friendly programs] behavior program has been introduced to 4 production sites(Eumseong tofu, Eumseong fresh noodle, Doan green juice, Doan health functional food Program Description plants) based on communication and consensus. All employees’ education, Paternity leave Provide 5 days of leave for childbirth by spouse education for observers, workshop for safety managers, and the likes Nursery room Open an in-house nursery room for female workers with infants have been provided to spread safe practices across the company, and at Maternity/childcare Encourage female workers to take out maternity/childcare each worksite, observers generate a observation card on protective gears, leave guaranteed leaves upon their needs the return rate after maternity leave for 2012: 97%, tools/equipments, surrounding risks, and work postures twice per month childcare leave: 91% in accordance with the safe behavior, and attend the monthly observers’ Flexible work system Reduce work hours or offer flexible work regime (allow meeting. The data collected at the work fields are analyzed and utilized employees to come to work or leave at different time) when to design safety policies aimed at preventing unfortunate accidents. The employees have to take care of their babies progress and outcomes of such endeavors are shared at the ES(Environment Congratulatory for Pay congratulatory gratuity for employees’ childbirth, & Safety) working-level council convened every two months for structured childbirth or school entrance or primary/junior high school entrance of their children and sustained operation of the safe behavior programs. of employees’ children Child-raising allowance Pay a defined amount of monthly allowance per child to support childcare of female workers until their children become 24 months old 44 Satisfaction Management Zero accidents in 7 production sites [Occupational accident rate] Unit: % With the aim to have worksites free from industrial accidents, Pulmuone 1.4 ▒ Food production industry sets a target to have zero industrial accident for every worksite and is 1.2 ▒ Pulmuone waging no industrial accident campaign on a sustained basis by declaring 1.0 its commitment to safety. As a consequence, 7 production sites(Uiryeong 0.8 tofu, Eumseong fresh noodle, Eumseong sprouts, Doan health functional 0.6 food, Doan green juice, Saengguk farm, Shinsunatto plants) reached the zero 0.4 accident target. Especially Eumseong sprouts and Doan health functional 0.2 food plants have achieved 1,037 days of no accident as of December 31, 2012 after declaring the goal on March 1, 2010. Pulmuone gives out 0.0 2010 2011 2012 employee welfare points to all employees including contract workers at the zero-accident worksites, and out of the zero-accident worksites, selects *Cumulative figure as of Nov, 2012 – Occupational accident statistics by the Ministry of Labor. Occupational accident statistics for 2012 in its entirety scheduled to be released in Feb, 2013. one with the highest average compliance rate with ES audit and the best performance in energy/water consumption to award them with prize. Every year, it also selects an ES manager with remarkable commitment and [Absence rate] performance to give the best performance reward. Year 2010 2011 2012 Absence rate(%) 0.05 0.10 0.04 Occupational accidents, number of the injured, absence rate In 2012, 10 employees were injured at worksites with the absence rate of (*Absence rate: Total days of absence/total work days x 100) 0.04%. Pulmuone’s occupational accident rate up until November 2012 based on the statistics were 0.2%, which is 0.68%p lower than the food production industry average of Korea and 0.49%p lower than Pulmuone’ s occupational accident rate in 2011. This is the result of reinforcing environmental safety inspection and safety education for production sites, and successful implementation of safe behavior programs. In particular, the number of occupational accidents for promotional staff went down 53% from the previous year, a notable feat that was made possible thanks to ongoing site inspection for promotional staff who had been neglected, and frequent use of other methods such as accident analysis, campaigns, the zero accident campaign and safety message relays. 45 Satisfaction Management Labor Union Regime & Operation Communication between labor & management Pulmuone’s labor and management has interactive communication. Every Union member status year, they engage in collective wage agreement on working conditions and Pulmuone guarantees its workers the right of assembly. Each labor union environment. Other communication channels include the sales daily, periodic defines the qualifications and conditions of membership according to its meetings at the Labor Management Council, round-table meetings with CEO, own provisions, and those entitled to labor unions can freely join unions to the latest internal/external information on the intranet, corporate newsletter, carry out activities as members. In addition, those who are recognized as the Occupational Safety & Health committee, the grievance redress Pulmuone employees are fully allowed to establish a labor union themselves. mechanism, the sustainability report and communication with employees. Through these channels, Pulmuone people can share comprehensive Labor dispute information on management and corporate aspirations, which results in In 2012, 7 of Pulmuone worksites with labor unions had labor-union stronger ownership higher employee engagement. negotiations to revise the collective wage agreement, and the negotiations were all settled to the satisfaction of both sides without having single labor strike thanks to the enhanced mutual understanding. The better mutual understanding has been enabled by ongoing labor-management communication channels such as the Labor Management Council and the grievance redress system. The cooperative labor-management relationships will continue with sustained efforts of the company. [Union membership status] Plant type Doan green juice Doan health Eumseong fresh Chuncheon tofu Uiryeong tofu Pulmuone Waters Eumseong Total functional food noodle sprouts Union type Company-level Company-level Company-level Industry-level Industry-level Company-level Company-level head union FKCWU(Federation FKCWU of FKTU FKCWU of FKTU CTIU(Chemical and CTIU of KCTU FKTU FKCWU of FKTU of Korean Chemical Textile Industry Union) Worker’s Union) of of KCTU(Korean FKTU(Federation of Confederation of Korean Trade Unions) Trade Unions) Total(people) 82 76 149 90 74 117 53 641 Those qualified(people) 70 76 121 83 55 78 43 526 Union members(people) 69 66 121 25 23 23 16 343 Membership rate(%) 98.6 86.8 100 30.1 41.8 29.5 37.2 65.2 46 Satisfaction Management Partner Satisfaction Partner Selection, Partner assessment Assessment & Monitoring Pulmuone partners go through quantitative evaluation every year whose results are considered when having transactions with them for the following year. The The primary factors Pulmuone considers when selecting its suppliers is quality, quality evaluation system based on HACCP(Hazard Analysis and Critical Control hygiene, environment and safety. The suppliers who use eco-friendly materials Point), GMP(Good Manufacturing Practices), and ISO(International Organization and have green management practices in place are considered candidates for for Standardization) along with the company’s management scheme helps partner companies of Pulmuone, and for existing partners, Pulmuone conducts strengthen quality criteria and hygiene management. Pulmuone also makes periodic assessment where those with good practices receive extra points for a frequent visits to the department of partner companies in charge of relevant contract extension, encouraging them to enhance their social and environmental areas for on-site hygiene inspection and periodic quality improvement. In 2011, performances. In February 2012, Pulmuone signed an MOU(Memorandum Of especially, the hygiene evaluation regime for new partners led by the QM(Quality Understanding) with the Our Village, the non-profit job rehabilitation center Management) Office became more rigorous. located in Ganghwa island as part of its efforts to proactively fulfill its corporate social responsibility. The contract for bean sprouts supply is one of the best examples of Pulmuone driving mutual growth with its partner companies by transferring production know-hows such as bean sprouts growth technology, quality management and packaging methodology along with supplying products of higher quality and indirect job creation for the physically challenged. It serves as the best practice to drive mutually inclusive growth of partners. [Management per phase for sanitary evaluation in 2012] Evaluation Tools Level Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Requirement Food safety Consistent quality Response to competition 47 Satisfaction Management Win-Win Collaboration with Partners Pulmuone Best Partners’ Day, the round-table gathering Grievance redress for partners of partner companies Pulmuone leverages its sourcing portal(http://sp.pulmuone.co.kr) to Pulmuone organized an event for partners marking its Best Partners’ Day, ensure mutual trust with partner companies where it displays information which took place in the grand auditorium of Yonsei Engineering Research on the sourcing process of partner companies' manufacturing products Center in March, 2012 attended by about 57 partner companies and in accordance with principles of quality/green management and then upwards of 110 employees of the companies, which include partners of delivering the products to Pulmuone. If there is any difference in opinion, it Pulmuone Foods and Foodmerce. Under the slogan of “Together, but with is communicated through the sourcing portal primarily, and the submitted Different Competitive Edge”, the event served as a vehicle to build trust complaints and inconvenience of partner companies are handled as promptly and have communication on mutually beneficial collaboration and value as possible. For instance, if products made by partner companies fell short of creation. Participants delivered presentations on the examples of win-win the quality criteria of Pulmuone and returned to the producer, the number collaboration aligned with the principle of transparent management and fair of returned products and the reason are notified to the partner through transaction(TISO), listened to lectures on how to create values for inclusive the sourcing portal so that the partner can have accurate knowledge about growth, shared evaluation results of good partners and attended the award the product return and use the knowledge to prevent recurrence and make ceremony for those with best practices. Pulmuone Best Partners’ Day gave improvements. Pulmuone consolidated its sourcing portal with that of many fulfilling moments to make pledges to inclusive growth and commend Foodmerce in March 2011 and opened a window where partner companies the hard work of partner companies. can make suggestions and ask for improvements on a needs basis through free-flowing and interactive communication. 48 Satisfaction Management Community Satisfaction Social Contribution Structure Pulmuone surveys demands of local communities, plans new business related to its existing business scope, and selects an NGO as its business partner. After launching the business, evaluation follows to find rooms of improvement, which are reflected in the next year’s business plan. Milestones in 2012 & Major Tasks in 2013 [Milestones in 2012] [Major tasks in 2013] Establish an · Established and operated the Pulmuone Foundation Mission Contribute to society based on ‘love for neighbors’ entity dedicated as champion for Pulmuone CSR activities and ‘respect for life’ to create LOHAS community to CSR initiatives (Established in April 2012) and enhance its · Established and operated Food for Change, which is in charge CSR expertise of leading the authentic wholesome food campaign (launched in March 2012 / Established in July 2012) Strategy Lead initiatives for social Drive initiatives with Make community outreach contributions closely aligned contribution to community campaigns firmly rooted in with the corporate business development the corporate culture Spread the · Expanded the campaign target from primary schoolers to authentic include pre-schoolers, community residents, students and wholesome their parents Principle Respect for life Love for neighbors food campaign · A total of 254 sessions of training attended by 5,436 people in 2012 (191% YoY increase) Area Authentic Environment Contribution to Mecenat *Roll out the campaign more extensively in partnership with Food for Change wholesome food community · Extend the authentic · Facilitate the · Involve more people · Run business to wholesome food environment in CSR projects support Spread the social · Social enterprise naming contest (April), Aspiration check campaign business (partner companies, multi-cultural for ’13 contribution social enterprise idea contest (May) which was about children of families in checking the · Launch child employees) partnership with campaign through · ‘I ♥ Ghana, the Promise of One Meal!’ campaign for ingredients of food education on the Kimchi Museum SNS the World Food day (Oct) products to the environment · Structure CSR authentic businesses · Offer food education · Serial publication on social contribution: Authentic wholesome wholesome food for migrant women food education, LOHAS designer volunteering (Nov~Dec) campaign which · Involve more joint married to Koreans is about practicing champions for CSR the right dietary · Support Korean Facilitate · Homeplus: Shopping Carts of Life/Authentic Wholesome lifestyle traditional music performance joint business Food campaigns · Improve expertise with external of the authentic · E-mart: MOU for Authentic Wholesome Food Campaign wholesome food networks · Ministry of Education, Science & Technology: MOU on to make it the representative practicing authentic wholesome foods and education for business of the foods on table company 49 Satisfaction Management Social Contribution Initiatives [Curriculum per target (1.5 hour class)] Target Description ‘Goodbye, Atopy!’ campaign Pre-schoolers Nutrients, labeling, in-season food materials, Rendering support to treat children suffering from atopy is mid-to long-term theme gustation experience of Pulmuone. The company invited Dr. Hong, Hye-Geol to give a lecture titled Primary schoolers Labeling, ingredient name&content, additives, ‘health story doctors would never tell’ in May, and organized 10 sessions of the Eco nutrients, cooking class for nutrition balance Workshop on natural cosmetics and lifestyle goods, and their benefits in 4 of the Parents · students Experience education-Families purchase food materials themselves, ORGA Whole Foods stores in partnership with Women’s Solidarity for Environment. cook, prepare the table, and eat together with having conversations Community How to select the right foods for my family’s health and Collaboration with outside networks residents have the right dietary lifestyle to combat disease In collaboration with Homeplus and E-mart, Pulmuone is waging a joint social contribution business. As part of the ‘good consumption’ practice, Pulmuone joined force with Homeplus to organize the Shopping Cart of Life and the Authentic [Number of participants for authentic wholesome foods check campaign] Wholesome Foods Check campaigns. For the Shopping Cart of Life campaign, Pulmuone donates 1% of the profits it reaps from some items for a defined period 2011 2,843 91% of time to e-Blue Foundation in addition to the matching amount donated from 2012 3,398 1,867 60 111 Homeplus. This means 2% of the sales of certain items goes to support surgery Primary schoolers Pre-schoolers Parents Community of child cancer patients. Homeplus joined the Authentic Wholesome Foods • students residents Check campaign waged by Pulmuone to give relevant education in 60 of its lifelong learning schools. Pulmuone also signed an agreement with E-mart to jointly proceed with the Authentic Wholesome Foods Check campaign in June 1, and Shared value creation by Pulmuone Waters pledged to donate 1% of the sales of its promotional products to Food for Change Pulmuone Waters shares the value management defined by Nestle when it where the money can be spent to improve dietary habit of children. comes to dealing with the inevitable byproducts of the bottled water business including, for example, exhaustion of water resources, fossil fuel consumption, Check for authentic wholesome foods wastewater treatment, recycled products disposal, carbon emissions, and Pulmuone wages a campaign to educate both children and adults on by whom, possible conflicts with communities. To faithfully practice the shared value how, where the foods they eat are grown and how they can choose authentic management, Pulmuone Waters strictly follows provisions on quality, safety wholesome foods for their own health by giving trainings on how to check the and business credo while implementing sustainability management through labels and how to taste the foods. This is called the Authentic Wholesome Foods water management, ecosystem monitoring and environmental protection. It Check campaign. The company has also joined the character education campaign has also become a good neighbor to communities, creating shared values for initiated by the Ministry of Education, Science & Technology which is about teaching the company and the communities alike through the water campaign and the children across the country good manners at table and healthy dietary lifestyle. water quality preservation campaign. 50 Satisfaction Management LOHAS Designer, the employee volunteering corps [‘ Water Education Teacher’ training] Pulmuone has established the enterprise-wide social contribution corps Description Date Venue Attendees Sessions named ‘LOHAS Designer’ to wage employee social campaigns in a more WET leadership May 10 (Thrs) Gang-maeul green 30 2 structured way. Under the vision of ‘people committed to making sustainable training course library health for society and neighbors’, 51 volunteering teams were formed WET leadership Aug 21(Tues) Training center 41 10 across the enterprise to undertake volunteering activities in communities training course – 1 23(Thrs) commemorating the or social welfare centers for the underprivileged. In parallel with this, democratization movement other volunteering groups have been formed by employees themselves to WET leadership Dec 3(Mon) Cheonahn YMCA 20 7 training course – 1-1 4(Tues) training center wage activities such as planting trees, helping farmhouses, protecting the environment, providing lunch to the underprivileged children and others on a 19 sessions for 91 people in total regular basis. Pulmuone people are reaching out to others to spread warmth and love across society. Cultural Contribution Initiatives Sponsorship for 2012 Korean Traditional Music Performance Pulmuone sponsors the Korean Traditional Music Performance, marking its 9th anniversary in 2012. The music performance has been co-sponsored by 4 food companies who share the cause of develope and popularize Korean traditional music since 2004. Breaking the stereotype about Korean [Employee volunteering activities] traditional music being dull and boring, the performance sponsored by Year 2010 2011 2012 Pulmuone has done a great job in revealing the true beauty of what is real # of participants(people) 1,929 2,149 3,126 traditional music of Korea. Project WET (Water Education Teacher) Project WET is about training teachers who would teach students at water/ environment class where they learn the importance of water and the environment. Pulmuone Waters is working to expand the program to grow and nurture more future talents who have the heart for the environment. 51 Satisfaction Management Pulmuone Kimchi Museum Activities for inclusive growth With the commitment to continuing on the country’s rich culinary legacy, Pulmuone is carrying out various activities for sustainable growth inclusive of Pulmuone has run Kimchi Museum since 1986 to conduct research on the communities. The company introduced ‘Ganghwa Woori maeul bean sprouts’ most representative Korean food and promote the food outside Korea. produced in the Woori village, the social welfare entity, in the Ganghwa The museum is located on the second underground floor of Coex Mall, island, and had the launching ceremony on February 14, 2012. Ganghwa Samsung-dong, Seoul. The museum exhibits traditional tools and utensils Woori maeul bean sprouts are recognized as eco-friendly products grown to make Kimchi, and displays records and pictures about Kimchi to give by 60 intellectually challenged people working at the Woori village with the a comprehensive glance to history of Kimchi. It also offers a range of technological support from Pulmuone. Ganghwa Woori village produces educational programs for multi-cultural families and grandparents-children 1,500 bags of bean sprouts per day and 70 tons per year, contributing families as the life-long educational center for society. greatly to the job creation for the physically/mentally challenged. Pulmuone Pulmuone Kimchi Museum website www.kimchimuseum.co.kr also produces tofu products made of beans from Yeoncheon and Yanggu counties, thereby facilitating community economy and enhancing brand value of the region. Pulmuone’s effort is just about showing communities a Win-Win Growth with Communities new model for truly inclusive growth. Growth of distribution industry with local authorities ECMD for the underprivileged in Songpa In partnership with local authorities, Pulmuone make indigenous agricultural ECMD undertakes a range of initiatives for the underprivileged residents of products into food brands to facilitate growth of local farming communities. Songpa district after signing a joint agreement for sharing and volunteering. Pulmuone Foods signed an MOU on developing agriculture and food Under the agreement, LOHAS Designer Team distributes authentic industry of Korea with Yeongyang county in Gyeongbook province, and wholesome foods to 150 low-income households in Songpa district as part another agreement on producing and distributing fresh vegetables for of the ‘Happy Table’ project designed to pay warm attention to those who salads. Under the MOU, Pulmuone has pledged to rent a seedling raising had been neglected by our society. The company developed many social plant in Yeongyang county to produce fresh sprouts and vegetables. There contribution programs in collaboration with the Songpa District Office to are other types of pacts to build an eco-friendly production site for various provide free lunches to underprivileged or physically challenged children and agricultural products like fresh cut cabbages that are in high demand from seniors living alone while donating Pulmuone products on a regular basis for consumers. With the increasingly growing demand for fresh cut food the lowest-income families living on the government assistance. Signing the products, Pulmuone worked with difficulty to build production facilities, agreement surely shows the ECMD’s commitment to reaching out to those in but unfortunately there were not many good candidates to supply fresh need and promoting inclusive growth with communities. food materials. After much effort, Pulmuone has finally found the optimum geography for its production facility, and in the cutting-edge glasshouse production facility for water culture, Pulmuone is planning to develop and produce fresh cut food products in addition to the young sprouts. 52 Pulmuone’s Whisper 5 _Outreach Volunteer Programs 1 Stream for 1 Company <Blood Donation> <Happy Family Outing> 2012 Bazaar for Love To raise awareness about the importance to Spread Hope for Children with Physical <2012 Bazaar for Love> was held to of water resources and make nature and By waging the blood donation Challenges have heart-warming moments with our surroundings cleaner and sustainable, campaign, Pulmuone took one step Pulmuone sponsored the Happy Family community members and neighbors. Pulmuone launched its campaign to closer to its vision ‘Love for Neighbors’ Outing event where children with This year, especially, <Make a Wish> and clean up streams across the country. and ‘Respect for Life’. Through this physical challenges and their families <Food Cart of Love> were held in parallel Named as <1 Stream for 1 Company>, campaign, Pulmuone gathered 16 official can a good time mingling and sharing with the bazaar where neighbors got the initiative is a way for Pulmuone to blood donation registration cards from with each other by participating various together and shared affection with fulfill its social responsibility and duty as participants, all of which were donated games and fun programs. The company one another. LOHAS company which deeply cares for to Hanmaeum(One Heart) Blood Bank. also donated 2,000 lunchboxes and both human and nature. sent 15 LOHAS designers to distribute the lunchboxes and give assistance throughout the event. 53 Green Management Healthy with Nature Pulmuone aspires to become a company that makes both people and nature healthier and happier. Pulmuone exerts green endeavor under 6 agendas for the environment. Green Management Healthy Nature, Healthy Pulmuone Green Management Strategy Green management for health of human & nature Pulmuone has 6 agendas for environmental safety: on-going improvement in its impact on the environment, creation of healthy worksites, building the risk response system, eco-friendly process and development of more green products, more active internal/external communication and environmental safety leadership. The agendas have been implemented phase by phase. To practice eco-friendly and safe management for the benefit of both people and nature, Pulmuone aims to reduce CO2 emissions per product unit by 15% and water 10% compared to the levels in 2007 with another ambitious goal of reducing the total CO2 emissions [Pulmuone mid-term environmental objective] by 18% vs. BAU(Business As Usual). On-going improvement efforts are being waged to attain the goals. Vs. 2007 [Environmental safety 6 agendas, Outcome in 2012] 15% reduction of 18% reduction 10% reduction Ongoing More Facilitated Leadership in CO2 per product in total CO2 of water per improvement of Healthy Risk response eco-friendly internal/external environmental unit emissions product unit environmental worksites system building processes communication safety compared to BAU performance & products · 9.7% of energy reduction · Occupational accidents reduced · Better environmental safety system – · Less residue in packaging film · Participation in low-carbon green· Passive House in construction 15% 18% 10% and 9.0% of 0.46%p from 2011 education for coming into direct growth exhibition water reduction 47 cases in ’11 inspectors, checklist contact with products Visited by 2,000 people with 1,558 of them compared to 30 cases in ’12 development, Water-based adhesive for all tofu having filled out the 2011 · Trial introduction monitoring packaging film questionnaire [Environmental investment& management Currently building system (1 time/semi-annually) for energy/water of safe production expense trend (vs. 2007)] Unit: % & improvement · Registration · The green product of management/ behavior program 1) (Eumseong tofu) the year handpicked measuring (PMP utilized) · Emergency by consumers 179 178 · Updated education & transaction response system · Trial training on & safety manuals (Eumseong fresh themselves energy/facility and drilling to (organic tofu) 159 to prevent noodle) of greenhouse minimize damage for raising experts accidents related from natural disasters gas reduction business · Low-carbon product 110 118 to promotion Eumseong tofu registration: accreditation 100 · System for response Sep 2011~Sep 2016 1) PMP Pulmuone · zero accident in 7 (4,330 ton of CO2 expected) (organic tofu), to any chemical Manufacturing Portal production sites for Eumseong fresh noodle: carbon records materials 1,084t CO2 approved in 1.2 times as long as accreditation July 2011~July 2012 the target period (Pulmuone Waters) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 55 Green Management Response to Climate Change Green initiatives for CO2 reduction & Greenhouse Gas Emissions Pulmuone is an active participant in the zero carbon campaign. Every year, it organizes a tree-planting event for future generations to reduce carbon Greenhouse Gas(GHG) emission management per sector emission generated by plant tours or the general shareholders’ meeting To cut down GHG, the major culprit of climate change, Pulmuone manages into zero. In 2012, Pulmuone employees and 64 family members visited the energy consumption and GHG emissions by sector (i.e. production, logistics Bangjuk Park in Godeok to plant trees. Company clubs for volunteering were and service), and set the target of reducing GHG emission per basic unit also formed to take part in quarterly volunteering activities for the greener by 15% from the level in 2007 by the year of 2015. Under the objective, earth. Pulmuone has worked for renewable energy, energy saving and GHG reduction. As a result, the energy consumption per basic unit in production sector went down 28% in 2012 vs. 2007. [Energy consumption per basic unit in production] Unit: % 110 ▒ Direct energy 107 ▒ Indirect energy ▒ Total energy 100 103 100 96 98 93 91 90 89 86 88 80 CO2 80 84 79 76 70 72 Reduction 66 60 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 [GHG emission trend per product unit in production] Unit: % 120 100 100 90 80 79 77 60 40 2009 2010 2011 2012 56 Green Management Eco-friendly tofu packaging jointly developed Green logistics by the Ministry of Environment Pulmuone works with meticulous care to give only minimum processing st Pulmuone, for the 1 time in Korea, developed water-based adhesive for to its food products for nutritional balance, and then strictly abides by the processed food packaging. By applying the new invention, Pulmuone has temperature standards for chilled and frozen products throughout the been able to improve the packaging film and the case shape to reduce the process of production, storage and distribution to provide only the bestweight of tofu packaging materials. The development was the feat of the quality products to consumers. Logistics can have its footprint on the EI(Eco Innovation) initiative commissioned out by the Ministry of Environment. environment that may accelerate climate change because freezers have to When the water-based adhesive is applied to the packaging film, the residual be operated and transport vehicles for logistics run on fossil fuels. To lessen solvent in the packaging film can be reduced for better food safety. As for such burden on the environment, Pulmuone operates a green logistics center the packaging case, the shape has been improved with the same strength, fitted with eco-friendly freezers and eco-conveyors under very effective but in 9% less weight, which leads to the annual reduction of 19,221kg of temperature management system, and operates large transport vehicles with CO2. As it was mentioned, the packaging containers have got lighter with the cold storage system. same strength, and for that strong merit, they fetched the special award at Green Packaging Award organized by the Ministry of Environment and Korea Large logistics vehicle Environment Packaging Promotion Institute. Pulmuone cuts down carbon emissions from its logistics vehicles by reducing small vehicles, operating large vehicles for transport between logistics hubs, [Residual solvent content] Unit: ㎎ / ㎡ and increasing the average transport volume per vehicle. When transporting 6 Outer surface of 28 pallets, there have to be two 5-ton vehicles with 4.25L/㎞ fuel efficiency 5.94 85% packaging for prints but if the fuel efficiency is 2.5L/㎞, it just needs a single trailer. This can Water-based adhesive reduce monthly consumption of diesel oil by 1,100L. 0.89 Inner surface that wraps around foods Food packaging Oil-based Water-based Air pollutants reduction standards adhesive adhesive Pulmuone replaced boiler fuel from B-C oil and B-A oil to cleaner fuels like LNG and LPG to reduce pollutants emissions like SOx and NOx in 2007. [Packaging case weight] Unit: g Companies using LNG and LPG are exempted from the obligation to install 15% air pollution control equipment. 12.3 11.5 10.5 2008 2010 2011 57 Green Management Environmental Footprint Water usage reduction Reduction & Outcome Water takes up 70% of the earth surface, but 97% of it is ocean and 2% is ice and only the remaining 1% is fresh water for humans. It is truly invaluable Pulmuone organic tofu, green product of the year resource for human survival without viable alternative with the demand By recovering waste heat generated in the tofu production process to constantly increasing. Pulmuone has worked to reduce water consumption reduce fuel consumption and applying eco-friendly packaging technology per basic unit with advanced technology with good results. For example, to render support to green initiatives of partner companies, 4 of the after it was confirmed that the vacuum-type facilities for tofu production was Pulmuone products (i.e. organic tofu for griddling/pot stew, Two Cup for consuming too much water, the company made a decision to replace them with various cooking, Two Cup for raw foods) have been recognized as lowatmospheric pressure-type facilities with the successful result of 5,336 basic carbon products. The organic tofu for pot stew was also selected as ‘2012 unit/month of saving. With this, the water supply pressure was lowered from green product of the year’ by consumers whose decision was made with the 3.2kg/㎠ to 2.5kg/㎠ to reduce water consumption by 4,800 basic unit/month. advisory from experts on environmental food print and commercial appeal. The water supply system for growing vegetables at the Eumseong sprouts plant The heat recovery technology for producing organic tofu helps the company was also changed from the two-way pipeline system to the one-way one to recover heat from wastewater. The wastewater from tofu production usually reduce water consumption by 15% which is equivalent to 9,283㎥/month. has higher temperature due to its characteristics. Therefore, using it to heat [Water consumption trend per basic unit in production] Unit:㎥/Basic unit washing water of the plant is highly effective in reducing fuel consumption. 19.0 16.8 [Heat recovery process : Process of recovering heat from wastewater 15.2 14.1 14.5 and transfer the heat to newly supplied water] 11.3 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Tofu plant Used water Renewable energy & energy saving Pulmuone farms use geothermal energy for heating and cooling with the annual reduction of 260,000L in light oil consumption. The Eumseong and Yongin logistics centers introduced the maximum electricity management system Heat exchanger for efficient management of power consumption. The system monitors realtime power consumption per facility and part, and reduces electricity load when electricity consumption goes over the predefined range by consecutively controlling coolers/heaters and freezers which have relatively little impact on the Water supply operation of the logistics centers. Such efforts earned Pulmuone bronze award as good energy-saving practice from the Korea Electric Engineers Association. 58 Green Management ORGA Whole Foods [Certificate for GHG reductions]] – Grand award in eco-friendly distribution At the 17th Korea Distributors’ Award held on December 17, 2012, ORGA Whole Foods had the honor of receiving the grand award in eco-friendly distribution. The award ceremony, sponsored by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy and organized by the Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry and Maeil Business newspaper, recognizes companies who have made great contribution to developing the distribution industry of Korea by innovating business and boosting consumer satisfaction. ORGA Whole Foods has made great achievements such as leading eco-friendly foods distribution, facilitating eco-friendly farming, saving energy and applying eco-friendly packaging Green Management Initiatives materials, all of which were highly commended at the ceremony. Minimum pollutant discharge 1 registration, 2 monitoring cases 97% waste recycling rate for Greenhouse Gas(GHG) reduction business The disposal of waste from business sites is commissioned out to the outside Pulmuone makes unreserved efforts to achieve its green target of reducing agency. In 2012, 97% of the wastes were recycled. The transformer oil used CO2 emissions per basic unit by 15%. The Eumseong tofu plant had used for the oil-immersed transformer in the Eumseong fresh noodle factory was steam to raise temperature of washing water for tofu production facilities revealed to have 50ppm PCBs(Polychlorinated Biphenyls), which is higher but later improved its system to recover heat from wastewater generated than the criteria(5ppm), but as there is no agency qualified to properly from the production process and use it to heat up the washing water. dispose the said pollutant and the Korean law does not prohibit the use The improvement has enabled the company to use less fuel for its boiling of PCBs. The plant reports the use of PCBs to the relevant authorities and facilities. With the reduction in fuel consumption, GHG emissions are put the label on the transformer that shows the related information. When expected to go down 866tCO2e per year and 4,330tCO2e during the business the transformer is disposed of, the plant will go through the due procedure period. This has enabled the company to register its achievement as the GHG mandated by the relevant laws through an agency qualified for the job. reduction business at the KEMCO(Korea Energy Management Corporation). Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The Eumseong fresh noodle plant replaced by-product oil no. 1 & 2 with Total weight(ton) 16,181t 16,573t 16,665t 9,058t 13,218t 11,191t LNG, the cleaner fuel, for steam with being registered as the GHG reduction Landfill(%) 1% 1% 1% 3% 1% 1% business at the KEMCO. The monitoring between July 2007 and July 2012 confirmed 6,168tCO2e of GHG reduction in total, and the certified reduction Incineration(%) 1% 1% 2% 11% 1% 2% was all purchased by the government. Recycling(%) 99% 98% 97% 86% 98% 97% 59 Green Management Wastewater flowing into river purified to be used Biodiversity as farm water Farming consulting for healthy ecosystem The company-wide environment safety committee of Pulmuone sets out a Pulmuone offers consulting services to community farmers for different policy that it will maintain the pollution level of discharged wastewater to crops, and monitors the amount of agrichemicals to ensure safety of food less than 1/2 of the legal limit to minimize impact of the wastewater on the crops and minimize impact on the surrounding environment. A case in point ecosystem. In relation to that, the water discharge standards of Pulmuone is Pulmuone’s assistance to the Wonsam farming community. Pulmuone Eumseong fresh noodle, Eumseong sprouts, Chuncheon tofu, Doan green studies its agrichemical usage and land analysis results to modify standards juice and Doan health functional foods plants were strengthened to be on agrichemical/fertilizer usage, which led to remarkable improvements in stricter than the internal standards so that their wastewater can satisfy lessening salt accumulation and eutrophication, and in increasing productivity the water quality criteria for agricultural water. To attain the goal, the while bringing positive impacts on crop safety and environment. wastewater treatment facilities of those plants were all upgraded and artificial wetlands were created in those plants. As for the Eumseong logistics [Before vs. after farming consulting] center and Foodmerce, their wastewater treatment facilities were modified and upgraded to satisfy the corporate internal policy. Before After [Artificial wetlands in Doan green juice/health functional foods plants: JaDamYeon, Artificial wetland in Eumseong tofu plant: Dangrim Garden] Salination JaDamYeon Eutrophication Poor soil physical property Dangrim Garden 60 Green Management More eco packages ORGA Whole Foods introduces eco-friendly packaging materials to deliver the values of green environment through packaging. It also minimizes harmful substance and materials in packaging while recycling packaging materials. Item Description Eco-friendly Plastic bags replaced with sugarcane-based material shopping bag Eco tray Plastics replaced with biodegradable materials Used in home meal, meat corners (7 types) Eco packaging Petrochemical materials replaced with recycled paper material Fruit baskets Plastic string for watermelon replaced with natural string(hemp) Eco-friendly Replaced with materials non-detected receipt of harmful substances (bisphenol A) Name card made Paper replaced with recycled one for name cards of recycled paper Less packaging Minimum gift packaging (refrain from over-packaging, packaging in double layers) E-shop eco box recovery-recycling Organic solvent Oil-based ink replaced with soy-based ink [ORGA eco package] 61 Third Party’s Assurance Report Third Party’s Assurance Report To the Management of the Pulmuone 2012 Sustainability Report Upon request of Pulmuone, the Institute for Industrial Policy Criteria for Assurance Studies as a “third party assurance provider” (hereinafter The Assurance Provider assessed the Report against the following referred to as the “Assurance Provider”) presents the following guidelines: third party’s assurance report on the “Pulmuone Sustainability 1) AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) 1) Report 2012 (hereinafter referred to as the “Report”)” 2) BEST Guideline 2) 3) 3) Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 1) AA1000 AS(Assurance Standard) is a sustainability reporting standard developed by Accountability in Accountability and Objective its pursuit to promote overall organizational performance and accountability by improving the quality Pulmuone is held accountable for all information and claims contained of social and ethical accounting. As a U. K. based not-for-profit organization focusing on corporate social responsibility and business ethics, Accountability first developed AA1000AS in 1999 and in the Report including sustainability management goal setting, amended the standards in 2008 for application in 2010. performance management, data collection and report preparation. The 2) BEST Guideline or BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline is a guideline for the preparation and assurance of sustainability reporting and offers five levels of reporting quality assessment. It was jointly Assurance Provider has no relations with Pulmuone regarding any of its developed by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (MKE), the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS), and the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) in the Business Ethics Sustainability for-profit operations and activities. In addition, the Assurance Provider Management for Top Performers (BEST) forum in their endeavor to promote sustainability reporting among local companies. has carried out its assurance process with independence and autonomy 3) The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which was jointly convened by the Coalition for Environmentally as it was not involved in the preparation of the Report except for offering Responsible Economies (CERES) and the UNEP in 1997, first released its G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines in October 2006. The G3.1 Guidelines, which is an update and completion of the G3, was comments in the process. published in March 2011, featuring broader guidance on how to report on human rights, gender, and local community issues. G4, the fourth generation of Guidelines, is due to be launched in 2013. 62 Third Party’s Assurance Report Type and Level of Assurance Materiality assessment centered on internal corporate policies, The Assurance Provider conducted assurance process for the Report in benchmarking, media search, and survey questionnaires accordance with Type 1 and Moderate Level of AA1000AS (2008). A review of the Company’s platform for responding to key material issues Interviews with persons responsible for the performance of The Assurance Provider evaluated the reliability of the data compiled in respective dimensions the Report for Type 1 assurance, and assessed publicly disclosed On-site review primarily of the local (Seoul) workplace (Feb.26/28, 2013) information, reporting system and performance management process Level of application against GRI/BEST sustainability reporting guidelines based on the three core principles of AA1000AS(2008), namely Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. However, this assurance engagement Limitations does not provide the evaluation of the credibility of the offered data. Interviews with persons in charge of each of the respective performance The Assurance Provider pursued moderate level of assurance where dimensions and data collection as well as a review of the adequacy of data sufficient evidence has been obtained and limited sampling has been On-site review of local (Seoul) workplace conducted at each performance sector to support its assurance report Assurance undertaking based on disclosed materials and information such that the risk of its conclusion being in error is reduced but not for the reported period reduced to very low or not zero. Reliability assessment of performance data not conducted Scope and Methodology Conclusions Through the work undertaken below, the Auditor set out to assess the Based on the assurance scope, methodology, and criteria outlined above, following: 1) the inclusiveness, materiality, and responsiveness of the the Auditor did not find the Report to contain any material misstatements Report; and 2) the level of application against GRI/BEST sustainability or bias. Material assurance findings are included herein, and a detailed reporting guidelines. account of the results and follow-up recommendations has been submitted A review of the source of disclosed data and department responsible to Pulmuone. for data management A review of the data collection system for each of the reporting dimensions and a review of the adequacy of the reporting process A reconciliation of the financial information contained in the Report against the Auditor’s Report Media analysis and a review of documents for the reporting period Analysis of data sampling and stakeholder survey results 63 Third Party’s Assurance Report [Inclusivity] [Materiality] Does Pulmuone adhere to the principle of stakeholder Does the Report contain information of the highest engagement to ensure a responsible and strategic material importance to Pulmuone stakeholders across response toward sustainability management? the economic, social, and environmental dimensions? The Auditor noted efforts by the Company to establish and expand It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude issues of its stakeholder engagement processes based on its recognition of the material importance to the stakeholders of Pulmuone. We noted efforts importance of stakeholder participation in the implementation of to carry out an internal/external analysis of the Company via a review sustainability management. Pulmuone has established diverse channels of its internal corporate polices, stakeholder surveys, peer industry for its respective stakeholder groups e.g. shareholders, management and benchmarking, media search etc. employees, customers, business partners, and the local community to better collect their feedback and views. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. The Report provides a detailed account of issues identified to be of The following points were found to be particularly commendable. material importance to stakeholders in the order of established priority Continued company-wide efforts to collect stakeholder feedback including while structuring the Report around its highest-priority issues the integration of a single sourcing portal with Foodmerce The Report provides in-depth reporting into material issues, offering Efforts to expand “interactive” programs for stakeholder engagement diverse perspectives via materiality testing, expert interviews, etc. (instead of “unilateral”) to better manage customer communications, As the Company’s management and reporting of key materiality VOC feedback, policies to ensure consumers’ right to be informed, etc. issues improves with every year’s Report, the Auditor suggests further Going forward, however, the Auditor suggests providing more diverse strengthening its process for materiality assessment and possibly means for stakeholders to offer their views, while providing a platform for providing a status update on issues of relatively lower priority via its reflecting the collected feedback into the Company’s decision making. Company website. 64 Third Party’s Assurance Report [Responsiveness] [Trend of the Pulmuone Sustainability Management Report Fulfillment] Does the Report provide an adequate response * Assurance findings were converted uniformly into fulfillment ratios as measured against Level 1 through 5 requirements. to stakeholder expectations and areas of concern? It is the Auditor’s view that Pulmuone has worked to provide a Reporting Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 comprehensive and balanced response to the demands and interests of its Report No. 1st 2st 3st 4st 5st 6st 7st stakeholders. The Auditor noted efforts to keep stakeholders informed of Level 3 4 4 4 5 5 5 its response to stakeholder demands by utilizing the Company’s diverse Fulfillment Ratio 81.3% 96.4% 98.0% 99.1% 99.5% 99.6% 99.8% stakeholder channels. Recommendations The following points were found to be particularly commendable. The Auditor found the “2012 Sustainability Management Report” by The Report provides an account of the Company’s response to issues Pulmuone, commendable on the following counts. The Report (1) reflects identified through materiality testing as well as its outcomes efforts to faithfully implement the Company’s strategic platform across the The Report outlines the Company’s position on any negative performance economic, social, and environmental dimensions based on the Company’ as well as future plans or response for a more balanced account of its s underlying mission and vision for sustainability management; (2) sustainability performance provides a detailed account of the Company’s sustainability management performance on a dedicated section of its website with regard to its most Going forward, the Auditor suggests putting in place channels and fundamental philosophy as a “genuine wholesome food provider”; and processes tailored to the needs of respective stakeholder groups to better (3) outlines additional initiatives specific to different stakeholder groups collect their feedback and views; the Company is also advised to offer a through the Company’s “Small Whispers from Pulmuone” website to more proactive response to the demands and interests of its stakeholders. better satisfy stakeholders’ interests and concerns. [GRI Application Levels] For future reports, the Auditor suggests the following considerations. Relative to the GRI G3.1 Guidelines, the Report was found to conform to Establish a system for the measurement and management of environmental an “A+ level” of application. management performance outcomes in keeping with the underlying characteristics of Pulmuone as a provider of genuine wholesome food [BEST Fulfillment Levels] Expand the scope of stakeholders and redefine stakeholder groups in Relative to the BEST Guidelines, the Auditor finds the Report to fulfill consideration of the Company’s value chain 99.8% of the reporting requirements necessary to qualify for a Level 5 Develop case studies where stakeholder engagement findings were report (“mature” phase) in view of the reporting overage the reliability of reflected in management activities information provided. 65 Third Party’s Assurance Report Improve the method of reporting by focusing more on the performance Eligibility of IPS as an Assurance Provider outcomes of key material issues rather than on the fulfillment of indicators Established in 1993, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) has measuring materiality accumulated broad expertise in the areas of ethics management, corporate Create a section within the Company’s website where sustainability social responsibility and sustainable management since 2002, and serves management results are updated on a regular basis to allow stakeholders as a third party assurance provider for the sustainability reports published to continuously track sustainability management performance by local companies. IPS has conducted the assurance engagement upon request of Pulmuone, and assembled a team of five assurance practitioners Independence who are professors at Korea’s top universities or professionals with Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was accreditation and extensive experience in sustainability management after not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, and has no majoring in business management, accounting or environmental science. commercial affiliation with Pulmuone that might compromise our independence. March 14, 2013 President, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Jae-eun Kim 66
