Bersay Communications Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Report 8 March 2013 Message from the President As one of the leading players of the public relations industry in Turkey, Bersay has been among the pioneers in adopting the international professional standards and has continuously taken steps towards bringing the industry to higher levels. This really is a hard mission when the business world gets more and more communication-educated and new tools like social networks are constantly changing the game. Primary component of our service is our workforce, which we at Bersay call as Human Assets as a substitute for Human Resources. We have been putting great effort in providing our employees unique training opportunities to broaden their vision and deepen their world view. In 2012, we started taking steps in broadening these efforts to the other players in the industry and also initiated a new career model for our employees that we’ll push the button in 2013. Since signing the UN Global Compact protocol in 2007, we are proud to be recording a continuous progress towards the principles and we are well aware that this is a neverending journey. It is my pleasure to present the fourth Communication on Progress report that represents our commitment to the Global Compact principles on behalf of all Bersay Communications Group employees. Arın Saydam President of the Board Communication on Progress Report / 2012 About Bersay Communications Group Having its roots from Bersay Communications Consultancy established in 1990, Bersay Communications Group (BIG) was founded in 2005 to meet the communication needs of its clients from a single source through integrated solutions approach. Together with Bersay Communications Consultancy, the Group is comprised of Saydam Event Management, Kesisim Publishing and Design Studio, Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communications, and Bersay Communications Institute. Bersay Communications Group is a member of Ketchum, one of the leading global communications consultancy networks. Progress in 2012 A. Core Business Like many other countries, communications environment in Turkey is room to a range of agencies from big scale institutionalized corporations to freelancers with media background. As the industry standards cannot be settled within this range, the establishment of a regulated public relations industry gets more and more complicated every year. The agencies are struggling to keep the talented workforce, which is the primary element for value-added consultancy services. Agency teams are facing the challenge of getting behind the knowledge level of the client teams, especially in terms of sector expertise, where client teams enjoy the luxury of focusing only on limited areas and feeding on better information sources. On the other hand, agency teams continue living the same dilemma: Media coverage is never enough to achieve the communications goals but it still is the sine qua non of public relations. The era of agency professionals trained as generalists having average knowledge and expertise on every communications discipline and sector is now over. With this understanding, we started building our new organisation model on creating specialists in priority disciplines and sectors that offer the highest potentials in the upcoming years for getting consultancy services. Getting ready to start the system as of June 2013, our new organisation model offers a 5-step career path with defined KPIs and awards. This organisation is designed with the contribution of Bersay employees after 4 workshops of 12 hours held throughout the year by participation of 15 consultants. Another contribution by Bersay to the industry of public relations is the recently developed 4+1 Model. As Bersay, we adopt a consultancy manner that takes into consideration the engineering side of the communications beside its applied side. With this approach, we are aiming to maximize the contribution of communications activities to the business results. This can be done by measuring communications efforts in every Communication on Progress Report / 2012 phase and analyzing the results in accordance with business objectives. Under 4+1 Model, communications strategy and actions are built upon Corporate & Products/Services Performance, Issue Management, Agenda Setting and Leadership Communications; then the Corporate Brand Promise is framed in line with the 4. Consisting of its own measurement systematic, the 4+1 Model enables the management of all communications processes under a main strategy as well as in full integration and harmony. B. Education & Awareness Raising With the understanding that our employees are in the heart of our core business, we transformed our human resources organisation to Human Assets Department in 2010, and since then, we have been spreading this approach also to our clients, business and solution partners. Human Assets is not a support unit for Bersay and with the vision that our most important assets are our employees, we are continuously taking steps in terms of keeping the best talents at Bersay. Among these steps are the great educational track record of BIE since 2008. As Bersay Communications Group, we have established BIE with the aim of providing training opportunities to both Bersay employees as well as the industry professionals. Since its establishment, BIE has hosted numerous conference and seminar programs that have greatly contributed to the world views of the participants. In 2012, we have organized the following training programs at BIE: Cinema Conversations with Ali Saydam: Second year of the program of 75 hours in 10 weeks ended in July 2012 with its 15 participants that enjoy how to evaluate life, arts, human beings and history over detailed analysis of the movies. During the second year of the program, the participants analyzed over 80 films and 5 books. Human-Society-Culture Heritage: In collaboration with Bosphorus University’s Lifelong Learning Center, the certificate program started in 6 modules of Fine Arts, Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, History and Literature that are presented in 42 hours in 7 weeks for each. 14 people (7 of which are Bersay employees) participated in the first two modules. Bahcesehir CO-OP Project: Consultants of Bersay Communications Group are also the lecturers of the CO-OP Education Model applied by Bahcesehir University with BIE support. The program included major communications disciplines like Reputation Management, Stakeholders and Target Audience, Crisis Management, Media Relations, Corporate Responsibility, Communication on Progress Report / 2012 Financial Communications, Online Communications, Event Management, Celebrity Communications and Leadership Management, Issue Management and Agenda Setting. 25 students participated in 2011-2012 classes. Communications Profession Trainings: Bersay consultants that contribute to the CO-OP projects, presented their trainings to Bersay Group employees as well as participants from client teams. 23 people, 8 of which from clients, participated to the training sessions. Around 50 participants to several lectures at BIE including Strategic Marketing at Crisis Era, Presentation Techniques, Public Relations Authorship, and Client Relations Management topics. Around 15 participants to workshops by Ketchum professionals including New Business, Creativity and Online Communications Strategies. All Bersay consultants enjoy participating in pop-up webinars by Ketchum. Bersay also supports TUYID (Turkish Investor Relations Association) since its establishment and Bersay consultants that aim to specialize in finance sector benefit from regular finance trainings of TUYID. This year we took our training efforts further and after becoming again a more active member of IDA (Communications Consultancies Association of Turkey) at the vice presidency level, we have initiated a series of conferences together with the other leading big scale member agencies for the capacity development of young communications professionals. Bielog, the online platform of BIE, is open to contribution of all Bersay employees as well as PR industry professionals. C. Social Having about 6500 online and offline materials including books, DVDs, magazine subscriptions focused on communications, BIE library is open to Bersay employees and client teams as well as communications professionals, students, interns, academicians, media members, and the attendants of BIE training programs through a simple membership process. Managed by a professional information management specialist, BIE library has 450 members 70 of which are Bersay employees. BIE’s revenue sources are generally the conferences and seminars, as well as all kinds of corporate programs including media trainings. Among these sources are the revenues of books and lectures of Ali Saydam, founder and Honorary President of Bersay Group, who is among the leading communications experts in Turkey. In 2012, 5th edition of “Perception Management”, English version of “How to Loose Wives and Communication on Progress Report / 2012 Clients” as well as “Power is Solitude” are published and all revenues are donated to BIE. As a non-profit organisation, BIE donates its profits to communications master and doctorate students as scholarships. 9 projects are funded so far, 7 of which belong to women’s projects. One of the scholars joined BIE as an assistant, then Bersay’s consultancy team as a junior project manager. D. Ethics Handling its business in full transparency with its clients and the industry, Bersay and Saydam companies are audited every two years in respect of being suitable to Consultancy Management Standard (CMS). After becoming a corporate member of TEID (Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society) in 2011, BIE signed the Ethics Declaration in 2012. E. Environment In 2012, we have moved our offices to a smarter plaza building. By this move, we have achieved 40% productivity in electricity consumption and 60% in water consumption. Our wastes are clustered into categories according to their raw materials: Glass, plastic, battery and metal recycling bins are placed in the company and collected by the municipality weekly. Forward Looking We remain committed to Global Compact and its principles in all our strategies, throughout our organisation and during our consultancy services to our clients. In the upcoming years, we’ll continue adding value to our employees and clients, as well as actively contributing to the development of PR industry in Turkey. Communication on Progress Report / 2012 UN Global Compact Principles GC GRI Definition Bersay Approach Bersay Practices Bersay Communications Recruitment process Group believes that every Rewarding system Business should people has right to work, HR1, HR2, (Finder/Success Fee) support and respect choose his/her job, freedom HR3, HR4, Employee satisfaction the protection of of expression, liberty and 1 HR5, HR6, survey internationally security, health care and HR7, HR8, Health insurance proclaimed human equality. Bersay also HR9 Trainings rights consults its suppliers and Internal Communication clients to support the same Internship Program principles. Bersay policies on Business should Employee satisfaction harassment, employment ensure that they are survey 2 HR1, HR2 equity, safety and health not complicit in human Employee contracts and ensure that basic human rights confidentialty rights are firmly respected. Accessable management team Bersay policy on Business should Bielog communication employment equity ensures LA2, LA4, uphold the freedom of platform the provision of good LA5, LA13, association and Weekly regular group 3 working conditions in which LA14, effective recognition of meetings all HR4, HR5 the right to collective Participative management employees could express barganining Information sharing their ideas. Profit sharing Bonuses Bersay employee policies are specified within employment contracts. Employee contracts cannot Business should Bersay is strictly against be against the labor law. support the elimination forced labor considered as a The contracts state the 4 HR7 of all forms of forced potential risk also in service actual working terms and and compulsory labor sector. conditions and their rights clearly. Thus, all of our employees are aware of these working conditions and their rights. Bersay is against the child Business should labour and complies with Bersay does not recruit 5 HR6 support the effective the minimum age provisions anybody below the legal abolition of child labor of Turkish labor laws and age of 18. regulations. Bersay believes every Business should individual has to be support the elimination treatened fairly without LA2, LA13, Recruitment process 6 of discrimination in considering what their LA14, HR6 Discipline code respect of employment gender is, what their and occupation contract type is, what their job is and so on. Communication on Progress Report / 2012 Bersay, like the rest of the society, faces the global challenge of ensuring a Business should healthy and sustainable support a environment in the future. precautionary Waste handling applications 7 4.11 By signing the Global approach to Decreasing paper usage Compact Bersay commits environmental itself to approach more challenges carefully to environmental issues. Bersay will also sign the Ethics Declaration. Bersay developes either EN2, EN5, Corporate Social EN6, EN7, Responsiblity projects and EN10, One of the priorities of the projects aiming to EN13, Business should Bersay Communication promote greater EN14, undertake initatives to Group is to create environmental 8 EN18, promote greater environmental awareness responsibility. The clients EN21, environment first for our employees and are encouraged to apply EN22, responsibility for all of our clients, those projects as their EN26, suppliers and stakeholders. environmental and EN27, Corporate Social EN30 Responsibility projects. EN2, EN5, Business should EN6, EN7, encourage the Water, Paper, Electricity, Bersay encourages its staff EN10, development and Natural Gas, Energy Saving 9 to use environmentally EN18, diffusion of Supporting Recycling friendly techonologies. EN26, environmentally Process EN27 friendly techonologies Bersay’s employment agreement states that unethical business practice Business should work is a reason for ending Bersay is against all forms SO2, SO3, against corruption in employment contract. 10 of corruption, including SO4 all its forms, including Bersay Memberships: ICCO, extortion and bribery. extortion and bribery IDA, TEID Individual Based Memberships: TUHID, TBV, TUSIAD Communication on Progress Report / 2012 Performance Indicators Actions Aims 2012 Targets 2012Results 2013 Targets 100% job 98% job 100% job Recruitment Process Fair treatment application application application responding rate responding rate responding rate To give indiviual 10 corporate 13 corporate 10 corporate Human Rights development trainings trainings trainings Training opportunites to 15 optional 18 optional 15 optional our employees trainings trainings trainings Motivation / 1 year end 1 year end 1 year end Participation to organization / organization / organization / Internal company Weekly Bizbize Weekly Bizbize Weekly Bizbize Communication processes / Meetings / 1 Meetings / 1 Meetings / 1 year Information year end Kickyear end Kickend Kick-off sharing off off To sustain the Revised Discipline Code is Non-Discrimination Fair treatment fair and proper Labour Standards Discipline Code revised policy Number of Woman Increase the 70% of our To sustain the Employees / ratio of women Fair treatment employees are fair and proper Number of Total employees women policy Employees (65% in 2011) To sustain the To sustain the AntiTEID membership ethical ethical Ethical Business completed and Memberships approach in approach in Practices Ethics Declaration Corruption business business signed practices practices To reduce To reduce Environment 40% productivity Environmentally consumption consumption Water & Electricity in electricity friendly and continue and continue Usage and Waste consumption and applications and supporting the supporting the Managemenet 60% in water less consumption recycling recycling consumption process process 8 scholarships / For our nonprofit 9 scholarships / 400 TL for each Sustain the enterprise BIE to 400 TL for each Scholarships scholar by scholarship deliver its first scholar by month month for 12 program Volunteer Activities scholarships for 12 months months 2 books of Ali Saydam: To publish “Perception nonprofit books Sustaining the Sustaining the Management”, supporting the ongoing book ongoing book English version of Publications development of publishing and publishing and “How to Loose the sector and to BIELOG BIELOG Wives and Clients”, donate their plannings plannings “Power is Solitude” income Sustaining of BILEOG Communication on Progress Report / 2012 Communication on Progress Report / 2012
