2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Contents Letter from the President of the Management Board of PKN ORLEN S.A.............. 3 Who are we?................................................................ 4 Responsible 2012 ...................................................... 12 The core values and standards of conduct of PKN ORLEN as the basis for action.......................... 13 I. Society............................................................15 II. Market............................................................33 III. Employees .........................................................45 IV. ENVIRONMENT .................................................53 V. Safety..............................................................69 Certificates................................................................. 78 Awards and distinctions in 2012................................. 79 Delivery on our 2011 commitments............................ 81 List of GRI indicators ................................................. 82 Useful links . .............................................................. 87 Contact details........................................................... 88 2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Ladies and Gentlemen, Change is the single most constant and inevitable part of any business activity. How should we approach this uncomfortable fact? The answer is simple: we should manage change, so as to change wisely. I believe that PKN ORLEN is indeed changing wisely. This year’s CSR report shows what guides us in changing the Company, and the rationale, purpose and nature of these changes. We strive to ensure that every change we make is fully thought out, that it comfortably meets the needs of our stakeholders and business environment, and that it positions us well, not only in the here and now, but also in the future. In short, we want our change to be responsible. With this in mind, last year we adopted 'The core values and standards of conduct of PKN ORLEN', which defines our five central values of responsibility, growth, people, energy and reliability, upon which we’re building our corporate culture. These are our corporate DNA, the cornerstone of our relationships with employees and stakeholders, and the keys to our business decisions. The great weight we attach to the project is best demonstrated by the fact that work on it was proceeding concurrently with the drafting of the Company’s business strategy. Together, these two important documents are our response to the challenges of today and of the future, one of which is persistent market instability. In the post-crisis reality, corporate social responsibility and sustainable development cannot be neglected by anyone who wants to run a successful business. I do believe that a business is only completely successful if it has been pursued in keeping with sound principles and values. In the ever-changing landscape, there are some elements which should be invariably close to any responsible business. Hence our long-standing commitment to the Global Compact initiative, set up by the UN Secretary General, whose principles have been a touchstone for us since 2003. We are continuously refining our environmental protection schemes, and our participation in the Responsible Care programme has helped us deliver on tens of environmental commitments made since our accession in 1997. As the leading oil company in Poland and a key player on the oil market in Central and Eastern Europe, we are active participants in the work of national and international trade associations, project teams and working groups assembled for the purpose of developing energy policy standards. Ours is an important, but difficult sector, and we feel responsible for its development, making the changes it needs at the times it needs them. We care for the well-being of people too, and this is manifested in the various charity events organised by the Company and the ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) Foundation, by the programmes designed for our current and former employees, and by our local community initiatives. For years, we have provided support for foster family group homes, the education of talented young people, as well as state and voluntary fire-fighting units. We run development programmes for our employees in different areas of their competences, and we offer them a wide range of specialist training opportunities. And these are only a few of the initiatives we’ve set up in response to the needs of our external, fast-changing environment. Our commitment to responsibility is repeatedly recognised with the many awards and distinctions we’ve won, confirming that the direction we’ve chosen is the right one. We have been continually included in the WSE’s RESPECT Index of socially responsible companies since its inception in 2009. Our active approach and, most importantly, our professionalism and conformity with the principles of corporate social responsibility in everything we do have helped us deliver on our key goal – creating Company value for our stakeholders. This broad-based, holistic approach opens new doors in our business, while also enabling us to successfully meet the expectations of the environment in which we operate. Making business decisions on a purely financial basis is easier, but for us, it is not enough. What we always keep in mind is that companies with ample resources can make a real difference in the world, and whether that difference is for the better depends solely on their intentions and actions. Have a good, inspiring read. Jacek Krawiec CEO and President of the Management Board, PKN ORLEN S.A. 3 WHO ARE WE? PKN ORLEN’s business consists in the processing PKN ORLEN is not content to just strengthen its posiof crude oil into unleaded petrol, diesel oil, fuel oil and tion in the areas where it has always been strong, jet fuel, as well as plastics and petrochemical products. but is actively looking for new sources of value growth to complement its core business. Drawing In 2012, the aggregate volume of crude oil processed on the achievements of its predecessors, it is building by the ORLEN Group was close to 28 million tonnes. and implementing an ambitious vision of growth, Retail distribution of the ORLEN Group’s engine fuels favouring innovative solutions. PKN ORLEN holds is supported by an efficient logistics base, comprislicences for onshore and offshore oil and gas exploraing surface and underground storage depots and tion throughout the country. One of its priorities is to a pipeline network covering Poland. appraise and extract natural gas from unconventional plays. The strategy pursued by PKN ORLEN envisages The Company’s fast growth would not be possible its further evolution towards a modern multi-utility, without people – our most crucial asset. The ORLEN actively searching for added value in areas that stand Group’s success has been built by the everyday work in complement to its core operations. Modern manand involvement of its nearly 22,000 employees. agement is characterised by the pursuit of sustainable development, delivering benefits to all stakeholders. Map of stakeholders EMPLOYEES SHAREHOLDERS LOCAL CUSTOMERS COMMUNITIES TRADING UNIVERSITIES PARTNERS NON-GOVERNMENT MEDIA ORGANISATIONS STATE SUPPLIERS TREASURY ORLEN GROUP FRANCHISEES COMPANIES LOCAL COMPETITION AUTHORITIES INDUSTRY AND PUBLIC CONSUMER ADMINISTRATION ORGANISATIONS 4 2. REFINERIES 1. PETROCHEMICALS 1. 2. RAFINERIE PETROCHEMIA 2. PETROCHEMICALS 2. PETROCHEMIA 1. REFINERIES 1. RAFINERIE 3. PETROCHEMICALS 2. RETAIL 2. 3. PETROCHEMIA DETAL 3. RETAIL 3. DETAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE 2. PETROCHEMICALS 2. PETROCHEMIA 3. RETAIL 3. DETAL 4. WHOLESALE 4. HURT 1. REFINERIES 1. RAFINERIE 4. WHOLESALE 4. HURT 3. RETAIL 3. DETAL 4. WHOLESALE 5. OLEJE 4. 5. HURT OILS 1. REFINERIES 1. RAFINERIE 2. PETROCHEMICALS 2. PETROCHEMIA The ORLEN Group manages seven refineries. These are 5. OLEJEThe ORLEN Group’s oil segment 5. OILSis comprised 1. WHOLESALE 4. REFINERIES located in Poland (Płock, Trzebinia, Jedlicze), Lithuania of ORLEN Oil (Poland) and 4. 1. HURT RAFINERIE Paramo (the Czech 5. OLEJE 5. OILS 2. PETROCHEMICALS 1. REFINERIES (in Mažeikiai), and the Czech Republic (at 6. ASFALTY Litvinov, 2. PETROCHEMIA 1. RAFINERIE Republic). 6. BITUMENS Kralupy and Pardubice). 3. RETAIL 3. DETAL 6. ASFALTY 6. BITUMENS 2. PETROCHEMICALS 5. OLEJE 5. 2. OILS PETROCHEMIA 3. RETAIL 6. ASFALTY 3. The ORLEN Group’s bitumen segment DETAL 6. BITUMENS includes ORLEN 2. PETROCHEMICALS 7. CHEMIA 2. PETROCHEMIA 7. CHEMICALS 4. WHOLESALE Asfalt (Poland) and Paramo 4. HURT Republic). (the Czech The ORLEN Group’s Petrochemical Segment com7. CHEMIA 7. CHEMICALS prises the petrochemical production 3.plants RETAIL in6. ASFALTY Płock 3. BITUMENS 6. DETAL 4. 3. WHOLESALE RETAIL 7. CHEMIA 8. Basell UPSTREAM4. DETAL 3. HURT 7. 8. CHEMICALS UPSTREAM and Włocławek, as well as two companies: 5. OLEJE 5. OILS Orlen Polyolefins and Unipetrol (of the Czech Republic). 8. UPSTREAM The chemical segment is comprised 8. UPSTREAM of ANWIL We are the sole producers of olefins,4.polyolefins WHOLESALE and 7. CHEMIA of Włocławek and its subsidiary 7. Spolana 4. CHEMICALS HURT of Neramost other petrochemicals 5. OLEJE in Poland and the8. UPSTREAM Czech tovice, 5. HURT OILS the Czech Republic (the8. UPSTREAM ANWIL Group). 4. WHOLESALE 9. ENERGETYKA 4. 9. POWER GENERATION Republic. 6. ASFALTY 6. BITUMENS 9. ENERGETYKA 9. POWER GENERATION 8. UPSTREAM 5. OLEJE 8. 5. UPSTREAM OILS In 2011, ORLEN launched one of the world’s most 9. ENERGETYKA 9. POWER GENERATION advanced 6. PXASFALTY 5. OLEJE (paraxylene) and PTA (purified10.terephLOGISTYKA BITUMENS 6. OILS 5. Activities in the area of hydrocarbon exploration and 10.CHEMICALS LOGISTICS 1. REFINERIES 7. CHEMIA 1. RAFINERIE 7. thalic acid) production complexes, thus becoming production are conducted by ORLEN Upstream. ORLEN a key global supplier of these products. And 10. 9. LOGISTYKA ENERGETYKA thanks 6. ASFALTYUpstream coordinates projects 10. 9. 6.in LOGISTICS POWER GENERATION the prospecting, BITUMENS to the high6.7.quality CHEMIA ASFALTYof our products and our efficient 10. LOGISTYKA 7. BITUMENS 6. exploration CHEMICALS for and evaluation of 10. LOGISTICS gas unconventional 2. PETROCHEMICALS distribution network, we rank among the strongest 8. UPSTREAM2. PETROCHEMIA reserves (shale gas) in the Lublin 8. UPSTREAM Shale, Hrubieszów market players in our part of Europe. Shale and Mid Poland Unconventionals. 7. CHEMIA 10. LOGISTYKA 7. CHEMICALS 10. LOGISTICS 8. UPSTREAM 7. CHEMIA 8. 7. UPSTREAM CHEMICALS 1. RETAIL 3. REFINERIES 9. ENERGETYKA 1. DETAL 3. RAFINERIE 9. POWER GENERATION The ORLEN Group operates CEE’s largest 8. chain UPSTREAMThe 463 MWe gas-fired power 8. UPSTREAM plant project of 2,696 9. 8. ENERGETYKA service UPSTREAM stations, spread throughout 9. 8. in POWER Włocławek GENERATIONis at an advanced stage. We have sec­ 2. 4. PETROCHEMICALS WHOLESALE 2. UPSTREAM PETROCHEMIA Poland (in 1,756 locations), Germany (567 loca4. HURT u­red the environmental decision, the grid connection 10. LOGISTYKA 10. LOGISTICS tions), the Czech Republic (338 locations) and Lithuagreement and the permit to build a power generat9. ENERGETYKA 9. POWER GENERATION ania (35 loca­tions). Retail operations in the respecing unit there. Construction of another power plant 3. RETAIL tive 9. ENERGETYKA markets 10. are LOGISTYKAmanaged by PKN ORLEN, ORLEN 3. 9. POWER 10.DETAL in Płock LOGISTICS GENERATION is also being contemplated. 5. OLEJE 5. OILS Deutschland, Benzina and Ventus Nafta. 10. LOGISTYKA 10. LOGISTICS 4. WHOLESALE 10. LOGISTYKA 4. 10.HURT LOGISTICS 6. ASFALTY 6. BITUMENS To ensure a smooth and efficient product flow, We sell fuels and other oil products in Poland, the ORLEN Group uses infrastructure comprising fuel the Czech Republic, Germany, Slovakia, Ukraine and terminals, onshore and offshore transshipment faci­ Lithuania. The 5.ORLEN OLEJE Group’s wholesale segment 5. OILS lities, a network of product transmission pipelines, 7. CHEMIA 7. CHEMICALS includes PKN ORLEN, ORLEN Paliwa, Petrolot, ORLEN as well as road and rail transport vehicles. Gaz (Poland), Uniraf Slovakia (Slovakia), Unipetrol BUI (the Czech Republic), and ORLEN Lietuva (Lithuania, 6. ASFALTY 6. BITUMENS Ukraine,8.marine UPSTREAM sales). All these entities are engaged 8. UPSTREAM in our wholesale business. 7. CHEMIA 9. ENERGETYKA 7. 9. CHEMICALS POWER GENERATION 8. UPSTREAM 8. UPSTREAM 10. LOGISTYKA 10. LOGISTICS 9. ENERGETYKA 9. POWER GENERATION 10. LOGISTYKA 10. LOGISTICS 5 WHO ARE WE? The production processes at PKN ORLEN are deThe ORLEN Group’s products and services have signed to meet the highest standards. Year by year, been shown high regard by both retail and instituits products are becoming less and less harmful tional customers over the years, and ORLEN occupies to human health and the environment. The Company the top position among the most valuable brands applies a range of innovative solutions in its manuin the prestigious rankings of the Rzeczpospolita facturing processes which guarantee high quality, daily newspaper. while its business decisions are made with a sense of responsibility for sustainable development and for future generations. With respect to the trade in chemicals, including the classification, labelling and packaging of chemical substances and mixtures, PKN ORLEN complies with the provisions of two key pieces of EU legislation, namely the (EC) No. 1906/2007 (REACH) and (EC) No. 1272/2008 (CLP) Regulations. Working on their basis, the Company develops Material Safety Data Sheets for its products which provide information on the classification and labelling of substances and mixtures to their further users. The 2012 REACH and CLP compliance inspecMORE INFORMATION: tions, carried out by the competent authorities last year, did not reveal any irregularities. dr Jacek Dymowski Expert MORE INFORMATION: Abadon http://ec.europa.eu/environment/chemicals http://www.mg.gov.pl/Wspieranie+przedsiebiorczosci/ A responsible company keeps thinking about the fuBezpieczenstwo+produktow+i+uslug ture, about what its business will look like tomorrow. This is not just a question of the competiChemical substances, including petroleum products, tive environment and availability of resources, but must be REACH compliant in order to be marketed also of the evolution of stakeholders’ expectations in the European Union. The registration process reand the expectations of society at large, including quires producers and importers to submit information the evolution of corporate social responsibility. on specific substances, as prescribed by the relevant While this responsibility is bound to evolve into regulations, to the European Chemical Agency. new forms, one aspect should remain unchanged: By December 1st 2010, PKN ORLEN had successfully the ethics and values upon which all practice ought completed the registration process for high producto be based. In this dynamically changing world, tion volume and particularly dangerous substances. these are the only constant points of reference, Registration of further products and substances will the foundations for all of us and thus also for busibe carried out within the legally defined deadlines. ness, as conducted by ordinary people. The danger is that today we are seeing many attempts to The European Chemical Agency uses data submitrelativize values, but bending the rules of conduct ted in the registration and reporting of substance to our immediate needs renders them a hollow and classification and labelling to create a centralised meaningless declaration. database enabling access to information on dangerous substances, their classification, labelling One might say that the market, business and money and assessment of potential related hazards. This are amoral. But must ’amoral’ always mean ’iminformation is submitted to the relevant authorities moral’? After all, it is we who ultimately decide MORE INFORMATION: (i.e. member states, competent supervisory bodies whether business is moral or immoral. A business and enforcement authorities) and is publicly available. could be compared to a tool, which may be put to good or evil uses. This idea is nothing new; ClemMORE INFORMATION: ent of Alexandria was propounding it as far back http://echa.europa.eu/information-on-chemicals as the first century AD, which makes it an abiding foundation of our civilisation. I only hope we don’t abandon our values for easy profit. Unfortunately, as destructive as the temptation to take moral shortcuts can be, it is always there. 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE The ORLEN Group Furthermore, as at the end of 2012, the Company held indirect equity interests in 55 commercial-law comOur core business is supported by a strong Group. panies, including 43 subsidiaries, 5 jointly-­controlled As at the end of 2012, PKN ORLEN’s business portfolio entities, 5 associates and 2 other companies. included direct shareholdings in 54 commercial-law companies, including: Significant events at the ORLEN Group in 2012: • 33 subsidiaries (over 50% interest); • PKN ORLEN’s interest in the share capital • 2 jointly controlled companies (50% interest); of ANWIL, IKS 'Solino' and Rafineria Nafty Jedlicze • 19 other companies. increased to 100% through a series of share purchases from minority shareholders; • Sale of the entire shareholding in ORLEN Capital AB; ORLEN Group structure – directly related companies as at the end of 2012 CEO’S FINANCE PETROCHEMICALS REFINING SALES AREA AREA AREA AREA AREA ORLEN Upstream ORLEN Księgowość Basell Orlen AB ORLEN Lietuva ORLEN Gaz 100.0% 100.0% Polyolefins 100.0% 100.0% 50.0% ORLEN Intern. ORLEN Holding ANWIL ORLEN Asfalt ORLEN Paliwa Exploration & Prod. Co Malta Ltd 100.0% 82.5% 100.0% 100.0% 99.5% ORLEN Ochrona ORLEN Insurance Ltd ORLEN Rafineria Nafty ORLEN PetroTank 100.0% 0.00000661% Laboratorium Jedlicze 100.0% 94.9% 100.0% 17 Other companies ORLEN Finance AB ORLEN Projekt Rafineria Trzebinia Ship Service <20.0% 100.0% 99.6% 86.4% 60.9% ORLEN Administracja Unipetrol ORLEN Oil ORLEN Deutschland 100.0% 63.0% 51.7% 100.0% Płocki Park PrzemysłowoORLEN Automatyka ORLEN Centrum -Technologiczny 100.0% Serwisowe 50.0% 99.0% ORLEN Medica ORLEN Wir IKS ”Solino” 100.0% 76.6% 100.0% ORLEN Eko Naftoport 100.0% 18.0% ORLEN Budonaft ORLEN KolTrans 100.0% 99.9% Baltic Power ORLEN Transport 100.0% 100.0% Baltic Spark Petrolot 100.0% 100.0% 7 WHO ARE WE? • Purchase of a 49% interest in Petrolot, bringing Retail segment strategy PKN ORLEN’s equity interest in the company to 100%; PKN ORLEN will maintain its current strategy of focus• Increase in PKN ORLEN’s interest in ORLEN ing on increasing market shares, boosting non-fuel Projekt’s share capital, through a series of pursales, and achieving further cost efficiency gains. chases from minority interests. As at the end of 2012, PKN’s equity interest in ORLEN Projekt In H1 2013, a number of projects were launched was 99.63%; to advance the Group’s strategic objectives by increas• In December 2012, ORLEN Asfalt finalised the acing its share in the home markets (Poland, the Czech quisition of a 100% interest in the Czech company Republic, Germany and Lithuania) by 3pp on the 2012 Paramo Asfalt; levels, and improving profits from non-fuel sales. • ORLEN PetroCentrum Sp. z o.o. changed its name The ORLEN Group was also carefully exploring the opto ORLEN Paliwa Sp. z o.o. portunities for development in the non-fuel segment, and its strategic objectives here can be additionally There were no joint-venture events in 2012. supported by strong service station brands, recognisable across the Group’s home markets. The structure of spending in the retail segment reflects a reduction in adaptation investment and stronger financial COMMITMENT involvement in network expansion, including the conExpand the range of information struction of motorway service stations. on the ORLEN Group’s responsibility performance, published in its CSR Report. Petrochemical segment strategy Following completion of its key project, the PTA plant in Włocławek, the segment will not require any major growth CAPEX. Therefore, its capital Revision of the Group strategy expenditure will be lower than in the previous five for 2013-2017 – by segment years, although still sizeable. Refining segment strategy Power generation segment strategy Opportunities for further development of the ORLEN New areas of activity, such as power generation Group’s refining segment lie in efficiency improveand hydrocarbon production, will be added to exments (including higher throughput and yields, and pand the current scope of PKN ORLEN’s business. reduced energy intensity), and by increasing the value The Group’s strategic objectives in the power genof assets through optimally allocated CAPEX. eration segment include: • increasing its generation capacities by constructThe Company’s objectives for wholesale are focused ing a gas-fired power plant in Włocławek; on maintaining its leading position on the whole• upgrading its existing infrastructure to further sale markets, primarily by increasing sales volumes develop generation capacities and bring its assets through improved efficiency, but also by adapting in line with the requirements of the Industrial the structure of its sales force to the changing market Emissions Directive, and environment. H1 2013 saw completion of a whole• Ensuring the energy security of the ORLEN Group. sale reorganisation project, in which ORLEN Paliwa took over the Company’s small and medium-sized To attain its strategic objectives, the Group will: wholesale customers. • engage in new projects, constructing new power generation units at its own sites; With respect to logistics, the Company is working • implement an investment programme to bring to optimise the costs of its fuel logistics and continue its existing assets in line with new environmental to build the Group’s advantages in this field. protection requirements; • improve the efficiency of its existing assets by implementing an investment programme at the power plant in Płock. 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE The construction of a CCGT power plant in Włocławek Exploration and Production segment strategy is the centrepiece of the ORLEN Group’s strategy in the power generation segment. Part of the project saw PKN ORLEN expects to continue the development completion of a 463 MWe unit in April 2013. The unit, of its upstream business. The ORLEN Group’s current which is scheduled to come on-line in December 2015, operations focus on politically stable regions – its will supply process steam and electricity to ANWIL S.A., home markets, Central Europe, North America and, with any surplus power sold on the market. Additionalternatively, other regions of the world. ally, in H1 2013, a detailed analysis was under way of the final construction concept for the CCGT power The Group’s priority is to pursue unconventional gas plant to be built in Płock. exploration projects in Poland, based on licences already held. Production could begin as soon as 2016. The first revenue streams from the segment are expected within the time horizon of the current strategy, i.e. by the end of 2017. Map of the Group’s geographical reach MAŽEIKIŲ HAMBURG PŁOCK BERLIN WARSZAWA PRAGA Markets 1. Fuels: The ORLEN Group’s fuels are purchased 3. Oils: The ORLEN Group is a leading producer not only on our home markets (Poland, the Czech of oils and lubricants in the region. The main Republic, Slovakia, Germany, Ukraine, the Baltic markets are Poland and the Czech Republic. States), but also in numerous other countries, 4. Bitumens: The main markets are Poland, the Czech including Sweden, Finland, the United Kingdom Republic, Slovakia, Germany, Romania and and the US. the Baltic States. 2. Petrochemicals: The ORLEN Group’s Petrochemi5. Chemicals: The key products of the Chemical cal Segment is a key producer in the region, Segment are: polyvinyl chloride, sodium hydroxwith a product range including paraxylene, puide, granulates and PVC-based mixes, nitrogen rified terephthalic acid, ethylene, polyethylene, fertilisers and caprolactam. The main chemicals polypropylene, toluene, benzene, ortoxylene, customers are based in Poland, the Czech Repubacetone, butadiene, glycol, ethylene oxide, phelic, the Baltic States and West European countries nol, fertilisers and other products. The segment’s (principally Benelux). main customers are based in Poland, the Czech Republic, Germany, Austria, Italy, France, Belgium and Sweden, as well as in Russia, Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and various Asian countries. 9 WHO ARE WE? 2010 2011 2012 Financial highlights (in PLN ’000)1 I. Total revenue 62,215,581 79,037,121 88,348,971 II. Operating profit 2,756,827 3,173,938 1,810,083 III. Profit before tax 2,826,324 2,396,447 2,663,963 IV. Net profit 2,357,127 1,386,166 2,127,798 V. Net comprehensive income 2,406,151 1,307,675 2,073,282 VI. Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 3,895,427 (793,335) 2,065,304 VII. Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities (2,568,977) 2,490,678 (2,458,824) VIII. Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities (1,881,372) 1,197,823 (2,928,327) IX. Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (554,922) 2,895,166 (3,321,847) X. Net earnings and diluted earnings per ordinary share (PLN) 5.51 3.24 4.97 December December December 31 2010 31 2010 31 2012 XI Non-current assets 24,663,871 22,429,271 22,474,134 XII Current assets 15,230,187 23,439,812 18,932,835 XIII Total assets 39,894,058 45,869,083 41,406,969 XIV Non-current liabilities 8,350,861 9,844,384 7,702,331 XV Current liabilities 12,004,148 15,177,975 10,784,632 XVI Equity 19,539,049 20,846,724 22,920,006 XVII Share capital 1,057,635 1,057,635 1,057,635 XVIII Number of shares 427,709,061 427,709,061 427,709,061 XIX Book value and diluted book value per share (PLN) 45.68 48.74 53.59 Crude processing volume and product yields at the Płock Refinery (’000 tonnes) Crude processing 14,452 14,547 15,191 Total gasolines 2,735 2,469 2,491 Total diesel oils 5,359 5,646 5,829 Ekoterm Plus fuel oil 699 372 746 Aviation (jet) fuel 394 393 389 Propane-butane fraction (LPG) 241 186 226 Environmental impact – Production Plant in Płock Water withdrawn from the Wisła River (m3) 22,785,313 23,475,613 22,662,775 Wastewater discharged to the Wisła River (m3) 12,757,779 13,452,489 13,015,380 COD 2 load in wastewater discharged to the Wisła River (kg per annum) 889,310 901,573 804,063 Total emissions of all substances (Mg) 6,385,884.25 6,258,758.17 6,142,179.85 including: sulphur dioxide 22,381.42 20,971.56 20,666.18 NOx (in nitrogen dioxide equivalent) 8,460.74 8,027.86 7,819.11 carbon monoxide 1,309.07 1,282.72 1,354.36 total hydrocarbons 1,412.07 1,203.91 1,189.92 total dust 3 728.28 588.78 677.27 carbon dioxide 6,351,440.32 6,226,505.89 6,110,342.67 other substances 4 152.35 177.45 130.34 Environmental impact – PTA Plant in Włocławek 5 Water delivered by supplier, Anwil S.A. (m3) – 2,883,000 3,767,364 Wastewater discharged to Anwil S.A.’s sewage system (m3) – 1,300,000 1,582,498 COD 2 load in wastewater discharged to ANWIL S.A.’s sewage system (kg per annum) – 6,140,000 5,886,603 Total emissions of all substances (Mg) – 62,007.35 146,772.93 including: sulphur dioxide – 0.71 2.65 NOx (in nitrogen dioxide equivalent) – 38.31 54.50 carbon monoxide – 299.28 447.67 total hydrocarbons – 0.77 0.00 total dust 3 – 2.12 3.01 carbon dioxide – 61,657.83 146,250.50 other substances – 8.33 14.60 Responsible production Fees for the economic use of the environment (PLN), 19,644,093.00 19,775,480.006 19,995,534.00 including: emissions (including from vehicles) 17,679,435.00 17,538,371.00 17,865,703.00 – including the Płock Production Plant – 17,459,043.00 17,728,415.00 – including the Włocławek PTA Plant – 79,328 137,288.00 water withdrawn 1,146,012.00 1,228,823.00 1,211,370.00 wastewater discharged 818,646.00 1,008,286.00 918,461.00 Capital expenditure on environmental protection (PLN) 148,118,479.00 48,422,552.00 83,290,988.00 Our employees Employee headcount as at Dec 31 4,513 4,445 4,445 Accidents at work (including severe accidents) 28 15 10 Post-accident absenteeism 789 592 264 1) The financial highlights of PKN ORLEN for the given years ended December 31st. 2) COD – chemical oxygen demand. Gross load, i.e. the actual load discharged to the Wisła River. 3) Total dust, i.e. combustion dust, silica dust and metals in dust. 4) In previous years, silica dust and metals in dust were also disclosed under other substances, hence the higher respective values in previous reports. 5) The PTA Plant in Włocławek has been operating since March 21st 2011. 6) This amount includes a fee for the economic use of the environment paid by the PTA Plant in Włocławek. 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Changes in the CSR reporting process The 2012 report was prepared in line with GRI G3.1 Guidelines, Application Level B. The application PKN ORLEN’s first corporate social responsibility level shows what number of indicators have been report was published in 2002, but a major qualitative covered in a report. For more information on the GRI change in the Company’s CSR reporting came with application levels and GRI G3.1 Guidelines, visit www. the adoption of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) globalreporting.org. standards in 2008. The Company had prepared very thoroughly for the change – the reporting procePKN ORLEN’s reports are also published on the Global dures, the extent of the reports, stakeholder groups, Compact website within the Communication on Proand other important elements of the reporting progress reporting framework. cess had been developed or identified by internal workshops. Subsequent reports have been prepared MORE INFORMATION: based on the Company’s past reporting experience http://www.unglobalcompact.org/COP/ and stakeholder feedback. The sustainability reports are produced internally, by PKN ORLEN employees. MORE INFORMATION: C C+ B B+ A A+ Required Self-declared External assurance External assurance External assurance Optional Third party check Aleksandra Stanek-Kowalczyk Manager PwC Polska Sp. z o.o. In preparing its CSR reports for the past few years, PKN ORLEN has relied on the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines, which are the most widely recognised So far, PKN ORLEN has published eight corporate and used sustainability reporting standards. social responsibility reports. Although they tend to focus on the parent company, in recent years Conformity with a set of external standards is vital the reports have increasingly covered the entire to the preparation of these reports, as it raises ORLEN Group. their credibility in the eyes of stakeholders, proMORE INFORMATION: vides a benchmark for comparing the Company’s PKN ORLEN corporate social performance against its own historical results and responsibility reports are published against peer performance, and helps by drawing on www.orlen.pl on the experience of others to ensure the continMORE INFORMATION: ued development and streamlining of processes and actions. 11 WHO ARE WE? The Company’s report as a whole has not been exterA two-stage evaluation process checks companies’ nally assured, but similarly to previous years, a large eligibility for inclusion in the index, looking at areas number of CSR areas have been subject to external such as corporate governance, disclosure standards assurance. Every year, PKN ORLEN enters prestigious and investor relations, and is conducted by the Warsaw awards and rankings, such as the Ranking of ResponStock Exchange, working together with the Associasible Companies, Leading Philanthropists, and the CSR tion of Listed Companies (Stowarzyszenie Emitentów Reports competition, which entail voluntary submisGiełdowych). Furthermore, much of the data contained sion to external evaluation. In addition, the Company in corporate social responsibility reports, particularly as has been included in the RESPECT Index of responsiit relates to financial and environmental performance, ble, attractive companies since it was first launched. is concurrently presented in the Company’s Annual Reports, which are audited by independent auditors. RESPONSIBLE 2012 – Key Events January July PKN ORLEN launches an educational Commencement of the project to deliver website www.poczujchemie.pl a flue gas catalytic denitrification unit February August Implementation of an electronic PKN ORLEN again qualifies CO2 emissions monitoring system for the RESPECT Index March September PKN ORLEN receives a TOP EMPLOYERS PKN ORLEN becomes a partner to the education camPOLAND 2012 certificate paign, ’Shareholder Democracy. Informed Investments’ April October PKN ORLEN secures top spot in 'The Pillars The ’Chemistry Lesson’ programme receives the of the Polish Economy' ranking ’Educational Initiative of the Year’ title for the second time May November PKN ORLEN named ’Most Trusted Brand’ PKN ORLEN awarded in the nationwide for the eleventh consecutive time ’Improvement of Working Conditions’ competition June December PKN ORLEN joins the ’Coalition of Leaders ’Amazing People’ – a new social networking in Responsible Business’ club project launched by PKN ORLEN on Facebook 12 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE The core values and standards of conduct of PKN ORLEN as the basis for action The universal values upon which our corporate culture is built support the pursuit of Company objectives and help prevent any irregularities in business operations. The Company adopted its ethical conduct programme in 2006, with the Key Values and Ethics Code as its twin pillars, compliance with which was overseen by an employee-elected Ethics Officer. However, the changes taking place in Poland at that time prompted the PKN ORLEN Management Board to realign its policies with changing internal needs and external expectations, Tomasz Fill to better prepare the Company to tackle the chalHead of the Corporate Communication Office lenges of the future. PKN ORLEN On September 4th 2012, the Management Board Definition of the new mission, credo and values and adopted 'The core values and standards of conduct establishment of 'The core values and standards of PKN ORLEN', which sets out a new mission and of conduct of PKN ORLEN' have helped crystallise a new set of values to address the challenges currently the corporate culture at PKN ORLEN. With its new faced by the Company. The values of Responsibility, approach to ethics, PKN ORLEN has secured a place Growth, People, Energy and Reliability underpin our among the leaders of change, able to react responcorporate strategy and determine the route to achievesibly to the challenges of the future. ment of its ambitious goals, by the organisation and by its people. We are aware that in today’s reality a competitive advantage is created not only by financial perforThe PKN ORLEN Code of Conduct is primarily a guide mance alone, but also by how that performance to internal relations, but also deals with the Company’s is achieved. PKN ORLEN’s corporate culture is coninteraction with external stakeholders, including busiducive to enhancing cooperation, building trust ness partners, local communities, the natural environand strengthening social capital. Ultimately, this ment and its competitors, and also complements PKN results in the high quality of stakeholder relations ORLEN’s business strategy in that it shows employees and successful attainment of business objectives. how economic goals should be identified and pursued. The document emphasises mutual trust and the building of solid relationships. Employees are also empowered to request clarification of any doubts they might have, or any irregularities they may come across, and As a modern organisation in the process of learning, to have their questions answered. In the first instance, PKN ORLEN is open to ideas and projects conceived any such doubts, questions or irregularities should outside the organisation. The Company is commitbe discussed with their line manager. However, if an ted to the principles of corporate governance, and issue – due to its nature – cannot be consulted with also takes on a number of voluntary commitments, the line manager, the employee may turn to the Eththus creating its value and fostering trust and good ics Committee or Ethics Officer, with a guarantee relations with its stakeholders. of anonymity and confidentiality. The Company also operates an anonymous concerns reporting system. As early as 2003, the Company had declared its compliance with the Global Compact standards, and since Around 90% of the Company’s employees have 1997 has implemented various environmental initiatives received training enhancing their knowledge 'The under the Responsible Care programme. In 2011, PKN core values and standards of conduct of PKN ORLEN' ORLEN was among the signatories of the Declaration on MORE INFORMATION: document, which deals comprehensively with ethical Sustainable Development in the Energy Sector in Poland. issues and anti-corruption procedures. It has also subscribed to the Declaration of Compliance with the Code of Corporate Responsibility. These volunMORE INFORMATION: tary commitments are an important factor in building the Company’s value and stakeholder trust, as it is these Read more about the core values and standards of conduct of PKN ORLEN at: www.orlen.pl that help forge strong, sustainable relations – valuable assets of a socially responsible company. 13 14 I. SOCIETY O RESPONSIBILITY We respect our customers, shareholders, the natural environment and local communities. 15 I. SOCIETY Policies related to participation in social life and lobbying PKN ORLEN has a dedicated unit managing our regulatory risks, which is a continuous process of ensuring that the Company is not adversely affected by any regulatory developments. This process involves monitoring of the Company’s regulatory environment, identification and assessment of regulatory risks, deve­lopment and presentation of a uniform Company position on various regulatory risks in existence at any given time, development and implementation of lobbying strategies, as well as a dialogue and Leszek Kurnicki ongoing contact with regulatory authorities. Executive Director for Marketing PKN ORLEN The objective of the regulatory risk management policy, including the lobbying policy, is to facilitate The Company uses its ever-increasing competence a lawful (compliant with the Act on Lobbying Activity and experience to not only comment on reality, in the Lawmaking Process of July 7th 2005, Dz.U. but also to shape it and propose specific solutions. of 2005, No. 169, item 1414, as amended), active, The crisis which began in 2008 and that has since informed and fully transparent social dialogue with completely redefined existing views on economics, the public authorities. Its purpose is to present, either the market and social responsibility, has also made us directly or through relevant industry organisations, realise that there is a need for change in the global optimal legislative solutions to be used in the lawmakeconomic order. This is why ’responsible change’ was ing process, and to minimise the risk of dispute with the theme of PKN ORLEN’s 2012 activities. the regulators and authorities supervising the Company’s day-to-day operations. The last twelve months were a watershed in the construction of PKN ORLEN’s identity – work was carried The measures undertaken are designed to ensure out simultaneously on updating the strategy for that the Company is protected from regulatory risk, the next five years and on formulating a new system which means ensuring an organisational and legal of values underpinning the Company’s corporate status that will allow the Company to eliminate culture. Responsibility, Growth, People, Energy and or minimise, on an ongoing basis, any regulatory Reliability were all highlighted by the Company durrisks arising out of its operation in the regulatory ing numerous expert discussions. environment determined by international, Community and national laws. Transformation involves a number of elements. For instance, it is extremely important to monitor the effects of implemented changes and respond to them Changes in its role appropriately, when necessary. A modern company as a corporate citizen must track the impact of its activity on many levels. The key is understanding the role of business in As a responsible firm with a strong position in the rethe contemporary world and accepting the fact that gion, PKN ORLEN is well aware of its role in creating profit alone is not the only measure of sustainable public debate and setting high standards for it. success. The achievement of such success is, to a large extent, possible by following a set of CSR principles which define the framework of today’s business management strategy based on the standards of responsibility towards the outside world. 16 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Last year was the third consecutive year in which identified the most pressing challenges faced by PKN ORLEN ran its ’Future Fuelled by Knowledge’ the modern world’s economy, but also proposed project, which is a platform for discussion of iss­ues solutions for their implementation. At last year’s of strategic importance to Poland’s future developedition of the Congress, the Company organised ment. Two new expert publications were prepared two discussion panels: ’Value Growth Drivers at as part of the project – the first, entitled ’Plano­ Strategic Enterprises’ and ’Who will Finance Shale wanie w czasach niepewności’ (’Planning in Times Gas Production in Poland and How?’. of Uncertainty’), focused on responsible, long-term designing of the future, both in business and at public Traditionally, PKN ORLEN has also shared its business institutions. It was a compendium of solutions and experience, providing support to leading-edge comproposed changes designed to minimise the risk panies building the innovative economy. For the third of another crisis occurring in the future. The second time, the Company was a partner of the prestigpublication examined an issue which could potentially ious Entrepreneur of the Year award, organised by change Poland’s entire economic landscape within the Ernst & Young consulting firm. Each year, Ernst the next few decades, namely shale gas. The ’Gas (R) & Young selects the most successful people in Polish evolution in Poland’ report was the first truly widebusiness who have led their companies towards major ranging study of the long-term consequences of possuccesses in the Polish and international markets. sible shale gas production for the Polish economy. It has been widely commented on by various groups PKN ORLEN was also engaged in the Innovative of Polish and international experts, as well as state Economy Congress, one of the most important events authorities, on a number of occasions, including in the development of solutions to modernise the Pola panel discussion entitled ’Shale Gas Exploration ish economy. Among the special guests of last year’s Championship. A New Driver for the Polish Economy’, edition was Francis Fukuyama, one of the world’s organised by PKN ORLEN as part of the 2012 Ecomost prominent social and economic thinkers, while nomic Forum in Krynica. PKN ORLEN took part in a panel entitled ’Power – A Time of Difficult Choices for the Next Decade’. The Company was also actively engaged in an event which is becoming one of the most important fora It should also be mentioned that the Company was for discussing social issues in Central Europe – it took engaged in the 7th Civic Congress, organised by part for the second time in the European Forum for the Gdańsk Institute for Market Economics (Instytut New Ideas in Sopot, as the partner of a plenary sesBadań nad Gospodarką Rynkową). The Congress sion entitled ’The European Social Model. Something took ’Attitudes and Skills as the Key to Development Ends, Something Begins’. The purpose of the discusof Poles and Poland’ as its central theme. Its parsion, which took place among a group of eminent ticipants looked at various areas of collective life intellectuals, was to point out the changes necessary in terms of the attitudes, skills and organisational in European social policies, which, on one hand, cultures desired. would help build Europe’s global competitive position and, on the other, would allow it to retain its The Company’s strategic approach to social respongreatest achievements, which still make it the best sibility can also be seen in its educational projects. place to live. Apart from its own extensive science support programme, in 2012 PKN ORLEN was also involved In 2012, PKN ORLEN acted for the second time as in educational projects developed by the Lesław a co-organiser of the European Financial Congress A. Paga 2065 Foundation (Fundacja 2065 im. Lesława in Sopot – a debate on the security and stability Pagi). PKN ORLEN also supported the Media Academy of the European Union, distinguished by its practiproject to train future economic journalists, and cality. Recommendations announced at the concluthe Energy Academy project developing energy sion of the European Financial Congress not only market competences among students and grad­uates of economic, engineering and legal faculties. 17 I. SOCIETY People are remarkable It is obvious that people are at the heart of every activity, which is why PKN ORLEN pays so much attention to building its relationships with stakeholders. We provide development opportunities for pupils and students with special talents, we supp­ ort talented athletes, and help those who care for others to be more effective. Social trust is especially important for building relations and getting the best results. Therefore, PKN ORLEN makes every effort to foster trust among its stakeholders. This is done through appropriate selection of partners, both for Paweł Frątczak M.Sc., Senior Foreman business and social activities. Press Officer to the Commander in Chief of the National Fire Service PKN ORLEN wants to stimulate Poles’ dormant potential. One way it’s doing this is through the ’Poles with Verve’ award, an unprecedented initiative begun We are very lucky. In numerous surveys conducted in September 2012 with the aim of discovering and over the years, and not only in Poland, firemen, due promoting exceptional individuals. By showcasing to their specific role, lead the polls on social trust. such persons and their achievements, PKN ORLEN This is true of firemen as an occupational group, contributes to positive perceptions of Poland. and not only officers of the National Fire Service, The purpose of the initiative is to honour and probut also members of the Volunteer Fire Brigades. mote people with ideas, passion and perseverance in creating great things, who are unknown to the wider Our mission is to help. No matter when, to whom public. Winners of the ’Poles with Verve’ award are and how such help is needed (we can render any selected in seven categories: Science, Medicine, kind of help), firemen are ready to serve. It’s hardly Environmental Protection, Business Innovations, surprising, then, that we’re perceived this way. But Culture & Art, Design, and Sports. The choice of cathow do we keep society trusting in us? This only egories is not accidental – these are the areas where seems like an easy question. Most of all, we need MORE INFORMATION: development would enhance Poland’s prestige and to work to keep that trust. Our high standards, the quality of life in our country. continuous professional improvement, as well as personal dedication and passion are a huge help in MORE INFORMATION: achieving that goal. But we must also avoid falling https://www.facebook.com/PolacyzWerwa into a routine. We are under very close scrutiny by the public – if we fail them in any way, they will Thanks to its gifted and passionate young artists, certainly let us know, and cracks in the trust will scientists, visionaries and businessmen, Poland is appear. Which, as we all know, cannot be easily becoming a modern and innovative country, and mended. this is how we put into practice our motto about fuelling the future. We must not forget the preventive aspect of our activities. After all, the fire service is not only about We also do this in our local communities and imputting out fires. The way in which we are perceived mediate surroundings, ensuring everyday safety is also affected by various campaigns to raise public and building mutual kindness and belief in other awareness of fire safety and help them underhuman beings. Our new communication platform, stand the threats. An excellent case in point here the Amazing People (Niesamowici ludzie) fanpage, is the campaign entitled ’No to Carbon Monoxide’, has already attracted over 40,000 fans. In an origiwhich educates and informs about the threat posed nal and friendly way, we present and conduct CSR by that poisonous gas. One project we carried out MORE INFORMATION: activities, promote social involvement and attitudes jointly with the ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the of kindness towards others, and encourage charity. Heart) Foundation was a series of safety-related talks with firemen at Foster Family Group Homes, which MORE INFORMATION: were then provided with carbon monoxide detectors. https://www.facebook.com/niesamowiciludzie 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Cultural ORLEN PKN ORLEN’s crude processing capabilities make it a perfect force for promotion of the sciences, For years, PKN ORLEN has been visible on Poland’s especially chemistry-related science. The Company cultural map as a patron and sponsor of the arts. and its ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) FounRecently, the Company began focusing its activities dation have developed a package of programmes on selected thematic areas. The first of these looked designed to encourage young people to take an at the art of cinematography, for which PKN ORLEN interest in chemistry, to get to like it and perhaps sponsored the Gdynia Film Festival. consider future professional plans in that field. This eventually led to the initiation of another edition Another sponsorship programme, this time focused of the Company’s ’Chemistry Lesson’ project. In 2012, around the theatre, saw us working with the IMKA multimedia classes accompanied by chemical experiTheatre, providing sponsorship for a show by Ailey ments devoted to the origin, production, processing II, a US contemporary dance company, co-organand application of crude oil were held at 503 schools ising the Theatre Confrontations Festival in Lubthroughout Poland, and were attended by nearly lin and sponsoring of the premier of a production 20,000 primary school students. of The Brothers Karamazov on Polish Public Television. Our third thematic programme of cultural events focused on classical music. PKN ORLEN supported another edition of the Ludwig van Beethoven Easter Festival and worked with the Grand Theatre in Warsaw on a staging of the operatic version of War and Peace, by Sergei Prokofiev, performed by the Mariinsky Theatre of Saint Petersburg. PKN ORLEN promotes and supports talent. For several years now, the Company has been a partner of the European Foundation of Vocal Arts (Europejska Fundacja Sztuki Wokalnej). Educational ORLEN Together with the ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the The Feel the Chemistry interactive website available Heart) Foundation, PKN ORLEN supports, promotes at www.poczujchemie.pl, also dedicated to junior and implements its own projects to raise the quality high school students, was launched in January 2012. of education. One significant recent change in our apThe website is an educational project which seeks to proach to educational sponsorship has been a focus challenge the stereotypical perception of chemistry on popularising science classes, including chemistry. as a difficult and incomprehensible subject. The The purpose of the new approach is to encourage website is designed not only for students, but also young people to take an interest in fields which are for teachers, and can help them create scenarios commonly – but unjustifiably – perceived as difficult for interactive chemistry classes. The website also and boring, and secondly, to encourage them to promotes chemistry amongst those who have only pursue an education in engineering in the future. The begun to develop their scientific interests and to project’s wider goal is to support the development encourage them to progress in the field. of Poland and promote the areas of education offering the greatest prospects, both in terms of individual The projects are supplemented by the ’Mistrzowie careers and the needs of the economy. CHEMII’ (’Masters of Chemistry’) scholarship programme, run by the Company’s corporate Foundation, which enables talented junior high school students to continue their education at reputable high schools that will prepare them to study sciences at the university level. Partners of the programme 19 I. SOCIETY include two renowned schools, the Junior High on the promotion of healthy lifestyles, the ideas School and Academic High School of the Nicolaus of fair play in sports and in life, as well as hard work, Copernicus University of Toruń, and the Chemistry determination, and tenacity in the pursuit of goals. and Environmental Protection Technical School No. 3 at the Maria Skłodowska-Curie Chemical Sciences PKN ORLEN focuses its sponsorship activities in three School Complex in Kraków. main areas: motor sports, athletics and volleyball. Last year’s sporting season ended with spectacular Additional support comes from the Company’s work successes in each of these disciplines. The volleywith science clubs and students from the Warsaw ball players won the World League, the athletes University of Technology. of the ORLEN Sports Group won gold and silver Olympic medals, and the ORLEN Team’s rally drivers stood on the podium in both the World ChampionCOMMITMENT ships and the Open Trophy classifications. Broaden the possibilities for education in chemistry in order to reach new target Besides supporting its flagship projects, PKN ORLEN groups. continued to encourage active lifestyles and healthy sporting rivalry amongst the youngest players. Once again it provided its patronage to the full cycle Sporting ORLEN of Athletic Thursdays and the ‘Orlik School Sports Ground Football Tournament’, with the twin aims Another change in recent years is the Company’s of motivating young sports lovers to keep practisincreasing involvement in sports promotion, from ing, and to activate their local communities. The the local, amateur level to professional sports Company also continued its dialogue with young of the highest world class. persons for whom the ORLEN-sponsored sportsmen and women are role models. Thus, the ORLEN PKN ORLEN uses sports sponsorship as a tool to Sports Group athletes once again participated in build the strength of its commercial brands. To this the Olympic Picnic, meeting youngsters and showing end, it combines sponsorship in professional sports them how to stimulate their motivation and desire to with support for sporting initiatives for children, succeed. They also spoke of the satisfaction that can youngsters and the disabled, placing a strong focus be derived from engaging in sporting competition while respecting the spirit of fair play. The main goal of the sponsorship activities undertaken by ORLEN is to continuously work towards improvement of the condition of Polish sports, as well as the development of individual sporting careers. It is for this reason that, last year, the Company invested not only in established sportsmen and women. Having witnessed the beautiful and moving successes of the Paralympic competitors, who proved that the traditional standards of beauty and fitness – both physical and spiritual – may have an altogether different dimension, the Company, acting jointly with the ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) Foundation, initiated the ’Fullness of Life’ grant programme. These new PKN ORLEN grant holders have proved that one can be active and achieve success despite physical limitations, setting an example not only for those affected by disabilities, but for everyone, to seek out and push new limits and fulfil their dreams. All our Olympic champions have shown that ambition and hard work can have formidable effects. 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Safe ORLEN Community ORLEN The need to improve safety on Polish roads is an issue PKN ORLEN’s presence in the life of its local comthat for many years has lost neither relevance nor munities stems from its excellent knowledge of lourgency. Since 2006, PKN ORLEN has been running cal issues and partnership approach. The changes the ’ORLEN. Safe Roads’ programme, under which in our relations with local communities over the years a number of social and educational initiatives proconfirm that we’ve chosen the right direction. Jointlymoting proper road traffic behaviour have already agreed terms of cooperation and dialogue with our been implemented. community partners have had positive effects on both the Company and its environment. On the local level, the Company’s activity is a perfect illustration of the concept of corporate citizenship. Its CSR activities among local communities are, for the most part, focused in and around Płock. These are wide-ranging, consistently implemented, and impact many dimensions of the town and its residents’ lives. BEZPIECZNE DROGI For a number of years, PKN ORLEN has supported Płock’s young, talented inhabitants from disadvantaged backgrounds in the pursuit of their ambitions. Together with the ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) Foundation, the Company proIn 2012, for example, a pedestrian safety campaign vides opportunities for gifted secondary and postwas carried out with the ’Protect life, wear a reflecsecondary school students from Płock and Płock tor!’ slogan. Campaign partners included the Road county, by means of a grant programme dedicated Traffic Office of the Polish National Police Headto meeting their needs. Strong emotions were stirred quarters, the Provincial Police Headquarters, and by the Little Test on Płock, a competition testing the Roman Catholic parishes of the Warsaw province. knowledge of the traditions and history, past and What distinguished the 2012 campaign from earlier present, of Płock and its environs. efforts was an attempt to reach out to communities and social groups beyond the reach of our daily PR Wherever it is, the Company is very consistent in its and communications activities, namely the elderly and support for culture and the arts. In 2012, it devoted inhabitants of smaller, outlying towns and villages. particular attention to classical music, becoming a partner of the Płock Symphony Orchestra, and 200,000 reflective stickers and bands which, when a sponsor of organ music concerts and the Płock worn, considerably improve the safety of pedestrians Days of Choral Music Festival. Another great event on roads, were distributed among the residents on the Company’s musical agenda last year was of the communes and municipalities of the Warthe three-day Audioriver festival. Now in its eighth saw Province. Particular attention was devoted to year, the festival has become an obligatory part the safety of pedestrians walking along roadsides of the summer holiday plans of electronic music fans. outside of urban areas. Safety reflectors were disIn 2012, it attracted an audience of about 16,000, tributed through almost a thousand parishes, with from all over Poland and several other European the help of the county and municipal police forces. countries. The stars of electronic and alternative A major contribution to the success of the campaign music perform on the beautiful Wisła river beach and was made by the parish priests, who educated their in the Płock Old Market Square, a place with a very congregations on the importance of wearing reflecspecial ambience. For PKN ORLEN, this is not only tors while walking along the roads, and on how a chance to enable people to participate in exciting the reflectors are best worn. Supporting educational concerts, but also a means of promoting the town materials were prepared by PKN ORLEN in coopin which they’re based. eration with the police. To reinforce the campaign’s message, a number of information and education Another important place among the Company’s local programmes were run on the national Polish Radio’s partners is occupied by the Muzeum Mazowieckie, MORE INFORMATION: Channel I, as well as in selected Catholic press titles the oldest public museum in Poland, established in and other media. 1821. Among its rich collection of exhibits, the Art Nouveau pieces deserve particular attention. In 2012, MORE INFORMATION: with PKN ORLEN’s support the museum added a wellhttp://www.orlenbezpiecznedrogi.pl/ preserved set of interwar period furniture, still in very good condition, to its already impressive collection. 21 I. SOCIETY As far as the present day and the expectations of youth treatment. This is a simply financial demonstration are concerned, there are two cultural establishments of the Company’s concern for the life and health which have for years fallen within the sphere of PKN of the inhabitants of Płock. The Company has worked ORLEN’s interest. These are the Per Se Theatre, which with the Płock Hospital for a number of years, and is engaged in theatre activities, but also popularises fully intends to continue in its commitment. other related arts, attracting young, passionate people. It does this by encouraging anyone who is interested While Płock may be the most distinctive example, in the theatre, writing drama, stage performances let’s not forget that wherever PKN ORLEN conducts and generally participating in the act of creation its business, it also engages in community-focused with people like themselves, to reach out and contact activities. One case in point is Ostrów Wielkopolthe theatre directly. Other opportunities come from ski, where, with the Company’s support, the conthe Król Maciuś Pierwszy Youth Community Centre, tinually active ’Good Neighbour Grant Fund for which gives those who frequent it a chance to pursue Ostrów Wielkopolski’ Society was established. Over altogether different passions. The Centre organises in the Lublin Province, PKN ORLEN’s business activeducational, artistic, recreational and sports activities ity goes hand-in-hand with social involvement, and that help children and youngsters fill their leisure time. could be considered another up-to-date example. It also produces regular series of cultural events for the youngest inhabitants of Płock. 2012 saw ongoing dialogue with the local community, but also the fulfilment of earlier expectations and deThe Company’s sports sponsorships are also highly livery on existing promises and commitments. In May visible on the local amateur and professional lev2012, residents of the Children’s Home in Kijany, near els, at the ORLEN Arena Sports and Performance Lublin, went on an exciting trip around the country, Hall and in its work with the ORLEN Wisła Płock financed thanks to the management’s involvement handball team and the Płock Rowing Society. For and donations made for the purpose. Additionally, the 19th time, PKN ORLEN was also the title sponsor with the assistance of the ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Płock ORLEN Polish Open, a tennis tournament of the Heart) Foundation, the Children’s Home was for wheelchair users. able to seek partial financing of a project implemented under the ’Improvement of the Quality of Services Among its activities for children, it is worth mentionProvided in Social Assistance Centres and Childcare ing the ORLEN Handball Mini League, a regular handFacilities’ scheme, as part of a Swiss-Polish Cooperation ball league for schoolboys and girls from Płock and Programme. As a result, the Kijany Children’s Home its surroundings. In promotion of healthy lifestyles received the funds it needed to refurbish its buildings. generally, PKN ORLEN supports local projects such as the Tumski Hill Race, the 1st Semi-Marathon of Two These and other, similar activities, have caused PKN Bridges, the Triathlon to Win the Cup of the President ORLEN to be perceived as a company open and of Płock, and the Płock Athletic Thursdays. sensitive to the needs of others, and responsible for the environment in which it operates. And, as part of a joint project with the Płock Municipality, the Company handed over two more new, Working for the common good safe, modern facilities for children and youngsters: a playground and a skate park. These are only some Employee Volunteering at PKN ORLEN of the projects that the Company has implemented for the benefit of the inhabitants of Płock and The Employee Volunteering programme at PKN ORLEN the neighbouring area, always with the objectives and the companies of the ORLEN Group has been in of improving the quality of life in Płock and promotplace since 2004, when it was established by a joint ing the town as a dynamically developing centre initiative of employees and management. Since then, of culture, sports and recreation. the number of employees volunteering to help has been steadily growing. On the one hand, this can be Completely different needs of the town’s residents attributed to our employees’ sensitivity to social isare met by the Company’s work with the Provinsues, and on the other, to the active backing of their cial Hospital Complex in Płock. With the support concerns by PKN ORLEN. Best of all, the positive efof the ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) Founfects of our volunteering activities are being felt by dation, the hospital has extended its Anaesthesia an increasing number of beneficiaries. and Intensive Care Unit, so that it can admit more patients in life-threatening condition. The Company The Lublin Province (where the Company has been also supplies the Płock Hospital with liquid nitrogen, exploring for shale gas) is, for us, a new area for which is necessary for medical examinations and employee volunteering activity. Last year, the ’Magic 22 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE School Bag’ and ’We Make Dreams Come True’ campaigns, previously conducted in Płock, were also run in the Lublin Province for the second consecutive time. Over three hundred children received gifts, and the Company’s management personnel also made donations towards the cost of renovating local playgrounds. Both these campaigns have already been running for several years now. Volunteers also work on committees awarding grants as part of the grant programmes conducted by the ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) Foundation. prof. dr hab. Marek Konopczyński COMMITMENT Rector of the Pedagogium Academy of Social Sciences Build or renovate two playgrounds Member of the Committee on Pedagogical Sciences serving rural communities of the Polish Academy of Sciences in the Lublin Province. Contemporary social science clearly demonstrates the dysfunction of the state system of institutional The work of the Foundation care for orphaned children. Regrettably, the institutional solutions (children’s homes, juvenile reform Established by PKN ORLEN on August 20th 2001, schools etc), inherited from the previous social systhe ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) Fountem, are still prevalent in Poland today. In highly dation is one of the first corporate foundations civilised countries, the prevailing cultural model has in Poland. It is successful in pursuing its Founder’s for years been based on various forms of foster care, social mission, as well as its own projects to improve rather than institutionalisation. But professional foster the quality of community life. It undertakes initiatives families, or group homes, have now also begun to to ensure equal opportunities for children deprived be established in Poland as a new means of caring of natural parental care, and provides support for for and raising children. Based on the postulates young people in their education and the strengthenof academics, they considerably improve the chances ing of their aspirations. Another area of the Foundaof educational and social success, as well as the develtion’s activity is in improving safety and protecting opmental needs of children deprived of the natural life and health. care of their biological parents. A chance for a good future That is why various initiatives by NGOs supporting non-institutional forms of care and upbringing From the very beginning, the Foundation has promot(such as the ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) ed foster families as being the most effective means Foundation) are perfectly in line with modern social of providing children deprived of natural families systems supporting pro-family solutions. with the conditions they need to fully develop their personal potential. I believe that providing specialist educational support to people engaged in the family-based forms of care The help provided takes all forms – from ensuring that that have been developing in our country lately is an the children have decent living conditions to looking afimportant social mission, filling an existing gap in our ter their health, making sure that they go on holidays, pedagogical training. We should therefore hope that as well as undertaking various Christmas and Easter soon, a well-developed system of family-based forms initiatives, and awarding grants to the most talented of care and upbringing will become the prevailing children. Opportunities are created for the children form of care for biologically or socially orphaned to realise their potential, gain access to knowledge children, and will absorb the several thousand children and understand the positive aspects of life. Members which have unfortunately been staying in various of ’The Best Ones’ children’s group present original, institutional childcare facilities until now. strange and astonishing facts on a Facebook page of the same name (’Debeściaki’). Among its fans are 23 I. SOCIETY Expert patronage was provided by the PEDAGOGIUM Academy of Social Sciences of Warsaw and the Faculty of Pedagogy of Warsaw University. The Foundation will be continuing its work with these institutions. Customers of ORLEN service stations can join in and help foster family group homes by donating their credits, collected as part of the VITAY loyalty scheme, to finance the specific needs of the children. The credits collected in 2012 financed 109 monthly grants, 1,862 hours of rehabilitation treatment, over 17,000 lunches at school canteens, and purchased school accessories for nearly 300 students. Customers in October 2012 who decided to support the Foundation’s activities by donating at least 500 VITAY credits received silicone fluorescent bracelets bearing the project’s slogan, as part of ’THE BEST ONES. SETTING AN EXAMPLE’ nationwide campaign, young people from all over Poland, and also Serbia, promoting safety among road users. Great Britain, Norway, the US, China, Mexico, Tunisia and Iraq. The growing number of people visiting the page is confirmation that children living in foster COMMITMENT: family group homes have a lot to offer. • Release another publication on how to develop parenting competence and One of the key tasks of the Foundation in its work as help children and teenagers discover their a competence centre for foster family group homes creative potential. is in improving the skills and competences of the adults • Set up and launch ‘Strefa RDD’ offering places to children in their homes. In April 2012, – a website through which caregivers in the Foundation organised a conference entitled ’Tofamily-run group homes for children can wards developing parents’ competence and children’s network with each other, access useful potential’, which provided over 100 caregivers with information and obtain expert advice on the modern expertise necessary to build appropriate child education, law and pedagogy. relations with their children, and professional support • Carry out a project on fire safety and in their dealings with the state administration. The conprevention. ference, which was part of the calendar of events • Launch a scholarship programme for of Janusz Korczak Year, was held under the patronage children from foster family group homes of Marek Michalak, the Ombudsman for Children. showing an interest in and aptitude for sports. • Transform the summer and winter recreation programmes so that they combine rest with thematic activities. Supporting the most gifted students In 2012, the ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) Foundation kicked off an original programme, ’Mistrzowie CHEMII’ (’Masters of Chemistry’), for gifted students showing a particular interest in chemistry and other sciences. Organised under the auspices of the Polish Chamber of Chemical Industry (Polska Izba Przemysłu Chemicznego), the initiative is carried out jointly with two excellent schools: The Academic High School of the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, and the Chemistry 24 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE and Environmental Protection Technical School No. 3 at the Maria Skłodowska-Curie Chemical Sciences School Complex in Kraków. These two institutions offer the Foundation’s scholarship recipients a firstgrade education and an opportunity to pursue their interests. As the institutions themselves work closely with other celebrated higher-education institutions, including the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, the Jagiellonian University and the AGH University of Science and Technology in Kraków, students are able to participate in a wide variety of academic classes and projects. The Foundation’s objective is to discover talented The Foundation’s local initiatives students and prove that chemistry is not only an interesting subject, but also a foundation on which The Foundation has, for many years, encouraged local a rewarding professional career can be built. initiatives for children and youth. Its current activities are focused on its work with Płock educational and It also reaches out to talented youths in the town and cultural institutions, and on providing assistance county of Płock, building local social capital. Under to non-governmental organisations. PKN ORLEN’s the 2012 programme directed at children living and research activity in the Lublin Province has also given studying in Płock, 203 scholarships were granted to rise to local CSR initiatives. local primary school and secondary school students. Additional scholarships were awarded to 161 residents Both PKN ORLEN and the Foundation consider safety of Płock county. Recipients included winners of Poland the protection of health to be priorities in their ish and English language competitions organised by charity efforts, which at the local level underlie the School Inspectorate, talented young mathematiits long history of excellent work with the Provincians, physicists, and sports champions of various cial Hospital Complex in Płock. With our support, disciplines, such as wushu, judo and table tennis. the hospital was able to enlarge its Anaesthesia and Intensive Care Unit in 2012. We also supply the hosUnder the newly launched 'Fullness of Life' (Pełnia pital with liquid nitrogen, which is a fundamental życia), scholarship programme scholarships were component in sample storage, cryogenic surgical awarded to six of Poland’s best athletes with disabilities procedures and cryotherapy. Over the many years – gold medallists in the 2012 Summer Paralympics of our work together, the Company and the Foundain London. Their success in the Paralympics demtion have been instrumental in expanding the range onstrated that overcoming disability barriers is also of equipment available at the hospital, thus improvpossible. ing the quality of health service it provides to Płock’s residents and throughout the region. The ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) Foundation also supports innovative projects initiated The ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) Founby student clubs. Young designers from the SAE dation became a partner in the Foundation Against Inter-Faculty Student Club once again participated Leukaemia’s (Fundacja Przeciwko Leukemii) nationin the Aero Design competition in the United States, wide social and educational ’Become a Bone Marrow in which Polish teams have received various awards Donor’ campaign. By helping organise physical exams and distinctions before. The Foundation also provided for potential bone marrow donors, the Foundation additional funds to the Astronautics, Robomatic and continues to promote socially-responsible attitudes Cyborg++ Student Clubs to support their efforts among PKN ORLEN’s employees and Płock’s residents. to construct the HUSAR Lunar Rover, their entrant in the NASA Lunabotics Mining Competition 2013. COMMITMENT Continue our wide-ranging cooperation with local partners. COMMITMENT Launch a grant programme in support of innovation in technology-oriented student clubs. 25 I. SOCIETY Memberships In 2012, PKN ORLEN’s representatives were active in 37 organisations and associations which we believe to be vital and beneficial to the Company in many respects. What’s particularly important here are the opportunities they present for exchanging experience and acquiring new knowledge. Additionally, membership in various organisations and associations gives us the opportunity to speak for the chemical industry, defend its interests, and influence the final shape of legal regulations and technical standards, etc. Małgorzata Greszta Sustainable Development Services Manager PKN ORLEN considers its active participation in cerSGS tain Polish and international trade associations and advocacy groups to be of strategic importance, as it I believe that the biggest challenge facing Polish manallows the Company’s arguments to be heard at both agers today is how to assess the effectiveness of their the domestic and European levels. Additionally, CSR activities and the influence they have on business membership in such organisations and associations performance. But why is this so difficult? give us an opportunity to establish a uniform policy across the industry, as well as exchange experience Companies that lack consistent and comprehensive and initiate cooperation with representatives of other CSR strategies which would define key objectives companies. and measures of success find it hard to conclusively say what kind of results have been achieved. Often, We attach particular importance to our activity the reporting process itself provides the impulse to in the following domestic organisations: collect and organise various indicators, which may in turn give rise to a more strategic approach to meas• The Polish Organisation of Oil Industry and Trade uring CSR performance. But of all the available tools, (POPiHN) – which serves as a forum for Polish the LBG model warrants special attention, as it is in oil companies to work out common positions fact a very practical way of assessing the effectiveness on matters vital to the industry, which are then of the socially-responsible initiatives of a company. The presented to governmental authorities; LBG model offers us a systemic approach to tracking CSR expenditure and allows the reporting of our • The Polish Chamber of Chemical Industry (PIPCH) – results in a transparent manner, which is crucial to a functional counterpart of POPiHN in the chemithe company’s success – not only do we know what cal sector, which additionally allows the Company has been achieved, but we are also able to credibly to present its arguments at the European level demonstrate the effects to our stakeholders. by participating in the work of CEFIC (the European Chemical Industry Council); • PKPP Lewiatan – our membership and active participation in the organisation’s management structures and working groups gives us the opportunity to engage with other entrepreneurs, consultants and experts. The organisation works to provide uniform viewpoints on existing legislation, while also taking steps to improve it, and allows entrepreneurs to work out common positions on newly-proposed legal regulations. Furthermore, through PKPP Lewiatan, PKN ORLEN’s representatives are able to participate in the work of BusinessEurope’s energy group, which allows the Company to present its arguments and defend its interests at the European level. 26 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Of all the European trade associations to which Risk management it belongs, PKN ORLEN considers its membership in CONCAWE (Conservation of Clean Air and Water The precautionary approach, corroborated by the Rio in Europe) to be of particular importance. CONDeclaration, is the primary instrument of the EU’s CAWE’s members are the oil companies accounting environmental policy, manifest in Directive 2010/75/ for nearly 100% of the EEA’s oil processing capacities.1 EU of the European Parliament and of the Council The organisation’s activity is currently two-pronged: of November 14th 2010 on industrial emissions (integrated pollution prevention and control). The directive • Through EUROPIA, whose purpose is to play a conintroduces more stringent sulphur dioxide, nitrogen structive role in developing policy ensuring safe oxides and dust emission standards as of 2016. It also and sustainable production and supply and use states that Best Available Technology (BAT) conclusions of petroleum products, by lending expert support will be the reference for setting industrial emission to relevant EU bodies, domestic authorities and standards. However, taking into account the costs and the public. Active engagement on the part of PKN benefits, environmental protection issues, location, ORLEN’s representatives within the organisation’s local environmental conditions and characteristics management structures and working groups gives used in preparation of an integrated permit, comus the opportunity to participate in creating EU petent authorities will be able to set sulphur dioxide, regulations by reviewing legislative proposals and nitrogen oxides and dust emission standards with engaging in lobbying activities. The organisavalues different from those defined in the BAT contion’s high standing and crucial function in the EU clusions, provided such emission standards are in no legislative system guarantees such actions to be case less stringent than those defined in the annexes effective; to the directive. • Through CONCAWE, which concentrates on reTo address these requirements, PKN ORLEN is buildsearch and development on providing objective ing flue gas desulphurisation, denitrification and dust data on the impact of the European oil industry removal units, which will reduce emissions of sulon the natural environment. The purpose of these phur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust by more than efforts is to help companies implement appropriate 90%. In 2011, the European Commission prepared technical measures to mitigate, among other things, a roadmap for moving to a competitive, low carbon the harmful influence of chemical substances on economy by 2050, known as the Energy Roadmap people and the environment, which is achievable 2050, as well as a white paper on transport. These by implementing the REACH2 system, counteracting documents were prepared with a view to decreasing climate change through the ETS system3, introducgreenhouse emissions (GHG) by 80%-95% in 2050, ing vegetable oil fuels and reducing the emission relative to 1990. of harmful substances produced when petroleum products are processed and used. In light of such climate and energy policy, the European Commission noted that although the carbon dioxide emission levels set in the ETS will decrease by ca. 21% by 2020 (relative to 2005), and will continue to decrease after 2020 (which should provide a legal guarantee of significant investments in low-emission technologies), the large current surplus of carbon allowances, partly due to the economic crisis, makes it impossible for the above situation to be reflected in the prices of carbon allowances. The low prices of carbon emission allowances are not enough of an incentive for investors to embrace low emission technologies, thus increasing the risk of dependence on high-emission technologies. Therefore, certain member states have decided to take, or are considering, domestic measures, such as taxation of high-emission fuels in the industry sectors covered 1) In the European Economic Area (EEA). 2) REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) – Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (EC) concerning safe use of chemical substances, which is to be achieved through registration and evaluation. In some cases, permits may be required or restrictions imposed on the trade and use of certain substances. 3) ETS – The European Union Emissions Trading System. 27 I. SOCIETY by the ETS. This carries an increased risk of the EU’s The main risks in PKN ORLEN’s climate and energy policy becoming fragmented, and business arise from: may lead to a situation in which domestic and sectoral policies undermine the role of the ETS and the level Crude oil processing. Risk exists for the ORLEN playing field the system was supposed to create. GROUP’s business from disruptions in crude oil supply logistics, the risk of reduced crude oil supply, and Further, the European Commission notes that R&D inunstable political situations in oil-producing countries. vestments have brought about a decrease in the costs of renewable energy sources (RES) technology. ThereGeneral operating risks. The trading operations fore, it may be expected that in the future, RES will be of the ORLEN Group, as well as of other oil and gas commercially viable enough for the support measures companies, refineries and petrochemical plants, are to be generally rolled back, and extended only to those exposed to risks from extraordinary events, such as technologies and areas that still require them. Such fires, explosions, blowouts, gas and toxic chemical schemes should be designed with a view to avoiding emissions, breakdowns, natural disasters, terrorist over-compensation and becoming more economically attacks, sabotage and, as with all production faciliviable, while also encouraging a significant reduction ties, other occurrences, including faulty equipment, in GHG emissions4, promoting innovation, ensuring sub-par performance, collective disputes, adverse sustainable use of resources, and having the ability weather conditions, and plant shut-downs. to adjust to changing costs to avoid dependence on grants. The systems should also be coherent across all Exploration and appraisal projects (upstream opera­ member states (in particular with respect to biofuels), tions). The ORLEN GROUP is engaged in numerous and comply with WTO rules5. In this context, one exploration projects, which are connected with of the key challenges is to popularise and integrate a number of geological and operating risks that RES with the EU’s power system in a manner that may prevent the Group from pursuing its diversiwould solve its intermittent supply issues and improve fication strategy or from making expected profits the way member states collaborate to reach climate from such projects, which may also, temporarily, and energy goals. The combination of the EU’s wholegenerate losses. sale energy markets and the growth of intelligent grids, which offer adjustable power generation levels, Regulatory risk factors. Frequent changes in the compower grid control and usage controls in response plex legislation governing the industry, and a lack to changing market conditions, should contribute to of uniform interpretation of the regulatory framework reaching that goal. in which the ORLEN Group carries out its operations, are both a source of uncertainty for the Group’s The above climate and energy policy issues translate business. The ORLEN Group is exposed to legal and into a weaker price incentive for low-emission investregulatory risk on three legislative levels: EU direcment projects, and political reluctance to set up suptives and resolutions applicable to ORLEN Group port schemes that would strain domestic economies. companies, particularly EU legislation concerning Leverage in solving these issues may come with an power generation, the natural environment and improved model of European climate and energy climate change; acts implementing individual EU policy, or shale gas, provided that applicable domestic directives and policies into domestic legislation, with legislation makes the business viable, and that potential respect to which individual member states retain resources are confirmed. a great degree of autonomy, and domestic and local regulations and legislation. Currency exchange risk. The price of crude oil purchased by the ORLEN Group is expressed in USD. A significant portion of our oil products’ sales are also valued in USD, or by reference to USD, while the prices of most of our petrochemical products are expressed in EUR, or are EUR-indexed. Therefore, the ORLEN Group is exposed to currency risk, as its 4) GHG – Greenhouse gas. 5) WTO – The World Trade Organisation. 28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE income in USD and EUR may exceed the costs incurred • implement an investment programme by 2017 foin these currencies. Differences in the value of PLN cusing on the development of the ORLEN Group, and CZK relative to USD and EUR also affect the fiespecially in the upstream and power generation nancial position of the ORLEN Group, and sudden segments, with a total value of PLN 22.5bn; or significant increases in PLN or CZK values could • maintain safe levels of financial ratios, including have a negative effect on PKN ORLEN’s performance. net financial leverage below 30%; • ensure dividend yields of up to 5% of the average Weak economic growth. Economic slowdown may annual market capitalisation. increase the pressure on demand for petroleum products. The situation is particularly difficult in the case of gasolines, demand for which is decreasSupervision of the Company’s ing throughout Europe with the growing number operations of diesel vehicles. There are also less opportunities to export gasolines, as the US has been stepping Members of the PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board are up its own production and limiting imports, while appointed and removed by the General Meeting, in European refineries, despite having been upgraded, accordance with the Company Articles of Associacannot compete on the global scale with the newer, tion. The Board is composed of six to nine members larger plants. The structural surplus of gasolines is appointed for a joint term of office expiring on resulting in low refining margins, which has led to the date of the Annual General Meeting approving bankruptcies and permanent shut-downs of many the financial statements for the second full finanfacilities in Europe. cial year within that term of office. Both individual members and the entire Supervisory Board may be Competition risk. The ORLEN Group faces increasing removed at any time before the expiry of their term competitive pressures across all areas of its operaof office. The Chairperson of the Supervisory Board tions, from both local and global oil and gas compais appointed and removed by the General Meeting, nies. Fuel for motor vehicles is subject to regulations while the Deputy Chairperson and Secretary are imposing quality standards (for example, the Euro appointed by the Supervisory Board from among 5). The ORLEN Group’s market position in Poland, its other members. The State Treasury has the right the Czech Republic, Lithuania and Germany may be to appoint and remove one member of the Superthreatened by other regional refineries and wholesale visory Board. The State Treasury’s right to appoint distributors. Fuel is imported in large amounts from a Supervisory Board member expires upon disposal Belarus, Slovakia, Russia, the Scandinavian countries of all Company shares held by the Polish state. and Germany to markets where the ORLEN Group also operates, and the imported products may put While performing its duties, the Supervisory Board pressure on the prices of the Group’s products. Retail acts as a collective body; however, it may delegate competitors of the Group include international and its members to perform specific supervisory duties regional petroleum companies and hypermarkets, individually. The rules governing such individual many of which have much more substantial financial performance of supervisory duties are defined by resources than the ORLEN Group. the Supervisory Board by way of a resolution. Meetings of the Supervisory Board are held whenever Change – a source necessary, but not less than once every two months. of opportunity A meeting should be convened upon the written request of a shareholder(s) representing at least oneIn November 2012, PKN ORLEN announced the imtenth of the share capital, the Company Management plementation of its new business strategy. Spanning Board or a Supervisory Board member. the years 2013 to 2017, the strategy aims to take advantage of emerging opportunities on the market. Members of the Supervisory Board must exercise their The new strategy’s goals are to: rights and perform their duties exclusively in person. • increase average annual operating cash flows by 44% relative to 2008-2012, to PLN 5.6bn; The PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board has appointed • advance average annual EBITDA (LIFO-based) the following standing committees from among by 58% relative to 2008-2012, to PLN 6.3bn; its members: the Audit Committee, the Strategy 29 I. SOCIETY and Development Committee, the Nomination and these were governed by a resolution concerning Remuneration Committee, and the Corporate Govamendments to the rules of remuneration for Suernance Committee. Each committee is composed pervisory Board members, adopted by the Extraorof three to five members of the Supervisory Board. dinary General Meeting held on January 10th 2001. The Audit Committee includes at least two independThe monthly remuneration of a Supervisory Board MORE INFORMATION: ent members and at least one member qualified and member is defined as a specified multiple of the averexperienced in accountancy or finance. age monthly remuneration in the enterprise sector (net of bonuses paid out from profit) in the fourth MORE INFORMATION: quarter of the preceding year, as announced by the President of the Central Statistics Office (GUS). The Report from the PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board for 2012 is available at www.orlen.pl The Supervisory Board’s powers include representing the Company in agreements and contracts conPursuant to the provisions of the Company Articles cluded with Management Board members, including of Association, the Supervisory Board is entitled employment contracts and remuneration agreeto delegate its member(s) to temporarily stand in ments. The Company also has in place an incentive for Management Board members who are unable scheme for Management Board members. An annual to perform their duties. bonus is awarded, the amount of which depends on the Company’s operating performance and the extent In 2012, the Chairman of the PKN ORLEN Supervisory to which individual members of the Management Board managed the Board’s operations. Board performed the tasks assigned to them by the Supervisory Board. Pursuant to the provisions of the Company Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board is composed Members of the PKN ORLEN Management Board of six to nine members. At least two members who, in 2012, were on the supervisory boards of an of the Board have to meet the criteria of independORLEN Group subsidiary, jointly-controlled or asence from the Company and entities with significant sociated entities did not receive any remuneration connections with the Company. Prior to their apfor performing those duties. The only exception pointment, independent members of the Supervisory was UNIPETROL a.s.; the remuneration received by Board submit written representations to the effect Company Management Board members for their that they meet the criteria stipulated in Par. 8.5 work on the UNIPETROL Supervisory Board was of the Company Articles of Association. The Company donated to the ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the reports the current number of independent members Heart) Foundation. of the Supervisory Board to its shareholders. With a view to avoiding conflicts of interest within If the number of independent members of the Suthe ORLEN Group, the Company applies the provipervisory Board is less than two, the Company Mansions of the Commercial Companies Code, the Rules agement Board is obliged to convene the General of Procedure for the Supervisory Board, as well as Meeting forthwith, with an agenda including changes the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies. in the composition of the Supervisory Board. Until the number of independent members of the SuperPursuant to the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory visory Board is increased to meet the requirements Board, a Supervisory Board member should inform stipulated in the Articles of Association, the Super­ the other members of the Board of any conflict visory Board operates in its then current composition. of interest in which such member is involved, as well as abstain from taking the floor when the matter As at December 31st 2012, three members of the Suwhich has given rise to the conflict is discussed, and pervisory Board met the independence criteria. abstain from voting on the respective reso­lution. No breach of the provisions of the preceding sentence Pursuant to the provisions of the Articles of Asrenders the Supervisory Board’s resolution invalid. sociation, the General Meeting’s powers include Whenever doubts arise as to whether a conflict definition of the rules of remuneration for memof interest has occurred, the Supervisory Board setbers of the PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board. In 2012, tles the matter by way of a resolution. 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Pursuant to Rule III.1.2 of the Code of Best Practice Board and employees to provide reports and clarififor WSE Listed Companies, a member of the Supercations, and review the Company’s assets. In order visory Board should notify the Management Board to guarantee proper discharge of its duties under of any relationship with a shareholder who holds the Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board shares representing no less than 5% of the total vote may then request the Management Board to prepare at the General Meeting. This obligation concerns expert and other opinions for the Supervisory Board, financial, family and other relationships which may or to employ an advisor. influence the position of the member of the Supervisory Board on issues decided by the Supervisory In order to meet the most stringent standards Board. Further, Rule III.1.4 stipulates that a member of the Code of Best Practice and to give the shareof the Supervisory Board should notify the Superholders an accurate assessment of the Company, visory Board of any conflicts of interest which have the Supervisory Board submits an annual report to arisen or may arise and refrain from taking part the General Meeting, which includes: in the discussion and from voting on the adop• the findings of its examination of the Direction of a resolution on the issue which gave rise to tors’ Report on the Company’s operations and the conflict of interest. the Company’s financial statements for a given financial year; In Rule (II.1.5), the Code of Best Practice provides • an opinion on the Directors’ Report on the ORLEN another measure intended to eliminate conflicts Group’s operations and the ORLEN Group’s conof interest. It stipulates that, where members solidated financial statements for a given financial of the Supervisory Board are elected by the General year; Meeting, the grounds for proposing the candidates • the findings of its examination of the Managefor the Supervisory Board should also be given, toge­ ment Board’s proposal concerning the distribution ther with their professional CVs, within a timeframe of profit; enabling review of the documents and an informed • a report on the Supervisory Board’s activities, decision on their acceptance. including a report on the activities of the Supervisory Board committees, as well as assessment Pursuant to Rule I.6 of the Code of Best Practice for of the Company’s standing, including the internal WSE Listed Companies, “A member of the Supervicontrol system and the management system for sory Board should have appropriate expertise and material risks to the Company. experience and be able to devote the time necessary to perform his or her duties. A member of the SuperIn 2012, the PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board held visory Board should take relevant action to ensure 12 minuted meetings and adopted 81 resoluthat the Supervisory Board is informed about issues tions. Supervisory Board members also attended significant to the company.” 13 minuted meetings of the Audit Committee, including one joint meeting with the Nomination and In accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the PKN Remuneration Committee and three joint meetings ORLEN Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee with the Strategy and Development Committee. includes at least two independent members and at least one member qualified and experienced In 2012, changes were made in the composition in accountancy or finance. This provision reflects of the PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board. As at DecemRule III.7 of the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed ber 31st 2012, the Board was composed of seven Companies. men and one woman. In 2012, the age structure of the Supervisory Board was as follows: The PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board exercises on• 30-50 years of age: 6 persons, going supervision over the Company’s activities • over 50 years of age: 6 persons. in all areas of the Company’s operations; in particular, the Supervisory Board’s powers are specified MORE INFORMATION: in the Commercial Companies Code and the ComDetails of the Supervisory Board pany Articles of Association. In order to discharge are available at: www.orlen.pl its duties, the Supervisory Board may inspect all MORE INFORMATION: the Company’s documents, request the Management 31 32 II. MARKET R PROGRESS We explore new possibilities. 33 II. MARKET PKN ORLEN on the capital market PKN ORLEN shares have been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange since November 1999. For information on the shares, such as share series issued or the indices in which the shares are included, see the section for shareholders and stock exchange investors at our corporate website: http://www.orlen. pl/PL/RelacjeInwestorskie/Gielda/StrukturaAkcjonariatu In 1999, PKN ORLEN listed its shares as Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs) on the London Stock Exchange. The trading unit on the London Stock Exchange was Dariusz Grębosz 1 GDR, comprising two PKN ORLEN shares. Then, Head of the Investor Relations Office in 2001, the Company introduced its American DePKN ORLEN positary Receipts (ADRs) to trading on the US OTC market. The trading unit on the US OTC market was The PKN ORLEN Analyst’s Day and Investor’s Day are one American Depositary Receipt (1 ADR), comprising vital elements of our communication with capital two PKN ORLEN shares. In 2012, PKN ORLEN decided markets. On those days, the management staff of PKN to close both depositary receipts programmes due ORLEN meet with capital market representatives and to investors’ declining interest in such securities. together they visit a selected plant of the ORLEN On November 29th 2012, the Company sent to The Group. Bank of New York Mellon, the depository bank for PKN ORLEN’s depositary receipts, a notice terminating Each such event features a different theme, for inthe GDR and ADR depository agreements. The GDR stance in 2006 we discussed the individual operating depository agreement was terminated as of Februsegments of PKN ORLEN. Two years later, the new ary 27th 2013. On the termination date, the GDRs Management Board was presented and petrochemical ceased to be traded on the official trading market and workshops were held. In 2010, the spotlight was on were withdrawn from trading on the Main Market our main foreign operations and the retail segment. of the London Stock Exchange. The ADR depository Last time we organised the Days was in May 2013, agreement was terminated on March 4th 2013, markwhen the focus was on thorough discussion of PKN ing the end of trading in ADRs. On June 27th 2012, ORLEN’s strategy for 2013-2017. PKN Orlen bonds, issued in February 2012, were floated on the Catalyst market. The aggregate value The events serve mainly as an opportunity for a direct of the bonds introduced to the alternative trading meeting and talks between investors and analysts system was PLN 1bn. At present, there are 10,000 and the Company’s management team, employoutstanding seven-year PKN Orlen bonds, maturing ees and persons in charge of particular operations. on February 27th 2019. Presentations are followed by Q&A sessions, but it is the informal behind-the-scenes talks that are appreciated the most. We also try to give our guests an up-close look at the Company’s operations. We COMMITMENT have arranged several visits to the Płock production Continue our dialogue with plant, our service stations, the fuel terminal in Ostrów our stakeholders. Wielkopolski, and in 2013 our guests had the opportunity to visit ORLEN’s shale gas drilling facility within our Lubartów licence area. 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE PKN ORLEN shareholder Corporate Governance structure In 2012, PKN ORLEN complied with all obligatory 2012 saw one change as regards shareholders holdcorporate governance principles defined in the Code ing more than 5% of the Company’s share capital. of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies, effective On March 30th 2012, the Company was notified that at the Warsaw Stock Exchange. ING Otwarty Fundusz Emerytalny (ING OFE), following a purchase of PKN ORLEN shares in transactions It not only complies with the obligatory principles, executed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange and settled but also follows the recommendations contained on March 27th 2012, came to hold Company shares in the Code. In this respect, PKN ORLEN takes steps representing more than 5% of the total vote at its to facilitate communication with its stakeholders, General Meeting. Before the purchase, the Fund held seeking to keep up to date with market standards. 21,214,198 PKN ORLEN shares, representing 4.96% For its shareholders, as well as for stock-exchange of PKN ORLEN’s share capital and 21,214,198 votes investors and analysts, the Company maintains an (4.96% of the total vote) at its General Meeting. Investor Relations section on its website at: As at March 30th 2012, the Fund held 21,464,398 http://www.orlen.pl/PL/RelacjeInwestorskie. PKN ORLEN shares, representing 5.02% of its share capital. PKN ORLEN shares held by the Fund repreThe IR pages are clear, reliable and complete, and facilisent 21,464,398 votes (5.02% of the total vote) at tate decision-making for investors and analysts based the Company’s General Meeting. on information presented by the Company. Available in both Polish and English, they are regularly updated in accordance with the capital market’s needs. In 2012, a new sub-section was added to the Stock Exchange section, devoted to Bonds. The Bonds sub-section PKN ORLEN shareholder structure as at December 31st 2012 presents basic information on PKN ORLEN’s long-term bonds, which were first listed on the Catalyst market on June 27th 2012. It is also possible to download documents from the bond issues and watch a video documenting the first listing day of the bonds. There is also a section containing a complete set of materials related to financial statements, which contains a link to a list of Company video conferences held on the release of its financial results. The main page of the Investor Relations service contains a link to industry publications and reports, prepared by the Company itself or jointly with other parties. The Investor Relations section also has a page describing WSE best practices, which is also where the Company’s annual reports on compliance with WSE best practices, as well as the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies itself, can all be downloaded. The IR section also presents information on best practices observed by the Company, the rules of selection 62.38% Other of the entity qualified to audit financial statements, 27.52% State Treasury as well as information on the participation of men and women in the Company’s Management and 5.08% Aviva OFE* Supervisory Boards over the last two years. 5.02% ING OFE ** * Based on information received by the Company from the fund on February 9th 2010. ** Based on information received by the Company from the fund on March 30th 2012. 35 II. MARKET The General Meeting tab in the Investor Relations section contains a complete set of PKN ORLEN corporate documents, as well as instructions for the shareholders on ’How to participate in the General Meeting of PKN ORLEN S.A.’. The instructions are regularly updated to reflect changes in applicable laws, and also provide information on the dates of general meetings, draft resolutions, as well as a full set of documents presented to shareholders at general meetings. The Company has also made available to its shareholders a special on-line contact form for enquiries about general meetings. In addition to its main website, PKN ORLEN also offers a mobile version, for viewing the site on mobile dr Mirosław Kachniewski phones and other mobile devices. When a tablet President of the Management Board or smart phone is used to enter the Company’s site Polish Association of Listed Companies at www.orlen.pl, the user is automatically redirected to (Stowarzyszenie Emitentów Giełdowych, SEG) m.orlen.pl, which is custom-tailored for mobile devices. A company’s financial performance is less and less For shareholders, investors and analysts who mainly a driver of its share price. The reason is that invesuse mobile devices, in 2012 the Company also launched tors are ’buying the future’. In other words, what a mobile version of its on-line Annual Report service, matters to them are future achievements, which are which takes the form of a regular Internet service rather increasingly more dependent on care for the environthan a specific application. ment (Environment), relations with employees and community (Social), as well as corporate governance (Governance). These circumstances have led to dyCapital market relations namic development of the concept of responsible investment, which in addition to stimulating capital The Company holds regular meetings with investors inflows to socially responsible firms, also ensures and analysts in Poland and abroad. It organises conhigher returns to investors. This is also a direction ferences, one-on-one and group meetings, as well for regulatory solutions – work on an EU directive as conference calls with capital market stakeholders. defining the scope of non-financial reporting is now The Company’s representatives are regular parnearing completion. ticipants of road show meetings held at investors’ workplaces, both in Poland and abroad. Capital Considering the above, the Polish Association of Listmarket representatives interested in the Company’s ed Companies, together with Crido Business Consultoperations may also participate in site visits for shareing and GES, regularly analyse all listed companies holders or analysts at the Płock production plant, in terms of disclosure of non-financial (Environment, and in other places where the Company conducts Social, Governance) data. This allows each issuer to production or trading activities, which allows the visicheck how it would be assessed by an investor for tors to learn more about the Company. whom CSR issues are important, and what the issuer should do to improve their assessment. I hope During its meetings, PKN ORLEN representatives not that this project will help Polish companies to really only present information about the Company, but prepare well for the implementation of the planned also receive feedback from shareholders, investors directive. I’m also proud to note that PKN ORLEN has and stock-exchange analysts. Based on feedback received a very high score in this analysis, ranking and an awareness of the information requirement, among the top issuers in both the sector and value the Company continues to develop and improve its breakdowns. relations with the capital market. 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Key initiatives undertaken for the wider investor Changes in supplier community in 2012 included: relationships • Organisation at the Warsaw Stock Exchange of an open educational debate on building issuPKN ORLEN works with reliable trade partners from ers’ credibility and alternative forms of financing around the world. All of its trade partners are subject in times of crisis; to periodic reviews, and major suppliers work with • An introduction to stock-exchange trading of PLN PKN ORLEN on the basis of long-term contracts. In its 1bn corporate bonds issued in 2012. This issue key locations, PKN ORLEN also buys services from local had the highest value of all bond issues introsuppliers, thus supporting the markets and business duced on the Catalyst market in 2012. Moreover, environments in its immediate vicinity. Local suppliers the value of the issue at the time was equal are particularly important to the Company, given their to the value of the largest ever corporate bond good knowledge of PKN ORLEN’s needs and their loissue on the Polish market, and the seven-year cal market’s capabilities. The proximity factor is also maturity of the bonds was the longest maturity significant from the point of view of transport costs, among issues addressed to non-banking sector as is the flexibility of such partners. The Company does investors; not keep any records of the costs of services provided • Participation in the ’Shareholder Democracy. by local suppliers. Informed Investments’ education campaign for retail stock-exchange investors. No supplier agreements have been identified that would require the application of human rights clauses, and no statistics are kept for this purpose either. Respect Index Dialogue with key suppliers The first stock index of socially responsible companies in Central and Eastern Europe, the RESPECT Index, In 2012, PKN ORLEN organised its second conference made its debut on the Warsaw Stock Exchange in with key service providers in the Investment and November 2009. It is published with a view to proPlant Engineering Areas. Participants learned more moting companies that operate in accordance with about the structure and objectives of PKN ORLEN’s the best management standards in corporate and Procurement Unit, and special attention was given information governance, as well as investor comto the question of building sound relationships with munication, and that act responsibly in the social, suppliers and close cooperation with other business governance and environmental areas. units within the organisation. A lot of time was also devoted to discussing the rules of conduct applying PKN ORLEN has been listed in the Index ever since its to the purchasing processes at PKN ORLEN, including inception. The Company’s positive rating in the fourth fundamental rules concerning process transparency, and fifth editions of the RESPECT survey, conducted market-level prices and selection of suppliers or conin 2012, confirms fulfilment of the commitments tractors that guarantee the highest service quality. it undertook in the 2011 CSR Report. The conferences are organised in line with the PKN ORLEN Code of Conduct and with the Company’s motto: ’ORLEN. We fuel the future’. Participants also reviewed the findings of the first conference, held in 2011. In addition, the Company presented the individual business areas working closely with the Procurement Unit. Presentation of the CONNECT Procurement Platform, which will serve as the central supplier communication system for the entire ORLEN Group, was one of the highlights of this year’s conference. A number of suppliers decided there and then to register their companies via the CONNECT Platform, which has been designed to improve the transparency of purchasing processes. COMMITMENT Make all reasonable effort for the Company to remain in the RESPECT Index over the coming years. 37 II. MARKET The open discussion format of the conferences makes The second conference with key suppliers, attended it possible to voice specific issues and problems by about 300 people, was organised by employees arising in the course of day-to-day operations. PKN from a variety of different areas at PKN ORLEN. ORLEN also awarded its most valued and trustworthy Thanks to their involvement and experience, the event partners with ’Reliable Suppliers of the Year 2012’ was very well received by its participants, who were or ’2012 Award for Safe Performance of Maintenance asked to evaluate it by completing questionnaires. Works’ certificates. Their feedback is a valuable source of inspiration in the search for new, more successful solutions to further enhance our supplier relations. This is exactly why we have implemented the CONNECT system – to improve cooperation and communication with our suppliers in the purchasing area. By the end of 2013, all key companies will have been covered by the new platform, which will simplify and shorten the contracting process and provide an opportunity to work with new suppliers representing different markets. It will also ensure easier access to public procurement information, with the ultimate goal of facilitating supplier communication and employing a single system for the evaluation of bids. The benefits for suppliers are obvious, as all tenders announced by any of the fourteen key companies of the ORLEN Group will be published in one place, Jacek Czapliński while the supplier selection process will become Executive Director for Procurement standardised. This will reduce decision-making and PKN ORLEN negotiating time, by making use of the electronic bidding system. The accessibility of the Platform to Dialogue with suppliers is vital to the development all potential business partners is a great advantage, of best purchasing practices, as it helps us understand too. By the end of 2013, the CONNECT system will the specific nature of the different industries reprecover four European markets – Poland, the Czech sented by our suppliers. Each procurement category Republic, Lithuania and Germany. In other words, at PKN ORLEN is different and requires the proficient the current geographical area of the ORLEN Group’s use of instruments supporting purchasing processes, operations. Ultimately, all supplier selection processes but also good knowledge of the specific nature will be handled via the CONNECT system. of the industry in question. Dialogue with suppliers is an example of good pracThe third conference with key suppliers, which is to tice which brings measurable benefits. It gives supbe held in 2013, will provide a great opportunity pliers an opportunity to gain more insight into PKN to gain more insight into the Company’s plans for ORLEN’s business and its purchasing processes, and growth and to share knowledge and experience. provides employees of the PKN ORLEN Procurement Suppliers will also have a chance to ask questions and Unit with valuable feedback. The discussions and receive the necessary information from our Business sharing of experience and opinions have improved Unit and Procurement Unit staff. For PKN ORLEN, all direct interactions with suppliers, while the feedback such occasions are an inspiration to develop the best from questionnaires is used to enhance the procepurchasing solutions, which are transparent and based dures adopted by the Procurement Unit. on equal treatment of all business partners – core values, enshrined in 'The core values and standards of conduct of PKN ORLEN'. Good communication and creation of sustainable, COMMITMENT dialogue-based relations with suppliers is a solid Hold another conference, this time foundation for effective management in a dynamifor key suppliers of PKN ORLEN’s entire cally developing organisation. Procurement Area. 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Changes specifically addressing customers’ needs It is only natural that PKN ORLEN takes good care of its customers, and it is equally obvious that the Company does its best to understand customers’ needs and expectations better and address them more effectively. The Company’s action plans and to-do lists are prioritised on the basis of regular customer surveys, which are designed to address specific areas of customer care. Regular customer satisfaction Rafał Szymański surveys cover end-to-end assessments of customer Manager, Operational Standards Department service levels, customer feedback on the quality PKN ORLEN of the Company’s fuels, products and services, as well as customer satisfaction with, and expectations PKN ORLEN service stations are also designed to of, their service station experience. The Company meet the needs of people with disabilities and also takes special care of its most loyal customers those travelling with small children, a fact visible – members of its VITAY and FLOTA loyalty schemes, in their buildings, access roads and parking spaces. whose satisfaction is also surveyed on an on-going All buildings have gently sloping access ramps, and basis. A great number of projects are dedicated to more than 1,000 of our service stations have toilets the development of the Company’s product mix and accessible to people with disabilities. to boosting its sales. Although ORLEN service stations are essentially Based on the results of all of its surveys, a group self-service facilities, our employees are always of experienced market researchers at PKN ORLEN there to help too. In response to customer expectadevelops their findings, turning them into guidelines tions, access ramp assistance is provided from 3 pm for improving, among other things, customer service to 7 pm. To meet the needs of customers travelling quality and satisfaction levels. with babies, nappy changing facilities are currently provided at nearly 80 ORLEN service stations. PKN ORLEN service stations are places where customers can feel safe, and where our personnel make every We also have an interactive journey planner on our effort to guarantee the highest levels of service. New new ORLEN website, which can be used by drivers products and services offered at service stations are for quick and easy route planning. The map illusa sign that we’re responding to the different needs trates which services and products are available at of those travelling by road. the Company’s service stations in Poland, the Czech Republic, Germany and Lithuania. In addition, users The ORLEN Mobile smartphone app has been transcan download a smartphone application and a large lated into a number of languages, and beyond Polish set of POIs (Points of Interest) for GPS devices. it is also available in English, German, Czech and Lithuanian. The app receives ongoing updates to keep We have taken the feedback from our customers it in line with the needs of our customers. and used it to raise the bar on our customer service quality, and to enhance training programmes On top of all this, since 2008 our customers have for our service station staff. The Eagles Academy been enjoying delicious coffee and a range of other (Akademia Orłów) training programme, run by our products at our customer-friendly STOP Cafe and top training specialists with the greatest experience Stop Cafe Bistro. The Fairtrade certificate on our in sales, has been additionally upgraded to include coffee is particularly important not only to PKN new training tools, including an efficient e-learning ORLEN, but also to many of our customers. It certifies system accessible to all service station employees. that the people involved in the coffee’s production The system’s effectiveness has been improved several have been remunerated fairly, and that the product times, which makes a noticeable difference in terms meets environmental standards. Fair Trade is a global of customer service levels. social movement that aims to improve the situation of people living in developing countries. Promoting and supporting a sustainable lifestyle lies at the very core of the Fair Trade concept. 39 II. MARKET Changes in production to process units at the Płock plant, and also prepares processes the plant for an upcoming upgrade and alignment with pollutant emissions standards. The Hydrogen PKN ORLEN’s products are made to the most exacting Fluoride Alkylation Facility upgrade has brought standards, and the key projects of 2010-2012 sought the alkylation process into conformity with applicato further increase throughput capacity and enhance ble environmental requirements, health and safety product compliance with applicable environmental regulations, and has improved feedstock quality. As requirements. part of a project entitled ’Bringing the in-house CHP plant in line with the environmental performance reThese objectives were achieved through CAPEX quirements effective as of January 1st 2016’, (Directive projects, including the construction of a Diesel Oil 2010/75/EU on industrial emissions), the ’ConstrucHydrodesulphurisation Unit, construction of a new tion of a SCR/EF unit with supporting infrastructure’ Claus unit, modernisation of the Hydrogen Fluoride sub-project was begun in 2012. Other minor tasks Alkylation Facility, and construction of a new OOG were also carried out to ensure compliance with 420 Boiler, No. 8. The new K8 boiler supplies the relegal requirements (including enhanced compliance quired quantities of energy carriers (steam and power) and legalisation of measuring equipment in the tank farm) and to reduce energy intensity. Average Benzene Ethanol MTBE ETBE Motor gasolines Product Output sulphur content content content content content by quality and type in 2010-2012 [Mg] [%(m/m)] [%(V/V)] [%(V/V)] [%(m/m)] [%(m/m)] 2010 172,090 0.0009 0.67 – – – Eurosuper 95 2011 154,975 0.0008 0.56 – – – (ES95) 2012 264,616 0.0008 0.72 – – – 2010 592,611 0.0009 0.67 – – 9.68 Eurosuper 95 with EETB content 2011 386,716 0.0008 0.54 – – 9.00 (ES95E) 2012 48,684 0.0009 0.59 – – 3.80 2010 239,863 0.0008 0.55 – – 10.26 Super Plus 98 with EETB content 2011 205,711 0.0008 0.50 – – 10.38 (SP98E) 2012 105,126 0.0008 0.54 – – 13.92 Eurosuper 95 2010 771,602 0.0008 0.61 4.89 – – with ethanol content 2011 600,310 0.0008 0.54 4.43 – 2.30 Płock Plant * (ES95A-E) 2012 544,663 0.0009 0.56 4.89 – 4.18 SSuper Plus 98 with ethanol 2012 68,513 0.0008 0.46 4.45 – 4.84 content **) (SP98A-E) Eurosuper 95 2010 969,892 0.0008 0.61 4.83 – – with ethanol 2011 1,514,602 0.0008 0.54 4.40 – 2.30 content Storage depots ES95A-E) 2012 1,465,797 0.0008 0.46 4.77 – 4.18 2010 119,045 0.0008 0.55 – – 10.26 VERVA 98 2011 103,531 0.0008 0.50 – – 10.38 Storage depots 2012 121,302 0.0008 0.54 – – 13.92 2010 0.0008 0.61 1.38 – 4.31 Average content 2011 0.0008 0.53 1.47 – 5.72 of motor gasolines 2012 0.0008 0.55 4.70 – 6.41 * Alcohol ether gasoline since November 29th 2010. ** Produced since April 2012. 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Production Change volumes of selected refining products 2012 2011 2012/2011 of the Płock plant (thousand tonnes) Crude processing 15,191 14,547 4% Total gasolines 2,491 2,469 1% Total diesel oils 5,829 5,646 3% Ekoterm Plus fuel oil 746 372 101% Aviation (jet) fuel 389 393 -1% Propane-butane fraction 226 186 22% Total fuels 9,681 9,066 7% Fuel yield (%)* 77.0 76.1 0.9 p.p. * The fuel yield figure accounts for internal fuel transfers. For a detailed description of PKN ORLEN products and fuel parameters, visit: http://www.orlen.pl/PL/ OfertaGrupyORLEN/Strony/ Gasoline output Gasoline type Year structure by type of gasoline (%) 2010 2011 2012 in 2010-2012 Unleaded 95 87.47 89.56 88.74 Unleaded 98 8.38 6.94 6.63 VERVA 98 4.15 3.50 4.63 Consumption Component Year of premium, clean blending 2010 2011 2012 components [Mg] in 2010-2012 ETBE 89,125 102,199 107,695 Alkylate 108,192 104,262 121,009 Isomers 463,798 410,347 460,123 Diesel oils Product Output [Mg] Sulphur content wt % by quality and type in 2010-2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Ekodiesel Ultra* 5,250,644 5,572,760 5,764,899 0.00078 0.00080 0.00081 ONM Super 108,387 17,966 – 0.00036 0.00036 – ON A-2 0 55,276 64,257 – 0.00076 0.00080 * Including ON Verva diesel oil. 41 II. MARKET Fuel oils by quality Product Output [Mg] Sulphur content wt % and type in 2010-2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Ekoterm Plus 699,047 371,892 745,647 0.054 0.079 0.082 fuel oil Heavy fuel oil C-3 960,790 1,246,550 1,456,085 2.19 2.11 2.04 Heavy fuel oil 1 17,399 6,759 – 0.82 0.77 – Changes leading to improved In 2012, the CHP plant’s energy efficiency profile energy efficiency improved following implementation of several enhancement measures. An external energy efficiency In 2012, the energy efficiency improvement proaudit was also carried out, which identified some gramme continued to be implemented at the Płock of the efficiency improvement initiatives that have refinery. The savings achieved in the first year now been put in place. The first stage of a project of the programme’s operation were in excess to modernise the steam and condensate distribuof PLN 30m (at 2012 prices). In the same year, work tion network was completed, reducing the amount was begun to replace the flare burners at the Main of transmission losses. The implementation of other Plant, to cut consumption of fuel gas, and the work measures designed to cut transmission losses, includto replace the flare burners at the Olefins Unit was ing the replacement of thermal insulation, will continue completed. In a parallel effort, the Company launched over the coming years. The gross steam generation a programme to replace fuel gas and hydrogen with efficiency of boilers improved following the launch nitrogen in the gas buffers on the flare stacks and of new OOG-420 boiler No. 8, whose gross efficiency handling tanks of the key refining units. Another for liquid fuel is now approximately 94%. energy efficiency enhancement at the plant involved modification of the operating parameters of the atThe currently operating cogeneration plant and mospheric distillation columns. The consumption equipment produces energy carriers with a high of steam as an energy carrier was reduced on several efficiency rate of approximately 88%. This saves units. Gradual replacement of old electric motors with around 20% of the primary energy used, compared next-generation, energy-efficient equipment began with separate heat and power generation systems. in 2012. Work was also underway to increase the up time between maintenance shutdowns. The plan for One important element of the energy saving and 2013 includes implementation of Advanced Process efficiency improvement initiatives was a training proControls (APC) in the reactor section of the Hydrogramme designed for plant control and operation staff. cracking Unit and in the Catalytic Cracking II Unit. As part of the Płock plant’s energy efficiency improveIn September 2012, a test of a new catalyst was ment programme, announced by the Com­pany’s successfully completed on the Petroleum Tar HyManagement Board, energy efficiency enhancement drodesulphurisation Unit, the aim of which was initiatives are developed on a regular basis. to investigate the potential of producing a greater volume of white products. In 2012, modernisation and reconstruction COMMITMENT of the product tanks was also continued at the Płock Implement the identified efficiency refinery. improvement initiatives in 2012-2017. The purpose behind a dozen or so of the efficiency improvement initiatives identified in the CHP area in 2012 is the enhancement of the energy efficiency of auxiliary equipment and transmission of energy carriers, while still offering primary energy saving potential. 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Key heat and power Item Unit data for 2011-2012 2011 2012 Crude processing Mg 14,547,398 15,191,444 Mg 749,268 629,427 Petroleum tar used GJ 30,464,590 25,579,934 Mg 113,402 112,643 Fuel oil used GJ 4,350,180 4,759,250 Mg 963,914 344,372 Fuel gas used GJ 47,598,010 17,022,968 Mg 556,825 244,069 (including natural gas) GJ 27,378,280 12,003,029 Mg 378 393 Diesel oil used at the CHP * GJ 16,080 16,735 MWh 96,717 165,863 Electricity purchased GJ 348,180 597,107 Heat purchased GJ 413,057 296,102 Total fuels and purchased energy used GJ 87,033,697 86,550,330 MWh 517,856 446,510 Electricity sold GJ 1,864,281 1,607,436 Heat sold GJ 4,183,967 4,126,079 Heat generated by CHP boilers (gross) GJ 41,738,274 39,655,294 Steam (heat) used by the Płock GJ 25,348,015 24,060,403 plant’s units Hot water (heat) used by internal GJ 2,259,563 2,342,304 and external consumers Steam supplied by process units into GJ 5,595,382 7,091,900 the system Heat generated by recovery boilers GJ 17,851,361 18,349,337 Electricity generated MWh 2,056,797 1,929,653 Electricity used by internal and external MWh 1,635,658 1,646,739 consumers * CHP plant. 43 44 III. EMPLOYEES L PEOPLE We are characterised by our know-how, teamwork and integrity. 45 III. EMPLOYEES The awards and distinctions received by PKN ORLEN in 2012 prove that Polish companies can be attractive employers. The Company was awarded a Top Employers 2012 certificate for ’the complexity of its structure, technologies, processes, support for international expertise exchange and attractive remuneration system’. PKN ORLEN can also boast a ’Trustworthy Employer’ title in the production industry category, as well as first place in the ’Most Sought-After Employers’ ranking (organised by Antal International) in the Energy, Fuels and Gas category. Rafał Sekuła Executive Director for HR PKN ORLEN The favourable perception of an employer depends on a number of factors, of which organisational culture, management style and innovativeness are definite parts. In 2012, PKN ORLEN received the Top Employers Polska title, confirming the Company’s leading position in effective HR management. We apply the most stringent standards based on 'The core values and standards of conduct of PKN ORLEN'. All our employee initiatives support their professional development, and aid us in achieving our objectives. This is of special importance for a fast growing company, where each successive change requires not only new skills, but also understanding and acceptance. An indispensable element of corporate culture which Mention should also be made of the Company’s is strongly emphasised at PKN ORLEN involves emhigh placement in the student-run rankings and ployer-employee relations, based on mutual respect polls, such as the Universum Top 100 List of Ideal and trust. PKN ORLEN provides fair and friendly Employers, as well as those run by engineers, includworking conditions, based on cooperation and ing the Employer for Engineers 2012 and Company involvement. for Engineers 2012 polls. Warto dodać, że firma pojawiła się również oraz 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE employees in figures Total number of employees 1 4,635 Type of employment relationship Total number of employees employed under employment contracts in 2012: 4,635 2 Contract type Indefinite term Fixed term Probationary period Temporary substitution Women 816 49 9 24 Men 3,504 185 35 13 Region Płock Other Total Women 678 220 898 Men 3,040 697 3,737 Total number of new hires in 2012: 204 Total number of terminations in 2012: 206 Employee turnover Age group <31 31-40 41-50 51-60 >60 Total 26 55 32 43 50 206 Turnover by age group <31 31-40 41-50 51-60 >60 Total 0.006 0.012 0.007 0.009 0.011 0.044 Sex Women Men 64 142 Turnover by sex Women Men 0.014 0.031 Region Płock Other Total 163 43 206 Turnover by region Płock Other Total 0.035 0.009 0.044 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by sex, in 2012 Return to work after parental leave Retention rate Women 5 40% Men – – 1) Total number of employees includes all persons employed by PKN ORLEN in 2012 (even if for one day only). 2) The number of employees includes persons with a suspended status, i.e. those on parental, unpaid or rehabilitation leave. 47 III. EMPLOYEES Employees (under employment contracts) by category, in 2012 Sex Women Men 898 3,737 Age group <31 31-40 41-50 51-60 >60 Total 563 1,384 1,226 1,235 227 4,635 No other diversity indicators are recorded Women’s and men’s Women Men remuneration as a percentage of average 101% 104% remuneration by job type, in 2012 Clerk 61% 59% Production process operator 69% 70% Customer assistant 75% 86% Specialist 95% 97% Sales representative 96% 101% Other 107% 104% Production process foreman 119% 115% Production support engineer 92% 100% Sales manager 116% 115% Manager 170% 168% Director 363% 474% All Company employees are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement for PKN ORLEN Employees. 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Training that’s open to change Effective training is of major importance to the changes taking place at the Company. The continuing professional development of our staff is a must, given the ever changing economic environment and new challenges which the Company has chosen to meet. In 2012, management personnel spent, on average, over 40 hours per person on training (women: 46 hours, men: 42 hours). For other employees the respective figures were 20 hours for women Maja Jonatowska and 26 hours for men. Head of the Employee Competence and Development Office 2012 also saw the continuation of management skill PKN ORLEN development programmes, run as part of wider development initiatives. For several years now, PKN A crucial development initiative in 2012 came with ORLEN has consistently implemented two manager the implementation of our new values, with workdevelopment schemes. Energetyczne Przywództwo shops for management staff forming a material ('Energy Leadership') is a programme addressed to step in the process. The participants discussed how management personnel of all ranks, whose remit different values manifested themselves in the course varies according to the business challenges faced of their everyday work, focusing on the role of both at individual management levels. The Liga Mistrzów managers and individual employees in shaping ('League of Foremen') is a programme for production the Company’s organisational culture and impleprocess foremen. The programme is accompanied menting ethical standards. The available tools and by a cycle of interactive sessions for large groups solutions for promotion of ethical conduct among of managers, conducted by renowned specialists and employees were also presented. The discussion dealt devoted to use of the coaching style in management, with specific case studies and possible reactions as well as use of manager feedback. under 'The core values and standards of conduct of PKN ORLEN'. There then followed a series of inAnother ongoing programme is 'The ORLEN EKSTRA­ ternal workshops conducted by the managers for KLASA' ('ORLEN PREMIERSHIP') programme, targeted their respective teams, where they discussed how at employees with high development potential. Advalues influenced the work of each employee and ditionally, The Development Programme for Talent the need to abide by those values in their day-tois designed to prepare selected individuals for work day activities. The workshops were a major event as team leaders or project managers. The employees for the Company, also in the context of building its chosen for participation are those showing outstandorganisational culture and ethical standards. ing competences, good command of business matters, a drive for self-development, as well as above-average The new values also spurred changes in the compemotivation for work and the accumulation of busitence model, which is mainly intended to identify ness expertise. The planned development initiatives the corporate competences that all ORLEN Group support the growth of business knowledge and decompanies will share in the target model. These velopment of management competences. Emphasis are the competences designed to shape desired is also placed on personal skills, including personal employee attitudes that are consistent with the new effectiveness, communication and facilitation skills. values. Corporate management competences were All the initiatives are designed to precisely address also identified, showing which of the management the needs of participants and are supported by coachpersonnel’s attitudes are material drivers of leadering. A prominent role in the development programme ship and business growth across the entire Group. is played by the mentors, who are responsible for assisting participants in enhancing their knowledge and business skills. 49 III. EMPLOYEES The Company also runs other training programmes assessment covering three modules: work perforwith content carefully adapted to the developmental mance, the competences required for a given job needs of various employee groups. These include and attitudes to business knowledge (understood motivational programmes addressed to employees as the willingness to share knowledge and the drive who stand out for their attitudes and work results, for self-development). such as the ’Z pasją do sukcesu’ (’Let Passion Drive Us to Success’) scheme for specialists, or the programme Important elements of the annual assessment include for production and storage facility operators aimed a decision on the employee’s further career path and at the development of three key competence areas: development plans for the next year, and discussion rational behaviour under stress, effective communi­ of the employee’s achievements in the previous year. cation and command of business matters. In this process, both superiors and employees are supported by the Career Path Matrix, which includes As in the previous year, employees had access to detailed information on job requirements for varivarious forms of competence and professional deous industries and areas. The Matrix facilitates fast velopment. Every employee, regardless of their job, access to a knowledgebase of possible (vertical and age, or place in the organisational structure, is guarhorizontal) inter-job transfers, as well as allowing anteed access to the training available on the market, planning of further steps along the career path. as well as tailored training, higher education, courses (including foreign language courses) and industry conferences. In this way, employees can develop their Social dialogue skills and get to know the newest industry trends. The Company also supports its employees in acquirSocial dialogue is a key element of the Company’s ing new qualifications and professional certificates, development and sustainability policy, because some of which are highly specialised, such as patent rela­tions founded on cooperation and partnership agents or legal counsel, by partially reimbursing form the main pillar of success of every complex the costs of their training and education. As a result, organisation. our employees can build a strong position not only internally, but also on the external labour market. There are twelve trade unions active at PKN ORLEN. Social dialogue is based on independence and legal As it has done for years, the Company supports its compliance, as well as mutual trust and a willingness employees affected by restructuring processes by givto compromise. It is founded primarily on internally ing them dedicated training in job search techniques reached agreements and regulations implemented and entrepreneurship, as well as optional training in compliance with generally applicable laws. These in other areas. principles are of key importance in complex social processes, as they help to mitigate and reduce the number of possible disputes. The principal rules of trade Work quality evaluation: union activity and social dialogue are also detailed bonus systems and annual in the Company’s Collective Bargaining Agreement. assessments An open social dialogue, including its basic instiEvery employee’s work is subject to regular assesstutional forms, plays a key role in the complex HR ment, based on a set of criteria that varies by employprocesses taking place in ORLEN Group companies, ee group. The assessments, constructed from a mix by enabling the development of productive and of quantitative and qualitative criteria, are tailored to permanent solutions together with employee repan employee’s responsibilities and the extent of their resentatives. In line with the principle requiring it to autonomy. Various bonus schemes have been put in settle all issues concerning employees’ collective place that leverage assessment results to motivate rights and interests, the Management Board makes employees, with bonuses provided to staff of all its best efforts to ensure that matters involving trade ranks, from unskilled jobs to managers of all levels. unions are clarified either through direct talks or in Irrespective of their place in the organisational written answers. structure, employees are also subject to annual 50 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Each year, our representatives meet with trade union It also guarantees the highest-quality medical care, leaders for several dozen official meetings to solve covering not only the employees, but also their famithe most pressing employee issues. Any matters lies. Each employee receives a basic medical package, arising in the course of the day-to-day relations including flu vaccination. In 2012, 237 persons were between the employer and the trade unions are vaccinated under Company medical plans. To endiscussed at additional meetings. hance the medical packages on offer, the Company works with external medical centres. In addition to The social dialogue at PKN ORLEN is also conducted a standard medical care plan, employees are also through other institutions serving as a platform of coentitled to preventive check-ups, whose scope goes operation between the employer and the unions. For far beyond occupational health requirements. In 2012 instance, the Occupational Health and Safety Comalone, the Company offered 12 different preventive mittee deals with matters related to the establishcare plans to its employees, and provided medical ment and maintenance of health and safety-at-work services worth over PLN 2m to almost 2,500 people. procedures, while the Conciliation Committee helps In addition to the medical plans offered, PKN ORLEN solve employee issues. Proper social relations are also conducts studies to explore the impact of the work supported by dedicated meetings of the Company environment on the health of employees. Management Board with trade union leaders. When under difficult circumstances, PKN ORLEN The wider dialogue with employee groups is mainemployees are also entitled to additional assistance, tained through direct meetings organised on various including psychological support. occasions, that are open to all employees. Each year, the Company traditionally organises Chemists’ Day. Another special occasion is the Management Board’s Retired employees Christmas/Easter meeting with the staff. Also worth mentioning are the Management Board’s meetGoing into retirement does not end PKN ORLEN’s ings with Company retirees, which are important relations with its ex-employees, for whom the Comfor the Management Board and very popular with pany offers an exceptionally wide range of benefits. former employees. For instance, celebrations of a retiree’s 70th, 75th, 80th, 85th (and so on) birthdays are very popular with former employees. The celebrant receives a gift, The health and safety a diploma signed by the President of the Manageof employees and their families ment Board, and a financial gift. The Seniors Councils, which co-organise the celebrations, are active Offering a broad range of social benefits, PKN ORLEN in 13 cities and towns throughout Poland. Special promotes a sense of security among its employees. meetings for PKN ORLEN old-age and disability Comprehensive high-quality care is a tool for building retirees are organised twice a year in each location. loyalty and attachment, while fostering good relaOne takes place just before Christmas, while the other tions with employees. The resulting favourable work includes cultural and educational events designed to atmosphere translates into improved performance. maintain the ex-employees’ attachment and sense of belonging to the PKN ORLEN community. An extensive social benefits package includes co-financing of employee holidays, spa treatments, recOld-age and disability retirees are covered by a social reation and sports activities, physical therapy, as well as care system comprising co-financing of holidays or cultural and educational activities. Out of concern for spa treatment, holidays for children and teenagers, our employee’s families, the Company also co-finances repayable housing loans, non-repayable allowances, holidays, school starter kits and Christmas presents for Christmas presents and school starter kits for children, their children. Employees are also entitled to receive as well as financial support at Christmas and Easter. repayable housing loans from the Company. Social safety is further enhanced by eligibility for financial support for those in difficult personal circumstances. The Company has advanced non-repayable allowances to over 40 people in such distress. 51 52 IV. ENVIRONMENT E ENERGY We are enthusiastic about what we do. 53 IV. ENVIRONMENT PKN ORLEN regards compliance with sustainable Despite a larger number of production facilities and development principles and legal regulations as higher crude oil throughput, the amount of water a prerequisite to its continued professional operation. withdrawn from the Wisła River has not increased, The Company takes responsibility for its influence on which is down to a number of reasons. These include present and future generations, and is constantly permanent upgrade of production facilities with introducing new eco-friendly solutions and systems, a concurrent reduction of their energy consumption, improving on the existing ones to reduce its negative partial reuse of treated wastewater as process water, impact on the environment. Our Integrated Manageand the modernisation of wastewater management ment System is there to guarantee the highest quality and improvement of the efficiency of water units in of products and services, the delivery of reliable and the refining and petrochemical segments. What was complete information (while ensuring its security), also significant in this respect was the modernisaenvironmental protection, and health safety – all tion of the water treatment system (particularly its with the minimum environmental footprint. decarbonisation facilities) and of the water demineralisation installations. Water Surface water is used to satisfy the process needs of the Płock plant and other facilities located on its Water used in the Płock Production Plant serves premises. The choice of water drawn by the installaas a process medium. It is used for the production tion depends on its current needs and may include of steam for the CHP plant, for cooling and for utility, fire-fighting, decarbonised, softened, de-aerfire protection. The plant’s natural supply of water ated, demineralised, or circulating water. Deep-well is the Wisła River, where an intake and pumping stawater is used exclusively as drinking water and for tion was erected to facilitate the transport of water sanitary purposes. to the plant. PKN ORLEN holds a water-law permit for the withdrawal of surface water from the Wisła The refinery has, for many years, operated a waste­ and groundwater from the Biała region, which has water treatment plant, which allows treated wastewabeen granted for the entire Płock Production Plant. ter to be used as industrial water. Treated wastewater is used as utility water for washing, cleaning and fire-fighting applications. Water withdrawn by Increase Parameter Year the Płock Production /decrease Plant in 2011-2012 2011 2012 [%] by amount and type Water withdrawn from the Wisła River [m3] 23,457,613 22,662,775 -3.5 Water withdrawn from deep water wells [m3] 526,000 531,000 0.95 Amount of recycled water [m3] 2,051,524 2,575,742 25.5 Bleedback of water from unit blowdown used 1,664,449 1,281,763 -23.0 as utility and fire-fighting water [m3] Increase Water withdrawn by Parameter Year /decrease the Włocławek PTA Plant 2011 2012 [%] in 2011-2012 Demineralised water [m ] 3 1,400,000 1,844,297 31.74 Industrial water [m3] 68,000 67,718 -0.40 Decarbonised water [m ] 3 1,400,000 1,843,706 31.69 Sanitary and drinking water [m3] 15,000 11,643 -22.38 TOTAL – Water delivered 2,883,000 3,767,364 30.67 by ANWIL S.A. [m3] 54 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Water for the Włocławek PTA Plant’s process needs is delivered by an external supplier – ANWIL S.A. Individual pipeline systems are used to provide the plant with demineralised, industrial, decarbonised and drinking water. Withdrawal of water and discharge of wastewater to the Wisła River from crude oil processed in 2011-2012 The year-on-year increase in the consumption of water by the PTA Plant in 2012 was mainly attributable to the fact that 2012 was the first full year of the plant’s 25,000 16,000 operation – launched in 2011, it operated for 23,476 22,663 15,600 approximately 9 months of that year. The consumption of sanitary and drinking water was higher in 2011 20,000 15,200 than in 2012, which was associated with the commis14,800 sioning process, which involved external contractors. 15,000 14,400 13,452 13,015 14,000 Wastewater 10,000 13,600 13,200 A 10.8% reduction of the COD load in the wastewater 5,000 12,800 discharged into the Wisła River in 2012 was attributable to a smaller COD load upstream of the Central 12,400 Wastewater Treatment Plant (CWTP), and a 3.2% 0 12,000 decrease in the amount of wastewater discharged into the river relative to 2011. 2011 2012 [thousand m ] 3 [thousand Mg] The suspension load increased slightly, by 12.3%, due to a higher content of industrial wastewater Water withdrawn Wastewater Crude oil from the Wisła discharged to throughput in the total wastewater discharged. River the Wisła River Amount and quality Increase Parameter Year of wastewater /decrease discharged by 2011 2012 [%] the Płock Production Plant in 2011-2012 Wastewater discharged to the Wisła River [m3] 13,452,489 13,015,380 -3.2 COD load in wastewater discharged 901,573 804,063 -10.8 to the Wisła River [kg per annum]* Suspension in wastewater discharged 87,975 98,838 12.3 to the Wisła River [kg per annum] * Gross load. Increase Amount of Parameter Year /decrease wastewater discharged by 2011 2012 [%] the Włocławek PTA Plant in 2011-2012 Wastewater discharged to ANWIL S.A.’s 1,300,000 1,582,498 21.73 sewage system [m3] COD load in wastewater discharged to 6,140,000 5,886,603 -4.13 ANWIL S.A.’s sewage system [kg per annum] 5-day BOD load in wastewater discharged to 2,804,000 2,580,050 -7.99 ANWIL S.A.’s sewage system [kg per annum] Cobalt content in wastewater discharged to 562 817 45.37 ANWIL S.A.’s sewage system [kg per annum] 55 IV. ENVIRONMENT The Płock plant operates 21 wastewater pretreatPKN ORLEN also took an active part in the preparation ment facilities associated with individual units, which of legislative acts and participated in the formulation are instrumental in reducing impurities upstream of the BREF 2 on Mineral Oil and Gas Refining and BAT of the CWTP. The pretreatment facilities, which conclusions 3. PKN ORLEN’s active attitude is further mostly operate on a mechanical process, are able exemplified by the involvement of its representato process some 11,306 m3 of wastewater per day. tives in the Technical Working Group responsible All wastewater, both pretreated and raw, is transfor the review of the BREF REF, and in CONCAWE. ferred to the Central Wastewater Treatment Plant, where it undergoes a four-stage treatment process, which ensures compliance with the water-law regulations necessary for the plant to uphold its permit. All wastewater associated with the production of terephthalic acid is discharged into the individual sewage systems of ANWIL S.A. The year-on-year increase in the consumption of water by the PTA Plant in 2012 was mainly attributable to the fact that 2012 was the first full year of the plant’s operation – launched in 2011, it operated for approximately 9 months of that year. Arkadiusz Kamiński Head of the Environmental Protection Office The implications of climate PKN ORLEN change – major events in 2012 PKN ORLEN has developed a strategy for managing As of January 1st 2013, five of PKN ORLEN’s facilities its CO2 emission allowances. We have also completed have been covered by the EU ETS1. These are the CHP a project entitled ’Implications of the climate policy Plant, Refinery, Olefins Unit, Ethylene Oxide and for the ORLEN Group’, in which various courses Glycol Unit, and the PTA Plant in Włocławek. In 2012, of action are recommended, to cope with insufPKN ORLEN carried out an in-depth review of Comficient CO2 emission allowances and to make use mission Regulation (EU) No. 601/2012 on the moniof the opportunities offered by the Climate Package toring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in 2013-2020. pursuant to Directive 2003/87/EC, in order to acquire a good understanding of the obligations and requireBy gaining a methodical and organised perspective ments to be met by facilities covered by the EU ETS. on CO2 , we have been able to prepare the Company In the same year, the Company applied for greento adequately address the issue of emission allowhouse gas emission allowances for its chemical plants ances. Organisational units and expert structures covered by the EU ETS to approve monitoring plans have been established to handle all CO2 issues. which were to become effective in January 2013. In addition to the project’s original remit, a document entitled ’Implementation of the System for 2012 was the last year of the second trading period, Managing Carbon Emission Allowances’ was created, during which the PKN ORLEN facilities covered by which constitutes the next step in the Company’s the EU ETS used up 91% of their allocated allowances, strategy for managing carbon emissions to facilitate having saved nearly 3 million credits. delivery on the Company’s strategic objectives in this regard. The methodology it outlines can also be In 2012, an upgrade of the IT system for monitorimplemented in other companies within the ORLEN ing CO2 emissions was completed, and the process Group, which is expected to bring significant savings. of adding new installations was initiated. The purpose The project is proof that CSR activities can produce of the upgrade was to enable quick access to reliable tangible economic benefits. data on the amount of CO2 emissions. 1) The EU Emissions Trading System. 2) Reference Document on Best Available Techniques for Mineral Oil and Gas. 3) BAT – Best Available Techniques. 56 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Emissions In the National Allocation Plan for CO2 Emission Allowances for 2008-2012 (NAP II), PKN ORLEN received Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas a total of 32,895,735 allowances for the Refinery, CHP emissions by weight plant, and Petrochemical Cracking unit (the average annual allocation pool being 6,579,147). In 2012, the balancing of greenhouse gas emissions was performed on a monthly basis for PKN ORLEN’s The settlement of allocated emission allowances is Refinery, CHP plant, and Olefins II unit, all of which based on reports drawn up as at December 31st 2012 participate in the European Union Emissions Trading and is reviewed by an authorised auditor. System (ETS). The extent to which the allocated CO2 emission allowances were utilised was monitored The number of allowances carried forward to on an on-going basis for each unit. In addition, the third trading period is 2,979,944. forecasts were made as to the level of allowances • Greenhouse gas emissions are generated by vs. the annual production target. processes covered by the carbon dioxide emission trading scheme. % utilisation Excess Allocation of on an amount for Emissions from Unit allowances annual basis 2012, to for the year Actual emissions during the year in 2012 be utilised individual units* in 2010-2012 2010 2011 2012 CHP plant 3,358,958 3,360,762 3,147,794 2,914,078 86.07 471,774 Refinery 2,161,551 2,021,453 2,010,815 2,172,935 96.52 78,231 Olefins II unit 1,058,638 771,024 814,980 774,942 73.20 283,696 Total for 6,579,147 6,153,239 5,973,589 5,861,955 87.55 833,701 PKN ORLEN * Average annual emission allowances per unit and amount of emissions. Allowance allocation Excess(+)/ Utilisation for 2008-20122 Deficit(-) of allowances Allocation of allowances allocated Unit Emissions of allowances National allocated under under Balance of CO2 2008-2012 under NAP II Reserve NAP II NAP II allowances as at the end of the second trading period 2008-2012 Refinery 10,366,326 10,807,755 167,305 608,734 94.45% CHP plant 15,775,247 16,794,790 53,788 1,073,331 93.63% Olefins II unit 3,995,311 5,293,190 – 1,297,879 75.48% PKN ORLEN 30,136,884 32,895,735 221,093 2,979,944 91.00% CO2 emissions Substance Amount of emissions [Mg] Increase/decrease from the Płock Production Plant 2011 2012 [Mg] [%] in 2011-2012 Carbon dioxide 6,226,505.89 6,110,342.67 -116,163.22 -1.87 Total emissions excluding 32,252.28 31,837.18 -415.10 -1.29 carbon dioxide Total emissions 6,258,758.17 6,142,179.85 -116,578.32 -1.86 57 IV. ENVIRONMENT A drop in CO2 emissions by 1.87% combined with The increase in total dust emissions results from an increase in the amount of processed feedstock the higher ash content in the petroleum tar burned (crude oil) by 4.43% was achieved upon changing at the CHP plant. Total dust emissions reached the fuel structure (higher amount of gas burned 0.041% in 2011 and 0.050% in 2012. in the plant). Selected air Substance Amount of emissions [Mg] Increase/decrease emissions generated by the Płock 2011 2012 [Mg] [%] Production Plant in 2011-2012 Sulphur dioxide 20,971.56 20,666.18 -305.38 -1.46 NOx (in nitrogen dioxide 8,027.86 7,819.11 -208.75 -2.60 equivalent) Carbon monoxide 1,282.72 1,354.36 71.64 5.59 Total hydrocarbons 1,203.90 1,189.92 -13.98 -1.16 Total dust* 588.78 677.27 88.49 15.03 Carbon dioxide 6,226,505.89 6,110,342.67 -116,163.22 -1.87 Other substances 177.45 130.34 -47.11 -26.55 Total emissions excluding 32,252.28 31,837.18 -415.10 -1.29 carbon dioxide Total emissions 6,258,758.17 6,142,179.85 -116,578.32 -1.86 * Total dust, i.e. combustion dust, silica dust and metals in dust. 34,000 15,500 Total emissions 32,000 excluding carbon 15,000 dioxide from crude 30,000 oil processing at the Płock 14,500 28,000 Production Plant in 2011-2012 26,000 14,000 24,000 13,500 22,000 20,000 13,000 2011 2012 Emissions [Mg] Crude oil processed [‘000 Mg] Total pollutant emissions (excluding CO2) Crude oil processing Main emissions 45 from the Płock 40 40.9 Production Plant 35.2 33.0 in 2002-2012 35 33 34.4 31.7 27.0 31.5 31.1 32.3 31.8 30 30.2 27 25.5 25 21.0 22.6 22.4 21 20.4 21.0 21.0 20.7 20 15 10 5 1.6 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.4 1.4 1.2 1.4 1.2 1.2 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 [‘000 Mg] Total emissions Sulphur Total (excluding CO2) dioxide hydrocarbons 58 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE 2012 saw a slight drop in air emissions compared limits allocated in the permits is controlled on an with 2011, which resulted from the growing share on-going basis. In 2012, continuous and periodic of gas in the fuel mix burned by the CHP plant. measurements of air emissions as well as ambient air pollutant concentration measurements around 2012 was the first full year of operation of the Terephthe Płock Production Plant were taken. thalic Acid Production Plant (PTA Plant) in Włocławek. In 2012, the Chełpowo station measured air pollutAir emissions were within the limits set in the inteant concentrations for HC, CO, SO2, NO2, H2S, BTX, grated permit. while the station located at Junior High School No. 5 measured the concentrations of O3, CO, SO2, NO2, Emissions are monitored through periodic and conand BTX. tinuous measurements, so the utilisation of emission Amount of emissions [Mg] Selected air emissions Substance generated by Increase/decrease the Włocławek 2011* 2012 [Mg] [%] PTA Plant in 2011-2012 Sulphur dioxide 0.71 2.65 1.94 273.24 NOx (in nitrogen dioxide 38.31 54.50 16.19 42.26 equivalent) Carbon monoxide 299.28 447.67 148.39 49.58 Total hydrocarbons 0.77 0.00 -0.77 -100.00 Total dust 2.11 3.01 0.90 42.65 Carbon dioxide 61,657.83 146,250.50 84,592.67 137.20 Other substances 8.33 14.60 6.26 75.27 Total emissions excluding 349.51 522.44 172.93 49.48 carbon dioxide Total emissions 62,007.34 146,772.93 84,765.59 136.70 * In operation since March 21st 2011. Automatic air monitoring stations Nowe located around Trzepowo the PKN ORLEN Production Plant Nowa Biała Stare Trzepowo Trzepowo I. Łukasiewicza W. Zgienieckieg Chemików Kolonia Krzyw a o Biała Maszewo Sierpe I. Łukasiewicza Duże 559 Okó lna cka Długa 60 Do br zy ńs ka Chełpowo ka els Bi Kostrogaj 552 559 Maszewo Sz M pit ed aln yc a zn a 552 559 Junior High School No. 5 60 Fabryka Maszyn 59 IV. ENVIRONMENT Analysis of the 2012 measurement readings indicates that the Company complied with the environmental standards for all measured substances, as laid down in the applicable Regulation. There were no instances of the maximum annual average concentrations for any substance being exceeded, in any area for which such limits are specified. In 2012, the annual average concentrations of major pollutant emissions, i.e. SO2, NO2 and benzene, were slightly lower than in 2011. Monitoring station Comparison Parameter Concentration Chełpowo Junior High School Limit* of annual average No. 5 concentrations 2011 2012 2011 2012 of selected substances around annual NO2 [µg/m ] 3 8.3 3.8 13.3 10.6 40 the PKN ORLEN average Production Plant annual in 2011-2012 SO2 [µg/m3] 7.3 5.4 4.9 4.5 20 average annual Benzene [µg/m3] 1.80 1.08 1.67 1.52 5 average * In accordance with the Regulation of the Minister of the Environment of March 3rd 2008. Waste management • 16 08 02* – spent catalysts containing dangerous transition metals, An increase in the amount of waste generated by • 05 01 99 – apparatus fillers, inert pellets, aluthe Płock Production Plant by 68.6% year on year minium oxide, resulted mainly from demolition and new building • 05 01 03* – tank bottom sludge, works carried out at the Plant. The main waste cat• 16 02 14 – discarded electrical and electronic egories were as follows: devices not containing hazardous substances. • 17 04 05 – iron and steel, Comparison 20,000 19,999 of the amounts 17,363 of waste generated by the Płock 15,000 14,536 Production Plant in 2011-2012 11,862 11,649 10,000 6,641 5,463 5,221 5,000 0 2011 2012 [Mg] Total generated Recycled Generated waste other than hazardous Generated waste waste (excluding municipal waste) hazardous waste 60 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE In 2012, the PTA Plant in Włocławek generated 12% more waste than in 2011, mainly due to the fact that the Plant was in operation throughout 2012. The following waste categories accounted for the largest waste volumes: • 07 01 08* – terephthalic acid spillage residues, • 07 01 10* – filter cakes. These is residual waste from the recycling and regeneration of catalysts used in the production of terephthalic acid. Increase Comparison of Waste Amount [Mg] the amounts /decrease of waste generated 2011 2012 [%] by the Włoclawek PTA Plant Wytworzone ogółem, w tym: 5,402 6,052 12.03 in 2011-2012 – hazardous waste 5,396 6,004 11.27 – waste other than hazardous 6 48 700 (excluding municipal waste) Both the Production Plant in Płock and the PTA Plant in Włocławek stayed well within the limits specified in their respective integrated permits. Waste management Increase Waste management Waste Amount [Mg] at the Płock /decrease Production Plant 2011 2012 [%] in 2011-2012 Transferred for recycling 11,649 17,363 49.05 Total transferred for disposal 757 1,580 108.72 of which: – transferred for thermal processing 552 1,034 87.32 – transferred for disposal in a different way 205 546 166.34 Stored waste 1,453 2,509 72.68 Increase Waste management Waste Amount [Mg] at the Włocławek /decrease PTA Plant 2011 2012 [%] in 2011-2012 Transferred for recycling 0 45 100 Total waste disposed of which: 5,085 6,305 23.99 – thermally processed waste 5,015 5,949 18.62 – transferred for disposal in a different way 70 356 408.57 Stored waste 347 49 -85.88 61 IV. ENVIRONMENT The segregated collection of waste is gradually being rolled out to service stations and fuel terminals, as well as other offices used by the Company. Transfer of hazardous waste in 2012, based on infor­ mation submitted to PRTR 4: Płock Production Plant a. in Poland: – waste for recycling 18,900.00 Mg, – waste for disposal 2,900.00 Mg; b. transferred to other countries for recycling Renata Karaszewska 4,510.00 Mg. Specialist, Environmental Protection Department PKN ORLEN Transfers cover waste generated in 2012 by PKN ORLEN as well as companies performing maintenance We always attach great weight to the accuracy and new building works at PKN ORLEN’s facilities, of the information in our Reports. We want to make and waste stored from previous years. sure that they give a clear picture of all measures taken by the Company in the area of environmental Włocławek PTA Plant protection, allowing our stakeholders to fully evalua. in Poland: ate those measures. – waste for recycling 14.80 Mg, – waste for disposal 362.00 Mg; To that end, we have modified our reporting system b. transferred to other countries for recycling to ensure more accurate presentation of our waste 0.00 Mg. management processes. In previous Reports, information was based on a report sent to the Central Statistics Office (GUS), for which the reporting unit was Compliance with law thousands of tonnes. But because of the way figures are rounded-up in the GUS reports, any waste which The compliance of our 2012 operations at the Płock generated less than 50 tonnes was not reported, as Production Plant and the Włocławek PTA Plant with a result of which our reports did not present the actual environmental law was checked by representatives amount of waste. So, to reduce those discrepancies, of the Płock and Włocławek Units of the Provincial we decided to modify our reporting system. All data Inspectorate of Environmental Protection (WIOŚ). disclosed in the Report is currently based on the anAt the Płock Production Plant, a total of thirteen nual waste management report submitted to the Head inspections were held, including two project inspecof the Province (the Marshall). tions, two interventions, and nine end-to-end inspections. At the Włocławek PTA Plant, one end-to-end inspection was performed. Four follow-up instructions were issued and subsequently implemented by the Company. In 2012, the Company continued the segregated collecThe follow-up instructions received are being impletion of municipal waste, covering all offices and adminmented on an on-going basis, with the competent istration buildings as well as the area of the Production authorities being informed of the relevant measures Plant. As a result, the amount of mixed municipal as they are taken. waste was reduced by more than 20%. Rising awareness among our staff of segregated waste collection has brought tangible benefits – the amount of plastic waste collected by the Company has increased 4.5 times, with fully twice as much glass collected and 1.6 times the amount of old batteries. 4) The European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR). 62 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Inspections held Inspections held Number of inspections in 2011-2012 by the Provincial 2011 2012 Inspectorate of Environmental Total 94 86 Protection (WIOŚ) at the Płock Production Płock Production Plant and Włocławek PTA Plant 9 14 Plant, the Włocławek Service stations 76 59 PTA Plant and at the regional units Fuel terminals 7 12 Separate Assets 2 1 Follow-up instructions issued Number of follow-up instructions 2011 2012 Total 20 28 For Płock Production Plant and Włocławek PTA Plant 0 4 For service stations 18 19 For fuel terminals 2 5 For Separate Assets – – Capital expenditure on PKN ORLEN is taking measures to bring its facilienvironmental protection ties in line with the requirements of the Industrial Emissions Directive of November 24th 2010, well In 2012, environmental protection CAPEX at the Płock in advance. Production Plant was up 72% year on year, reaching MORE INFORMATION: PLN 83.291m, which represented 30.8% of total http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ. CAPEX. MORE INFORMATION: In 2012, a number of key investment projects were completed, including at the Hydrocracking Unit In 2012, a number of these measures were taken at and the Petroleum Tar Hydrodesulphurisation Unit, the CHP Plant. Works on the flue gas denitrification where fuel gas and hydrogen, previously used to and dust removal units on seven CHP boilers were ensure the air-tightness of the tanks and discharge begun. Preparations were also made to install Flue Gas units, were replaced with nitrogen. At the OleDesulphurisation Units on eight CHP boilers. The Comfins II Unit, a system for the removal of benzene pany also continued investment projects launched in the wastewater treatment unit was completed, in 2011 to mitigate the Plant’s adverse environmental while the CHP Plant was fitted with the K8 oil and impact. These include modification of the fuel system gas-fired boiler with electrostatic precipitators and at the CHP plant, as well as the interior components catalytic denitrification units. The unloading area was of the fan cooling units in the Plant’s cooling system. also upgraded to protect the soil and groundwater against contamination by petroleum products. Fire protection and ’on-the-fly’ maintenance levels were COMMITMENT also improved. • Continue the improvement projects launched in 2012. • Ensure timely completion of the investment programme adapting the CHP Plant to the IED Directive’s requirements. 63 IV. ENVIRONMENT Fees for economic use In 2012, the environmental fees for withdrawal of waof the environment ter and discharge of wastewater fell, but the total fees for the economic use of the environment went Business entities using the environment are reup by 1.11%. These were fees for air emissions from quired to pay environmental fees, as provided for the Płock Production Plant and the Włocławek PTA MORE INFORMATION: in the Environmental Protection Law of April 27th Plant, and the price changes resulted mainly from 2001 (Dz. U. 2008.25.150, as amended). high charges for the emissions of metals. But above all, they were due to the fact that 2012 was the first MORE INFORMATION: full year of operation of the PTA Plant in Włocławek. http://isap.sejm.gov.pl/ DetailsServlet?id=WDU20010620627 Fees for the economic use of the environment also apply to service stations. In this respect, they cover The Płock Production Plant pays environmental fees the handling of fuels, diesel oil and LPG, filling for air emissions, withdrawal of water, and discharge vehicles with gasoline, diesel oil and LPG, withdrawal of wastewater to water and soil. The Włocławek PTA of water from own water intake points, discharge Plant pays only for air emissions, because the withof sanitary sewage, as well as discharge of stormdrawal of water and discharge of wastewater are water and meltwater. subject to a civil-law agreement. Fees for the economic 20.00 19.78 20.00 use of the environment 18.00 17.54 17.87 at the Płock 16.00 Production Plant and the Włocławek 14.00 PTA Plant 12.00 in 2011-2012 10.00 8.00 6.00 4.00 2.00 1.23 1.21 1.01 0.92 0.00 Total Air emissions Water withdrawal Wastewater [PLN million] 2011 2012 Total fees for 1.00 the economic use 0.92 0.90 of the environment 0.85 for service stations, 0.80 fuel terminals, 0.70 0.72 0.69 separate assets, 0.60 and other PKN ORLEN facilities in 2011-2012 0.50 0.40 0.30 0.20 0.19 0.16 0.10 0.00 0.01 0.01 Total Air emissions Wastewater Water withdrawal [PLN million] 2011 2012 64 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Total fees for Fee Total amount [PLN] Increase/decrease the economic use of the environment 2011 2012 [zł] [%] by PKN ORLEN in 2011-2012 Total 20,691,933.00 20,850,187.65 158,254.65 0.76 Air emissions 18,253,496.00 18,552,522.00 299,026.00 1.64 Withdrawal of water 1,237,638.00 1,217,560.65 -20,077.35 -1.62 Discharge of wastewater 1,200,799.00 1,080,105.00 -120,694.00 -10.05 The operation of fuel terminals is subject to environBiodiversity mental fees related to the filling/draining of gasoline, diesel oil and fuel oil tanks, filling of rail tank cars PKN ORLEN facilities are not located within Natand road tankers with gasoline, diesel oil and fuel oil, ura 2000 sites or any protected areas. The Comwithdrawal of water from own water intake points, pany’s registered office is located in the central discharge of sanitary sewage, as well as discharge part of Poland, about 100 kilometres north-west of stormwater and meltwater. of Warsaw, in the northern part of the town of Płock, 1.5 kilometres from the right bank of the Wisła. In the case of Separate Assets, environmental fees are related to the discharge of stormwater and The area of the Plant’s environmental impact meltwater, and the withdrawal of water from own covers the Brudzeń Landscape Park, large parts water intake points. of the Gostynin-Włocławek Landscape Park, as well as vast areas of the protected landscapes of the Wisła In 2012, total fees for the economic use of the enviRiver, Gostynin and Gąbin, as well as the Raciąż ronment by PKN ORLEN’s regional units were down Plain. The area also includes natural reserves, such 6.74% on 2011. This was due to a change in the sales as Świetlista Dąbrowa in Brwiln, Sikórz and Łąck, volumes of different products and the grant of waterŁąckie Małe Lake, Korzeń, Rzepki, Kresy, Jarząbek, law permits to a number of service stations which Oz Gostyniński, and Drzewce. Another important did not have such permits in 2011. feature are leisure and recreation areas, including those used as health resorts or traditionally recomIn 2012, PKN ORLEN recorded an overall drop in mended for therapeutic purposes (ecotherapy). These the total amount of fees for the economic use include forests on the right-bank of the Wisła valley of the environment, down 0.76% compared with and in the Gostynin area. 2011. This was attributable mainly to the reduction of charges for the withdrawal of water and discharge The production facilities have no significant impact of wastewater both at the Płock Production Plant on biodiversity, thanks to procedures ensuring their and the regional units. safe operation and compliance with maximum emission limits. Their proper operation and due regard for the properties specified in the relevant MSDS documents, which are available to all users, prevents any significant environmental impact. 65 IV. ENVIRONMENT ORLEN falcons The magnificent peregrine falcon is listed on the Polish Red List of Animals as a CR (critically endangered) species. Since 1999, PKN ORLEN has been actively involved in expansion of the peregrine falcon population, in cooperation with the ’SOKÓŁ’ (’FALCON’) Wildlife Protection Association. SOKÓŁ’s mission is to restore the peregrine falcon population in Poland by reintroducing the species in areas where conditions are conducive to its growth. Falcons living on PKN ORLEN’s premises are closely monitored all year long, based on inspections of nest boxes, video recordings and photographs of nesting The falcon couple nesting within the Plant’s grounds falcons, as well as ringing of falcon nestlings. In 2012, use two nest boxes located on the CHP Plant and two peregrine falcons hatched in the nest box located the Claus Unit’s chimneys. Since 1999, when the nest on the CHP Plant chimney. Most likely, they were boxes were put up and since the first birds hatched in a male and a female, but it was still too early to be 2002, 35 peregrine falcon nestlings have hatched on sure as they were only about ten days old. On May the premises of PKN ORLEN. The falcon couple living 11th 2012, the nestlings were ringed with yellow within the Plant’s grounds usually choose the nest ornithological rings and blue bird-watching rings. box on the CHP chimney (6 times out of 10), over the Claus chimney box (4 times out of 10). MORE INFORMATION: www.peregrinus.pl MORE INFORMATION: COMMITMENT Continue our efforts with the ‘SOKÓŁ’ Wildlife Protection Association to restore the peregrine falcon population. Peregrine falcon nestling hatched in 2012. 66 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE The European Environmental Award in the ’Environment-Friendly’ competition is another valuable accolade, as it recognises and promotes PKN ORLEN as an environmentally friendly company of the new EU, actively involved in the protection and improvement of the condition of the natural environment. PKN ORLEN’s involvement in environmental protection and our operational responsibility are also recognised and appreciated by external bodies. This is particularly true of our consistent and forwardlooking approach for the sake of the generations to come. Awards granted to the Company in 2012 included a distinction received in recognition of our long-standing commitment and fruitful co-operation in bringing to life the idea behind the ’Responsible Care’ Programme. 67 68 V. SAFETY N DEPENDABILITY You can rely on us. 69 V. SAFETY Safety as a common goal PKN ORLEN takes a comprehensive approach to people’s health and safety, given the type and specific nature of the technologies it uses, as well as the potential threats to work, process, fire and radiation safety. Work is now under way on a new internal occupational safety management system, whose remit will cover all the ORLEN Group companies. In its ’Integrated Management System Policy’, which came into effect on April 20th 2010, PKN ORLEN committed to maintaining high standards of occuDariusz Loska pational health and safety. The document reflects Head of the OHS Office the preoccupation of the Company’s management PKN ORLEN and staff with ensuring safety, both in and out of the workplace. The Company expects its partners Occupational safety is a fundamental value, which to share the same dedication to maintaining the highmeans that the targets set in the Company’s occuMORE INFORMATION: est possible safety standards. pational safety policy can only be achieved through joint effort and cooperation across the board. MORE INFORMATION: Accidents, fires and machine failures are not ineviCorporate Responsibility Report 2010, p. 21 table. In fact, I am convinced that they can be proactively counteracted. PKN ORLEN’s approach to safety matters is multipronged, relying on the latest technolIn Q2 2012, our Integrated Management System ogy and organisational solutions. We actively help underwent a review at the Occupational Health our employees avoid dangerous situations through and Safety Office, in which Bureau Veritas-certified a variety of educational initiatives and by promoting auditors confirmed the system’s compliance with knowledge of safety measures in an accessible way. applicable standards. Safety conditions are a crucial factor in the quality Accident rates at PKN ORLEN of the Company’s operation, performance, efficiency, in 2009-2012 and prestige, and we have created safe conditions in which the further objectives before us may be In 2012, 12 accidents at work resulting in employee pursued. We also care for the safety of our external absence were recorded. The TRR rate was 1.13, contractors, suppliers and guests, and are constantly representing a decrease of ca. 33% relative to 2011 striving to improve our overall culture and aware(TRR 2011 – 1.68). ness of safety. COMMITMENT Maintain a TRR rate of ≤ 1.8 throughout the ORLEN Group. No fatalities or group accidents were recorded, which is the best result in the Company’s history. Post-accident absenteeism stood at 264 days, with a severity rate of 26.4 (number of workdays lost per accident). 70 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Accident statistics for 2009-2012 Average Number of accidents Absence Rate Year headcount Total Fatal Severe Group [days] Incidence* Severity** TRR*** 2009 4,634 23 0 0 0 996 5.0 43.3 2.90 2010 4,528 28 0 0 0 789 6.2 28.2 3.09 2011 4,474 15 0 1 0 592 3.4 39.5 1.68 2012 4,444 10 0 0 0 264 2.3 26.4 1.13 * Incidence rate – number of accidents per 1,000 employees. ** Severity rate – number of workdays lost per accident. *** TRR – product of the number of accidents and the constant million divided by the number of hours worked by employees. COMMITMENT Reduce the number of accidents to zero. Average headcount in PKN ORLEN Accident rates at 2009-2012 in 2009-2012 4,634 4,600 30 28 4,528 4,500 4,474 25 23 4,400 4,444 20 4,300 15 15 4,200 10 10 4,100 5 4,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Post-accident absenteeism Incidence rates in 2009-2012 in 2009-2012 1,000 996 7 6.2 6 800 789 5 5.0 600 592 4 400 3.4 3 264 200 2.3 2 100 1 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 71 V. SAFETY Severity rates TRR in 2009-2012 in 2009-2012 43.3 3.0 2.9 3.09 40 39.5 2.5 30 2.0 1.68 1.5 20 28.2 26.4 1.13 1.0 10 0.5 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of accidents at 40 38 work at PKN ORLEN 35 in 2003-2012 30 28 28 25 26 26 26 26 23 20 15 15 10 10 5 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 TRR rate at 5.0 4.8 PKN ORLEN 4.5 4.5 in 2000-2012 4.0 3.5 3.6 3.1 3.2 3.2 3.3 3.0 2.8 2.9 2.7 2.5 2.4 2.0 1.7 1.5 1.0 1.1 0.5 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 72 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE The Occupational Health and Safety Commitwhich proves that our employees are well-acquainted tee at PKN ORLEN enables employee supervision with OHS matters. A picnic was also organised for of the Company’s efforts to create safe and healthy Health and Safety at Work Day, which is a fresh initiaworking conditions. The Committee’s operation tive intended to promote awareness of occupational is subject to an agreement with trade unions, consafety. The picnic was attended both by Company cluded pursuant to the provisions of the Collective employees and external contractors. Bargaining Agreement and applicable laws. The OHS Committee, which is headed by a Member of the PKN ORLEN Management Board, has a decisive voice COMMITMENT in all matters relating to health and safety conditions Continue organising the Health at the Company. The Social Labour Inspectorate, and Safety at Work Days. which is directed by trade unions, also operates on the same principle. PKN ORLEN has implemented a system whose funcOHS event managers have been assigned to individual tion is to provide information on accidents, their production areas. Coordinators, reporting directly to causes, and the preventive measures taken. The Comdivision heads, work with the OHS Office on implepany’s employees and contractors receive reports menting safety standards in their respective areas. containing the essential facts about recent accidents. On November 1st 2011, an electronic system for reporting threats to health and safety at work was COMMITMENT deployed. It requires employees to actively participate Zero tolerance in monitoring their work environment and, additionfor unacceptable risk. ally, serves to raise safety awareness and encourages employees to submit their own suggestions on how to improve their work environment and occupational safety. The programme was awarded second prize in a nationwide competition entitled ’Improvement PKN ORLEN has a single purpose: of Working Conditions’, in the Technical and Organisational Solutions in Practice category. No accidents – 100% safety In 2012, 2,566 threats to health and safety at work One of the steps it takes in fulfilment of this is the dewere reported. But by the end of the year, we were velopment of the OHS website, on which key issues able to eliminate 2,641 of those threats, or 88%. relevant to occupational safety at PKN ORLEN and By assessing safety threats as they are reported, the Group are addressed. In addition, an OHS quiz we are able to collect extensive amounts of data, for the Company’s employees – 10 Questions about which in turn allows us to prevent serious injuries. Occupational Safety – has been organised for a secAs part of the Invitation to the OHS programme, ond time. Even though the questions were difficult, developed in 2012 and implemented in 2013, our many participants were able to give correct answers, employees can suggest their own solutions to safety issues, which are then properly evaluated. Elimination of threats 150 2,566 – reported 2,264 – eliminated to occupational safety in PKN ORLEN 01/01-31/12 2012 100 94 90 93 93 93 96 92 92 87 88 84 88 80 76 74 50 0 2011 2012 2012 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII 73 V. SAFETY The majority of accidents reported at ORLEN Group Number of accidents at the ORLEN Group companies were minor accidents which did not result in 2009-2012 in long-term absences. No recurrent accidents, which are common in the chemical industry, were recorded. 140 143 -12% Owing to many years of experience in creating safe 125 120 working conditions, the ORLEN Group has been able to reduce its accident rates. Post-accident absenteeism 100 stood at a total of 2,410 days, with the severity rate -39% (days of absence per accident) not exceeding 40 days. 80 76 -21% 60 60 Under a new support system implemented by PKN ORLEN, Group companies undergo reviews (consulta40 tions) covering occupational safety, fire safety, process safety, and safety management. All companies 20 providing reports and undergoing supervision as part 0 of the system have prepared safety improvement plans for 2012-2014. 2009 2010 2011 2012 Development of a system for managing external contractor safety during repair work TRR rate at the ORLEN Group in 2009-2012 Dedicated to maintaining the highest safety standards, PKN ORLEN is determined to ensure occupa5.0 tional safety for its external contractors. Although 4.17 the Company makes high demands on its partners, 4.0 3.66 it is always ready to share its own best practice and broad experience. The system for managing 3.0 contractor safety during repair work ensures safety at all stages, from preparation, to work execution, 2.26 to completion. During the first stage, PKN ORLEN 2.0 1.87 provides training to all workers involved in the repairs. Guidebooks and manuals have been drawn up for 1.0 external companies, which are also required to submit ’OHP declarations’. 0 PKN ORLEN’s officers exercise constant supervision 2009 2010 2011 2012 over the works performed, organise regular meetTRR ings and conferences with contractors, and carry out on-the-spot inspections. After the work has been completed, the contractors are evaluated and the best of them are rewarded. 74 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Keeping track of the legal PKN ORLEN’s representatives have significantly requirements to update contributed to a number of documents regulating the Comprehensive process safety. For instance, they were involved in Prevention System the work of the Polish working group responsible for drafting amendments to the Seveso III DirecThe Comprehensive Prevention System is a corpus tive on major industrial accidents. They have also of internal regulations on occupational safety, fire prepared an opinion for the Ministry of Economy safety, technical and process safety, and radiation on issues in the announced SEVESO III Directive and protection. draft amendment to the Regulation of the Minister of Economy on types and volumes of hazardous The body of applicable legal regulations on occupamaterials whose presence determines whether a plant tional safety is subject to regular updates. is to be classified as a facility with an increased or high risk of a major industrial accident. The Group’s representatives have also issued opinions on many Process safety other draft amendments to the regulatory regime. Process safety relates to all activities spanning the life cycle of a given process facility (e.g. a production Fire safety unit or storage tank), carried out during its design, construction, operation, maintenance, repair, modPKN ORLEN operates a state-of-the-art Company Fire ernisation, closure and decommissioning. The safety Brigade (CFB), as well as a National SPOT Centre1. of the process and of the personnel involved is PKN ORLEN is also a signatory of the SPOT System. equally important, and PKN ORLEN takes special The Company fire brigade, which will turn 50 this care when dealing with related incidents. In 2012, year, combines the best fire-fighting traditions with units operating at the Płock Production Plant were openness to new solutions. assessed for process hazards and risks, leading to greater hazard awareness and increased knowledge While regularly monitoring the condition of the fire among staff of methods for preventing incidents safety systems at the Company’s production faciliinvolving hazardous materials. ORLEN Group staff ties, PKN ORLEN continues to take steps to mitigate participated in over 60 training sessions focusing on the risk of fire, chemical plant failure and other local the operation of the Process Safety Management hazards. Particular emphasis is placed on improving System. Ongoing efforts are also made to analyse the staff’s awareness of accident prevention. potential emergencies, determine the possible dangerous consequences of an explosion, fire or release of toxic substances, and prevent the future occurrence of serious industrial failures. List of all incidents in 2010-2012 Type of incident Fires Local hazards Within the plant’s Extinguished Including False CFB grounds Beyond prior to medical alarms Total interventions the plant’s the arrival emergency Year Own Third-party grounds of the CFB Total calls 2010 14 1 1 4 92 63 13 125 121 2011 13 2 4 0 80 68 17 116 116 2012 14 3 4 2 91 78 9 123 123 1) Assistance System for the Transportation of Hazardous Materials (SPOT). 75 V. SAFETY In 2012, there were 123 incidents requiring intervenIncidents tion by the Company Fire Brigade. This figure has in 2010-2012 remained relatively flat for the last few years. 124 In 2012, 23 fires broke out, including two extinguished prior to the arrival of the Company Fire 122 Brigade, and four which started outside the Production Plant, but within PKN ORLEN’s premises. 120 A comparison of fires which broke out in 2012 118 relative to previous years suggests that the number of fires at the Production Plant, at the Company’s 116 own facilities, has been consistently low. However, 114 the last three years saw an increase in the number of fires recorded on the premises of the production 112 plants operated by Group companies and contractors (classified together). 110 2010 2011 2012 In 2012, the Company Fire Brigade recorded 91 interventions that did not involve a fire, classified as local hazards. This was a marked increase on 2011, chiefly because the CFB assisted the medical emergency services on PKN ORLEN premises, even though such emergencies were often unrelated to work. Relative More importantly, no medium or major fire incidents to 2012, the number of CFB interventions in response were recorded in 2010-2012 at the Production Plant. to a local hazard that were not accompanied by Another positive development is the substantial an ambulance increased by only one. decrease in the number of false alarms. Fires Local hazards in 2010-2012 in 2010-2012 15 15 100 100 14 14 90 90 13 13 12 12 80 80 11 11 70 70 10 10 99 60 60 88 50 50 77 66 40 40 55 30 30 44 33 20 20 22 10 10 11 00 00 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 Ownfires Own fires Third-party Third-party Outside OutsidePP PP Extinguished Extinguished Local Local medical Includingmedical Including Other Other insidePP inside PP fires firesinside insidePP PP priorto prior toCFB’s CFB’s hazards hazards emergency emergencycalls calls arrival arrival 76 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE The effectiveness of the ORLEN fire brigade’s work can Innovative technology project not only be attributed to its state-of-the-art equipment and rigorous adherence to procedures, but first and The Company Fire Brigade participates in a proforemost to the thorough preparedness of its team. ject aimed at raising their own safety at work. The Its fire fighters and rescue workers have taken part purpose of the project, designated ’i-Protect’ and in training sessions devoted to removal of industrial launched by the Central Institute for Labour Protecleaks, water and high-altitude rescue operations, as well tion in Łódź, is to design protective clothing equipped as cooperation with Medical Air Rescue helicopters. with sensors that collect data about the rescuer’s To improve their skills and enhance fire safety, the CFB environment and vital signs. also run training sessions, at which employees of PKN ORLEN and other Group companies are taught how to use portable fire-fighting equipment. As many as 288 department chemical rescuers have attended the CFB’s specialist courses. Health status sensor (optical fibers) Chemical risk sensor Microprocessor unit & wireless communications module Piotr Mironiuk External Deputy Chief temperature sensor of the Company Fire Brigade PKN ORLEN 'i-Protect' is the name of a project to develop a system of independent sensors that monitor the user’s vital signs, such as skin temperature, respiratory rate and heart rate. The system also includes chemical sensors measuring ambient temperature and the concentration of certain gasses, such as methane, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, oxygen, chlorine, External hydrogen sulphide and ammonia. The chemical sentemperature sensor sors would be embedded in the protective clothing or components of the respiratory gear. The Company Fire Brigade collaborated on this project in a consulting role. In future, PKN ORLEN fire fighters will be testing the functionality of this advanced protection gear in challenging conditions. The first tests are scheduled for June 2013. All recorded data will be fed to a laptop computer at the rescue coordination centre, from which users will then receive feedback on potential threats to their lives or health. Rescue Coordination Center 77 Certificates PKN ORLEN has implemented systemic procedures • Integrated Management System Certificate compliant with a set of international (ISO 9001, ISO • PN-EN ISO 9001:2009 – Quality Management 14001, ISO/IEC 27001 and AQAP 2120) and domestic System (PN-N-18001) standards. Furthermore, an annual • PN-EN ISO 14001:2005 – Environmental Managereport is prepared on the operation of the Intement System grated Management System, which is submitted • PN-N-18001:2004 – Occupational Health and to the Management Board for approval. Safety Management System • PN-ISO/IEC 27001:2007 – Information Security Management System • AQAP 2120:2009 – Quality Management System Certificate • Responsible Care Framework Management System Certificate • Company Close to the Environment Certificate • Partner of Poland’s Environment Certificate 78 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Awards and distinctions in 2012 • 2011 CSR Reports competition – Journalists’ Award. • The Responsible Companies Ranking – second place in the Fuels, Energy and Production category. • Silver CSR Leaf from the Polityka weekly – awarded for meeting high standards of social responsibility in business. • 2012 Leader in Responsible Business – title awarded by Employers of Poland. • Pillars of the Polish Economy ranking – listing major employers which support entrepreneurship and get involved in initiatives for local communities. • Golden Website Award for Listed Companies – a special award for using innovative, Internetbased communication tools in Company investor relations. • 2012 Top Employers Poland title – granted in recognition of the very good working conditions offered to employees. • Most Sought-After Employers According to Managers and Professionals in 2012 – first place in the Energy, Fuels and Gas category. • Trustworthy Employer title – in the minerals production category, granted in recognition of exemplary employee and social policy practices. 79 • ’Improvement of Working Conditions’ competition – second place in the Technical and Organisational Solutions in Practice category, in recognition of the ’Report a Safety Risk’ scheme. • Most Trusted Brand – title awarded in the service station category of the largest European consumer survey, organised by Reader’s Digest. • The MARQA’12 Most Valuable Polish Brands ranking – top rating for the sixth time in a row. • Service Quality Emblem 2012 – granted in the service station category for prompt, professional and friendly service, as well as good customer relations. • Educational Initiative of the Year – title awarded by the Ministry of National Education and the Głos Nauczycielski weekly, for the ’Chemistry Lesson’ initiative. • Platts Top 250 Global Energy Company Ranking – first place in the EMEA region, in the Refining & Marketing category; the ranking lists the largest refining and energy sector companies around the world. • Patron of Polish Sport – award received based on a survey carried out by CANAL+ and the Polish Chamber of Sports. • Responsible Care Programme – distinction for long-standing commitment and fruitful co-operation in bringing the idea behind the Programme to life. • European Environmental Award – granted by the National Environmental Council. 80 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Delivery on our 2011 commitments Once again PKN ORLEN uses its CSR Report to publicly assume certain commitments, and to account for the progress made on last year’s pledges. AREA COMMITMENT PROGRESS Expand the range of information on the ORLEN Group’s responsibility Reporting √ performance. Environment Implement IT tools for balancing CO2 emissions. √ Continue projects designed to mitigate the Company’s negative Environment √ environmental impact. Workplace/safety Introduce an OHS Glossary on the OHS website. √ Workplace/safety Organise further OHS competitions. √ Further develop the system of multi-channel dissemination Workplace/safety of messages to encourage the desired workplace behaviour, √ especially in relation to more efficient communication. Workplace/safety Support OHS training for contractors. √ In Workplace/safety Continue development of the contractor passport system. progress 81 List of GRI indicators INDICATOR DESCRIPTION NOTE Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organisation 1.1 (e.g. CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance 3 of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 8-9, 16, 28-29 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. 1, 88 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 4-5, 9 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, 2.3 5, 7-8 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. 88 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names 2.5 of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant 5, 9 to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 34-35 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types 2.7 5, 9 of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. 4-5, 10, 35 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, No changes have been 2.9 or ownership. recorded. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 79 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period. 11 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 2012 r. 3.3 Reporting cycle. Annual. 3.4 Contact point. 88 Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content. 11 3.6 Boundary of the report. 5, 7, 11 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 11 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from 7-8 period to period and/or between organisations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including 3.9 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied 11-12 to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided 3.10 10, 62, 64 in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, 3.11 10, 62 or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 82-86 Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying 3.13 the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external 12 assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organisation and the assurance provider(s). Governance Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under 4.1 the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting 29-31 strategy or organisational oversight. 82 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also 4.2 30 an executive officer. State the number of members of the highest governance body that 4.3 29-30 are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 4.4 35-37 or direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and 30 the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts 4.6 30-31 of interest are avoided. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of 4.7 the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including 31 any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, 4.8 and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance Cover, 13 and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 4.9 16, 31 performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 4.10 30 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to external initiatives Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle 4.11 16, 27 is addressed by the organisation. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 4.12 6, 13, 17-18, 35 or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ 4.13 26-27 international advocacy organisations. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 4 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 11 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 4.16 35, 39 by type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 4.17 engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics 10, 18, 22-23, 34, 51 and concerns, including through its reporting. Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other EC1 10 community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s EC2 10, 27, 56 activities due to climate change. Woman – 2.1 times higher Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local than minimum wage. EC5 minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Man – 2.4 times higher than minimum wage. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers EC6 37-38 at significant locations of operation. The Company does not have any procedures for local hiring. The proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired EC7 operation stands at 81.25% from the local community at locations of significant operation. (assumptions: locations of significant operation are Płock and Warszawa, senior management includes positions from Manager III upwards). 83 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided EC8 16-25 primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, EC9 5, 17, 22 including the extent of impacts. Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 10, 43 No such process EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. is carried out. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 43 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 43 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and EN6 42 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 10, 54-55 No such process EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. is carried out. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, EN11 65 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services EN12 on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 65 outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. No such data is collected. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 66 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats EN15 66 in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 57 No such process EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. is carried out. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 57 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances are monitored EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. based on the amount or replenished refrigerant in air conditioning units. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 57-60 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 55-56 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 60-62 In 2011, at the Płock plant there were two accidental releases of hazardous substances to land. An estimated total of ca. 3.0-4.5 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Mg of petroleum products was released, followed in each instance by immediate remedial action. 126.42 Mg of contaminated soil was replaced. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage 62 of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and No such data EN25 related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s is collected. discharges of water and runoff. 84 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, EN26 40 and extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed No such data EN27 by category. is collected. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary EN28 62-63 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 63-65 Labour practices and decent work Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, LA1 47 broken down by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover LA2 47 by age group, gender, and region. 51, Social benefit entitlement depends only on whether an employee Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary LA3 is employed under an or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. employment contract, and not on the working time arrangements. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 48 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management LA6 –worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise 70, 73 on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number LA7 71 of work related fatalities by region and by gender. Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs LA8 in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members 51 regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 51 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and LA10 49 by employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support LA11 the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing 49-50 career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12 50 development reviews, by gender. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee LA13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, 31, 48 and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category. 48 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 47 Human rights Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners No such data HR2 that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. is collected. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning No such training HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including is provided. the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. None. In accordance with the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, PKN ORLEN respects Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise the freedom of activities HR5 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and equality of trade and actions taken to support these rights. unions and does not discriminate against employees on grounds of trade union membership or non-membership. 85 PKN ORLEN does not employ children. The recruitment process is transparent and each employee has become familiar with their rights and duties by Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk reading the work rules and HR6 for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute the Collective Bargaining to the effective abolition of child labour. Agreement. Further, the Company has implemented ethical values and has appointed an Ethics Officer to ensure that employee rights are respected in every aspect. At PKN ORLEN there are no cases of forced labour. The recruitment process is transparent and each employee has become familiar with their rights and duties by reading Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk the work rules and HR7 for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute the Collective Bargaining to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Agreement. Further, the Company has implemented PKN ORLEN Code of Conduct . The Compan y has also appointed an Ethics Officer to ensure that employee rights are respected in every aspect. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies or proHR8 Not applicable. cedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people No such statistics HR9 and actions taken. are kept. Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human No such statistics HR10 rights reviews and/or impact assessments. are kept. Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved HR11 None recorded. through formal grievance mechanisms. Society Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related No such statistics SO2 to corruption. are kept. Percentage of employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption SO3 13 policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not applicable. Public policy positions and participation in public policy development SO5 16 and lobbying. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary No detailed data is SO8 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. reported on the WSE. Product responsibility Type of product and service information required by procedures, and PR3 percentage of significant products and services subject to such information 6 requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary PR4 codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type 6 of outcomes. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to PR6 13 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer No such complaints have PR8 privacy and losses of customer data. been recorded. 86 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 RESPONSIBLE CHANGE Useful links Category Company/organisation name Website/fanpage address Polski Koncern Naftowy ORLEN www.orlen.pl PKN ORLEN Annual Report www.raportroczny.orlen.pl Employee Volunteering at PKN ORLEN www.wolontariat.orlen.pl PKN ORLEN ORLEN. Safe Roads www.orlenbezpiecznedrogi.pl Stop Cafe www.stopcafe.pl ORLEN for motorists www.dlakierowcow.orlen.pl Verva Racing Team www.facebook.com/vervaracingteam Verva Street Racing www.facebook.com/vervastreetracing Verva www.facebook.com/verva Poles with Verve www.facebook.com/PolacyzWerwa ORLEN Warsaw Marathon www.facebook.com/orlenwarsawmarathon Fanpage Stop Cafe www.facebook.com/stopcafe ORLEN Team www.facebook.com/orlenteam Amazing People www.facebook.com/niesamowiciludzie The Best Ones www.facebook.com/debesciaki Feel the Chemistry www.facebook.com/poczujchemie United Nations Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org Responsible Care www.rc.com.pl Fairtrade www.fairtrade.net International and national RESPECT Index www.odpowiedzialni.gpw.pl initiatives European Forum for New Ideas www.efni.pl CR Coalition www.koalicjacr.pl Declaration on Sustainable Development www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl in the Energy Sector ORLEN – DAR SERCA (Gift of the Heart) Foundation www.orlendarserca.pl Grant Fund for Płock Foundation www.funduszgrantowy.plock.eu Good Neighbourhood Grant Fund for Ostrów www.funduszgrantowy.pl NGO Wielkopolski Association The Ignacy Łukasiewicz Museum of Oil and Gas www.bobrka.pl Industry in Bóbrka Foundation ’Sokół’ (’Falcon’) Wildlife Protection Association www.peregrinus.pl The European Petrochemical Association (EPCA) www.epca.eu Industry CONCAWE www.concawe.be organisations Polish Organisation of Oil Industry and Trade www.popihn.pl Responsible Business Forum www.odpowiedzialnybiznes.pl CSRinfo www.csrinfo.org CSR www.doradztwocsr.pl SGS www.sgs.pl CR Navigator www.crnavigator.com 87 Contact details: Polski Koncern Naftowy ORLEN Spółka Akcyjna Chemików 7, 09–411 Płock, Poland Main switchboard: phone: +48 24 365 00 00, fax: +48 24 365 40 40 www.orlen.pl Warsaw Office Bielańska 12, 00–085 Warszawa phone: +48 22 778 00 00 Press Office phone: +48 24 256 92 92, +48 24 256 92 93 phone: +48 22 778 01 09, +48 22 778 00 91, +48 22 778 01 10 e-mail: media@orlen.pl Investor Relations Office phone: +48 24 256 81 80 e-mail: ir@orlen.pl Useful correspondence addresses: zarzad@orlen.pl sponsoring@orlen.pl wolontariat@orlen.pl 88
