6/3/13 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Alcoa is a values-based company, and we uphold the highest standards of respect for the protection of human rights for all stakeholders. We are a participant in the United Nations Global C ompact. The compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. Statement of Support Alcoa is fully committed to the United Nations Global C ompact. Integrity and respect for people are core values for Alcoa, and we believe that financial success, social responsibility, and protection of the environment are totally aligned and absolutely essential for long-term sustainability. The Alcoa Guide to Business C onduct outlines our commitment to be open, honest, and trustworthy in all of our dealings with all stakeholders. Our policies and procedures specifically incorporate our commitment to human rights, freedom of association, and excellence in environment, health, and safety. Our policies clearly communicate that we will not tolerate forced, compulsory, or child labor; discrimination of any kind; or any forms of corruption and bribery in our global operations. Our corporate policies apply to Alcoa-controlled operations globally. Klaus Kleinfeld Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2012 Communication on Progress The following overview of our 2012 progress against the 10 principles is supplemented by references to information contained on our external website, www.alcoa.com. Principles 2012 Progress References Human Rights 1. Businesses should support Alcoa’s Human Rights Policy is Vision & Values and respect the protection of available in 20 languages on go internationally proclaimed our corporate intranet and human rights. internet sites. We respect all Human Rights Policy internationally proclaimed go human rights standards in our operations throughout the world. Treating each person with dignity and respect is one of our core values. We value diversity and inclusion in all of our operations. In 2012, 10% of incentive Inclusion compensation for managers go and executives was based on www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 1/7 6/3/13 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact and executives was based on progress in achieving diversity and inclusion objectives in each of our businesses and in every region throughout the world. We have a mandatory human Human Rights Policy rights training course that key go managers must complete as part of their standard curriculum. In 2012, we expanded the training population to include the majority of our salaried employees. 2. Make sure that they are not We seek to understand fully all Human Rights Policy complicit in human rights aspects of how business is go abuses. conducted where we have our operations throughout the world. Our standard is to contractually require our contractors and suppliers to adhere to the same internationally proclaimed human rights protections and guarantees to which we hold ourselves. Our Global Supplier Supply C hain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include human rights components. We continued the global Stakeholder Engagement implementation of the Alcoa go C ommunity Framework, which requires each of our locations to engage with key stakeholders in and around our facilities. Human rights is a critical component of the framework. At the end of 2012, 95% of our manufacturing locations had implemented the framework and met with key stakeholders to review common initiatives, including human rights protections. Labor Standards 3. Businesses should uphold We fully support an Human Rights Policy the freedom of association employee’s right to choose go and the effective recognition whether or not to join a union. of the right to collective bargaining. www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 2/7 6/3/13 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact We worked cooperatively and Employee Relations in good faith with many labor go unions that represent groups of our employees in various facilities throughout the world. 4. The elimination of all forms We forbid the use of any Human Rights Policy of forced and compulsory forced or compulsory labor go labor. within our own operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. Our Global Supplier Supply C hain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include labor practices and human rights. 5. The effective abolition of We forbid the use of any child Human Rights Policy child labor. labor within our own go operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. Our Global Supplier Supply C hain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include labor practices and human rights. 6. The elimination of Alcoa’s recruitment processes Human Rights Policy discrimination in respect of and practices ensure the go employment and occupation. protection and respect for all people and that no individual is discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, veteran status, genetic information, sex, or age (within statutory limits). Our company values, restated Vision & Values in 2012, continue to include go “respect”—we treat all people with dignity and provide a diverse, inclusive work environment. www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 3/7 6/3/13 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact environment. In 2012, 10% of our incentive Inclusion compensation for managers go and executives was based on meeting targets to improve the diversity of our workforce with respect to representation of women and protected class employees in our global operations. We met our 2012 goals to have women comprise 19% of our global leadership and 16% of U.S. minorities hold leadership positions. We earned the prestigious C atalyst Award in early 2013 in recognition of our progress on recruiting, developing, and advancing women in the workplace. The Human Rights C ampaign named Alcoa an LGBT Best Place to Work for the fourth consecutive year in 2012. Environment 7. Businesses should support We support the precautionary a precautionary approach to approach to environmental environmental challenges. challenges. We have aggressive 2020 and Strategic Sustainability 2030 goals to drive our Targets environmental performance go against a 2005 baseline. During 2012, we achieved a C limate Protection 23% reduction in carbon go dioxide intensity against a 2005 baseline in our Global Primary Products business. We reduced our freshwaterWater use intensity (consumption per go unit of production) by 24% versus 2005 levels. 8. Undertake initiatives to We have a Global Sustainability Strategy promote greater Sustainability Working go environmental responsibility. C ommittee and an executivelevel Global Sustainability Steering Team. Our chief sustainability officer reports directly to our chairman and chief executive officer. We have aggressive 2020 and Strategic Sustainability www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 4/7 6/3/13 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact We have aggressive 2020 and Strategic Sustainability 2030 goals to drive our Targets environmental performance go against a 2005 baseline. We use Sustainability Sustainability Strategy Scorecards to measure each go business’ progress against key near-term sustainability metrics. We included an annual carbon Energy dioxide reduction target as a go component of our 2012 incentive compensation program. Alcoa Foundation invests Alcoa Foundation roughly one third of its total go annual funding to environmentally focused programs around the world. Sixty percent of our Month of Service employees participated in the go 2012 Month of Service employee outreach campaign. Many of the activities were focused on the environment, including planting trees and recycling more than 265,455 aluminum cans. The Green Works program Green Works supports employee efforts to go address critical environmental issues. Alcoa and Alcoa Foundation Recycling invested more than US$5 go million between 2007 and 2012 to develop communitybased recycling programs. In 2012, we organized and hosted the Action to Accelerate Recycling Summit, an unprecedented event for some 70 industry representatives, nongovernmental organizations, thought leaders, and subject matter experts to explore voluntary collaboration to address lower-than-desired U.S. recycling rates for packaging. At the September 2012 meeting of the C linton Global www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 5/7 6/3/13 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact meeting of the C linton Global Initiative, Alcoa and Alcoa Foundation announced funding for some US$2 million in recycling outreach activities in partnership with Keep America Beautiful. Our Global Supplier Supply C hain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include environmental performance. C ase Studies go 9. Encourage the development We continued Bauxite Residue and diffusion of commercialization of go environmentally friendly ReadyGrit™ (formerly known technologies. as Red Sand™), which is derived from bauxite residue. Our EcoWise™ aluminum C onsumer Electronics sheet reduces the carbon go footprint of consumer electronics. Reynobond® with EcoC lean™ Reynobond with EcoC lean go is the first coil-coated architectural panel that helps clean itself and the air around it. A new line of forged truck Transportation wheels we introduced in go Europe in 2012 are up to 44% lighter than steel equivalents, helping improve the fuel efficiency of commercial fleets. C ase Studies go Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work Our global Ethics and Ethics & C ompliance Line against corruption in all its C ompliance Line and web go forms, including extortion and reporting capability provide bribery. employees and external stakeholders with the opportunity to report confidentially any potential violations of law or company policy. This is in addition to employees and stakeholders being able to report by sending letters to management, contacting the C ompliance organization by fax or email, and submitting www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 6/7 6/3/13 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact issues through alcoa.com. Our Anti-C orruption Policy Anti-C orruption Policy prohibits facilitation, or go “grease” payments, and commercial bribery in addition to bribery of public officials. The Alcoa Guide to Business Ethics & C ompliance Program C onduct and Alcoa Supplier go Standards include information on anti-corruption. From January 2003 through December 2012, Alcoa employees and select contractors completed more than 30,000 anti-corruption and anti-bribery courses through our online ethics and compliance training program. Online training is supplemented by live anticorruption training programs conducted for higher risk employees by the C ompliance and Legal groups. At the time of hire, all employees are expected to complete “Do What’s Right!” training, which contains anticorruption elements. Since the 1990’s, our Legal Department has offered formal preventative law training programs and brochures covering numerous topics, including gifts, conflicts of interest, anti-corruption, and anti-bribery practices. Archived Reports 2011 C om m unication on Progre ss 2010 C om m unication on Progre ss 2009 C om m unication on Progre ss www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 7/7
