Pension Assurance Company “Doverie” 2012 Communication on Progress Report Statement of continued support for the Global Compact Once again I’m pleased to declare that PAC Doverie reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the four key areas of Human rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. During 2012 we kept on integrating all those principles into our general business strategy as well as our day to day activity. At PAC Doverie we firmly believe in the importance of all of us – individuals and companies – taking responsibility for ensuring a sustainable future. For us, CSR is not only a phrase it’s part of the way we do business. We believe we’ve succeeded to achieve a lot in those terms but we know that much more remains to be done. Thus, we’ll keep on doing our best to implement and promote the UNGC principles in all our activities and among all our stakeholders. Daniela Petkova Chair of the Management board of PAC Doverie Doverie 2012 COP 2 Practical actions, taken to implement the Global Compact principles I. HUMAN RIGHTS Social politics, including: • an extensive additional health-care package; • additional voluntary pension assurance; • one time marriage, pregnancy and childbirth financial support. II. LABOUR • Continuous learning programs; • Especially designed Personal development programs for all sales and customer care positions and the vast majority of the rest of the positions; • Equal representation of women. III. ENVIRONMENT • Cut down on vehicle usage; • Reduce printing; • Recycle paper; • Use programmable thermostat for heating and cooling; • Purchase remanufactured toner cartridges; • Reuse the backside of discarded paper for scratch pads; • Buy water in bulk so the employees don't have to use individual water bottles; • Share computer files sustainably, not on CDs or DVDs; • Use a “Think before you print” appeal as an obligatory part of the e-mail signatures of all the employees. IV. ANTI-CORRUPTION • A Policy against Corruption and Related Practices of PAC “Doverie” was adopted; Doverie 2012 COP 3 • All contractors, suppliers and subcontractors were informed of the adoption of the Policy and made aware that they will be expected to apply its principles in their own operations and in their relations with the Company; • All internal regulations of PAC Doverie were revised and brought in compliance with the rules and principles of the Policy. During the year PAC Doverie sponsored various events in the financial, economics and sports area, including Next Generation , Mr. & Mrs. Economy , Bank of the Year , Children ethnic festival with international participation Children of the Balkans with spirituality in Europe! , Volleyball tournament for deaf people and others. Volleyball tournament for deaf people In august 2012, PAC Doverie in accordance with its Policy against Corruption and Other Related Practices withdrew its sponsorship of the Bulgaria national volleyball team because of some alleged corruption practices in the Management team of Bulgarian national volleyball federation, widely reported by the media. Doverie 2012 COP 4 The Company also continued with its Project Free internet access in small towns and villages , opening some more Internet clubs. Opening of the Internet club in the Gaber village All the information and details on the Communication on Progress of PAC Doverie will be available on our internal site and our official internet site www.poc-doverie.bg Contact persons: Daniela Petkova – Chair of the MB Miroslav Marinov – Executive Director Asen Asenov – Director Corporative Communications PAC Doverie JSC 13B Tintyava str. Sofia 1113, BULGARIA E-mail: head@poc-doverie.bg Tel.: +359 2/ 46 46 196 Doverie 2012 COP 5
