Purpose of Report This report has been published by EWP to disclose transparently its economic, social and environmental performance as an ethical corporate citizen to all stakeholders. Reporting Guidelines This report has been prepared based on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3 Guidelines and BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline. Reporting Scope This report has been prepared for the corporate head office in Seoul and five plant sites. Reporting Cycle Korea East-West Power (EWP) has published its Sustainability Report each year since its first issue published in May 2007. Reporting Period This report outlines the company's sustainability management activities from January 1, 2012 to December 31. 2012; and also includes some of the activities carried on in 2013. For qualitative performance, the data from 2010 to 2012 have also been included to enable time series trend analysis. Base Unit of Data Used in the Report The units used in this report include KRW(South Korean won) as the currency unit, MW(generation facilities capacity), GWh(amount of power generated), TOE(amount of energy used), tCO2(emission of greenhouse gas) and tCO2/MWh(basic unit of greenhouse gas emission). GRI G3 Guideline Application Level Korea East-West Power Co, Ltd. (EWP) declares that its Sustainability Report has been prepared to satisfy all the requirements for Level ‘A’ under the GRI Application Levels Guidelines. Additional Information For additional information, please visit the corporate Website or the department indicated below: Website : http://www.ewp.co.kr Green Environment Team, Power Generation Division Tel. : +82-2-3456-8533 e-mail : entro@ewp.co.kr GRI G3 Guideline Application Level Korea East-West Power Co, Ltd. (EWP) declares that its Sustainability Report has been prepared to satisfy all the requirements for Level ‘A’ under the GRI Application Levels Guidelines. CEO’s Message It has been 7 years ever since the first publication of the sustainability report of Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. (EWP) in 2007. I believe it is a very meaningful opportunity for us to present our economic, social and environmental improvement effort and achievement for strengthening sustainability in 2012 to all of you. As a public enterprise, which produces about 11.6% of national electricity supply, EWP has been making an effort to sincerely follow its fundamental mission providing inexpensive, stable and eco-friendly power supply despite several domestic and overseas management environment changes since the spinoff from KEPCO in 2001. With this, we are also very proud of contributing to the improvement of the quality of life. In 2012, EWP achieved its largest power sales ever with 54,839GWh, which was 7.3% increase compared to 2011, due to the increased electricity demand. In fact, one of the causes of this sales increase is insufficient expansion of power plants. Moreover, this year’ s power supply situation is worse than last year, and to deal with such electric power shortage, EWP started operating the new gas turbine in Ulsan natural gas plant unit #4 in June, 2013, which is planned to be completed in July, 2014. Also, Dangjin power plant units #9 and #10, which will be completed by 2016, are well being built according to their construction plans. EWP also makes an utmost effort to prevent its currently operating plants from breakdown and to operate with maximum capacity, and we operate an emergency operation system during the peak period of power demand In addition, as a public enterprise owned by the public, EWP has done various activities for taking care of our surroundings and for fulfilling our social responsibility. For example, we are currently supporting multi-cultural families, the energy poor, educational works, traditional markets and cultural events of local communities, and the support range is becoming bigger every year. We have also actively participated in projects for win-win growth with SMEs, such as the expansion of SME product purchasing and domestic & international market development for SME product sales. Lastly, EWP has performed precautional environment and safety management activities for minimizing environmental impacts. We have tried to respond to climate changes, reducing GHG emissions and developing new renewable energy sources, and actively expanded the recycling range of coal ash and waste water. Moreover, we have built the disaster safety management system to minimize the risk of negligent accidents that can be incurred during plant operation. With the attitude of‘limitless responsibility’ , Korea East-West Power will listen to all stakeholders’ opinion with open mind, and make an effort to reflect the opinions into our management to fulfill our social responsibility to give better happiness to all our customers. We sincerely ask for your continued interest and support to EWP. Thank you. September, 2013 President & CEO KoreaEast-West Power Chang, Joo-Ok About EWP 04 Characteristics of Power Industry Electric power is an essential source of energy to almost all industrial activities and the basic life of people in the modern world. EWP, one of KEPCO’s 6 power generation subsidiaries, produces power in conjunction with private power generation companies and district electric power operators. EWP sells power to KEPCO through Korea Power Exchange, and then KEPCO sells power to general customers through its nationwide power transmission and distribution networks.  Corporate Overview (as of Dec. 2012) EWP Head Office 512 Yeongdong Blvd, Gangnam-gu, Seoul Date of establishment April 2, 2001 Capital 3,478.9 billion won Total Assets 6,476 billion won Sales 5,943.3 billion won Transmission and Power generation Power trade Customer Net Profit 266.8 billion won sale -6 power generation Number of Employees 2,080(as of Mar. 2013) companies General cusKEPCO -Private power Korea Power tomer Major business Development of power resource, power generation, etc. District electric power generation companies Exchange Corporate cus-District electric power operators Total Power Output 57,653GWh tomer operators Sales Volume 54,839GWh Composition of KEPCO 100% shareholders Pursuing Sustainable Growth  Share of power generation EWP successfully completed the construction of ultra super critical (USC) 500MW-class Dangjin Thermal Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant Power Plant Units #5 to #8, and began construction of USC 1,020MW-class Dangjin Thermal Power 4,049 7.0% Plant Units #9 and #10, the largest in Korea as a single facility, with a goal to complete them by 2016. Donghae Thermal Power Plant 3,101 5.4% The company is also constructing Ulsan New Combined Heat and Power Plant (948MW) to expand Honam Thermal Power Plant 3551 6.2% low carbon power supply and stabilize electricity supply with the closure of Ulsan Power Plant Units Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Complex #1~#3 (600MW) scheduled in 2014 according to their end of operation longevity. In addition, we are 33,626 58.3% Ulsan Thermal Power Plant Complex accelerating the advancement into overseas projects and development of new and renewable energy to 13,325 23.1% actively respond to the changes in the environment of future power industry.  Organizational Chart  Percentage of fuels at EWP CEO Planning & Heavy Oil Administration Headquarters Executive General Business Auditor Headquarters Bituminous Coal Win-Win Audit and Safety & Quality Inspection 51.1% Growth Center Office LNG Control Team 23.9% Anthracite 4.5% Planning Management Human Resources Resource Power Generation Construction Domestic Overseas Business Business Division Support Division Management Office Strategy Office Division Division Business Office Development Office Operation Office Dangjin Thermal Ulsan Thermal Honam Thermal Donghae Ilsan Combined Power Plant Power Plant Thermal Power Heat & Power Guam Office Miami Office Complex Complex Power Plant Plant Plant 05 2013 Sustainability Report Business Areas 05 The major businesses of EWP can be divided into its current main business of the construction and operation of thermal power plants and the overseas projects and new & renewable energy business in which much of the new investment is being made. A sustainable growth will be attained through the diversification of its businesses including new businesses in Korea, development of new & renewable energy, and advancement into overseas power plant projects. Power Generation Business lsan Combined Heat & Power Plant Donghae Thermal Power Plant ■ Thermal Power Plant Business Location : Goyang, Gyeonggi-do Location : Donghae, Gangwon-do The main business of EWP Main Fuel :LNG Main Fuel : anthracite coal (Domestic) Occupying 99.8% of the company’s Capacity : 0.9 million kw Capacity : 0.4 million kw facility capacity (8,800MW) Dangjin Thermal Power Plant complex  Power Plants Location: Dangjin,Chungcheongnam-do Main Fuel :Bituminous Coal (Imported) Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Complex 4,000MW(Bituminous Coal) Ulsan Thermal Power Plant complex Capacity : 4 million kw Ulsan Thermal Power Plant Complex 3,000MW(Heavy Oil, LNG) Location : Nam-gu, Ulsan Main Fuel : Heavy Oil, LNG Honam Thermal Power Plant 500MW(Bituminous Coal) Honam Thermal Power Plant Capacity : 1.8, 1.2 million kw Donghae Thermal Power Plant 400MW(Domestic Coal, Imported Coal) Location : Yeosu, Jeollanam-do Main Fuel : Bituminous Coal (Imported) Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant 900MW(LNG) Capacity : 0.5 million kw ■ Power Plant Construction Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Units #9 and #10 Ulsan Combined Heat and Power Plant Unit #4 Donghae Biomass Power Plant Capacity : 2,040MW (1,020MW×2) Capacity : 948MW Capacity : 30MW Fuel : Bituminous Coal Fuel : LNG Fuel : Wood-chip Construction Period : June, 2011 ~ June, 2016 Construction Period : May, 2012 ~ July, 2014 Construction Period : December, 2011 ~ July, 2013 ■ New & Renewable Energy Business New business of EWP to lead future green market Promote development of new & renewable energy to meet Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) Projects underway  In operation : 15MW (Solar energy in Donghae and Dangjin, fuel cell in Ilsan, etc.)  Under construction: 89MW (Wind power in Gyeongju, Bio-gas turbine, biomass in Donghae, etc.) 06 Domestic new energy development ■ Joint investment with private power generation companies Promote development of new energy to contribute to the stable energy supply in Korea and achieve sustainable growth of the company. Construction of private-investment Donghae Power Plant Construction of private-investment Dangjin Power Plant Construction of the first private-investment coal power plant in Korea Construction of a coal power plant through a consortium with a private company Facility Capacity 500MW×2units (2 trillion won) 500MW×2units (2 trillion won) Construction Period 2012~Dec. 2014/ Apr. 2015 2012~Jun. 2015 Composition of SPC STXEnergy + EWP Dongbu Construction + EWP Location Donghae, Gangwon-do Dangjin, Chungcheongnam-do Aerial view of the Private-investment Donghae Power Plant ■ Collective Energy Projects Category Daesan Collective Energy Project Seokmun National Industrial Complex Collective Energy Chuncheon Combined Cycle Project Facility Capacity 140MW 38MW 500MW Construction Period Feb. 2014~May 2016 Apr. 2014~Dec. 2015 Unsettled Consortium Daesan Combined Heat & Power + EWP Kyungdong + Kolon Global + EWP Posco E&C + KEPID + EWP Location Daesan-eup, Seosan,Chungcheongnam-do Seongmun-myeon, Dangjin, Chungcheongnam-do Chuncheon, Gangwon-do Overseas Projects ■ Advancement into Overseas Projects A new growth engine for leaping forward to be a world-class energy company Promote various projects including construction of overseas power plants, O&M, and natural resources developments using the company’s expertise of the construction and operation of power plants in Korea. Major Achievements  Power  Plant Projects : Jamaica Public Service, Marubeni in the U.S., Guam, Wind Power Generation in the Philippines, Diesel Power Generation Project in Haiti, etc.  S ervice Projects: O&M of CFBC in Cebu, Test Operation of a Thermal Power Plant in Chile, A Project Coal-fired Power Plant in Cebu, the Philippines in Madagascar, etc. ■ Status of Overseas Business Development Ended In operation CPH 94MW EWP-RC New Hampshire(2) Under development 70.8MW New York Korea California Oman Haiti Nigeria 1,900MW Vietnam 30MW Senegal 2,400MW Guam 80MW 250MW 500MW Dominica Sudan Philippines(2) Jamaica 300MW India 480MW 120MW 1,320MW 636MW Ghana Mozambique 500MW 600MW Indonesia 200MW Peru(2) Madagascar 1,640MW 135MW Australia Chile(4) South Africa(2) 1,296MW 750MW 2013 Sustainability Report Transparent Corporate Governance 07 EWP has enhanced the transparency of its corporate governance and decision-making processes by strengthening the operating system of the BOD and activating the participation of non-executive directors in the managerial activities. Composition of the stake-holders and capital EWP is wholly owned by KEPCO since it was founded as a spin-off from KEPCO on April 2, 2001, for power generation on the basis of the Law on the Restructuring of the Electricity Industry. Composition of the Board of Directors The board of Directors consists of 4 executive directors and 5 external directors. To guarantee the independence of the BOD, the senior external director presides over the board meetings as its chairperson. To establish a responsible management system by the executive directors, the CEO has signed a management contracts with the Ministry of Strategy and Finance. The CEO and executive directors have signed internal management contracts on the evaluation of management performance and compensation. External directors are appointed among those with professional knowledge and distinguished careers, and are paid according to the BOD regulations.  Structure of BOD BOD 1 Composition of BOD Executives Recommendation CommitAudit Committee tee BOD Exchange control committee Recommend the candidates Internal evaluation & deliberation Audit the works and accounting committee 2 Role of Comfor the executives of the of the company and report Budget evaluation & deliberation company and discuss the mittees it to the BOD. contract(draft) for the candidates. committee New business deliberation committee 01 02 03 04 05 BOD OperaReceiving Prior delibNotices of Prior explaBoard delib3 tion Processes agenda items eration meetings nation eration D-10 D-7 D-7 D-3 D-day  The work performance and sub-committees in BOD Sub-committees Composition (Participants) Performance and achievements in 2012 Audit Committee Standing auditor + Non-executive directors (2) Auditings, etc. (9 times) Executives Recommendation Committee Non-executive directors (5) + External members (2) Recommending candidates for the CEO BOD Non-executive directors Consulting (Exchange control committee, etc.) 08  The management goal and system of the BOD More than 90% More than 90% increase in Performance More than 80% of the speaking the recommendations about Index (goal) attendance in BOD of non-executive directors management Implementation Real participation of Strategy Strengthen the role of BOD Activate BOD nonexecutive directors in management. Analysis of management Prior report of BOD schedule. Activate professional condition. Observe the schedule of sub-committees. Specific Improve policy Expand prior deliberation regular BOD meeting. Tasks recommendation system. system. Improve job performance Activate non-executive Improve BOD operating system. analysis system BOD meeting Check results Performance Evaluation Feedback Monitoring & Feedback Permanent monitoring Evaluation of job performance Survey/Improvement system  Efforts to strengthen the role of BOD EWP has improved the operating system of BOD to secure the independence and professionalism of non-executive directors for efficient fulfillment of their decision-making. EWP has established a separate homepage for the BOD to improve non-executive directors’ access to managerial information. Also, a system of prior deliberation for the agenda was introduced for practical deliberation of the agenda and the active reflection of the advices of non-executive directors on midand long-term core strategies and managerial policies. Especially, the professionalism of nonexecutive directors is sufficiently utilized when making decisions on businesses with high risks so that conflicts of interest in the BOD can be prevented through active discussions.  Work performance of BOD Work performance of BOD 2010 Performance 2011 Performance 2012 Performance Year-on-year BOD meetings (no.) 9 times 12 times 12 times Resolved agenda (no.) 30 cases 49 cases 36 cases 27%↓* Percentage of prior deliberation (%) 100% 100% 100% Agenda resolved after revision (no., %) 2 cases (6.7%) 2 cases (4.4%) 2 cases (6%) 36%↑ Reported agenda (no.) 6 cases 14 cases 16 cases 14%↑ Attendance in the BOD meeting (%) 97% 85.00% 92.00% 8%↑ Attendance of non-executive directors (%) 100% 73.20% 90.00% 23%↑ Proportion of the speaking of non-executive directors (%) 64.20% 71.10% 82.60% 16%↑ 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainability Management 09 Based on the management strategy system that consists of EWP’ s mission and vision, shared core value, CEO’ s management policy, vision management goal and strategy direction, EWP has been sharing future value with all stakeholders and practicing sustainable management for winwin growth in economic, social and environmental aspects through accumulated experience and capacity.  Strategies for Sustainability Management Mission Enrich man’s life by providing electricity in a stable, economic and eco-friendly way. Vision Global Top 10 Energy Company  Strategies for Sustainability Management To accomplish the vision management goal and the economic, social and environmental responsibilities, EWP has decided 4 major strategic goals: leading the power generation industry in Korea, expanding businesses of new growth engine, strengthening core competency, and realizing sustainability management. We also has set up 12 strategic tasks to reinforce their progress. Management Total sales: 12 trillion won Capacity ratio: New business capacity KoBEX SM Goal Net Profit: 1 trillion won 94.5% 7,800MW AAA Lead the Expand Realize Strategy power generation businesses of Strengthen core sustainability Direction industry in new growth competency management Korea engine Proper procurement of Overseas Increasing overseas conObtaining best technology Promoting Construction high efficiency & capacity Technology Win-win business tracts and profitability of the generating industry win-win growth with SMEs generation facilities New Expanding the development Tasks Generation Stable operation and Fostering global core manStrengthen socially rerenewable of new renewable energy Manpower Responsibility operation improving efficiency power sponsible management energy resources Increasing fuel supply New Diversifying new generation Advancement of the manEstablishment of overall Fuel System Safety competitiveness business development business agement system safe management system 10 Shared Core Values EWP’s core values, which are Passion for the best, Teamwork for the pursuit of the shared goal, Sustainable Growth for fruitful continuing growth and Integrity for the fulfillment of responsibility, lead overall consensus and spontaneous behavioral changes to motivate all EWP members for the achievement of the vision. Become the best, and encourage changes from Passion Sustainable Make an effort for win-win growth between EWP and its Growth members, create synergy and procure sustainable growth good to great. fundamentals. Core Values Build a clean business image with transparent eco-friendly Overcome internal conflicts and obstacles, and integrate Teamwork Integrity management, complying with social norms and moral standards, internal competency to maximize performance. and fulfil all responsibilities as a corporate citizen. CEO’ s management policy “Achieve the nation’s trust via transparent, precise management, and establish solid and sound ‘EWP Tower’ via fulfilling management!” Creativity and innovative Pursue‘creativity’along with new approaches, and constant Establishment of EWP management changes and innovations. (Energy World Pioneer) Tower Open management information transparently to all stakeholders, Transparency and and honest business without unjust expedients for immediate precise management Unlimitied Responsibility gains. Communication and Break down walls between strata with communication and trust, Creativity and Transparency CommunicaFuture growth Value sharing trust-based tion and and fostering reflect various opinions, and form a social consensus. innovative and precise and win-win management trust-based global management management management manpower growth Create future value through fruitful business development, global Future growth and fosmanpower fostering and technology capacity development, and Establishment of EWP tering global manpower grow sustainably. Responsibility for stable electricity supply Value sharing and Fulfill social responsibility as the Energy World Pioneer, and win-win growth share values for win-win growth. To become the Energy World Pioneer, beyond the purpose of EWP’ s establishment, via unlimited responsibility for all stakeholders, we have set up [Creativity and innovative management, Transparency and precise management, Communication and trust-based management, Future growth and fostering global manpower, and Value sharing and win-win growth] as‘CEO’ s management policy.’With the policy, EWP arranges its strategy, builds the strategy system and pursues sustainable growth. 2013 Sustainability Report Risk Management 11 EWP has established the RMS (Risk Management System) on the basis of ERP  Overall Risk Management System (Enterprise Resource Planning) in preparation for the risks caused by the uncertainty Management environments (threats, obstacles) of the domestic and overseas management environment, and the entire company is Real-time monitoring managing the risks in each area of finance & accounting, operation of power plants, Operation Investment fuel supply, safety from disasters, etc. Financial performance Feedback Feedback Meaningful change monitoring based on the system To maintain the integration and consistency of information, EWP is running the RMS (Risk Management System) in connection with the ERP (Enterprise Resource Risk detection and precautionary measures Planning) system which provides real-time information. Through this, continuous monitoring is being conducted for the 20 KRIs in 5 management areas. In addition, the monitor has been designed in the same way as the EIS (Executive Information System) to operate the action plan according to the change of risks. Integrated Disaster Management System To forestall and actively manage disaster risks, such as power plant fire, explosion or pollutant leakage, EWP has established the disaster safety management system that is directly linked to NDMS (National Disaster Management System). This system provides rapid alarming (via SMS) and auto notice for behavior procedures in an actual emergency situation. Financial Risk To manage financial risks according to the changes in exchange rate, interest rate and fuel prices, EWP is the first domestic power company which operats an active risk management system by combining LMS (Liability Management System), a foreign exchange and debt management system, with PCN (Prime Coal NET), a system for the demand and supply of coal and the management of distribution lines. In 2009, the company introduced VaR-based EaR (Earnings-at-Risk) method to reduce the volatility of fuel prices, establish the optimum portfolio of debts, and manage risks against the fluctuation of foreign exchange thus laying the groundwork for an advanced risk management.  Financial Risk Management System and Operation Methods Core Financial Risks Risk Management System Monitoring Operation Method Price  Cost Evaluation Committee Modification factor management  Maintaining financial balance among GENCOs  Cost Evaluation Committee International fuel cost  Procedures for fuel supply & demand risks In-house Research Fluctuation monitoring  Real-time acquisition of market information Foreign Exchange  Hedging for minimizing exchange risk  Foreign Exchange Risk Management Committee Financial market monitoring  Hedging ratio setting for longand short-term positioning  Annual Meeting with credit rating agencies  Management of superior credit rating Interest Rate Credit rating management  Investor Relations (IR)  Expanding investors  Establishment of target capital structure for  Optimal capital structure system Debt management Liquidity minimizing capital costs  Cost analysis Liquidity management  Increasing profits and reducing costs Stakeholders 12 There are many stakeholders who have direct and indirect influences on the managerial activities of EWP. According to the industrial characteristics and managerial environment of the company, EWP classifies its stakeholders into various categories including investors, employees, business partners, power generation companies, government agencies, local communities and environmental NGOs. EWP collects all stakeholder concerns through various communication channels for win-win growth with them and reflect them in its business activities to realize sustainability. Customized approach for each category of stakeholder Stakeholders have been classified into the 4 categories of participation, co-prosperity, cooperation and coexistence according to their positions inside or outside of the company and potential conflicts. Then efforts are made to improve the relationship with stakeholders through communication activities appropriate for each category of the stakeholders. Inside Employees and their Labor Union families Inside and Participation Co-prosperity outside the company Coexistence Coexistence KEPCO Competitors Government Biz. Partners Environmental Mass media NGOs National Investors Assembly Mass media Outside Low Potential conflicts High Inside Participation Employees and their families Labor Union Co-prosperity Inside and Competitive coexistence outside the (6 power generation companies PPP, IPP社) company Coexistence Accompanying coexistence (Environmental NGOs, local residents) Horizontal cooperation Coexistence Vertical cooperation (Business partners, investors) (Government, National Assembly, KEPCO) Outside Low Potential conflicts High 2013 Sustainability Report Materiality Test 13 In preparing the sustainability management report, it is very important to grasp stakeholders’concerns and the issues that have much influence on the management of the company. EWP has conducted the materiality test to reflect the opinions of various stakeholders on sustainability. The materiality test has found out important issues through internal regulations, government policies and laws, direct and indirect economic effects, surveys of stakeholders, benchmarking of major companies, media analysis, etc.  Materiality Test Procedure Collect stakeholders’ Review and analyze Draw Reflect the issues opinions issues issues to the report Collect opinions from 2011 report. Analyze major assessment Compare with EWP’ s vision Systematically reflect the imporAnalyze stakeholders’ concerns items, such as GRI, and long-term strategies tant drawn issues and survey employees ISO26000 and draw issues to the report Collect stakeholders’opinions  Review and analyze issues  Draw issues  Report planning and reflect to the report  Report verification  Collect opinions about Analyze major items of  Comparison with KORAIL’  Confirm report system and  Acquire the accuracy and 2012 sustainable manageinternal/external assesss vision and mid and longitems credibility of the report via ment report ment data, such as GRI, term management strategies verification by a third party (Sharing TFT consisting of ISO26000, SA 8000 and and draw issues workers in each division) KORAIL  Analyze stakeholders’ concerns and survey employees ide i nspany s Sta ue om ing sI s e c rk Em ke h th n o ma r ch the ies plo su yee old Be of pan rve s’ y ers m co Interna Media ISSUES re g ula l tion related s and sis analy laws Is m Co th su Direct and indirect e e economic a na rpo co s ou effects ge rat m e m p t s en an ide t y Materiality Test Results The followings are the major issues selected through materiality test of the issues of each stakeholder. This report made efforts to include the detailed performance of EWP regarding those major issues. Economy Development of overseas markets, new & renewable energy, new domestic businesses Environment Counter measures against Climate change, environment protection Employees Welfare, human-resources and safety Business partners Win-Win Growth Local community Coexistence with local communities Open Management We will take the right path by open management. We will listen carefully to the precious opinion of each person by taking the right path of open management and pursue true communication on the basis of wider participation of people. We will be a steppingstone to create a happy society with trust. Responsible & Ethical management Communicator Management of Employees’Value Manpower Training Smart Welfare System Labor Relations Safety & Health Responsible & Ethical Management 16 EWP has put priority in ethical management as the core element necessary to achieve the sustainability management of the company, and the code of ethics has become a criteria for the performance of all works and managerial activities of employees. EWP continues implementing a variety of practices to internalize transparent and rational business culture. Organization in Charge of Ethical Management EWP has a department directly under the CEO exclusive for the implementation of ethical management. The department is in charge of ethical management plans and operates the strategies for the company-wide implementation of ethical management, and the deliberation and resolution of major policies related to ethical management are done by the Green Management Committee. The auditor’ s office is running a system for the investigation of violation of ethics and prevention of corruption. Ethical management is being practiced across the company through the persons in charge of code of ethics at the head office and each workplace. Ethical Management Implementation System To become a global energy company, EWP is performing all managerial activities on the basis of ethical management with the principle of taking the right path. We will achieve our corporate vision by promoting common interests with all stakeholders through transparent and ethical managerial activities.  Ethical Management Implementation System Vision Global Top 10 Energy Company Core values Passion, Teamwork, Growth, Integrity Goal of ManageA respectable ethical company (KoBEX SM: AAA / “First Class” integrity level by ACRC*) ment Strategy Improve ethiShare and Prevent corrupDevelop Directions cal management spread company’s unique system ethics tion program  Inspection system  Enhancing practice of  Integrity erection  Tailored training Implementation improvement tasks self-regulation  Eradication of irregularity  Strengthening cooperation of  Regulation effectiveness  Participation and spread the people and the government Programs for Ethical Practice Ethical Standards T he ethical standards, which stipulate the standards for employees’behaviors and value judgment, are composed of Charter of Ethics, Code of ethics, Code of Conduct and the instructions for people concerned with a job. Ethical standards are periodically revised according to social expectations in order to reflect the requirements of stakeholders, and they are posted in the company’ s intranet and the homepage of ethical management for easy understanding and practice of all employees. 2013 Sustainability Report 17 Self-inspection of Ethics and Education on Ethics For the reinforcement of the ethics and law-abiding mind of all employees, a weekly self-inspection of ethics is done using a real case that may cause ethical dilemma and make it available in the company’ s intranet to improve ethics and will of autonomous practice. Also, various systematic educational courses are offered to employees so that they can agree with the ethical management and join it. New recruits and the employees in the promotion list must complete the education on ethics compulsorily, and the online education on ethical management, education by external trainers, and circuit education at workplaces are being offered for all employees. Preventive Report System Both internal employees and external stakeholders may report a case through the homepage of ethical management, and there is an Online Ethics Counseling Office. The‘Cyber Sinmungo’is being operated for report of unethical behaviors or corruption cases. At the same time, the‘Help Line System’is being operated in which a professional external agency, which has no interest with the company, handles the cases of internal reports to activate the internal report system by guaranteeing the anonymity of internal reporters. We have also improved the implementation of the Internal Law-abiding Monitoring System, Clean Mileage System, The System of Report of Acquaintances by Business Partners, etc. Ethics Program for External Stakeholders EWP is actively conducting ethics programs for external stakeholders such as ombudsman system for business partners and meetings with business partners to carefully listen to what must be improved in the ethical matter from the standpoint of business partners. Enhancement of the Independence of the Internal Inspection System For a better systematic, independent internal inspection, the previous inspection division has expanded into the audit team and the inspection team, along with the establishment of a midand long-term road map. In addition, we practice a auditor preferential system to secure excellent inspection manpower, and carry out manpower training courses to increase professionality of inspection.  Inspection activity system Vision Global Best 4C Provider Four stratePrecautionary inEnterprise value Inspection capability Lead integrity gies spection increase enhancement and ethics 2011 2012 2013 Strategic Establishment of foundation for Habituation of advanced internal Expansive reproduction of advanced road map inspection internal inspection advanced internal inspection 18 Systematic Disclosure of Corporate Information EWP continues to enhance the convenience of information users and the scope of information disclosure to increase the transparency of the disclosure of corporate information through examination and analysis of customers’needs. EWP responds to information disclosure requests within 10 days according to business guidelines for handling information disclosure, and reveals the management information specifically through the ALIO. Improve Customer-oriented Management by‘SMART’Disclosure of Corporate Information EWP has established customer-oriented“Friendly and SMART EWP Disclosure of Corporate Information (EWP KS Disclosure)”system for customers to be able to have access to the information about EWP anytime, anywhere with smart phones.  Accomplishments of Ethical Management Integrity ranking by ACRC* Anti-corruption competitiveness by ACRC* KoBEX SM 2nd out of 26 public enterprises 1st class competitiveness AAA (5 years in a row) 2013 Sustainability Report Management of Employees’Value 19 EWP is actively improving its employees’value with a goal to foster professional global manpower who will lead the power industry balancing work and life as well. A welfare system is being operated to realize the balance between work and life with fair personnel management and compensation system, continuous education and training for capability reinforcement and midand long-term master plan according to the capability and performance of each employee. Human Resources Management Balancing Efficiency and Equity Present Condition of Employees The number of EWP’ s employees was 2,080 as of the end of Dec., 2012. The number of employees reduced according to the government’ s policy for restructuring public enterprises in 2009 and there was no new recruit until 2010. Also, the job opening rate decreased as a result of the 5 times’implementation of‘desired retirement’ . However, EWP is doing its best to fulfill its social responsibility to increase job opportunity and the employment rate through actively recruiting new employees and young interns in 2011 and 2012.  Composition of Employees  Number of Employees at Workplaces (Dec. 2012) Classification 2010 2011 2012 Workplace Number of Employees Executives 4 2nd grade 107 No. of Employees 2,006 1,977 2,080 Head Office 312 1st grade 44 Dangjin Thermal Power Plant complex 647 Regular Position 2,006 1,977 2,080 5th & 6th grade, 3rd grade Ulsan Thermal Power Plant complex 589 technical post, Temporary Position 0 2 7 special services, 415 Honam Thermal Power Plant 171 security guards 127 Average Service Year 17.3 16.3 15.7 Donghae Thermal Power Plant 193 4th grade Job-opening Rate (%) -2.85 -1.44 5.36 1,383 Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant 161 Rate of leaving job(%) 0.74 0.8 0.67 Overseas offices 7 * job opening rate is the increase in the number of employees compared to the previous year. * rate of leaving job is the rate of voluntary resignation excluding regular retirement. Lead Open Recruitment by Hiring High School Graduates Since 2001, EWP has hired a total of 828 new recruits through 13 times of open recruitment. No restrictions are imposed on the application for employment according to gender, age or educational background. Recruitment is decided only by one’ s ability and personality. Complaints about any discrimination in the recruitment procedures can be handled by the internal system including the direct report to the CEO and the‘Sinmungo’ system. Especially, since 2011, EWP implemented the 30% employment quota system for high school graduates to foster the open recruitment, and EWP hired 53‘Meister’high school graduates for the last two years. In addition, an internship program ‘Global ( Dreamalizer Program’ ) at EWP’ s overseas power plant was implemented to boost the global competitiveness of the students in Meister High Schools, which received favorable responses and an award from the Minister of Education, Science & Technology in two consecutive years. 20 Expand the Employment Opportunity for the Socially Underprivileged (the handicapped and patriots & veterans) The employment of the handicapped has continued to increase with the implementation of employment quota system and additional points granted to them at time of recruitment. As a result, the percentage of the employment of the handicapped is now over 3% which is the compulsory legal requirement. Discrimination is ruled out by equal personnel management for handicapped workers and all the employees receive education to improve their recognition of the handicapped. Individuals of national merit also benefit from positive discrimination through the employment quota system and the grant of additional points. Approximately 9.3% of EWP’ s employees are filled with patriots & veterans and their children as a result of active implementation of socially fair employment.  Results of Employment Expansion for the Socially Underprivileged The handicapped (%) Supported employment (%) 3.4 9.3 3.1 9.1 2.7 8.7 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Female workers (no.) Percentage of Women Workers (%) 200 194 10 Gender Equality 162 156 There are 166 women workers in EWP, taking 8.4% of its employees. A fair standard is applied to 150 9.3 women workers at EWP with no discrimination in employment, promotion, compensation, etc. To fully 100 8 recognize gender equality, EWP is making continuous efforts to expand the employment of women 7.78 7.63 gradually. 50 Overlapping support for both work and family 0 6 2008 2010 2012 Establishing a life-cycle welfare system and a flexible workplace model, EWP promotes policies that practically support both work and family by creating an advantageous infrastructure for child-rearing. Moreover, EWP operates innovative family-friendly programs, such as the after-school reading camp, the electricity camp, the on-line child education center, father’ s field experience programs and family couple education.  Life-cycle welfare system Category Pregnancy Childbirth Child-care Education Retirement  Baby shower  Maternity leave  Flexible hour system  Systematic family pro Outplacement training (IT,  Pregnant women’ s day (90 days’paid leave)  Childcare center in EWP grams via MOUs with health, economic knowlInstitutional event  Baby break (for less than specialized agencies edge) support  Prenatal diagnosis leave 8-year-old children)  Lactation rooms  Prenatal tests  Family allowance  Educational expense for  Tuition fee support  Commissioned education Financial (200,000 won/child)  Childbirth allowance children  Loan for college tuition fee for outplacement support (1 million won) 2013 Sustainability Report Manpower Training 21 Educational needs for the company  Human resource development process based on needs from the company and its employees and its employees The company’ s educational needs for strategic Company needs Employee needs human resource development are confirmed through Management environment analysis Competency analysis (HRD) and Government policy changes in evaluation (HRM) CDP and IDP external management environments, government domestic, overseas energy indus(Individual Development Plan) policy analysis, EWP’s value system and strategic tries Survey for educational needs management plans. Various educational needs for Strategic human the company and its employees are established resource Internal, external experts’diagnodevelopment EMP 2020 Strategic Management Plan sis and advanced HRD enterprise via employees’competency analysis based on the Right people and competency model bench-marking competency model, company surveys, self-directed competency development planning, etc. EMP HRD Mission : Fostering Global Smart & Right People for EWP’ s growth Midand long-term global human resource fostering strategy and 2012 educational training plan Establishment and implement of the midand long-term education plan EWP has set a goal for fostering next generation leaders and experts in each field according to EWP’ s strategic direction and educational needs, and has established and been implementing the midand long-term education plan to constantly foster essential human resources for domestic and overseas energy industries. Also, the competency improvement system for self-directed competency development is now available to help employees establish and carry out an individual self-development plan. Various Competency Improvement Programs EWP is operating various educational programs to foster workers’diverse competency and career development. The system of education and training classified into many programs for each position and duty is as follows: Classification Core competency Group competency Common competency Job competency Global competency Basic competency Executives CEO management program Advanced management program Management Leader At tendenc e of relevant overseas c onferenc e 1st Grade information and Conferenc e, seminar, forum for overseas proje cts Foreign language learning (e-learning, institutions) Home and Tailored 360° forums from Leadership abroad executive competency major economic management Home and abroad advanced course for Corp orate culture · ethics training OA training (Exc el, PPT, Word, CAD) Job management course by external education institutions 2nd Grade course analysis & comresearch centers General knowle dge e ducation petency improve(e.g. SERI) EWP Team Spirit programs Technical experts · Engineering team training ment education External · in-house e-learning course 3rd Grade Domestic master course Training for construction projects Expert job management KPLI Practical job training course Training for construction projects Over 5 years  Self-directed Follower-ship c ourse  competency 4th 5 years development  change management Candidate  communication Grade 3 years  performance orientation 1 year after employment 22 Long-term consigned educational program for fostering next generation leaders EWP develops and implements various industry-academic long-term consigned educational programs for employees’management administration and professional job competency development. With various degree courses, such as public enterprise policy making programs that are linked to prestigious national or international universities, CEO management programs, MBA programs, generating unit design courses and maintenance professional courses, EWP makes an effort to secure human resources for future growth. In-house college programs for new employees from high school EWP has been leading‘open employment,’in which individuals’capacity is more important than specification. Not only new recruits for high school graduates, but also educational and competency development needs of current employees who have secondary educational background, EWP sufficiently reflects the needs, making contracts with universities near EWP plants to establish in-house college (department of contract), and the inhouse college program is beginning in earnest from 2014. Fostering generating unit design and maintenance experts Basic job competency of EWP’s technicians is acquired through KPLI(Korea Power Learning Institute)’s basic and advanced training courses for power generating facilities, and practical operation skills of domestic standard coal-fired power are trained in educational facilities at the simulation center of Dangjin Thermal Power Plant. EWP also operates the technical expert system to obtain core technology for continuing power generation, and in order to acquire core operation technology, EWP utilizes national and international organizations specialized in designing, constructing and maintenance of generating facilities. Also, via an apprenticeship, EWP hands down and reinforces the core technology. Fostering global manpower for overseas expansion According to EWP’ s overseas business strategy, EWP selects Global Pioneers specialized in overseas business expansion and operates intensive language courses to strengthen Global Pioneers’foreign language competency. In addition, global human resources are fostered with systematic, special language and job trainings, utilizing consigned courses in national, international professional agencies for job competency.  [EWP Global Pioneer (EGP) fostering system] Road map for the EGP fostering Mature phase (2015~) Leaping phase Need creating system for competency (2011~2014) development(EGP 4 Block Matrix) Growth phase Internalization of core competency Job Competency (2009~2010) High  Materialization of overseas Fostering regional specialists business competency Ready-to-dispatch  Korea: 7 weeks, US corporate:  Segmentation and specialization Language intensive for an overseas 6 months courses Continuing fostering of regional specialists project  Utilize in the overseas business (BJ-Player) (A-Player) department after training  Korea: common and language centered training  Dispatch to overseas business bases 158 employees (Boom-up, 80 employees (choice and 30 employees (form an elite Size by occupational group) concentration, by detailed field group, by job description) Strengthen job comExclusion System Open recruit, Pool Int制 Open recruit, Pool In & Out制 Selection, Pool Out制 petency (Pool-Out) (BL-Player)  Language-focused  Global competency group  Apprenticeship: fostering (language intensive) training  Mandatory training system: B-players for overseas business Low Operation -Individual job training common, practice, academy by A-players and job  Self-directed learning system Low High Extra recruit in the overseas Provide priority to the overseas Select employees for the overseas Language Ability Personnel business department for business department and business department and affairs overseas project dispatch dispatching overseas dispatching overseas in the pool 2013 Sustainability Report 23 Self-directed smart learning with the ubiquitous mobile environment To build a proper and constant learning environment, EWP operates mobile learning with smart devices. Regardless of when and where, employees can participate various educational programs, such as leadership, foreign language, humanity and self-development courses, or well-known lectures, through wireless internet. Vitalization programs for organization culture Team spirit strengthening program There are many programs that vitalize the organization culture of EWP. With the manager leadership competency programs, such as leadership coaching, the refreshing program for managing employees’ changes, the team spirit strengthening program for team-work building and “book reading company” for convergence competency, EWP makes an effort to build creative and communicative organization culture. Continuing Education Program The education for those who are soon to retire is being conducted to help their psychological stability and fulfill the company’s social responsibility according to the extension of the average lifespan. Through the education, the people will be able to lead a successful life after retirement. The contents of the educational course include the skills on management of personal assets and health, launching a business, re-employment, stress management, etc. Free skill trainings for external workers With EWP’s excellent technicians, EWP provides training for increasing generation technology understanding for SME workers, realizing winwin growth with SMEs. In addition, EWP also operates basic generation courses at the simulation center of Dangjin Thermal Power Plant for local college students and specialized high school students, who will become leaders in the power generation field in the future. Especially, the global field training for specialized high school students unprecedentedly received an award in two consecutive years (2012 and 2013) from the Minister of Education, Science & Technology. Education Investment  Education Expenses and Hours Classification 2009 2010 2011 2012 Training expense (1,000 won/person) 2,190 2,828 3,310 3,367 Training expenses in the total budget (%) 0.57 0.63 0.97 0.94 Annual education and training 88 98 110 96 (hour/per person)  Number of Participants Classification 2009 2010 2011 2012 Training at in-house training center 857 996 6,486 5,049 Domestic Consigned Training 9,381 11,767 10,380 10,622 Overseas Consigned Training 25 10 27 69 Total 10,263 12,733 16,893 15,740 * After 2011 training at in-house training center includes self-developed programs and field training. Welfare System for happy workplace 24 EWP is implementing various welfare programs to increase employees’satisfaction by expanding work-family compatibility culture and realizing familyfriendly policies. Various programs are provided to contribute to the solution of low fertility, which is one of core national challenges, by creating an environment friendly to childbirth: a baby shower system which presents gifts of books for prenatal education, support for prenatal medical check-up expenses, remodeling the lactation room at the company, childbirth grant, Pregnant Women’ s Day on the 10th of October, and operation of a consigned day-care center at the company. In June, 2011, the‘Pineville Day-care Center’was opened in the company housing at Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Headquarters to actively support childcare. The center increased its capacity by 20 children, currently caring 45 children, previously planned 21 children. Also, EWP is actively participating in the government’ s low-birth rate measures, providing nursery facilities that accommodate 80 children in the long term, and carrying out family-friendly policies via agreements with the Korean Institute for Healthy Family, the Planned Population Federation of Korea, etc. Expand Childcare and Maternity Protection to Overcome Low Fertility To form a family-friendly company culture, EWP continuously designates every Wednesday as a Day for Family Love. And, since April, 2013, after the CEO sent a message about turning off the lights and PCs in offices, EWP made energy saving compulsory in all workplaces of EWP. In addition, EWP strongly encourages employees not to work late and to leave work on time every Friday. In September, 2012, both of the labor and the management of EWP announced together family-friendly management and vision for better family-friendly management in EWP, and in April, 2013, EWP made the family-friendly department for the first time among public enterprises to operate welfare, personnel management, member and family friendly social contribution to accelerate EWP’ s family-friendly management. EWP continuously encourages employees to spend enough time with their families. In cooperation with the Korean Institute for Healthy Family located near each workplace, differentiated family education programs are being operated for each type of family including children, spouses and parents. There are also, various systems for the family of employees: invitation from mom’ s and dad’ s workplace, child vacation programs about English or national security and resort facilities during summer vacation. Better incentives for work-family compatibility and improvement of female employees’status Women’ s BOD in EWP directly communicates with the CEO and actively suggests suggestions for work-family compatibility. As a result, special incentives for multichild(3 children or more), priority over company housing, working hour decrease during pregnancy period(from 8 to 6 hours a day) and 2 feeding times for a baby younger than 1 year is now guaranteed. In addition, both of the labor and the management have agreed to modify maternity leave requirements from currently 8 or less to 3 graders of elementary schools. Moreover, the sabbatical leave system is now more enhancing work-family compatibility. Family-friendly program Family event on Children’s Day 2013 Sustainability Report 25 Implementation of Welfare System by Finding out Various Needs of Employees To promote health of its employees, EWP is supporting operation of in-house physical training facilities and physical examination. Other various welfare programs for employees and their families include residential support with company housing and dormitory, school expenses for children, optional welfare points, collective accident insurance and support of family events. To reflect employees’opinions to the operation of the welfare system, the summer resort spots are selected after surveying employees’preferences, and the satisfaction of employees with the welfare system is surveyed every year to monitor employees’opinions and use the results for the improvement of the system. As a result of the support for various welfare systems, employees’satisfaction has increased and, externally, EWP received an award from the Minister of Gender Equality & Family in July, 2011 for its contribution to the promotion of gender equality and the improvement in the status of women. The company was also awarded by the Minister of Health & Welfare by being selected as a superior organization for childbirth and childcare in the 2nd contest for‘A Movement to Make a World Good for Childbirth’in August, 2011.  Welfare Programs in Operation Classification Programs Details Baby Shower System Presents gifts of books for prenatal education Prenatal Medical Check-up Support pregnant employees for a part of the expense for prenatal medical check-up Childbirth Grant Give congratulatory incentive for childbirth (0.5~2 million won) Create a betSupport the consigned day-care centers (Up to 50% of the expenses set by the governter environment for Support consigned day-care center at the company ment for 5-or-less-year-old children) childbirth and child-care Install and operate a day-care center in the company Company’ s day-care centers located in the head office and Dangjin Power Plant Subsidy for the education of infants (0 ~ 5 year old children) Support children’ s education Support tuition for children attending middle & high school and university Support with dormitory for offspring attending universities located in the metropolitan area Optional welfare programs Support with self-help programs, family anniversary dates, etc. Support for employEmployee Assistance Program Implement education for employees’family and financial counseling ees and Support for family events Vacation for family event and payment for congratulations and condolences their families Support at time of natural disasters Grant aid in case of complete or partial burning down and breaking down and flooding in natural disasters Support family-unit event programs Support with weekend family experiencing event and the experience of dad’ s workplace Loan money for house Give loan for purchase or rent of a house Support for stability Give loan at low interest rates for employees who have been working for more than 1 year Loan money for stability of life of residence and living Provide a company housing for the employees working at local power plants. Dormitory is Support for accommodation provided for those who are working in the metropolitan area. Operation of living training center Rooms in living training center in Sokcho, Suanbo, Muju, etc. are provided. Support for resort facilities during summer vacation The resort facilities near the power plant are provided during summer vacation season Support for leisure culture Transportation: train and airplane (3 companies) Discounts with agreements related to leisure activities Accommodation: Hotels and motels nationwide (10 companies) Travel: Domestic and overseas travel package (2 companies) Seven items are guaranteed including death by disaster, death by disease, disability by Support for collective insurance for protection disaster and cancer diagnosis Assist medical check-up Legal physical exam and special check-up are conducted once a year Support for healthy life Discounts are granted for a comprehensive medical testing and treatments at dental clinDiscounts at hospitals ics, eye clinics, etc. by signing agreements with 17 hospitals and clinics located near the company’ s workplaces nationwide Physical Training Center Support with the installation of exercising facilities within the workplaces (fitness center, soccer field, etc.) Incentives Incentive training for meritorious workers Support with training for meritorious workers and their family 84.9 billion won as of 2011 (Lump sum payment at time of retirement or receiving as a pension is possible) Support after retireKeeping retiring allowance reserve The pension program was adopted in 2011 to give a choice between the lump sum payment ment of retirement pay and a pension) Healthy Labor Relations 26 In January, 2012, a procedure for a single bargaining channel, one part of a multiple labor union system, was conducted in EWP, and the enterprise labor union, EWP Labor union, which was the single participant of the procedure, acquired the position of the labor union of bargaining representative, and made a collective agreement with the management about payment. The right for bargaining representative remains until the 31st of December, 2013. On the other hand, the industry union, Power Plant Industry Labor Union, did not participate in the single bargaining channel procedure and was maintaining a separate collective agreement. And, as their agreement was expired in March, 2013, the single bargaining channel in EWP has been finally formed. According to the multiple labor union system of EWP, the management respects the status of the single bargaining channel, and makes an effort to build the labor-management relationship of communication, cooperation and discussion, preventing unreasonable discrimination and maintaining neutrality not taking side with any of the two labor unions.  Realization of social responsibility in the labor-management relationship as a public enterprise Establishment of outcome creating culture in the labor-management partnership Reward system based on  Stabilization of performance-based performance annual payment  Effective welfare system  Payment based on job and position  Active improvement of payment system Workplace innovation  Needs satisfying welfare system  Active improvement of payment system  Motivating welfare system  Labor-management partnership for  Family-friendly welfare system productivity improvement Productive welfare system Recognition achievement from society for EWP’ s labor-management culture Launching‘Social Contribution Committee’and adopting‘Social contribution statement of harmonized labor-management,’the labor and the management did a lot of social activities as the action agenda, such as supports for next generation, senior citizens without support, the disabled, multicultural families, families damaged by electricity accidents, and other activities related to 1-company-1-village sisterhood relationship, traditional markets, the energy poor, environment conservation, culture & arts, family voluntary service and sports events. Also, in 2012, EWP donated a total of 780 million won, 530 million won from the company budget, and 250 million won from the employees’spontaneous donation. Moreover, the labor and the management actively support the government’ s policies related to‘maternity protection’ ,‘work and family compatibility’and‘childbirth encouragement’in accordance with a joint statement of the labor and the management, WLB (Work Life Balance) family-friendly management. As a result, EWP achieved recognition about practicing social responsibility, receiving‘Happiness sharing voluntary service’award from the Minister of Health & Welfare,‘Good company for childbirth & excellent work and family compatibility’award from the prime minister, and being designated as the vicechairman of‘Seoul CEO forum of work-life balance.’ 2013 Sustainability Report 27 Joint programs for better labor-management harmony All the power plants, under the trust between the labor and the management, have been performing joint programs that suit well in their local communities to build the relationship of cooperation and communication with the local communities. Also, before the relationship of the labormanagement, all employees of EWP realize that they are all bound by a common destiny and do their best to make better workplace for their own happiness and work-family compatibility. Workplace Joint Labor-Management Program Goal & Achievements Remarks  Form a sound labor-management culture and productivity  Foot volleyball event for labor-management harmony improvement Dangjin Complex  Joint power-saving campaign with the labor Spread energy saving culture with the labor-management, management, local community and the government local community and the government  Labor-management joint workshop for productivity  Create productive labor-management culture Ulsan Complex improvement  Practice labor-management cooperation via social contribution  Joint social contribution service team  Summer camp for orphans by the executives of the Honam Thermal labor-management  Practice labor-management cooperation via social contribution Power Plant  Joint voluntary activity at Yeosu Expo  Spread social responsibility of the labor-management Donghae Thermal  Joint announcement of CSR and discussion  Labor and management cooperation and contribution to local Power Plant  Joint campaign for the vitalization of traditional markets communities  Goyang Flower Exhibition inviting families of employees  Build fellowship among families of labor-management and Ilsan Combined and local residents local residents Heat & Power  Invitation to Happy Power Plant for employees and  Build sympathy among the labor and the management and Plant their families their families Reasonable joint agreement in the era of plural labor unions During the collective bargaining with the representative union of bargaining, the labor and the management achieved a collective agreement about reasonable modification of excessive violation articles about management rights and stable settlement of the plural union system via fair representation assignment. Especially, the labor-management agreed on the detailed management standards, such as arrangement of terms about the exemption limit of working hours, the determination of total working hour exemption limit, proportional allocation based on the number of union member and adjustment when a new union is established or the number of union members changes, to developed the rationality of the time-off system. Considering culture for realizing fair society By listening to and solve difficulties of partner companies and service providing workers through communication workshops with partners and meetings with workers in the service providing partners, the labor and the management of EWP try to encourage the weak in the workplaces, to form a sympathy and to make happy workplaces for all. Safety & Health 28 EWP regards the safety and health of its employees as a matter of the highest priority, and is making continuous efforts to improve the working environment through practical support for safety and health programs.  Integrated Disaster Management System To forestall and actively manage disaster risks, such as power plant fire, explosion or environmental pollutant leakage, EWP has established the disaster safety management system that is directly linked to NDMS (National Disaster Management System). This system provides rapid alarming (via SMS) and auto notice for behavior procedures in an actual emergency situation. National Emergency EWP Disaster Management System (EDMS) Situation notice system Management Agency’s situation notice system Service function Disaster situation Collect management disaster Attached DB information 비상연락망 비상발령 피해복구현황 표준행동조치사항 부서조직 상황전파보고 재해이력관리 운영관리 Auto-notice after message analysis Collect disaster information Workplace/registered users Disaster scene Report Witnesses or disaster SMS system E-mail Messengers scene respondents In workplace or vicinity  Establishment of safety management committee EWP has established the safety management committee to comply with the government’s policy for establishing safety management governance and improve capacity of disaster safety management. The committee consists of safety experts in academic and industry fields and company members.  Thorough Safety diagnosis of Dangerous Equipment Along with serious negligent accidents in other power plants, such as fire or scaffold collapse in a boiler system, dangerous materials and equipment such as explosives or devices that deal with harmful materials are checked and diagnosed to find out and eliminate on-site dangerous elements for the protection of all the employees of EWP and its business partners. Also, through such safety management, the credibility of equipment can be enhanced for better supply of electricity in a stable manner. Labor-management joint safety examination in Dangjin Complex 2013 Sustainability Report 29  Efforts to Improve Working Environment The use of asbestos, which is known to be a carcinogen, is completely prohibited in the workplace, and all the equipment that uses asbestos is examined to prevent industrial accidents and diseases thoroughly. In addition, the Industrial Safety & Health Committee and the Labor-Management Council have discussion on the matters of safety and health to prevent industrial accidents and improve working environment.  Work-related Accidents EWP conducts risk assessment for all the elements for safety management in the workplace through objective certification processes of domestic and overseas safety & health management systems to prevent the development of harmful and dangerous elements in advance. As a result, EWP has achieved the record of no accident for 5 consecutive years in all workplaces. Classification 2009 2010 2011 Absence (Industrial Accident %) 0.00 0.00 0.00 Accident Classifications (employees) Death 0, In jury 0 Death 0, In jury 0 Death 0, In jury 0 Electricity·Gas·Water Work Average (%) 0.21 0.19 0.19 (Source: Ministry of Employment & Labor. The accident rates of 2011 is announced in August, 2012.)  Current health promoting programs and Introduction of high-tech systems Health experts are placed in all workplaces to conduct health management procedures including hearing preservation, prevention of musculoskeletal diseases, health promotion and job-related stress. Various policies on health management have been established including the discount for a general medical check-up of the employees and their families by agreement with hospitals, and a precise examination of physical strength. Especially, the latest body composition measurement and analysis program that can precisely diagnose the health condition of each person has been placed in every workplace so that those who have some health problems can check up their health regularly. Co-prosperity with Local Communities Communication and cooperation are pursuing. We consider others before us. Everyone can pursue happiness, and we are not alone but living together with others. EWP will stretch out its arm for sharing and love. The source of EWP’s growth is the power of love. Happiness Partner Win-Win Growth Partnership and Sharing Win-Win Growth 32 Establishing the vision and plan for win-win growth with SMEs EWP has prepared the ground for building small hidden small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with the yearly customized supporting plan, midand long-term supporting philosophy and the shared vision for win-win growth. Especially, providing the supporting system for the protection of technology and reliability validation of joint R&D products, EWP strengthens competitiveness as well as new market opening, designating and supporting 30 small hidden SMEs. Joint overseas expansion through fostering small hidden SMEs Goal Foster global small hidden champions via strengthening SMEs’capacity (30 small hidden SMEs and global hidden champions) Direction Joint R&D for localization Demonstration of SME products Mid-term export models Core technology developOpen new markets 4 major Fostering small hidden Co-prosperity and ment overseas and joint tasks champions win-win growth Strengthening R&D capacity expansion ~2012 Mid-term (’ 13~’ 15) Long-term (2020) Implementation  Selecting successful SME  Fostering small hidden champlan  Joint expansion to overseas models and core technology pions and joint expansion to power plants and operation development overseas Supporting system Implementation results Achievement measurement Feed-back  Designing new policies  Joint R&D  Analysis of management improvement system  Building communication system  Demonstration instrallation  Listening to field opinions  Supporting capacity strengthening  Supporting management improvement  Analysis of opening overseas markets  Supporting technology information  Opening new overseas markets  Survey and discussion Announcement of EWP win-win growth model 2.0 Upgraded‘EWP win-win growth model 2.0’was announced in January, 2013 to fulfill new needs from SMEs and overcome the limitations of domestic markets. This new model is devised to foster global hidden champions from companies which have self-growing ability and are in growth phase with the previous‘win-win growth pioneer model.’ EWP has a plan to support SMEs’core technology development and to directly discover special agencies for opening overseas markets to constantly make new markets. In the long term, EWP aims to realized win-win development with 30 strong SMEs, after joint expansion to overseas power plants that EWP operates. Mutual Joint expansion for new market opening Direct growth and Commercialization purchase or contribution of development domestic and to society R&D capacity Overseas sales Growing quality and support strengthening for Joint R&D for demonstration support powerful developing critical Establish a with SMEs EWP SMEs global SMEs installation technology culture of trust Realizing win-win development and growth [Win-win growth pioneer model 1.0 (’ 09~’ 11)] [Win-win growth pioneer model 2.0 (’ 12~’ 20)] 2013 Sustainability Report 33 Fostering 30 win-win growth models and CEO’ s field management Since 2010, EWP is designating 30 successful SME models from EWP’ s SME partners (total 97 SMEs) to foster global hidden champions, and providing customized programs. And the CEO directly communicates with SMEs to listen to difficulties from the designated SMEs at their workplaces in order to offer practical supports. Mid and long-term plan for localization R&D Operating the academic-industrial cooperated technical research committee for localization R&D, EWP supports SMEs with technologies. Also, implementing‘1:1 Tech-Friend system’between EWP plant managers and SMEs, we continuously offer technology information and support acquirements of patents or overseas certificates for business vitalization to improve SMEs’competitiveness.  Joint R&D cases for the development of excellent capital goods (2004~2012) Classification Joint researches Government tasks Option to purchase Field tasks Total 건Cases (no.) 173 90 76 45 384 Research funds (100 million won) 470.3 653 238.8 125 1,487.10 In order to strengthen SMEs’technology competency, imported components that have been in use in EWP’ s thermal power plants and combined thermal power plants for the last three years are analyzed for their localization, and EWP gives the opportunity and information about the components to SMEs for component localization.  Analysis of 1,492 imported components for the last three years for localization Thermal power plants Combined power plants Classification Total Machines Electricity Control Sub-total Machines Electricity Control Sub-total Components (no.) 441 81 328 850 411 122 109 642 1,492 Prices (100 million won) 155.2 25.1 93.6 273.9 707.9 7.6 10.1 725.6 999.5  Midand long-term plan for developing component localization After designating 549 items for localization, EWP operates the technical research committee for joint researches with SMEs and recruits SMEs that supply equipments to EWP or have new technologies through newspaper advertisements. As a result, EWP has largely contributed to strengthening technology competency of Korea’ s SMEs and handed over 15 technologies of EWP for free to SMEs. Process of technical research Task selecting procedure committee for task selecting Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Pre-examination of technol1:1 matching between EWP plant manogy agers and SMEs Pre-examination of technolAnalyze items for localization and purImported ogy chase quantity Imported components 200 items 200 items 149 items 943 items Localizing components Item selecting with less than 2 years’ 2012~2017 2017~2022 2022~2025 items In-house R&D 1,492 items 549 items replacement period Localizing items Research item collecting with more than Full-scale R&D 3 years’ replacement period 34  Free or paid handover of EWP patents to SMEs No. of patents No. of technologies handed over to SMEs Previous record Patent applied Patent registered (a) Free Paid Total (b) Before 2012 206 144 17 15 32 2012 8 13 12 3 15 Total 214 157 29 18 47 Demonstrating installation of SME products in EWP plants for the first time in public enterprises In order to prove reliability of SME products, EWP has made agreements on demonstrating installation of SME products in the plants with SMEs since June, 2011, and so far products from 22 SMES have been installed in 5 EWP plants to prove their reliability, and after that, those products with the value of 31.98 billion won have been sold, increasing sales of SMEs via this market opening support. To help SMEs explore overseas markets, EWP supported the participation of 11 SMEs in 2 international exhibitions including Dubai WETEX Exhibition and achieved business consultation for 90.67 million dollars and received order for 5 million dollars. To increase exports by SMEs, EWP invited 13 foreign buyers of Japan, India and the Middle East to register them at 135 SMEs. The results of the meetings for export were business consultation for 373.35 million dollars and order receipt for 61.71 million dollars. Expanding Purchase of SMEs’ Products EWP has purchased products developed by the technologies of SMEs worth 15 billion won actively responding to the system of public purchase of SMEs’ products, and also purchased products produced by woman CEOs worth 9.3 billion won to assist the brisk social activities of women, totaling the purchase amount of the products produced by SMEs 155 billion won. Also, a T/F directly under the CEO has been established with 31 persons from 26 departments to work exclusively for purchasing. The team is making efforts to establish a basis for the expansion of purchase by tracing and controlling purchase performance. Support for the Exploration of Domestic and Overseas Markets by SMEs To help SMEs’ domestic marketing, EWP supported 142 companies in 5 exhibitions including the Global Automated Precision Equipment Exhibition to have business consultation for 4.08 billion dollars and receive order for 163.52 million dollars, and also, EWP supported promotional materials for excellent SME products and an advertisement about electricity was placed in 15 newspapers to maximize marketing effects. 2013 Sustainability Report 35 To help SMEs explore overseas markets, EWP supported the participation of 74 SMEs in 4 international exhibitions including Dubai WETEX Exhibition and achieved business consultation for 456.39 million dollars and received order for 91.69 million dollars. To increase exports by SMEs, EWP invited foreign buyers from China, India and the Middle East to have importing consultings and register 299 SMEs as their venders. The results of the meetings for export were 60 vender registrations and order receipt for 81.30 million dollars.  Performance of SMEs’Exploration of Domestic and Overseas markets (Unit: million dollars) 2011 2012 Classification Amount for Amount for No. of participating No. of participating Business Amount of Order Business Amount of Order companies companies Consultation Consultation Domestic Exhibition 95 488 77 142 408,846 16,352 International Exhibition 11 9,067 500 98 45,639 9,169 Vender Registration and Meetings for Export 135 37,335 6,171 299 104,346 8,130 Clean-pay checking system Direct payment system for SMEs and payment checking system EWP’ s direct payment system, which used to be implemented for contracts of less than 30 billion won in constructions, equipments and services, improved and expanded in December, 2011 to all contracts. As an effort of EWP to improve convenience for its partners, the second and third partners can now check their payments in real-time via ‘Clean-pay checking system’ , which started in January, 2013, and can search relevant documents when requiring payment on-line. Also, subcontractors and related workers receive payment checking SMS. Full social restoration of shared benefit with SMEs Along with the donation of 45 million won to the social programs for the vulnerable social group in 2012, EWP has also donated all of its shared benefit produced by the benefit sharing agreement with SMEs, 46.30 million won, to three social service agencies including the briquette bank and supported welfare increase for SMEs. ☞ Benefit sharing agreement: donating 1% of cost reduction benefit produced by joint R&D with SMEs for component localization. Partnership and Sharing 36 As a public enterprise which produces the public goods, electricity, EWP not only creates economic value which is the intrinsic managerial activity of a company but also, under the mission that EWP makes our lives enriched with eco-friendly, economical and stable power supply, does various social contribution activities to make a society for coexistence fulfilling its social responsibilities and roles as a corporate citizen. Above all, the operation of a power plant is closely related with the local community, and mutual understanding and cooperation is increasingly important. Thus communication and cooperation in many aspects are being pursued to form a partnership for co-prosperity in which the power plant makes efforts for the development of the community and the community welcomes the power plant.  Hope Connection Emergency On-site Implementation System and Finances for Social Contribution Activities Service Corps ·Prepared for the demand for urgent voluntary service Implementation system including natural disasters. With the slogan of “A Hand of Love, A Light of Hope”, EWP organized a voluntary service corps in ·Composed of 124 members in total at the head office and each workplace. Feb. 2004, which now has 2,088 members and 103 teams in total as of 2012. The Social Contribution ·Signed agreements with the fire stations in each area. Committee works for the implementation of systematic voluntary service activities, and the “Hope Occurrence of Demand Concerned Organization Night-duty Office Service Corps Members Connection Emergency On-site Service Corps” is ready for the demand for urgent voluntary services in connection with the fire stations in each area. for Voluntary Service Sends Xroshot Gather at the site Service Corps to service corps and do voluntary members service Finances The source of revenue for the voluntary service activity is made by deducting a certain amount of  2012 Finances for Social Contribution money from the salary of employees and the company’s donation of the same amount of the money as is collected by employees in a matching grant system. The voluntary service teams are conducting Collection from services every year with the funds. Employees’ Salary 280 million won Apart from the finances inside the company, the budget for the projects intended to support the local 23% Company’s Donation community is spent for the education and cultural activities in the area adjacent to the power plant Budget 670 million won 54% according to the Law on the Support for the Areas near the power plants. Company’s Matching Grant 280 million won 23%  2012 Budget for local community support ((Unit: million won) Classification Dangjin Ulsan Honam Donghae Ilsan Total Support Fund 2,218 406 125 253 135 3,137 Reflection of the Opinions of the Local Community Surveys are annually conducted in the areas of 5 workplaces  Survey of Local Communities to reflect the opinions of the local community about the social Respondents 344 people in 5 workplaces contribution activities, and committees are organized with the Period June 29, 2012 ~ July 12 concerned people in the local community to continue exchanging Satisfaction with Social Contribution Activities 4.06 (Full marks: 5) mutual opinions. The collected opinions of the local communities Reflection of the Opinions of Local Community 3.94 (Full marks: 5) are reflected as much as possible to the establishment of the plans Results for social contribution activities so that the activities necessary for a Urgent Matter: Support for Neglected Social Groups (35%) community can be planned and performed. Matters that needs improvement: PR (28%) 2013 Sustainability Report 37 Promotion of Consensus about Power Generation Business Support for Energy-vulnerable Social Groups Through‘Sunshine sharing happy electricity project,’EWP provided fundamental and permanent ■ Checking and Replacing Electric Device solutions for electricity poor issues, supporting eco-friendly, permanent photovoltaic power generation Workplace Beneficiary Date systems for energy-vulnerable residents in the vicinity of the power plants. Also EWP contributes to Installation of photovoltaic Dangjin ’12.05 environmentally-friendly energy distribution for low-carbon green growth. Moreover, subsidies for power generation systems electric charges are granted to the households that have difficulty in paying the bills though they are Dangjin Tongpyeong Childcare ’12.06 Center living near a power plant. Also, obsolete electric devices are examined and replaced for the safe usage 1-company-1-village of electricity by the vulnerable social groups living near the power plant, and old light fixtures are being Honam sisterhood villages ’12.04 replaced with new, high-efficiency ones. In addition, heating items such as long underwear, blanket Donghae Bukpyeong-dong area ’12.09 and jumper As well as heating fuels such as briquette and heating oil have been supplied for energyvulnerable social groups to spend a warm winter while contributing to the resolution of the peak of Ilsan Hope sharing school ’12.01 electric consumption during winter. Sunshine sharing happy electricity project Joint voluntary service of the labor-management Support for the Households Damaged by Electric Disasters As a company which conducts power generation business producing electricity, EWP is supporting those were damaged by electric disasters such as electric shock. The company has provided caregivers for those who were burned by electric shock. EWP is also granting scholarships to the students of the households which were damaged by electric disasters. Provision of caregivers for the people damaged by electric disasters : 1 handicapped patient, 1 patient injured by electric shock Granting scholarships for the children of damaged households (per half a year) : 400,000 won each for 2 high school students, 600,000 won to 1 university student Voluntary Services Linked with Promotion of Overseas Businesses EWP is doing social contribution activities not only in Korea but also in overseas areas where new businesses are being developed, and in result a favorable atmosphere for the promotion of the new businesses have been formed. In Haiti where a diesel power plant is being operated and developed, the company has built a new house and supported tuition for a girl who lost a leg and the house in an earthquake in 2010 by collecting donations from all EWP members, and in 2012, EWP supported medical services for children who were suffering from diseases and disasters. In Cebu, the Philippines, where an O&M business is being performed, 350 sets of toothpaste and toothbrush have been distributed to the elementary students in schools near the business site and began to distribute free breakfast to about 200 students who used to skip breakfast. In addition, EWP is assisting multi-cultural households in Korea with a family member from the country where the company is trying to launch a new business. Voluntary service activities help women in the multicultural families for self-support training and the family members experience Korean culture during traditional Korean holidays and the children are given scholarships. 38 Scholarship Awarding Ceremony Sponsoring educational, cultural and athletic activities Implementation of Educational Projects Above all, EWP is making much effort for the education and training of human 여름방학 독서캠프 resources near its power plants. To improve the educational environment near the power plants which lags behind urban areas, learning apparatuses such as video presenter and lockers and storage closets are donated every year to improve the learning environment. As a result, the students at schools near the power plant now enjoy a learning environment comparable to that of the schools in other areas. Tuitions are supported for the students from elementary school to university living in the neighborhood of the power plants to relieve their ■ 지원대상 22개 burdens and encourage learning so as to foster local talents. Also, to provide the opportunity for 17개 special learning in addition to regular classes, native English teachers are provided to become friendly with English in this global era, and the opportunities for the tour of 4개 the national museum and historical and cultural sites are provided for live learning through experience. Furthermore EWP has joined the‘Love Fence’movement of the government to break the vicious cycle of poverty for children of needy class to be able to have proper education. A total of 22 local children’ s centers are supported to give enough 2010년 2011년 2012년 opportunity for the children to be able to ascend the ladder of class. (Unit: 100 million won) Area Educational Apparatus Scholarship Special Learning Others Local Children’ s Centers Total Supported Amount 3 11 1 6 1 22 Support for Community’ s Cultural Events and Athletic Activities Support Oemok Sunrise Festival EWP is supporting various cultural events of the communities near its power plants such as Oemok Sunrise Festival in Dangjin, Sangnok Cultural Festival and Ulsan Literary Award to satisfy the cultural needs of the communities and contribute to the development of the local culture. Also, the company sponsors sports teams including the youth soccer team in Dangjin, the athletic club in Seokmun Middle School and a Judo club in Ulsan Yaeum Middle School to foster future athletes and encourage sports activities of the local residents to lead healthy life. Area Culture & Arts Sports Promotion Total 활동횟수 33 times 57 times 90 times 활동인원 307 person 79 person 386 person 지원금액 500 million won 400 million won 900 million won 2013 Sustainability Report 39 Partnership for Co-prosperity with Communities Support for Development of the Infrastructure of Communities The areas near power plants are supported by law for their development. The subsidy is calculated every year on the basis of the quantity of power generation and is paid to the concerned local governments. In 2011, a total of 14.6 billion won was paid to local governments to be spent for the projects aimed to increase the income of the residents and expand public facilities.  Amount Allocated for Community Support by Each workplace in 2012 Workplace Dangjin Ulsan Honam Donghae Ilsan Total Supported Amount 12,459 million won 919 million won 292 million won 591 million won 315 million won 14,576 million won Movement to Revive Traditional Markets and Direct Transaction of Agricultural Products EWP is making efforts to activate local economy for co-prosperity with the community fulfilling its responsibility as a corporate citizen. Each power plant signed for a sister relationship agreement with a traditional market near it. In 2012, employees of EWP bought gift certificates of traditional markets worth 850 million won, and EWP is encouraging its employees to use traditional markets by holding events to visit the markets once every month. In addition, there is a homepage for direct transaction of agricultural products being operated in EWP’ s homepage to purchase the agricultural products produced near the power plants. It provides the farmers with a stable sales route at reasonable prices and enables the employees to buy good agricultural products in trust achieving win-win relationship beneficial to both parties. In 2012, 119 items worth about 59 million won were purchases, which is 20% increase from the previous year. Also, to contribute to the local economy by supporting local specialty products with sufficient potentiality, local specialty products worth more than 28 million won were purchased in 2012, which is the most among 23 public institutions participating in the‘ Win-Win for Knowledge Products & Local Economy’campaign. 60 million won 8.5 million won 48 million won 6.6 million won 27 million won 2.8 million won 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Purchasing‘Onnuri’Gift Certificates and Going day to the Traditional market Homepage for Direct Transaction of Agricultural Products at EWP and Amount of Purchase Environmental Protection Activities in the Areas near Power Plants EWP is minimizing the impact on environment with an eco-friendly management, and furthermore taking lead in the preservation of the natural environment in the areas near power plants to leave a clean environment to posterity. Each power plant is conducting regular environment conservation activities through‘1 company 1 mountain’and‘1 company 1 stream’movement, and environmental campaigns including the drawing contest for environmental painting are regularly held to promote awareness of the importance of environment among children. Classification Sister Relationship Number of Activities Number of Participants Supported Amount (thousand won) Cultivating Green Mountains and Streams 12 mountains and streams 22 430 15,550 Environment Protection Activities 37 760 807 40 Sharing Voluntary Service Activities Sisterhood Relationship with Child Heads of Household and the Elderly with No Place to Turn to, and Support by Providing Caregivers The voluntary service teams at each EWP power plant made sisterhood relationship with the child heads of household and the elderly who have no place to turn to living near the power plant to support with daily necessities, preparing learning materials, cleaning the house and keeping company with them. In addition, to take care of those who have difficulty in moving among the extremely poor class in the neighborhood of the power plant, caregivers are hired to help the patients lead at least the minimal human life.  Support for Vulnerable Social Groups in 2012 Classification Sisterhood Relationship (person) Number of Activities Number of Participants Supported Amount (thousand won) Helping Child Heads of Household 98 709 975 139,906 Helping Child Heads of Household 82 495 704 78,743 Providing Caregivers 7 51,962 Total 327 1,204 1,679 340,177  Support of Welfare Facilities in 2012 Area Number of Activities Number of Participants Supported Amount (thousand won) Composite Welfare Facilities 156 770 103,166 Children’ s Facilities 213 840 141,340 Children’ s Facilities 74 505 51,314 Facilities for the Handicapped 56 326 31,240 Total 499 2,441 327,060 Wedding support for the vulnerable 2013 Sustainability Report 41 Other Voluntary Service Activities including‘Love Blood Donation Relay’ In every May since 2004, EWP circulates its workplaces beginning with the head office in the shape of a heart to have a blood donation campaign. 191 employees participated in the 9th blood donation relay held in 2012 to practice their share of love and as of 2012, a total of 2,397 employees have been participating in the relay. Also, EWP has been doing various voluntary activities, supporting rice for free feeding Happiness sharing awards worth 20 million won since 2004 for Holy Family Welfare Hospital in Seoul, which is a free hospital for those who have no place to turn to, and participating in‘Kim Man Deok Rice Sharing Manseom Pile’campaign. Supporting for the Self-reliance of Socially Vulnerable Group by Sponsoring Social Enterprises and Female-owned Businesses with Purchasing Their Products What is needed for poor people is not mere kindness but creating jobs for their selfreliance. EWP supported for the investment in facilities at social enterprises by forming coprosperity fund for win-win growth in order to assist the job creation for socially vulnerable groups. Also, in 2012, EWP has purchased the products of social enterprises worth 2.8 billion won, and the products of female-owned companies worth 11.2 billion won. 11.2 billion won 9.4 billion won 2.8 billion won Classification 2011 2012 0.6 billion won Products from female9.4 billion won 11.2 billion won owned companies Products from social enter2011 2012 2011 2012 0.6 billion won 2.8 billion won prises Products from female-owned Products from social companies enterprises Supporting for Holy Family Welfare Hospital Kim Man Deok Rice Sharing Manseom Pile Eco-friendly Green Management We think of the preciousness of nature which embraces the world. We think not only the convenience of today but also the life of the next generation. As our life today has been enriched by the gift of nature, we will cultivate the earth to prepare for the better future. EWP promises for a cleaner nature and happier mankind. Friend Green Management System Efforts to Minimize Environmental Pollutant Emission Eco Coping with Environmental Risks Protection of Biodiversity Transparent Environmental Information Disclosure Green Management System 44  EWP Green Management Cycle Implementation System for Green Management Recognizing the importance of coping with climatic change for sustainable growth of the company, the Establish strategies top management of EWP is implementing systematic low-carbon green management by organizing a department exclusive for green management both at the head office and each workplace. Also, the Green Management Committee has been installed to secure the development possibility of the overall Set up master Feedback plan company including low-carbon green management. The committee is holding a meeting periodically for the consultation and debating of internal and external experts. Evaluate Implement Internal Organization External Organization performance specific (Quantitative methods Method) Environment Management Team Consultation on Green Management Green Management ComEnvironment Chemicals (Safety) Team mittee (Composed of external Green Environment experts in areas of environTeam New & Renewable Energy Team External PR of Green Management ment, energy, etc.) Win-Win Growth Team s en g ies tegie n Gre strate t stra on o t blish p le men n s ultati agemen Esta Im o C Man  Responsibilities CEO(President)  Establish the policies for green management Green Environment Team  Supervise green management. Set up implementation strategies and master plan. (Dept. in Charge)  Reward superior staff. Support green life activities. Monitoring. Dept. in Charge of Green  Practice green management of the workplace. Promote practice of green life. Management at Workplaces  Spread good examples inside and outside the company. Support the activities of the department in charge Vision of Green Management A Global Leader in Power Generation Industry for Low-carbon Green Management Reduce 10% from BAU(Business as Usual) GHG emissions by 2020 (Invest 4 trillion won in green energy.) 3 Carbon Management G GHG Reduction Green Growth Green Culture Improve power generation Expand new & renewable efficiency / Save energy energy Create a green workplace Develop technologies for Establish green infraPractice green life reduction of GHG structure. 2013 Sustainability Report 45 Top-Tier Green Management System Top-Tier Green Management System EWP has acquired the integrated ISO 14001/9001 certification for competitive and differentiated implementation of environmental management, and its workplaces have been designated as green enterprises by the Ministry of Environment with its efforts to minimize the discharge of pollutants and wastes and save energy continuously. In 2012, Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant and Ulsan Thermal Power Plant complex were re-designated as green enterprises. Especially, Ilsan plant’ s re-designation is the first 5-year-in-a-row one, being recognized from its achievement in reduction of nitrogen oxide with the DLN (Dry Low Nox) facility and GHG reduction with fuel cells. Active Purchase of Green Products Meeting the government’ s recommendation on the purchase of green products, EWP is implementing the system of compulsory purchase of green products. A green product means a product which can save resources or reduce environmental pollution which has been certified for environmental mark or good recycling (GR) by the Ministry of Environment. In 2011, the company achieved 98% purchase of green products worth 3 billion won. Fostering Experts for Green Growth EWP continues to conduct professional education in each area to implement low-carbon green management such as coping with climate change and the development of new & renewable energy and related businesses. In-depth educational courses are provided to foster experts in related fields and at the same time on-line educations are offered to all employees to form a consensus on green management. Especially, in 2012, EWP prepared carbon emission broker trainings to deal with GHG emission trading markets, and three workers acquired carbon emission broker certificates. No. 1 in Climate Change Competitiveness Index in the Power Generation Sector by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy for 3 consecutive years In the Industry Survey for Competitiveness Index in Climate Change conducted in 2012 by Business Institute for Sustainable Development (BISD) and the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, EWP ranked first for 3 years in a row. This survey looked into climate risk, climate performance, market opportunity and policy cooperation sectors with 333 companies in the generation industry (including 32 power generation enterprises). EWP acquired higher marks in climate performance, market opportunity and policy cooperation sectors. GHG mentoring project provided by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy In 2012, EWP, as the only public enterprise, participated in the large, small and medium enterprise energy partnership project held by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. This cooperation project is planned to share and distribute energy management know-hows of large enterprises to SMEs. Thus, EWP implemented energy management diagnosis on its five SME partners and supported their energy saving activities. 46 Coping with Climatic Change Goals of GHG emissions reduction Improvement Due to the characteristics of the power generation sector, its GHG emission depends on the nation’ s of generation efficiency electricity demand and power mix and there can be no inventory. So it is more reasonable to set a goal for reduction with GHG emissions intensity. The company’ s goal is to reduce its intensity up to 10% Reduction of GHGs from the base period value(average of 2007~2009) by 2020. To achieve this, all the capabilities for Green technolNew & the reduction of GHG are collected by improving the efficiency of power generation facilities, expanding ogy R&D renewable expansion new & renewable energy, expanding investment in R&D of green technologies such as collection and storage of CO2, and expanding programs for the practice of green life. World-class Plant Efficiency  Plant Efficiency of Coal-fired Power Plant (%) EWP’ s power plants are mainly composed of new facilities with world-class operation abilities. As a 40.8 41.3 result, they maintain the highest plant efficiency, which results in the less emissions. Especially, Dangjin 40.6 Power Plant Units #1~#8, which take 63% of all the power generation capacity of EWP with 4,000MW in total, were completed between 1999 and 2007 and have the world’ s highest efficiency among coal plants. In addition, the New-Ulsan Combined Heat and Power Plant (948MW) will be completed in 2014 36 with 55% of plant efficiency. The Dangjin Power Plant Units #9 and #10 will be completed in 2015 and 34.1 2016, which will upgrade the overall plant efficiency of EWP with a super large new concept power generation facility similar to a nuclear power plant. Korea Japan Germany The U.K. The U.S. Current Status of GHG Emissions In 2012, EWP’ s GHG emissions were 44,174,000 ton-CO2, with direct emissions of 44,107,000 tonCO2 (99.8%) and indirect emissions of 67,000 ton-CO2 (0.2%). The GHG emission unit of 2012 was 0.804 ton/MWh, and EWP is trying to reduce the emission unit through continuous introduction of new & renewable energy sources.  Company-wide GHG Emissions Classification Type 2010 2011 2012 Scope 1 41,452,688 41,377,486 44,107,078 Emissions Scope 2 63,293 57,678 67,144 (ton) Total Emissions (includ41,515,981 41,435,164 44,174,222 ing head office) GHG emission unit (ton/MWh) 0.803 0.81 0.804 Transparent GHG emission information disclosure through carbon reports and carbon information disclosure projects Ever since the first issue of the carbon management report in 2010, EWP has published the report for 3 years in a row for the first time to disclose EWP’ s green house gas emission information and to inform EWP’ s effort to deal with climate changes to its stakeholders. In addition, EWP joined spontaneously in an international climate change response project, the Carbon Disclosure Project, for the first time as a public enterprise and as an information-unrequested company. The Carbon Disclosure Project is being implemented in 60 countries and supported by international financial agencies, such as Goldman Sachs. In Korea, 250 listed companies are required the information disclosure. EWP, as an unlisted enterprise, is not requested the information disclosure. 2013 Sustainability Report 47 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Obtaining GHG Credits EWP is pursuing a CDM project and a national GHG reduction registration project as ■ Status of Carbon Credits Projects a part of GHG reduction activities. The Photovoltaic Project of Donghae Power Plant Title of Project Registration Date Certified Reduction (ton/year) was registered in the UN CDM for the first time in the world as a photovoltaic sector, Donghae Photovoltaic (1MW) Aug. 2006 690 and a small hydro-power generation project in Dangjin was also registered in the UN Dangjin small hydro-power (5MW) Aug. 2009 15,000 CDM in August 2009 for 5MW which used to be the largest as one unit of facility. Honam high-voltage inverter May. 2007 16,419 As for the national GHG reduction registration project, a high-voltage inverter was Dangjin new technology generation Sep. 2008 91,789 installed in Honam Power Plant in May, 2007, which was followed by registration of Ilsan HRSG Heat Recovery Nov. 2009 52,653 new technology development by Dangjin Coal-Fired Plant in September, 2008. HRSG Ulsan GT Heat Recovery Nov. 2009 5,547 Waste Heat Recovery of Ilsan CHP Plant and GT Waste Heat Recovery of Ulsan Power Plant were registered in November 2009. In 2010, Fuel Cell of Ilsan CHP was Ilsan fuel cell 1st stage Apr. 2010 6,476 registered. The Hybrid SCR of Ulsan Power Plant was registered in December. Ilsan fuel cell 2nd stage Nov. 2011 7,216 Ulsan Hybrid SCR Dec. 2011 4,749 Continuing Green Projects to Reduce GHG emissions Under the Negotiated Agreement for GHG emissions that came into effect in 2011, it is impossible for a company which was assigned a goal of reduction to register a new KCER project. Also, the uncertainties in the global carbon market is increasing including the decreases in the prices of carbon credits, and the merits of CDM project have virtually disappeared as the registration of new CDMs in the EU emission trading scheme from 2013 is only applied to the poorest nations. However, apart from such uncertainties, EWP continues to find out the projects to reduce GHG and making efforts to fulfill its green goal successfully. Especially, the old Ulsan Heavy Oil Thermal Power Plant is being replaced with a new Combined Heat and Power Plant to reduce about 600,000 ton of GHG emissions. Expanding the co-firing of Biomass As a major short-term measure to achieve the nation’ s goal in reduction of GHG, EWP is actively implementing co-firing of biomass. A test in Donghae Thermal Power Plant for burning in mixture with wood chip, wood pallet and RDF (Refuse Derived Fuel) successfully completed and the amount of such fuels will be expanded. For Dangjin Thermal Power Plant, the organic solid fuel, which is treated at the sewage treatment facility of the local government, and bituminous coal are used in co-firing.  Characteristics of Diverse Biomass Fuels Wood Item Organic Solid Fuel SRF Wood Chip Pellet PKS Shape Characteristics Forest by-products, waste wood Dry and shape wood Cocoa husk, seed, etc. Dry and carbonize sewage sludge Litter dry carbonized LHV (kcal/kg) 2,500~3,500 3,500~4,500 4,000 3,000~3,500 3,500~4,500 Power Plant Donghae Thermal Donghae Thermal Under consideration Dangjin Thermal Under consideration 48 R&Ds regarding Climate change In preparation for the increasing pressure of the international society to reduce GHG according to IPCC, EWP will invest regularly on the R&D related to cope with climate change. Through such investment, EWP will continue to secure the high technology for the reduction of GHG. Especially, in cooperation with other power generation companies, EWP will concentrate its capabilities in carbon capture and storage (CCS) and integrated coal gasification combined cycle (IGCC) that can be applied immediately to power companies. For this, EWP secured available lands in Dangjin Thermal Power Plant for CCS site and in Ulsan Thermal Power Plant for IGCC site. Implementing Step-by-Step Simulated Emissions Trading Scheme EWP joined with other power generation companies and the Korea Power Exchange on business cooperation for simulated emissions trading scheme to actively and jointly respond to the IPCC. Also, according to the EWP action plan, EWP, for the first time as a generating company, performed a simulated emissions trading scheme with SK Group in October, 2010. In 2012, EWP participated in the test trading supervised by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy in preparation for the compulsory emissions trading system which will begin in 2015.  Performance in Emissions Trading Stage 1  Simulated Emissions Trading Supervised by KEMCO Power generation companies, LG Chemical, SK Energy, etc. 2006~2009 Stage 2  Simulated Emissions Trading between EWP* and SK Group 5 workplaces of EWP, 6 affiliates in SK group * Suggest the trading and design its own scheme. 2010 Stage 3 Companies that will be applied by Negotiated Agreement  Test Emissions trading supervised by Ministry of Knowledge Economy (July, 2011) (69 companies)  Education of international experts in emission trading (Oct. 2011) 2011 Stage 4 Companies that will be applied by Negotiated Agreement  Emission trading simulation project in the industrial/generation sector (May, 2012) (138 companies)  raining for the certificate of carbon emission broker (Oct. 2012) 2012 2012 Goal Achievement of Negotiated Agreement EWP is an enterprise (GHG heavy emission and heavy energy consumption company) that receives goals under the scheme of Negotiated Agreement. In the Negotiated Agreement (NA), the government assigns each company the goal for GHG emission and energy consumption and examines the performance. It is a preparatory stage for the initiation of the emissions trading. EWP has prepared itself to minimize risks caused by the execution of the system by participating in the test project of NA and establishing a countermeasure prior to the system. The specifications for GHG emissions and energy consumption between 2007 and 2012 were prepared, and they were submitted to the Greenhouse Gas Inventory & Research Center of Korea in the Ministry of Environment after obtaining the verification of a certified verification agency. In 2012, EWP emitted GHG of 0.804 ton/MWh, which was lower than the goal from the government, 0.834 ton/MWh, achieving the goal. 2013 Sustainability Report Efforts to Minimize Environmental Pollutant Emission 49 Power plants are producing electricity using coal, heavy oil and LNG. It is inevitable that various environmental pollutants are emitted according to the consumption of the fuel for power generation. However, EWP is minimizing pollutants by operating state-of-the-art facilities that can reduce environmental pollutants and by recycling wastes, and therefore, to contribute to sustainable development of our society.  Fuel for power generation Monitoring air Removing sulfur and dust Removing nitrogen oxides Preventing noise  Air emissions Bituminous coal 15,886,000 tons SOx 16,813 tons boiler silencer NOx 32,040 tons Anthracite coal 521,000 tons Environmental facilities Interior operation of turbine DeDust 687 tons Heavy oil 1,504,000㎘ nitrification Desulfurization Electric facility House/factory CO2 44,174,000 tons Diesel oil 12,000㎘ Turbine generator facilities precipitator Coal ash LNG 1,682,000 tons Gypsum / Recycling resources Coal ash Coal ash Seawater  Water emissions Power generation water COD 30.2 tons 14,044,000 tons Ash Disposal site General wastewater treatment system Monitoring water Coal load & unload temperature SS 7.2 tons Coal storage Waste water Total nitrogen 45.4 tons Limestone Sprinkling system Conveyer belt 376,000 tons Monitoring water quality Total phosphorus 0.6 tons Preventing scattering of coal Purifying drainage Magnesium hydroxide Classification Coal Ash Desulfurization Gypsum Waste Water  Output 54,000 tons Q’ ty 2,112,000 tons 520,000 tons 3,087,000 tons Power generation 57,653GWh Q’ty Chemicals Recycled Q’ ty 1,696,000 tons 504,000 tons 1,222,000 tons Power transmission 54,891GWh 15,000 tons Recycling Rate 80% 97% 40% Q’ty Management of Air and Water Pollutants The pollutants produced in power plants can be largely divided into air pollutants, water pollutants and wastes. Air pollutants that are produced in the process of boiler combustion are sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides and dust, and the water pollutants include COD and suspended solids. EWP is doing its best to reduce the amount of the emission of pollutants by setting stricter criteria than the legal restriction. EWP is operating high-tech air pollution prevention facilities such as desulfurization, de-nitrification and dust-collecting facilities as well as the general wastewater treatment system.  Facilities treating air pollutants Desulfurization facilities (to remove sulfur oxides) Denitrification Facilities (to remove nitrogen oxides) Dust Collector (to remove dust) Power Plant Units installed Type Units installed Type Units installed Type Dangjin Thermal 8 Wet limestone-gypsum method 8 SCR 8 Electric Precipitator 3 SCR Dangjin Thermal 3 Wet limestone-gypsum method 6 Electric Precipitator 3 SNCR 2 SCR Honam Thermal 2 Magnesium hydroxide method 2 Electric Precipitator 2 SNCR Donghae Thermal 2 Desulfurization in a dry furnace 2 Electric Precipitator ※ SCR: Selective catalytic reduction, SNCR: Selective non-catalytic reduction 50 Raw material recycling EWP recycles such wastes as coal ash, gypsum or waste oil that are produced in the process of power generation as a way for profit creation. In addition, the company is making efforts to increase recycling continuously and curtail the treatment costs by diversifying the usage of recycling, continuing R&D, searching for new usage, etc. 석탄회 재활용 확대 EWP is making an effort to make a virtuous circle, recycling fly ash, which is produced in coal-fired power plants, as cement material, and EWP is also considering a reduction and recycle plan of bottom ash. For instance, the technology for its complete combustion by putting it back into the boiler will be applied to the design of Dangjin units #9 and #10 to reduce the quantity of bottom ash. As a result, the lifespan of the ash pond will be extended and the consumption of coal for fuel will be reduced. Meanwhile, research and development for the recycling of coal ash is also expanding. Pulverizer Coal feeder Coal storage Transfer bottom No need Ash (dry) of ash treatBottom ash Bottom ash Storage 2 ment site Storage 1 Boiler  Recycling coal ash and desulfurized Gypsum Classification Unit 2010 2011 2012 Recycled plaster 1,000 ton 414 405 504 Ratio of recycled plaster % 98 96 97 Recycled coal ash 1,000 ton 1,157 1,368 1,696 Ratio of recycled coal ash % 58 65 80 Profits created by recycling 100 million won 77.9 77.5 64.7  Usage of service water and recycling waste water The service water used at a power plant is supplied from the river and dam near the workplace. It is used for the water supply for boilers, cooling water for machines, desulfurization of facilities and other potable water. A general wastewater treatment system, which treats the wastewater in physical and chemical ways, is installed at every power plant. The wastewater is reused for process water or discharged into the sea, at a level of the standard water quality for discharged water. EWP is making efforts to solve the problem of water shortage by reducing the amount of wastewater or raise the percentage of reuse through the application of new technologies to the process of wastewater treatment. In 2012, we recycled 1.22 million tons of wastewater, which was 40% of the total waste water produced by EWP. 2013 Sustainability Report 51  Quantity of water intake and usage of service water at power plants Power Plant Raw Water (1,000 ton) Source of water Dangjin Thermal 6,252 Boryeong Dam, Sambong Lake Ulsan Thermal 2,654 Nakdong River Honam Thermal 1,370 Juam Dam Donghae Thermal 256 Dalbang Dam Ilsan Combined 3,512 Han River Total 14,044  Quantity of usage of raw water and quantity of recycled wastewater Raw Water Wastewater Output Year (GWh) Usage Intensity Q’ty Recycled Q’ ty Recycled Percentage (1,000 ton) (ton/GWh) (1,000 ton) (1,000 ton) (%) 2012 57,653 14,044 0.244 3,087 1,222 40 Use of chemicals More than 30 kinds of chemicals are used at a power plant for the prevention of corrosion of power generation facilities, pure production and treatment of waste water. To reduce the quantity of chemicals used, EWP has adopted hydrazine-free system, oxygen treatment method, etc. Classification Unit 2010 2011 2012 Power generation GWh 54,135 53,637 57,653 Amount of chemicals used Ton 12,625 17,130 15,405 Intensity Ton/GWh 0.233 0.319 0.267 Coping with Environmental Risks 52 Coping with leakage of chemicals and oil To prevent environmental accidents, EWP has established the procedures of coping with each kind of environmental accident, and is holding exercise for leakage of toxins and oil every year to take prompt measures upon accident. Also, EWP is preparing itself for emergencies by placing a water surface cleaner consigned to Korea Marine Environment Management Corporation. There have been no accidents of the leakage of oil, wastes or harmful materials. Drill for cleaning ocean pollution Anhydrous ammonia leak response training Real-time Monitoring of Docks and Coal Yards While unloading docks and coal yards monitoring occurs in real-time. Unloading is observed and monitored through CCTV, and the information is reported to the management to check for the environmental impact and to prevent environmental accidents. Real-time information through coal yard CCTVs facilitates the management of coal storage, coal quality and reduces spontaneous ignition. Through the system EWP is endeavoring to minimize the environmental impact on nearby areas. 2013 Sustainability Report Protection of Biodiversity 53 EWP is making efforts to analyze the effects in the vicinity of the power plants to minimize environmental impact. Environmental Impact Assessment and Post Assessment Through the environmental impact assessment, EWP analyzes the environmental impact of power plant construction in advance, and seeks for solution to minimize the impact when constructing its plants, as well as sincerely complying with the contents of agreement. In addition, EWP monitors the nearby areas of its power plants not only during the construction, but also after the completion of plant construction with the post impact assessment to protect the environment and ecological system.  Environmental Impact Assessments Classification Assessment period Examined items Dangjin #9~10 Environmental Impact Assessment on construction Aug. 2006 ~ Aug. 2009 Spread of hot cooling water, air quality, noise, soil, Donghae Bio Mass Plant marine water and sediment quality, marine ecosystem, Environmental Impact Assessment on construction Apr. 2010 ~ Sep. 2011 agricultural products, land plant, eco-friendly circulation of resources Ulsan #4 Combined Thermal Environmental Impact Assessment on construction Aug. 2008 ~ Jun. 2012  Post Environmental Impact Assessments Classification Assessment period Examined items Dangjin #1~8 Jul. 1994 ~ Dec. 2017 Dangjin #9~10 Oct. 2009 ~ Jun. 2021 Spread of hot cooling water, air quality, noise, soil, marine water and sediment quality, marine ecosystem, agricultural Donghae Bio Mass Plant Dec. 2011 ~ Jul. 2018 products, land plant, eco-friendly circulation of resources Ulsan #4 Combined Thermal Jun. 2012 ~ Jul. 2019 Protection of Biodiversity EWP is making efforts to minimize changes in the ecosystem and to conserve the environment. To practice EWP’ s love of nature, EWP is carrying out diverse environmental conservation programs including nature purification activities,‘1-company 1-shore’cultivation and feeding wild animals. Clean up campaign (Dangjin Thermal Power Plant) Feeding wildlife (Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant) Transparent Environmental Information Disclosure 54 Environment monitoring system All the power plants of EWP are subject to the installation of CleanSYS (Smokestack Tele-Monitoring System). EWP is operating a CleanSYS to monitor pollution emissions in real-time. Information on pollution emissions is transferred on-line to the control center of the Environmental Management Corporation in real time. The system is linked with an environmental monitoring system within the plants to check information on emissions through smokestacks, and the surroundings, including water quality, around-the-clock. Cleansys Measuring Air pollution of Surrounding Environment Dangjin and Ilsan plants regularly measure and provide real-time air pollution level of the vicinity on the display board for local residents. The air pollution level near Dangjin plant is updated on the Dangjin City Hall website. Air pollution board at Dangjin Terminal Real-time air pollution concentration in the Dangjin City Hall website 2013 Sustainability Report 55 Transparent Environmental Information Disclosure In accordance with the environmental information disclosure system, which is implemented for public enterprises and green companies since 2012, EWP discloses its environmental information clearly 13 compulsory items, including environmental pollutants, GHG emissions and compliance details about environmental regulations, and other 8 optional items. Creation of Economic Values We will take one step in advance for a future filled with hope. EWP enriches our life realizing our dreams with electricity. Through value-creating management based on differentiated technologies and reinforced competitiveness, EWP is energetically growing into a global energy company. Value Creator Stable Electricity Supply Future Growth Business Economic Overseas Business Continuous R&D Financial Performance Stable Electricity Supply 58 Stable electricity supply during the peak season Ever since the rolling blackout at the 15th of September, 2011, EWP has made an utmost effort for stable electricity supply, operating the emergency response plan for power supply and maximizing power supply capability. To revise the crisis response manual and to shorten crisis response time, EWP has carried out a lot of drills on its own or with related organizations and reinforced the emergency response plan. Also, the availability of Ulsan and Honam plants has improved by 20%, compared to the previous year, with active maintenance and improvement of old equipments in those plants. Moreover, another 244MW capacity is achieved via emergency output increase, which is equivalent to operating one extra Honam plant. Ordinary situation(8,926MW) Emergency situation(244MW) Supply capacity Air temperature Energy saving Full-swing Heat supply Installed capacity in winter ↓ in the plant operation shutoff operation (Combined thermal) 8,819MW 107MW 30MW 64MW 150MW Integrated system for supply prediction  Diagram of the Integrated system for supply prediction On the other hand, EWP has established 「the Integrated system Basic information Generation plan for supply prediction」 to actively manage the inventory of fuel. EWP of generator also adopted the dualized operation, in which the calorific value is System marginal price increased for stable boiler operation when output increase is needed Properties of generator Generation plan by power load, and is decreased for the efficiency in weekends, when for price decision power demand is relatively low. Adjustment information Integrated Generation plan In order to fulfill its social responsibility, EWP has largely contributed to of generator system for operation stable power supply during peak seasons, improving the availability Operation information Fuel usage and power capacity of old facilities. Moreover, EWP set a good of generator example to cope with nation-wide electricity crisis by establishing an Generator availability emergency response system and strong cooperation. Supply prediction Adjusted amount of generator Timely construction of new power plants Dangjin Units #9 and #10 (2,000MW) are now under construction to be completed in 2016 by the national demand for expansion of facilities according to the rapid rise in electricity demand. In addition, the superannuated and high-cost Ulsan Heavy Oil Thermal Power Plant (Units #1~3) will be replaced by lowcarbon, high efficiency Ulsan #4 Combined Heat and Power Plant (950MW) planned for completion in 2014. 2013 Sustainability Report 59 Safety first operation of the power plants  Safety management structure After Fukushima nuclear accident in the 11th of March, 2011, EWP built mid& long-term IntroducIT-based enforcement system for disaster safety management, and benchmarked advanced ing disaster international companies, such as MHI and Weir International. As a result, EWP has achieved preventing equipments 5-year-long no injury record. In addition, EWP is now operating various safety management systems, such as 2 Strike Out, Work Stop and Safety Alarm systems, to prevent negligent No-accident accidents similar to recent scaffold collapse accident, electrical fire or toxic material (e.g. power plants hydrofluoric acid) leakage accident in Korea. EnhancSafety ing safety culture for management co-existence capacity  Safety management systems for preventing similar accidents and following safety rules Work Stop In case of accident, stop relevant working until measures are made. Safety Alarm In case of serious accident in other plants, issue an alarm and conduct safety check on relevant working 2 Strike Out Pick out danger-causing workers with strict personnel transferring Prevention of failure by strengthening real-time prediction & diagnosis EWP is utilizing a future facility monitoring system and has actively introduced scientific analysis 1st techniques and the latest maintenance technologies on the basis of sufficient professional technological monitoring system manpower to perform optimum operation and maintenance appropriate for the condition of the facilities. In addition to the 1st monitoring conducted on the basis of the experience and technological power Power plant control of the operators of the power plants, EWP is doing the 2nd monitoring to prevent fatal accidents in room operators power plant facilities by sensing the problem of the facilities in advance with the application of intelligent algorithm to the system monitoring the operation of the power plant facilities; and the 3rd monitoring 2nd system designed to prevent emergent breakdown through the monitoring at the head office’ s POMMS monitoring Center. Through such triple monitoring system, EWP has minimized blind spots in facility monitoring and system enabled stable operation of facilities. Moreover, EWP has developed a smart solution by itself to prevent facility breakdown and performance degradation. Prediction & diagnosis dept.  Forced outage rate (unit : %)  Sales (Unit: 100,000,000 kWh) 3rd The head office’ s 549 monitoring POMMS Center 516 511 478 system 1.505 1.202 1.029 0.619 ’0 9 ’1 0 ’1 1 ’1 2 ’0 9 ’1 0 ’1 1 ’1 2 Future Growth Business 60 Development of New & Renewable Energy Major Sources of New & Renewable Energy Photovoltaic Power Wind Power Tidal Power Small Hydro Power Solar cells convert sunlight directly The turning force of windmill is The flow of high tide and low tide is Small dams are used for waterpower into electrical energy changed into electricity used generation Fuel Cells Biomass Bio Gas Turbine Wastes (SRF) Chemical reaction of oxygen and Woody biomass fuel is used Combustible gas in food garbage Combustible wastes are used as hydrogen is used waste water is used resources Step-by-step Plans for New & Renewable Energy Development Road Map for New & Renewable Businesses 2016~2022 2013~2015 Stage 3 Growth Engine 2,035.0MW 2010~2012 Stage 2 Establish basis [New & Renewable Facility Components] Stage 1 655.6MW  Sunlight : 87.8MW  Wind power : 1284.3MW Strengthen capabilities  Fuel cell : 98.0MW [New & Renewable Facility Components]  Bio: 143.9MW 68.9MW  Sunlight : 87.8MW  Ocean energy : 278.0MW  Wind power : 1385.8MW  Waste : 143.0MW  Fuel cell : 48.0MW [New & Renewable Facility Components]  Bio : 105.0MW  Sunlight : 26.9MW  Ocean energy : 9.0MW  Wind power : 19.8MW  Waste : 20.0MW  Fuel cell, etc. : 22.2MW 2013 Sustainability Report 61 Major Projects Fuel Cell The unused space in the precinct of Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant was used to construct eco-friendly high-efficiency fuel cell facility units #1~#3 step by step for an operation of 8㎿ facilities in total. The heat generated during the operation of the equipment is retrieved to be offered to the nearby consumers at cheap prices contributing to the efficient usage of energy. In addition, EWP is now constructing 2.8MW fuel cell facility in Ulsan plant site, which is planned to complete in September, 2013, and with this facility, EWP will secure an independent technology in fuel cell sector by transferring O&M technology, for the first time among power generation companies. Through this, the company is focusing in securing new growth engines with the development of fuel cell business both home and abroad and advancement into O&M business. Photovoltaic Power EWP has constructed and is operating high value added rooftop-style photovoltaic power generation facilities without environmental damage by using the existing buildings including the parking lot and roof of warehouse in Donghae Thermal Power Plant (1MW), the roof of Dangjin Thermal Power Plant’s turbine building (1.7MW), the roof of Dangjin City Waste Landfill Building (1.3MW), and the roof of the warehouse in the container berth in Gwangyang Harbor. As a result, EWP is contributing to the effective fulfillment of the compulsory amount of Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS). Especially, in the RPS business, EWP has successfully implemented 20MW photovoltaic power generation business at Renault Samsung Motors (i.e. 11MW at the vehicle waiting area, 7.4MW at the plant roof and 1.6MW at the customer parking lot), which is the largest capacity of its kind in Korea. In fact, the roof-type photovoltaic Busan Shinho Solar Power(20MW) power facility at the vehicle waiting area is regarded as one of successful win-win models of new renewable energy business, preventing newly produced vehicles from discoloration by direct rays. Construction of Wind Power Plants Grid Parity EWP is focusing on the development of on-shore wind power plants close to the grid parity. The A point where the price of the electricity produced by new & renewable energy source becomes the same as the price of construction of the 1st stage Gyeongju Wind Power Plant (16.8MW) and Jisan Wind Power Plant the electricity produced by fossil energy. at Yeonggwang have completed in October, 2012 to construct eco-friendly power plants, and the construction of the 2nd stage Gyeongju Wind Power Plant (20MW), Gangneung Daegiri Wind Power WAsP(Wind Atlas Analysis and Application Program) Plant (24MW) and Yeonggwang Honam Wind Power Plant (20MW) are being considered. WAsP is an internationally well-known program that is used in In addition, EWP is participating in the large scale wind power project, the construction of 2.5GW offdesigning wind power plants with the prediction of wind speed and direction. As a wind power plant designing shore wind power plant complex supervised by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, to contribute to license, the certificate of WAsP started in 2001, and today the technological development for land and ocean wind power industry in Korea. EWP is also fostering there are only 197 certificate holders in 30 countries. professional manpower for the development of wind power business to focus on technological independence and commercialization. And as a result, 3 new renewable energy managers in EWP have achieved WAsP certificates. Gyeongju wind power (1st stage)(16.8MW) 62 Bio Energy Donghae 30MW Woody Biomass Power Plant, the largest capacity of its kind in Korea, using waste woods which are simply buried and the residual materials in forest that are left in the mountains due to the high cost of disposal, is leading the commercialization of green energy. Also, EWP is considering constructions of the world first and largest 5MW bio gas turbine power generation facility that uses food waste effluent in a filled-in ground on the metropolitan area, 38.9 MW Biomass Plant in Seokmun Industrial Complex, Dangjin sewage co-firing facility and Donghae Thermal Biomass co-firing facility to maximize recycling of wasted resources and to comply with the government’ s Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS). Ocean Energy such as Small Hydro and Tidal Power EWP has actively promoted the R&D projects with domestic research institutes to improve the technological power of Korea in tidal power generation. A 1MW pilot tidal power plant has been constructed in Uldolmok Waters for the first time in Asia, and a large capacity tidal power plant (14.5MW) is being promoted on its basis. In addition, a 5MW small hydro power generation facility has been completed by using the outlet which leads to the sea through a cooling system. A 3MW small hydro power generation facility is under construction for the 2nd stage, and the development of a 254MW tidal power plant is being propelled for the usage of ocean energy. Waste Energy EWP is carrying forward 100㎿ Samcheok SRF Power Plant, the largest of its kind in Korea, which uses the solid recovery fuel (SRF) produced by recycling of buried and burned waste resources among the combustible wastes occurring in living and workplaces, a 22㎿ SRF power plant in a filled-in ground in the metropolitan area a 20㎿ SRF Combined Heat and Power Plant in Wonju. As a result, EWP creates a composite synergy effect and environmental convenience at the same time. 2013 Sustainability Report Overseas Business 63 Overseas business strategy Maturity Stage Leaping Stage Growth Stage Stage 4 : Global IPP Approaching Stage 3 : Maturity stage ·Medium/large IPP Stage ·Greenfield development Stage 2 : Leaping stage ·Direct management ·Small/medium IPP ·Greenfield development Stage 1 : ·Equity Investment Foundation establishment ·O&M and supervision ·Test operation service ·Training/Manpower cultivation Environment change Strategy Aim Busin HR o Regio ess t pera nal fell ype tion owship ○Foundation stabilization of overseas profit ㆍSystematic overseas project ㆍEnhancement of business management and operation Test operation, ㆍEnhance social responsibility as a Mainly operators Simple operation management O&M and M&A public enterprise ㆍStrengthen publicness ○Secure large-scale future profit source ㆍExpansion strategy from the base ㆍObtaining future growth driving force via greenfield power plant development Large-scale Dispatching power Power plant management greenfield power plant managers ⇒ Increase conflicts with plant development and supervisors local residents Enhancement of overseas business EWP successfully completed the test operation of Nueva Ventanas coal-fired thermal power plant in Chile in 2008, and then it has been expanding its overseas service projects, such as O&M of a fluidized-bed plant in Cebu, the Philippines in 2009, US EWP RC Biomass and natural gas plant in 2010, and Jamaica JPS and Haiti E-power investment in 2011. From service businesses with dispatching operators at the beginning to the management of overseas power plants, EWP diversifies its business fields. This is because of EWP’ s world-class plant constructing and managing experience acquired from domestic power generating business, specialized fluidized-bed coal power plant and wind power plant experience, systematic and specialized manpower for overseas development and broad network for overseas projects. Also, along with such growth, EWP introduced the self-supporting system which can analyze individual profitability with overall benefits and costs of each overseas project to systematically manage and analyze overseas business. 64 On top of the previous business analysis system, which simply adds up the benefits and costs of overseas projects, this new system allows EWP to calculate overseas subsidiary profits, the overall profit of overseas business, including direct/indirect costs, as well as the overall expenses, and thus, to accurately analyze the profitability based on each business’ s real financial statement.  Overseas Power Generation Business in Operation No Project Name Capacity (MW) Type Related organization Equity Investment 1 Jamaica Public Service (JPS) 636 Marubeni, OUR (-40%) Equity Investment 2 US EWP RC Biomass & natural gas plant facility in the U.S. 152 (-100%) Equity Investment 3 US EWP RC Biomass & natural gas plant facility in the U.S. 30 EDH (-30%) 4 O&M of CFBC in Cebu, Philippines 200 O&M KSPC 5 Guam Cabras #3,4 diesel power plant PMC business 80 O&M GPA 6 Operation service for Ambatovy CFBC power plant in Madagascar 135 Test Operation KEPCO KPS Test operation service for Campiche Coal Thermal Power Plant in 7 240 Test Operation POSCO E&C Chile Global partnership that results in win-win growth with domestic partners In order to obtain publicness of overseas business, EWP, as a public enterprise, is actively supporting exports of relevant domestic partners. At first, the win-win growth performance was merely 0.8 billion won from 1 overseas project in Guam in 2010 due to the simple purchase of domestic consumable products. However, with an effort to increase diversity, such as purchasing equipments, the export amount reached to 10.3 billion won, which was 13 times bigger than the one at the beginning. In addition, when EWP participates in overseas green field business, we go with domestic construction companies together, making the construction industry vibrant. Moreover, to become a global IPP and to fulfill its corporate social responsibility (CSR), EWP also supports the infrastructure of the vicinity of overseas business areas. Business area Cebu (1) Cebu, JPS, RC, Campiche (4) National brand improvement Support sport & play facilities ↑ Simple donation with care Spread Korean culture Company awareness increase Activity packages Voluntary activities ↑ (e.g. at nursing homes) Conflict prevention in advance Base-centered greenfield business development Since 2012, EWP has been focusing on overseas greenfield business development, for example 1,200MW coal-fired thermal power plant in Namdinh, Vietnam, with human resources for overseas business that are secured for stable and continuous overseas business and joint investment with verified partners. In addition, EWP also improves economic feasibility of planned projects via strategic negotiation. In case of the 360MW combined thermal power plant project in Jamaica, EWP reduced the construction cost via the optimalization of technical specification, and in case of the Kalsel-1 fluidized-bed development project in Indonesia, EWP improved the PF conditions with long-term low interest. 2013 Sustainability Report Continuous R&D 65 EWP strengthens the competitiveness of its technologies in the world and fosters core competence of the future through continuous R&D. By converting its paradigm of R&D into the type of active discovery of missions, EWP is leading technological management and promoting valuecreating 4th generation R&D to create future growth engines and secure the technological capabilities for global green growth. Moreover, EWP was certified by the government in 2008 as an‘organization exclusive for R&D’for its leadership in R&D in the power generation industry. R&D Status Along with the demand survey of technical development for the whole EWP employees, EWP established EWP industry-academic R&D Cluster for maximizing profit via the improvement of critical technology and preventing internal and external business environment changes. Also, in order to strengthen future technology competitiveness, core technologies to be secured in a long term are selected and their midand long-term R&D plans have been devised. On such basis, EWP developed Plant Operations and Maintenance Management system (POMMS), the world’ s first comprehensive power plant operation and maintenance working system, and is actively coping with RPS and environmental regulations by preoccupying the technologies for the usage of low-quality fuels, such as upgrade technology for low grade coal, and making R&D activities in the area of new & renewable energy for low-carbon green growth, such as biomass plant for food waste, through the performance of an‘R&D with Vision’ .  R&D Investment Status Classification 2010 2011 2012 2013 Classification 23.9 billion won 25.2 billion won 28.0 billion won 31.0 billion won(estimated) R&D Achievements EWP has actively invested in the R&D for not only commercialization but also securing original technology. A total of 430 research projects have been conducted to save maintenance and purchasing costs, and the amount of profit is expected to increase in the future. Such expansion in the systematic and continuous investment in R&D was recognize by the awarding of the‘Korea Technological Innovation Management Grand Prize’and the award from the Korean government for the company’ s contribution to the development of power generation industry through the successful‘Hybrid de-nitrification system’for the first time in Korea. Besides, EWP has secured a total of 160 industrial property rights including the‘method to provide trouble diagnosis and preventive maintenance for generator controlling system’ , and 58 cases among them have been transferred to the companies which need them to contribute to the creation of added value in addition to achieving co-prosperity with SMEs.  Status of Industrial Property Rights of EWP Classification Patent Utility Model International Patent Trademark Service Mark Total 건수 119 19 1 12 9 160 Financial Performance 66 EWP will secure competitive edge through innovation of business structure, create new growth engines through business diversification, and support the execution of strategies with an advanced management system. Management Index EWP’ s sales volume of electricity in 2012 was 54.9 billion kWh, which was 13.3% increase from the volume of the previous year, 51.1 billion kWh. The total sales recorded 995.8 billion won which was an increase by 23.5% compared to the previous year due to the rise in unit price of electricity. To cope with unfavorable external management environments, such as the increase of oil prices and exchange rates, EWP made efforts for innovative improvement in management, such as the reduction of maintenance periods and the curtailment in fuel purchasing costs, the profit recorded 231.1 billion won, which was an increase by 39.2 billion won from a year earlier. Classification 2010 2011 2012 Sales (100 million won) 44,513 48,550 59,958 Operating Profit (100 million won) 2,002 1,919 2,311 Net Profit (100 million won) 1,416 929 1,675 Assets (100 million won) 57,000 58,675 61,203 Debts (100 million won) 20,520 24,665 26,511 Capital (100 million won) 36,480 34,010 34,692 Debt Ratio (%) 56.3 72.5 76.4 Dividends (100 million won) 725 694 822 Dividends per Share (won) 1,281 1,226 1,453 Distribution of Economic Value The profits created by continuous and stable supply of high-quality electricity are distributed in ■ Distribution of Economic Value (Unit : 100 million won) various types to the stakeholders including employees, business partners, creditors, shareholder, 50,719 local community and the government. 2,172 726 822 176 0 Investment in Facilities Government Community Creditors Shareholders Employees Business Partners The total amount paid to business partners in 2012 was 5,071.9 billion won which was spent for purchase of fuel, maintenance, etc. The materials necessary for the improvement in the maintenance of power generation facilities as well as fuels of coal, heavy oil, LNG, etc. were purchased. Unit : 100 million won Classification 2010 2011 2012 Investment in Facilities 34,955 40,450 50,719 2013 Sustainability Report 67 Salary & Benefits In 2012, the personnel expenses for employees including salary, retiring allowance reserve and fringe benefits were 217.2 billion won in total. Among them, the salary was 176.9 billion won, which was 25.5 billion won increase from the previous year, and the retiring allowance reserve decreased by 1.3 billion won year on year. Meanwhile, 23.0 billion won was spent for fringe benefits, which was a decrease by 1.9 billion won from the previous year. Unit : 100 million won Classification 2010 2011 2012 Salary 1,404 1,514 1,769 Retiring allowance reserve 184 186 173 Fringe benefits 223 249 230 Total 1,811 1,949 2,172 Compensation for Shareholders For the economic performance made in fiscal year 2012, a resolution was made in the annual meeting of shareholders in March, 2013 to pay 82.2 billion won in dividends. Unit : 100 million won Classification 2010 2011 2012 Cash Dividend 725 694 822 Tax The amount of tax assessment from the net profit before-tax in 2012, 215.4 billion won, was 52.1 billion won. However, the actual corporate tax paid was 23.2 billion won, due to the 2011 deficit deduction carried forward and relevant investment tax deduction. And the local tax of 3.1 billion won from local income tax on the corporate tax was paid. Unit : 100 million won Classification 2010 2011 2012 Corporate Tax 528 0 232 Local Tax 55 29 31 Total 583 29 263 Social Contribution Expenditure A total of 17.6 billion won was used for social contribution in 2012. Among this expenditure, approximately 17.2 billion won was used by the controlling local governments and each power plant for the activation of the local economy according to the Law on the Support for the Areas near Power Plants. The 0.5 billion won created by the collection of money by employees for social contribution fund and a matching grant by the company was used for the expenses for social contribution activities. Unit : million won Classification 2010 2011 2012 Projects for income increase 4,027 2,786 4,320 Projects for public facilities 1,415 1,518 2,350 Social welfare projects 1,161 961 650 Educational projects 2,950 2,241 2,971 Others 533 515 7,283 Total 10,086 8,021 17,574 Appendix 2013 Sustainability Report Performance of 10 Principles of UN Global Compact 69 EWP became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in August 2006 as part of its mission to ensure transparent management and to fulfill its social responsibilities. The company discloses its compliance with the Global Compact through the following ten principles in four major areas.. Classification Principles Reference Collective Agreement Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Charter of Ethics proclaimed human rights; and Code of ethics, Articles 19 & 21 Code of Conduct, Article 27 Human Rights Corporate Philosophy Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Collective Agreement Code of Conduct, Article 27 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Collective Agreement recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Collective Agreement Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Code of ethics, Article 22 Labor Businesses should eliminate child labor; and Collective Agreement Collective Agreement Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect to employment Charter of Ethics and occupation. Code of ethics, Articles 10 and 20 Code of Conduct, Article 7 Environmental Vision Environmental Policies Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental ISO 14000 Certification challenges Charter of Ethics Code of ethics, Article 26 Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Environmental Policies challenges Charter of Ethics Environmental Vision Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of enviEnvironmental Policies ronmentally friendly technology. Charter of Ethics Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Code of ethics, Articles 6 and 8 Anti-Corruptiont extortion and bribery. Code of Conduct, Chapter 3 Awards in 2012 and Association Membership 70 Major Awards in 2012 Awards Awarder Month Remarks Prime Minister citation (Childbirth Encouragement Policy) Prime Minister 7 Award for Global field-training of specialized high school Ministry of Education, Science and Technology 2 2012 EUCG Best Performer The Electric Utility Cost Group (EUCG) 4 Accreditation of excellent climate change competitiveness (1st in the generation industry) Ministry of Knowledge Economy 6 Grand Prize of labor-management cooperation Korea Employers Federation 2 Presidential citation (win-win growth) President of Korea 9 Association Membership Membership Organization Purpose The Institute of Internal Auditors To learn the latest auditing techniques and exchange information. The Business Ethics for Top performance To establish ethical culture in the company and root down transparent management system. Korea Suggestion System Association To acquire information for the promotion of suggestions and small group activities in the company. The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) To acquire the information on the electricity industry of the U.S. and establish cooperative relationship. UN Global Compact To enhance the status as a global company. Korea Plant Industries Association To acquire information on business development and seek the opportunity for participation. Korea International Cooperation Agency To seek the opportunity for participation in business development. The Korea Employers Federation To know the trend of the latest labor affairs in the congress and the administration Korea International Trade Association To cooperate on the data and information related to international trade. Korea Power Exchange To consult on the affairs related to electricity transaction. The Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers To grasp the domestic and overseas trend of machinery industry by participating in academic meetings and lectures. The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers To exchange the latest academic and technological information in related industries. The Korea Energy Foundation To fulfill corporate social responsibility and implement energy welfare programs effectively. Korean Standards Association To introduce advanced quality control techniques and spread quality management mind throughout the company. The Korea Electric Association To stipulate technological and systematic matters to secure credibility of power generation facilities. Korea New & Renewable Energy Association To exchange information in the area of new & renewable energy. Korea Wind Power Generation Industry Association To exchange information among companies and jointly promote PR and cooperative projects. The Electric Utility Cost Group (EUCG) To acquire overseas information on electricity. Korea Project Management Association To enhance the capabilities for project execution. The Business Institute for Sustainable Development To promote sustainable development of the company. The Korea Carbon Capture and Storage Association To improve the technology for collection and storage of carbon dioxide. 2013 Sustainability Report GRI Index 71 GRI Index Description Page Note Strategy and 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 3 Analysis 1.2 Description of key areas of impact, risks, and opportunities 12 2.1 Name of the organization 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 4 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters 4 Organizational 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 5 Profile 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal forms 7 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure 4, 8 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 72 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 1 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 1 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 1 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 1 3.5 Process for defining report content 1 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) 1 Report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 1 Parameter 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. N/A 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the basis of calculations 1 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement N/A 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 1 3.12 GRI Content Index 73 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 70 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 7 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 7 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 7 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 12 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 7, 8 Governance, Commitments, 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 8 and 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees 7 Engagement 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 10 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance 7 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 13 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 12 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 72 72 지표 지표내용 페이지 비고 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations 72 Governance, 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 12 Commitments, 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 12 and Engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 12 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 12 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 67, 68 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 46 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations N/A EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government N/A Economic Performance EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wages by gender compared to local minimum wages at significant locations of operation Indicators EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 39 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation 20 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 38, 39 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impact, including the extent of the impact EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 49 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled materials 49 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 49 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 49 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 47 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 47 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and completed reductions 50 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 51 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 51 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 51 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 53 Environmental Performance EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 53 Indicators EN13 Habitats protected or restored 53 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing the impact on biodiversity 53 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk N/A EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 46 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 46 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and completed reductions 47 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight N/A EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 49 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 49 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 49 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 52 2013 Sustainability Report 73 지표 지표내용 페이지 비고 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, I , I I, and VII , and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally N/A EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff 51 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impact of products and services, and the extent of impact mitigation 53 Environmental Performance EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category N/A Indicators EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations 55 EN29 The significant environmental impact of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender 19 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 19 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation 20 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements 7 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management? worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs 28 Labor Practices and LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 29 Decent Work Performance LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases 29 Indicators LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 28 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 23 LA11 Programs for skil s management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing the conclusion of their careers 23 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender 19, 21 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 7, 19 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 20 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and the subsequent actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained 21 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken N/A Human Rights Performance HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights N/A Indicators HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor N/A HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor N/A HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken N/A SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 36 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 16 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 17 Society SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 17 Performance Indicators SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 32 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes N/A SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations N/A 74 지표 지표내용 페이지 비고 PR1 Life cycle stages in which the health and safety impact of products and services are assessed for improvement, and the percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures 49 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impact of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcome N/A PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedure, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements N/A Product PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcome N/A Responsibility PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 36 Performance Indicators PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communication, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 22 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communication, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcome N/A PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data N/A PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services N/A EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 5, 6 EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 6 EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts. N/A EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime N/A EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework. N/A EU6 Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availability and reliability 58, 59 EU7 Demand-side management programs including residential, commercial, institutional and industrial programs 58 EU8 Research and development activity and expenditures aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting sustainable development 66 EU9 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites N/A EU10 Planned capacity versus projected electricity demand over the long term, broken down by energy source and regulatory regime 63 EU11 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and regulatory regime 46 EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy N/A EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas 53 EU14 Processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce 21 (EUSS) Electric Utilities EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next five and ten years broken down by job category and by region Sector EU16 Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees, contractors’employees and subcontractors 28 EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in construction, operation and maintenance activities 29 EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant health and safety training EU19 Stakeholder participation in the decision making process related to energy planning and infrastructure development 12 EU20 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement 37 EU21 Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plans, disaster/emergency training programs, and recovery/restoration plans 11, 52 EU22 Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken down by type of project N/A EU23 Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or maintain access to electricity and customer support services 37 EU24 Practices to address language, cultural, literacy and disability related barriers to accessing and safely using electricity and customer support services 37 EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal judgments, settlements and pending legal cases of diseases N/A EU26 Percentage of population un-served in licensed distribution or service areas N/A EU27 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by duration of disconnection and by regulatory regime N/A EU28 Power outage frequency 61 EU29 Average power outage duration 61 EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime 6 Reader Opinion Survey In this report, EWP has tried to disclose its sustainability management activities as openly as possible. To improve its contents and level of completeness, we would like to hear from you. Your opinions will be reflected in future reports. 1. What is your position? ① Investor/shareholder ② Employee of Business Partner ③ Local Resident ④ NGO ⑤ Employee of a Power Generating Company ⑥ Member of the Academic Community ⑦ Civil Servant ⑧ Employee of EWP ⑨ Other ( ) 2. What is your overall evaluation of this report?  Good  Moderate  Bad 3. How understandable is this report?  Easy  Moderate  Difficult 4. What is your evaluation of the amount of information in this report?  Too much  Moderate  Too little 5. Which section of this report did you find the most interesting?  Sustainability of EWP  Economy  Environment  Society 6. Which section of this report do you think needs improvement?  Sustainability of EWP  Economy  Environment  Society 7. Please feel free to make any comments on this report. Thank you for your cooperation. Please forward this form to 82-2-3456-8519 (Fax) or sustainability@ewp.co.kr (E-mail).
