The United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) Name of Organization: Square Pharmaceuticals Ltd Sector: Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Website: www.squarepharma.com.bd Country of Headquarter: Dhaka, Bangladesh Reporting Period: January 2012 to December 2012. Page 1 of 8 Our Statement of continued support for UN Global Compact Square Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is one of the pioneer signatories of UN Global Compact in Bangladesh. UNGC principles are aligned with company’s culture from the very outset. So, signing UNGC was a public endorsement of what Square had already been practicing. The Management Team leads the entire range of activities with dedication and continues to identify sustaining ways of meeting our commitments to the UNGC. We strongly agree as an organization to increase the momentum and practical steps to meet our commitment made to UNGC. We run our business with transparency, under ethical standard and scaling up CSR activities to our stakeholders. I, as the Managing Director, feel obliged to express our commitment towards UNGC and will continue our efforts going forward in 2013. Page 2 of 8 Category Commitment Actions /Activities/Systems Outcomes We are  Informing Physician Community on Latest Development Human Rights committed to in Medical Science  Continual Medical Education (CME) programs are organized aiming extend our Being in the pharmaceutical sector, the Company maintains a to upgrade the day-to-day developments in medical sector. These (UNGC support for the very close relation with the physician community. The meetings act as a forum for training and knowledge-sharing among Principles 1-2) protection of management believes a better informed and educated doctor the medical professionals and often attended by experts on the internationally community creates a win-win situation for all the respective subject as key-note speakers which are continued proclaimed stakeholders. For this purpose, Square takes multiple efforts; these meetings are conducted by dedicated team of human rights initiatives under its Continual Medical Education (CME) medical graduates of the Medical Services Department (MSD). within their programs. Following number of participants had joined in our Continual sphere of Medical Education (CME) program : influence &  Clinical Meeting: These meetings are organized aiming to make sure that upgrade the day-to-day developments in medical sector. Number of Number of Year they are not These meetings act as a forum for training and Programs Participants complicit in knowledge-sharing among the medical professionals and January 2012 to 415 28000 human rights often attended by experts on the respective subject as December 2012 abuse. key-note speakers which are continued efforts; these meetings are conducted by dedicated team of medical graduates of the Medical Services Department (MSD). Our AgroVet Division also conducts seminar and clinical  Our AgroVet Division also conducts seminar and clinical meeting meeting across Bangladesh for Veterinary Doctors, across Bangladesh for Veterinary Doctors, Farmers and Quacks to Farmers and Quacks to disseminate the regular updated disseminate the regular updated information of different drugs. information of different drugs. These meetings are These meetings are organized by Veterinary Graduates of organized by Veterinary Graduates of Veterinary Services Veterinary Services Department (VSD). Following are the number Department (VSD). of programs organized and number of participants attended under the programs of VSD  Square Publications: Square is publishing quarterly & half-yearly publications to support the physician Number of Number of community focuses on contemporary critical issues Year Programs Participants related to medicine, disease, medical innovation etc. January 2012 to 320 9600 December 2012 Page 3 of 8 The following bulletins are distributed free of cost among physicians of Bangladesh: The Square: electronic version of this bulletin is also available at the following link: http://www.squarepharma.com.bd/TheSQUARE.html Square: electronic version of this bulletin is also available at the following link: http://www.squarepharma.com.bd/BanglaSQUARE.html e-Square: electronic version of this bulletin is also available at the following link: http://www.squarepharma.com.bd/ESQUARE.html  Square has donated 02 Haemodialysis machines (complete set up) with two specialized hospital beds to National Heart Foundation  Support to local community: Square has a clear policy to Hospital & Research Institute, Mirpur, Dhaka. In addition, Square continue support for local community. Square extended sponsored a free medical treatment & medicine distribution its support to local community for advancing the research campaign program in Kalapani, Ulipur, Kurigram to enhance the & development program and also by philanthropy. knowledge & awareness of poor villagers regarding health and hygiene factor, the approximate price of the medicines were  Support to Education: Square Kindergarten is constructed equivalent to amount of Taka 65,000. primarily to facilitate quality education to the children of the employees. This is a 100% “notfor-profit” initiative  Total 471 Students are getting quality Primary and Secondary where the students receive quality education at a very Education from Square Kindergarten and Square High School subsidized fee. Other than its own employees’ children it annually. also provides this education facility for the children of Square also recognizes the merits of higher educated students. local community and this is 50% of the total students. Every year Square awards Gold Medal to the student of Dhaka Square Kindergarten extended its facility from Primary Medical College who secures the highest mark. Level (Grade I – Grade V) to Secondary Level (Grade VI and upwards) by establishing Square High School.  Square Textiles Ltd. (a sister concern of Square Group) is  Square Textiles Ltd. (a sister concern of Square Group) is providing providing pick-up & drop services with school buses for pick-up and drop services with 02 (two) school buses & 02 (two) the children of factory employees. microbuses for the School going children of factory employees. Page 4 of 8  Senora Acid Victim Campaign: Square Toiletries Ltd. one  We have commitment to Acid Survivors Foundation to provide 1 of the concern of Square Group is involved in fund raising taka from each of the sold unit of Senora 10 pad Belt & Panty for program with Acid Survivors Foundation. With this fund the rehabilitation of Acid Victim Women. On an average 28,00,000 Square conducts awareness program and stand along packs of Senora were sold. with these Acid survivors.  Women Empowerment: Square is currently operating a  Currently six women are working as ‘fuel operator’ in “Eakub Filling fuel station named “Eakub Filling Station” which is run by Station” and providing services about 28,800 vehicles monthly. women employees.  Square Toiletries Ltd., a concern of Square Group, is partnering one of the projects of CARE – “JITA”. Through  In the year 2012, project CARE – “JITA” had 135 Hubs among which this project we ensure empowerment of rural women by 75 Hubs lifted our products and 2250 women earn their livelihood helping them to generate their own income. Rural women by selling our products. We have given 13,14,323 taka (3.75 purchase our products from Hubs at Trade Price (TP) and percent of total sale) to 75 Hubs. Through this project we ensure sale it to rural households at Maximum Retail Price empowerment of rural women by helping them to generate their (MRP). They take the margin which is not less than 10%. own income. We do regular awareness program in rural yard (Uthan Program) and rural schools in the JITA operating areas to help increasing product awareness and demand in those areas. This not only increases earning of JITAs but also helps rural women to experience the better & safer way of living.  Square Group established a Training Institution of IT  Total 93 students (Male-39, Female-54) have received training (Dishari Computer Training Institute) in Pabna to train the from Dishari Computer Training Institute (a Training Institution of underprivileged community who are not capable to afford IT in Pabna to train the underprivileged community who are not costly training programs. The initial aspect of this Training capable to afford costly training programs). Institution is to empower them as a prospective user of future technology and build their own future and nation with state of the art technology and contemporary computer knowledge.  Square sponsored a debate competition, organized by B-SCAN  Square is involved for building social awareness on the (Bangladeshi Systems Change Advocacy Network, an association rights of physically-challenged people. for the advancement of people with disabilities) for school & college level students to build awareness on the rights of physically-challenged people. Page 5 of 8 Category Commitment Actions /Activities/Systems Outcomes We are  Square Pharmaceuticals Ltd. established Workers’ Trade  There are around 1185 members of the Trade Union. Salary & Labour committed to Union named “Square Kormochari Samity” (Registration other benefits of workers have been reviewed through negotiation Standards freedom of No: 1322) & negotiates with the management on a between Trade Union and Management. association, biannual basis on different issues. (UNGC not to recruit  Detailed background and reference checkup has been  No child is employed in Square Pharmaceuticals Ltd. or any other Principles 3-6) any child done as a part of recruitment & selection process to concerns of the Group. labour and ensure no Child Labour is employed. elimination of  Competency based recruitment system to ensure fair and  Last year we recruited 673 employees where we publicly discrimination transparent recruitment irrespective of gender, race & advertised for the positions and both male and female were in respect of religion etc. allowed to apply. We recruited based on their skill and employment  HR policies have been continuously up-to-dated as per competency. and existing labour law of the country. Head of HR is  Square’s female employees are entitled to avail maternity benefits occupation. responsible to look after all employees related activities. according to labour law of the country. Retirement policy for the  Square is running “Shohoj Kisti Reen Prokalpa” under employees has been implemented as per new labour law of the which all unionized employees can take loan to purchase country. necessary home appliances at nominal interest rate and  In the year 2012, total 481 employees have been benefited from this fund is operated and managed by a committee of “Shohoj Kisti Reen Prokalpa” under which all unionized employees workers representatives. can take loan to purchase necessary home appliances at nominal  We implement our ongoing pre-employment health interest rate and this fund is operated and managed by a checkup policy under which all potential recruits undergo committee of workers representatives. medical checkup at company’s cost. We have dedicated Plant Physicians (both male & female) in all of our plants.  Last year Square conducted pre-employment health checkup for  We don’t allow any Female employees to work during 673 employees. night shift operations.  All of our employees are covered under mandatory Group  All the concerns of Square are currently following the policy of not Life Insurance. allowing to work during night shift operations for total 6715  Square is providing profit sharing which is a direct female employees. payment & equally distributed to the employees  Total 5290 employees of Square Pharmaceuticals Ltd. are covered depending on company's profitability in addition to under Group Life Insurance. regular salary and bonuses.  Total 5290 employees are enjoying the profit sharing benefit.  Square is allowing festival leave, sick leave, casual leave & annual leave for the employees to comply with the labour  Total 5290 employees of Square can enjoy festival leave, sick leave, law. casual leave & annual leave. Page 6 of 8 Category Commitment Actions /Activities/Systems Outcomes We are  We established Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) in our  Satisfied Stakeholders around our manufacturing plants & no Environment committed to manufacturing plants. formal complaint or case had lodged regarding environmental support  Purified water through ETP has been used to maintain concern. (UNGC precautionary Green belt around plants. Principles 7-9) approach to  We established Incinerator for disposing solid wastes to  Square’s Environmental license has been up-to-dated on a environmental protect the environment from pollution. continuous basis. challenges &  We are using the Energy Saving Bulbs / Compact  Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) of our ETP is 200 mg/L. promote Fluorescent Lamp (CFL) to save the electricity (International Standard for COD has to be less than 400 mg/L for greater consumption upto 80% and to become environment the efficacy of ETP) environmental friendly. responsibility.  We are committed to maintain biodiversity by using  We maintain large greeneries around Square Establishments just organic fertilizer for producing tea at Sabazpur Tea Co. to echo our commitment to greater environmental technologies. Ltd., Moulovibazar (a sister concern of Square Group). Sabazpur Tea Garden uses natural pest & controls weed  In the year 2012, total 17029.28 kilograms waste were disposed manually. It only employs renewable resources and through Incinerator, the breakdown is as follow: maintains the soil’s fertility. These practices demonstrate Waste Powder: 2205 kilograms the garden’s commitment to protect both human health Solid Waste: 12482.28 kilograms and wildlife. Batch Documents: 1817 kilograms  Square Knit Fabrics Limited (a concern of Square Group) is Carton, Leaflet etc.: 525 kilograms. committed to conduct environment friendly operations through rain water harvesting plant, solid waste  We are using total 250 Energy Saving Bulbs / Compact Fluorescent management, organic fertilizer plant, Effluent Treatment Lamp (CFL) at our Corporate Headquarters. Plant, process water consumption, machine cooling water  Sabazpur Tea Company Ltd. (a sister concern of Square Group) has reuse, heat recovery system, plantation, eradication of air been internationally declared as an organic garden certified by pollution & noise pollution. LACON GmbH, Germany. By using organic fertilizer, total 180000 kilograms tea was produced in the year 2012 at Sabazpur Tea Co. Ltd., Moulovibazar.  Square Knit Fabrics Limited (a concern of Square Group) has been selected as one of the best environmentally compliant factories to receive the prestigious “Award of the Environmental Compliance Program’’ jointly organized by BGMEA, IFC, UK Aid & Norad. Page 7 of 8 Category Commitment Actions /Activities/Systems Outcomes We are  We follow & ensure “Zero Tolerance” against all kinds of  Company assets are safeguarded against misappropriation and Anti-Corruption committed to Corruption & we have an “Internal Audit” department fraud work against which specifically deals with this issue. The head of (UNGC corruption in “Internal Audit” directly report to the Managing Director  Ensured the operations of company effectively and efficiently Principle 10) all its forms, to ensure better control.  Ensured transparent financial transactions of the company including  Awareness building regarding business ethics & antiextortion and corruption for newly joined employees through  Cost of the company is minimized bribery. orientation program.  All 673 newly joined employees have undergone the awareness building program regarding business ethics & anti-corruption through orientation program. Page 8 of 8
