2 n t i n f r a c o r e i n t e g r a t e d ( Annual & CSR Report ) a r 1 s o o p 0 o e 2 d r Doosan Tower Building, 25th F. 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-730 Republic of Korea Tel: 82-2-3398-8114 www.doosaninfracore.com About This Report the 1st integrated Report Report Compilation Standards and Reporting Principles This Integrated Report provides a channel through which Doosan Infracore communicates with stakeholders on company business and CSR activities. This is the first time that we have produced the annual report and sustainability report in a single volume, and our compilation was carried out in accordance with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) 3.1 guidelines. The IR Framework put forward by the International Integrated Reporting Council was also referenced. In addition, we have worked to meet various stakeholder expectations and requirements by applying the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard (AA1000SES) when deducing key issues. Reporting Period and Scope The coverage of this Integrated Report is from January 1, 2012 through December 31 2012, while key performance data are also provided for each of the two previous years for comparative purposes. The scope of the coverage is primarily focused on domestic operations in Korea (Seoul, Incheon, Changwon, Gunsan, and Ansan), while some data on overseas operations are The Purpose and Significance of the Integrated Report included. The scope of reporting will continue to be expanded in the future. This is the first Integrated Report published by Doosan Infracore. We believe our economic activities must also bring social and environmental value Anticipated Readership because our commitment to meeting social and environmental responsibilities The most important stakeholders for Doosan Infracore include customers, increases the benefits for diverse stakeholders and ultimately raises business shareholders, investors, employees, suppliers, the Press, governments, local competitiveness. With this goal in mind, we are issuing our first Integrated communities, schools, students preparing for employment, and research Report. This is not simply merging the annual report and sustainability report institutions. data into the same physical document. Rather, our financial and non-financial performance records are being presented side by side to provide stakeholders Third Party Verification Integrated Report (2013~) with a more precise picture of our overall corporate value. The result can be This report has been audited by a third party, Samil Accounting (a member described as a product of our ongoing efforts to incorporate corporate social firm of PriceWaterhouseCoopers), to ensure the appropriateness and veracity responsibility (CSR) in every aspect of our business. of the reporting process as well as the accuracy and reliability of the report contents. The Independent Auditors' Report can be found on Page 82. Importantly, we have striven to highlight the linkage between the financial and non-financial data, an approach that is designed to show how CSR is reflected in our overall operations. Moreover, this Integrated Report clarifies the work roles and responsibilities for each function regarding health, safety, the environment and other key management issues, and includes our strategic “Building Your Tomorrow Today” is the theme of the Doosan direction, key performance indicators, 2012 results and plans for 2013. In Infracore 2012 Integrated Report. the process of compiling this Integrated Report, we have added greater Doosan Infracore’s squareindependence to our reporting and management processes. Moreover, we frame CI motif describes Doosan expect that our efforts in providing this integrated report will help consolidate Infracore’s stories for improving the thinking of our top executives and support their strategic decisionfundamental competitiveness making. It should also serve to elevate stakeholders’ understanding of and and expresses the creation of new values. Doosan Infracore’s engagement in Doosan Infracore. current efforts and its stories will certainly create a better The Integrated Reporting Process at Doosan Infracore tomorrow. Organizational units involved in Strategic Planning, Marketing, Investor Relations, and Communication all participated in the planning of this Sustainability Report 2011, 2012 Integrated Report in order to ensure comprehensive coverage of our corporate values relating to financial, intellectual, human, environmental, and social matters. More than 40 working level teams prepared the reports on our Environmental Report 2009, 2010 Annual Report 2012 performance and plans for satisfying diverse shareholder requirements and ensuring sustainable growth. Disclaimer for Forward-looking Information Doosan Infracore prepared this report on the basis of various assumptions related to the future operational environment, as forward-looking activities, events, or phenomena Contact us represent plans at the time the 2012 report was prepared as well as forecasted information on financial results. These assumptions may turn out to be less than accurate. Moreover, the forward-looking information supporting these assumptions You may access additional information on our homepage contain a risk of significant discrepancies between the predicted values herein and (www.doosaninfracore.com) or by contacting us: Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. (“Doosan Infracore”) issued an Environmental the actual results realized in the future, uncertainties, and other factors. Therefore, the forward-looking information is subject to change with changes in the external report in 2009 and 2010, followed by a sustainability report in 2011 and Doosan Infracore Corporate Center, CSR Team environment as well as in company plans. 2012 as a way to elevate the efficiency of communication with stakeholders. Doosan Tower Building, 25th F. 275 The annual report and sustainability report are among the most important Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-730 This report was prepared on the basis of KRW and an equivalent of USD on a yearly basis publicly disclosed documents covering the company’s economic, social and Republic of Korea is marked on the main pages. The standard rate applied is as of Dec 31st 2012. (1 USD = 1,071.10 KRW) environmental records. They will be prepared in an integrated format from Tel: 82-2-3398-2117 2013 onwards to enhance communication effectiveness. E-mail: infracore.csr@doosan.com ( This pocketbook contains an introduction to Doosan Group and Doosan Infracore. ) Corporate Overview Doosan Infracore manufactures the construction equipment, machine tools, and engines that support infrastructure construction and operation, helping to improve the quality of people’s lives and improving the future. The company remains committed to achieving economic success while fulfilling social responsibilities and protecting the environment. 2 0 1 2 d o o s a n The Doosan Way, a set of core values for the next century, is the i n frac o r e foundation for Doosan Infracore to develop fundamental technology i n t e g ra t e d and quality competitiveness, and make people the top business priority. r e p o r t ( A n n u a l & C S R Re p o r t ) The goal is to work in harmony and grow together with diverse stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, and local communities, thereby earning trust and respect as a leading global player. 01 DOOSAN GROUP • 03 THE DOOSAN WAY • 05 COMPANY PROFILE Corporate Overview 2 0 1 2 d o o s a n i n f r a c o r e i n t e g r a t e d r e p o r t ( A n n u a l & CSR Re p o r t ) 01 DOOSAN GROUP • 03 THE DOOSAN WAY • 05 COMPANY PROFILE Doosan Group 01 02 Doosan: The oldest but fastest company As a result, Doosan is now ranked at the top in seawater Affiliates with 117 years of history desalination and power generation facilities in the world. Doosan has also developed 19 products that won the status Doosan is the oldest enterprise in Korea with 117 years of of “World Class Korean Products”. It has secured global history. It is also a company that went through continuous competitiveness in its major business areas. change and significant growth during the years. The 117Doosan has also proven its global leadership in organizational year history of Doosan began in 1896 with the opening of operations. It hired people based on merits irrespective ISB (Infrastructure Support Business) Doosan Infracore 2011 Financial Highlights “Park Seung-jik Store,” the first modern store in Korea which of races and nationalities. It put foreign executives in the opened in Baeogae (Jongno 4-ga), Seoul. Doosan soon grew positions of top management. The proportion of foreign (Unit: KRW in billions) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction into a consumer goods company specializing in beer and other employees has reached 50%. In addition, Doosan has beverages. Following its success in vertical and horizontal implemented up-to-date work procedures throughout Doosan Engineering & Construction systematization of its alcoholic beverage business, Doosan its global network so that it can compete with any global posted an 80% market share in the business during the 1970s business conglomerate. Doosan Engine and 1980s. During this time, Doosan always topped the list Doosan Industrial Vehicle of not only the alcoholic beverage businesses but also many Doosan’s Growth Engine Total Assets other areas of consumer goods. Behind the success of Doosan is its unwavering “trust in Doosan DST 41,734 people.” This was something our founder firmly believed Shifting to Infrastructure Support Business in, who often had said, “investment in people makes the Rexcon Doosan was faced with difficult challenges during the midfoundation for business.” This belief is well summed up in (USD 38,963 million) 90s due to market saturation and emerging of cut-throat our 2G Strategy (Growth of People, Growth of Business). The Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation Electro Materials competition in the domestic market. During this time, 2G strategy has been the driver of our past successes and Doosan realized that it needed a total makeover based will guide us through our journey toward prosperity in the Doosan Corporation Mottrol Total Stockholders’ Equity on “selection and concentration” and decided to sell its global stage. At the heart of the 2G Strategy is the virtuous Doosan Corporation Information & beer division, the OB (Oriental Brewery), and integrate its circle of “growth of people laying the foundation for the multiple subsidiaries under the Doosan Corporation. Such a growth of the company, and the latter leading back to the Communications 12,755 pioneering move for the future enabled Doosan to solidify its former.” With its trust in its employees and its continuous Doosan Corporation Glonet (USD 11,908 million) position and become even stronger, preparing it to weather investment in human capital, Doosan was able to go through the storm of the financial crisis that hit Asia in 1997 and bold restructuring and innovative portfolio transformation CSB (Consumer & Service Business) Doosan Capital 1998. At the dawn of the new millennium, Doosan embarked successfully. on massive transformation to become a global company, Oricom Sales developing new growth engines and overhauling its business The Future of Doosan portfolio altogether. Through a series of successful mergers and acquisitions, Doosan completely transformed itself Doosan hopes to become a “Proud Global Doosan”, with firm belief and trust in people. “Proud Global Doosan” means Neoplux 26,290 from a consumer goods company to an ISB (Infrastructure Doosan Feed & Livestock (USD 24,545 million) becoming a company that every stakeholder is proud of. Our Support Business) provider, specializing in power generation, stakeholders include not only the employees and employers Doosan Tower seawater desalination, construction & engineering, heavy of Doosan, but also our customers, shareholders and the machinery & construction equipment, energy, national communities around us. Our vision is to become a company Doosan Bears Operating Income defense and production facilities. that everyone involved with can be proud of. To bring better A Solid Profile and Capabilities as Global Corporation life to mankind, for everyone who works for us and for whom we work for, Doosan continues to walk forward, doing our Doosan Cuvex 1,492 Doosan Dong-A (USD 1,393 million) In the 2000s, Doosan made momentous inroads into best every step of the way. the world market by acquiring Babcock (U.K., 2006) in SRS Korea possession of coal-fired boiler technology, and Bobcat (U.S.A., 2007), a manufacturer of various construction Doosan Magazine equipment. At that time, the Bobcat acquisition was the largest M&A deal made by a Korean company in history. Auxiliary Organizations Auxiliary Organizations This significant achievement was largely due to Doosan’s insight in corporate values and growth potential of Doo (斗) San (山) Doosan Art Center international companies. Doosan’s operational excellence Doosan means “The little grains of sand that, all together, add up to make a mighty mountain.” It means great achievements DLI-Yonkangwon that was demonstrated post M&A and its unique * This report was published ahead can be made only when everyone involved joins forces. The of the 2012 Group Annual Report. organizational knowhow of bringing harmony between name represents Doosan’s will to never stop walking until its Chung-Ang University Thus, the report is based on 2011 employees from various backgrounds and culture, also goals are achieved, making history every step of the way. Chung-Ang University Hospital Group financial statements. played a great role. The Doosan Way 03 04 The Doosan Way, Doosan People Doosan’s Belief and Philosophy for Creating a Proud Doosan in the World Doosan Credo Cultivating People Doosan people approach others with respect and consideration. In turn, we view our people as individuals, not simply a means to achieve corporate performance. As people are the center of who we are, we take genuine care in their development, making their cultivation our top long-term priority. The Doosan Credo is a set of principles that represent Doosan’s philosophies and our unique way of doing business. Inhwa These principles have been the foundation of Doosan’s success for the past century. The Doosan Credo is integral to every Our people understand that individual performance is vital to team performance. Each individual pursues the common aspect of our business and people, clearly guiding our decisions and the way we do business. Through the realization of goals of the organization and voluntarily collaborates based on mutual trust. They achieve strong teamwork in the these values, Doosan accomplishes its ultimate goal. The Credo consists of Doosan’s “Aspiration” and “Core Values”. truest sense of the word, one that is firmly grounded on fairness and camaraderie. At Doosan we describe this as Inhwa. Aspiration Limitless Aspiration Doosan people impose no limits to their aspirations, constantly setting higher goals and standards. When we say “higher goals and standards”, these goals are not about just becoming Number One. They are about setting goals high enough to allow people to feel great personal pride when they are achieved. Imposing no limits to our aspiration means our Doosan’s ultimate goal is the creation of a “Proud Global Doosan”. efforts and improvements to constantly raise the bar are both unceasing and voluntary. The sense of achievement from achieving our goals provides strong motivation to go beyond our individual limits, fueled by individual curiosity and In our Vision, each of our employees and all of our stakeholders will benefit from, and be proud of their association with, passion. Our people find great personal meaning through this virtuous cycle, spontaneously and tirelessly driving their Doosan. Every employee takes great pride in being a member of Doosan. Each customer recognizes and appreciates aspiration to the next level. Doosan’s high-quality goods and services. Every shareholder values our fair and high levels of profit. Open Communication Doosan people are completely open in communication. We have a strong trust base which allows colleagues to freely express opinions and value those of others, regardless of hierarchy. In fact, we have an obligation to provide constructive dissent when backed by clear rationale. When we make mistakes, we acknowledge them. We never hide them. People who acknowledge mistakes and keep their promises are truly worthy of trust. Such trust enables open Core Values communication. Tenacity & Drive Our people possess true tenacity and the drive to make even the hardest things possible. When faced with a problem, Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo. we never give up but exhaustively research every possibility until we find the answer. But we are different in how Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo everywhere we operate, every day, to build a “Proud we define tenacity. We look at the situation from numerous perspectives, never simply relying on ourselves and our Global Doosan”. These values guide the way we do business, the way we treat each other and the way we work with all of existing resources. Doosan people practice “smart tenacity” utilizing every available option and means, both internal and external, from preparation to implementation, to achieve goals. At all times, we keep the concept of successful our partners. The nine core values of the Doosan Credo are as follows: closure in mind and at the forefront of everything we do. Where necessary, and without hesitation, we actively seek out new ideas, knowledge, technologies and resources, regardless of origin. This allows us to access the best insights and talent in the market. People Cultivating People Integrity and Transparency Prioritization & Focus Inhwa Customers World-class Technology and Innovation Our people focus and prioritize on what matters most. Whatever task we are faced with, our work starts with identifying priorities. When priorities are set, we mobilize all available resources and go straight to the heart of the hardest and Profit Social Responsibility Safety & Environment most important issues, solving them once and for all. Company Profile 05 06 Company Name Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Doosan Infracore’s goal of reaching the world’s top three machinery companies means being a company that posts the industry’s top revenue and profit, faithfully performs its corporate social responsibilities, and continues to provide the best value to all those Year Founded 1937 involved, including shareholders. To achieve this vision, Doosan Infracore is endeavoring to practice the Doosan Way, to establish CEO Yongsung Kim a powerful corporate culture unifying its multinational employees and to foster global talent. Further, in order to supply excellent Main Business Areas Production and Sales of Construction Equipment, Machine Tools, Engines products that maximize customer value, Doosan Infracore is pushing to enhance its capabilities to analyze market and customer Total Assets KRW 11,552.8 billion (USD 10,786 million) / (Consolidated basis) needs, to develop innovative technologies, to secure fundamental quality competitiveness, and to innovate productivity. Equity KRW 2,996.7 billion (USD 2,798 million) / (Consolidated basis) Sales KRW 8,158.4 billion (USD 7,617 million) / (Consolidated basis) Operating Income KRW 362.4 billion (USD 338 million) / (Consolidated basis) Employees 15,206 Credit Rating A (Corporate Bonds) Business Overview Doosan Infracore, with the Doosan Group’s core philosophy the Doosan Way at its foundation, is Doosan Infracore boasts world-class technologies and products in the machine industry, including construction equipment, striving to reach the Global Top 3 in the machinery industry by 2020 on the strength of its leading machine tools, and engines. The Construction Equipment BG offers construction and civil engineering infrastructure solutions technology and products. with the backing of exclusively competitive products such as excavators, wheel loaders, skid-steer loaders, heavy attachments, and articulated dump trucks. The BG also has world-class construction equipment brands such as Bobcat, Geith, Montabert and Tramac. Since its business inception in 1976, the Machine Tools BG has been the foundation for the development of national key industries, and is now taking a leap forward as a global leader through a continued investment in technologies and innovation. The Engine BG has a full lineup of products such as diesel engines and gas engines that meet various environmental regulations, now 2020 emerging as a world-class engine company. Based on its solid global competitiveness in various business groups, Doosan Infracore Global Top 3 vows to pursue innovation and active pioneering to grow as one of the global top three companies in the machinery industry. Machinery Construction Equipment (Including Related Business) Machine Tools Doosan, a total brand of infrastructure support business (ISB), provides diverse products worldwide such as excavators, wheel loaders, ADTs and mobile power generators in the construction equipment, machine tool and engine areas. Construction Equipment: Engines: Global Top 3 Bobcat, a world-class brand of compact equipment in construction, other industries, landscaping and Global Top 3 Global Top Tier Engines with the Best in Metal Cutting agriculture areas, provides total services from design to manufacturing, distribution and support. Technology Geith, a brand of large attachment products for excavators, has earned significant recognition from customers for its excellent quality, services, and highly reliable products over the past 50 years. Technology and Products Montabert is a brand of hydraulic and pneumatic demolition tools, which are used in a wide range of areas including construction, civil engineering, mining and quarrying. The Doosan Way / One Doosan / Global Talent Tramac is a brand of hydraulic breakers and plate compactors designed to maximize productivity based on sophisticated technologies applied to innovative designs and to minimize downtime of work. ( This pocketbook contains an introduction to Doosan Group and Doosan Infracore. ) Doosan Infracore History 1937 Established Chosun Machine Works 1966 Listed on the Korea Stock Exchange 1975 Completed the construction of Incheon Engine & Materials Factory Doosan Infracore manufactures the construction equipment, machine 1977 Completed the construction of Changwon Machine Tools Factory Completed the construction of Incheon Construction Equipment and Industrial Vehicles Factory tools, and engines that support infrastructure construction and 1981 Established the Central R&D Center operation, helping to improve the quality of people’s lives and improving 1986 Started mass production of the excavator model developed in-house 1990 Established Doosan Infracore Europe S.A. in Belgium the future. The company remains committed to achieving economic 1994 Established Doosan Infracore U.K., Ltd. in the U.K. success while fulfilling social responsibilities and protecting the Established Doosan Infracore China Co., Ltd. in Shandong, China environment. 1996 Received the Grand Prize in the Korea Quality Awards 1998 Established Doosan Infracore Germany GmbH in Germany Established Doosan Infracore America Corp. in the USA The Doosan Way, a set of core values for the next century, is the Completed the construction of Forklift Factory in Yantai, China 2003 Established Doosan Infracore Machine Tools Yantai Co., Ltd. in Shandong, China foundation for Doosan Infracore to develop fundamental technology 2004 Awarded the USD 1 Billion Export Tower during the Trade Day and quality competitiveness, and make people the top business priority. 2005 Reborn as Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Established Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. (Rep. Office) in Dubai 2006 Established a holding company in China, Doosan Infracore investment Co., Ltd. The goal is to work in harmony and grow together with diverse 2007 Acquired CTI, holder of original technology for HCNG engines Established Doosan Infracore (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Established stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, Established Doosan Infracore India Private Ltd. and local communities, thereby earning trust and respect as a leading Acquired Yantai Yuhua Machinery Ltd. Established Doosan Infracore International, Inc. (DII) global player. Acquired Ingersoll Rand’s compact equipment unit, along withother units. Awarded the “USD 2 Billion Export Tower” on Trade Day 2008 Established R&D Center for Machine Tools Acquired Moxy, a Norwegian large size dump truck company Completed establishing wheel loader manufactory in China 2010 Constructed Gunsan Construction Equipment Plant 2011 The Industrial Vehicle division was spun off from the company – launched as Doosan Industrial Vehicle Co. Incorporated into Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Asia-Pacific Constructed Doosan Infracore Suzhou Co., Ltd. in China (Doosan Infracore Suzhou Co., Ltd) 2012 Began construction on wheel loader R&D Center in China Began construction on the Integrated R&D Center in Incheon Incorporated into Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Asia-Pacific for 2 Consecutive Years Completed establishing Small-Sized Diesel Engine Plant in Incheon 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report our story, our vision 02 CEO’s Message 04 Vision & Strategy 06 Annual Business Highlights 08 Global Network 10 Product Highlights 14 Business Review: Construction Equipment / Machine Tools / Engines 20 Bobcat is Successfully Sparking Growth 24 Elevating Our Stature in Advanced Markets 26 Our Compact Diesel Engine Will Sharpen Our Competitive Edge 30 Proud Global Doosan 34 A Virtuous Circle of Partnership with Suppliers 01 36 Dream School: Supporting the Growth and Self-reliance of People Building value 42 Sustainable Business Process and Distribution of Economic Value 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test 48 Accountable Corporate Governance 50 Transparent and Ethical Management 51 Risk Management 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution Appendix 74 Consolidated Financial Statements 78 Independent Auditors’ Report 80 Csr Facts & Figures 82 Independent Assurance Report CEO’s Message 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report We are proud Doosan people who will strive to achieve our vision and write our story for success 02 First, let me extend my deep gratitude to you for your unwavering support for us. Backed by your interest and We also were aggressively engaged in activities for raising stakeholder value. We expanded the scope of our support for First: build the solid business structure that can endure in a low-growth market environment. A top priority in 2013 is to Last: bolster CSR for a better future. We are well aware that sustainable corporate growth is only possible when we fulfill 03 patronage, we have dealt with the rapidly changing business direct suppliers in the interest of shared growth, and we began establish the business structure that allows for growth and our responsibilities as a corporate citizen. We have established environment preemptively and aggressively, enabling all our to offer support to secondary suppliers. Our partnerships are prosperity amid the prevailing low economic growth thoughout a solid foundation for operating as a socially responsible operations to keep growing. We are on a proud mission to thus more solidly grounded on a virtuous cycle. In addition, we the world. To this end, we will develop region-specific products enterprise. Starting in 2013, Doosan Infracore created and enrich people’s lives and add value to the world through our continued to fulfill our responsibilities as a mature corporate that can maximize revenue generation in the short term, further implemented the CSR Committee, composed of the top involvement in the infrastructure support business. In the citizen, launching an important new CSR program for teens our price and quality competitiveness, and raise the amount executives in charge of specific areas such as human rights, process, we are again rising rapidly to become one of the called “Dream School.” of sales in China and emerging markets to at least 50% of total labor, shared growth, environmental protection and social world’s top-tier machinery makers. sales by 2017. contributions. In addition, we support the ten principles of the A paradigm shift in management is needed to cope with the United Nations Global Compact, and all of our employees are In 2012, we experienced the greatest uncertainty since era of low growth. The world economy is not experiencing a Second: expand the growth platform by strengthening urged to be actively involved in CSR activities. the financial crisis of 2008. However, our Bobcat Company temporary downturn but has settled into a phase of persistent underlying competitiveness in product quality, technology and (“Bobcat”) and Machine Tools units achieved meaningful results low growth. Most of the European economies are in negative operational costs. Product quality, technology and operational Let me close by asking for your support as we take on the great despite the unfavorable business conditions. Meanwhile, the growth, while economic growth in the U.S. is lower than what costs are fundamental factors of competitiveness and we challenge to make Doosan Infracore one of the world’s Top 3 ongoing fiscal crisis in Europe and delayed economic recovery in was forecasted. Relatively high growth has been maintained in will elevate ours to the highest levels in the global industry, machine manufacturers, standing proud on the global stage. the U.S. caused hardship for many global enterprises during the China and India, but the growth rates here, too, are expected to thereby building a platform for sustainable growth. Quality year. Making matters worse, Chinese economic growth slowed, slow. This indicates that the time has come for a robust strategy targets will be set according to the customers’ perspective, while the Korean Won appreciated in value. for shifting the management paradigm to low growth over the and a companywide quality control system will be firmly long term. established. At the same time, we will acquire the R&D system Our people came together in solidarity, exerting multifaceted and competencies necessary for developing the world’s best efforts that strengthened the entire company amid the difficult We will aggressively implement the Doosan Way to realize our products, while process innovation efforts and cost control conditions. As a result, Bobcat and the Machine Tools Business vision of ranking among the Global Top 3 by 2020. Our goal programs will be put in place companywide to lower operational Group performed well, enabling U.S. to earn KRW 362.4 billion is to secure the underlying competitiveness that will allow our costs and maximize profitability. (USD 338.3 million) in operating profit on sales of more than business to remain unshaken in any global economic slowdown KRW 8.16 trillion (USD 7.62 billion), on a consolidated basis. scenario. To this end, we are pursuing three major principles Third: improve the organizational fabric and culture for Importantly, Bobcat’s North American sales and operating stated in our set of core corporate values known as the Doosan sustainability over the long term. Advanced, scientific work Yongsung Kim, President and CEO profits showed strong growth. In addition, we completed the Way. That is, we are focusing on: (1) nurturing fundamental methods will reduce unnecessary business expenses. In development of high-efficient and eco-friendly compact diesel competitiveness, (2) upgrading work methods, and (3) other words, we will promote efficiency at work by doing our engines that satisfy the latest exhaust emissions standards in the cultivating people who are both strong and caring about others. jobs with greater focus, communicating openly, and thinking U.S. and Europe. In October, we also completed a state-of-the-art The action plans for achieving these aims are as follows: systematically. The ultimate goal is to have the organizational factory that is capable of producing 100,000 of these new compact fabric and culture that allows U.S. to prevail over the competition diesels a year, laying the groundwork for a future growth driver. and grow under any circumstance. Vision & Strategy 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our strategy Business Areas will allow us to Construction Equipment Machine Tools Engines 5th in the world for mid-sized and achieve our vision of large construction equipment Excavators, wheel loaders, air compressors, 5th in the world for tool markets 1st in Korea for industrial-use portable lighting systems, generators Turning centers, machining centers, diesel engines NC boring machines Diesel and CNG engines for industrial use, 1st in the world for power generation, shipboard use, compact construction equipment commercial vehicles ranking among the Skid-steer loaders, mini excavators, mini track loaders 6,132 1,473 553 (75%) (18%) (7%) Global Top 3 by 2020 Sales by Business Group (Unit: KRW in billions) 8,158 (USD 7,617 million) * 2012, on a consolidated basis Overriding Strategies 04 Doosan Infracore: a global ISB leader with solid competitiveness 05 Doosan Infracore is a leader in the infrastructure support business (ISB), manufacturing the construction equipment, Overcome a low-growth market Strengthen fundamental Improve the organizational environment competitiveness fabric and culture machine tools, and engines that support infrastructure construction and operation, which helps to improve the quality of people’s lives and raises the future value of the world’s Focus on products and regions to Elevate the portfolio for Ensure financial soundness cities. We started out in 1937 and established our prominence generate revenue in the short term mid-to long-term products Rank among the by becoming Korea’s largest machine manufacturer. Our drive • Prioritize investment to raise efficiency; Global Top 3 Machine Manufacturers into overseas markets increased in the 1990s, and we continue • Product focus: upgrade current lineups • Introduce new products that comply with allocate investments flexibly to match to strengthen our position in global markets. In 2005, we (introduce improved models in terms of exhaust emission standards in China and changing market conditions. quality performance and price within the emerging markets; build a product The mid-to long-term vision for Doosan started out anew as a member of the Doosan Group, and we next 1-2 years); introduce existing models portfolio that clearly leads the market in Practice the Doosan Way Infracore is to be ranked among the world’s have selectively focused our resources on ISB-related areas to to new markets to maximize revenue for fuel efficiency and durability. Top 3 machine manufacturers by 2020. accelerate our growth. Our subsequent acquisition of worldthe short term. • Continue to practice the Doosan Way, class brands such as Bobcat and Moxy has taken our global Strengthen fundamental competitiveness striving to improve fundamental We aim to be at the top in both construction • Regional focus: focus on emerging (quality, technology, cost) competitiveness and use people-centered, competitiveness to the next level. More recently, our attention equipment and machine tool sectors, boasting markets by strengthening market advanced, and scientific approaches has been focused on generating synergy as we advance rapidly responsiveness and developing models the stature and competencies of a major world • Quality: Greatly improve quality of existing (make work meaningful, raise employees toward the top of our industry, armed with some of the world’s that are tailored to specific markets. and new products; announce extended engagement, apply highly efficient and player. highest competitiveness. warranty periods to raise customer systematic work methods) Cut costs to improve income confidence in the short term Strategies • Technology: Continue to improve R&D Doosan Infracore has established three overriding strategies for • Focus companywide competencies on competencies and acquire new achieving the company vision of ranking among the Global Top securing competitiveness in materials technologies that translate into 3 machine manufacturers: (1) overcome the low-growth market expenses, quality assurance costs. new products that outperform rivals (in environment, (2) strengthen fundamental competitiveness, fuel efficiency, durability) and (3) improve the organizational fabric and culture. Detailed • Cost: Operate a constant cost-cutting strategies and action plans have been set and are being program and strictly control engineering implemented to secure global competitiveness in terms of costs from the product development stage, quality, technology and cost. We are also following the precepts resulting in an integrated cost control system companywide that covers both of the Doosan Way to ensure that our company has the solid new product development and mass organizational fabric and culture needed to grow steadily, production. undeterred by any external business environment. Annual Business Highlights 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Sales (Unit: KRW in billions) Operating profit (Unit: KRW in billions) 8,463 (USD 7,901 million) R&D investment expenditures (Unit: KRW in billions) 8,158 (USD 7,617 million) R&D personnel (persons) 7,482 (USD 6,985 million) 17% 16% Stronger Fundamental Competitiveness for a New Growth Surge Sales and operating profit fell year on year in 2012 as the overall business environment worsened in a sluggish R&D Investment North America in 2012 global economy. Yet we strove to raise our fundamental Compact Construction From the long-term perspective, competitiveness by stepping up R&D investment, rather than focusing solely on Equipment Sales innovating to raise quality and cut costs, and improving short-term gains, we continue Overall sales and operating our fiscal soundness. As a result, the foundation for to invest in R&D and training to profit at Doosan Infracore fell in cultivate people in a bid to secure 2012 because of the worldwide sustainable growth was made stronger. differentiated competitiveness economic slowdown. However, * Standard rate applied is as of Dec. 31, 2012. (1 USD = 1,071.10 KRW) in technology and quality and the performance of the compact develop world-best products. construction equipment unit in North America bucked the 726 (USD 678 million) trend, with operating profit up 680 (USD 634 million) 163% over the previous year on sales that were 16% higher than in 2011.The outlook for further improvement looks bright as well. 362 (USD 338 million) 06 181 (USD 169 million) 07 155 (USD 144 million) 140 (USD 131 million) 124 (USD 116 million) 1,197 917 656 697 2009 2010 2011 2012 Increase in R&D Personnel (%) Increase in Female Employees (%) Training Support to Boost Supplier Minimal Release of Contaminants Industrial Accident Rate (%) CSR Expenditures Compared Capabilities (no. of trainees) into the Environment to Sales Revenue (%) 30.5 17.9 3,519 1 / 10 0.28 0.35 The R&D team has been greatly The groundwork has been laid for increased Support is provided for 74 training Each worksite extensively treats Reinforced safety training and safety Average CSR spending by large Korean reinforced in order to secure fundamental workforce diversity and greater involvement programs, including courses for supplier environmental pollutants, releasing management lowered the accident rate enterprises as a percentage of sales: competitiveness by having the world’s best in the organization by women. executives and courses offered in quantities that are not more than one-tenth significantly from the 0.44% figure posted 0.24% (source: 2012 White Paper on Social products and technologies. cooperation with local universities. the legal limit. in 2011. (Korean industrial average stood Contributions by FKI) at 0.59%) Global Network 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Doosan Infracore accommodates diverse customer needs by operating 21 production subsidiaries, 51 Belgium-Doosan Infracore Construction Equipment EMEA HQ· sales subsidiaries and branches, and 11 research centers around the world. The dealer network spans Belgium-Doosan Infracore Europe S.A. more than 4,000 locations in more than 140 countries, and more than 15,000 people are employed Belgium-Doosan Infracore Portable Power EMEA Czech Republic-Doosan Infracore Manufacturing s.r.o. by Doosan Infracore’s Construction Equipment, Machine Tools and Engine Business Group in 22 Czech Republic-Doosan Bobcat Engineering s.r.o countries, providing customers with top quality products and services. France-Doosan Infracore Europe S.A. France-Montabert SAS Ireland-Geith International Ltd. Germany-Doosan Infracore Europe S.A. Germany-Doosan Infracore Germany GmbH. Norway-Doosan Infracore Norway AS Production subsidiaries 21 Sales subsidiaries and branches 51 08 09 R&D centers 11 U.S.A-Bobcat Company (Fargo) U.S.A-Bobcat Company (Wahpeton) U.S.A-Bobcat Company (Gwinner) U.S.A-Doosan Infracore Portable Power (Statesville) Korea-Incheon Plant Korea-Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. South America -Doosan Infracore South America Korea-Gunsan Plant Korea-Changwon Plant China-Doosan Infracore China Investment Co., Ltd. China-Doosan Infracore China Co., Ltd. China-Doosan Infracore Machine Tools Yantai Co., Ltd. China-Doosan Infracore Shandong Co., Ltd. China-Doosan Infracore Suzhou Co., Ltd. Employees by Region & Percentage of Total (Unit: persons) Sales by Region & Percentage of Total (Unit: KRW in billions) Total Workforce 15,206 Total Sales 8,158 * The sales total for “Emerging” regions covers Latin America, the CIS, South-East Asia (outside China), the Middle East, Africa and India. (The CIS is comprised of Russia and other independent nations that were formerly part of the Soviet Union.) Emerging Regions 424 (2.8%) Korea China Europe North America Korea China Europe North America Emerging Regions 5,764 (37.9%) 3,638 (23.9%) 2,470 (16.3%) 2,910 (19.1%) 1,095 (13.4%) 1,207 (14.8%) 1,608 (19.7%) 3,020 (37.0%) 1,229 (15.1%) Product Highlights 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report DX380LC-3 High-performance, Eco-friendly Excavator Skid-steer Loader Bobcat® S590 with Excellent Productivity & Fuel Efficiency, with Cab-forward Design Optimal Operating Environment and Increased Visibility Doosan Infracore’s brand-new DX380LC-3 is a 38-ton excavator built with innovative The Bobcat S590 skid-steer loader is part of the new M-Series line of compact loaders D-Ecopower technology to create an electronically-controlled hydraulic pump that featuring durability and performance enhancements that provide operators increased delivers the required hydraulic flow and power. As a result, this machine significantly uptime, improved visibility and a more comfortable cab. The vertical lift path provides outperforms existing models in terms of productivity and fuel efficiency. The levels increased lifting capacity and greater forward reach at full lift height. The newly of operability, control and operator comfort are all judged to be superior, and the improved cab-forward design places the operator closer to the attachment while DX380LC-3 is expected to attract much attention in the marketplace as a highly providing a better vantage point in all directions. In addition to the loader’s enlarged efficient, eco-friendly excavator. cab door opening — the largest on the market — additional windows increase visibility, creating a clearer view of the machine’s wheels or raised attachment. Simple check points make it easier to perform maintenance correctly at the proper intervals. Higher fuel efficiency based on work output (%) Higher fuel efficiency based on work hours (%) Larger front view (%) Less noise and dust in the cabin (%) 24 21 30 60 *comparison with other Doosan equipment *comparison with other Doosan equipment *comparison with other Doosan equipment *comparison with other Doosan equipment 11 10 Product Highlights 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report VC630 / 5AX Simultaneous 5-axis Vertical Machining Center Eco-friendly Compact Diesel Engine D24 with High Rigidity and with Top Performance & Efficiency, Ultra-high Precision Rugged Durability The VC 630 / 5AX from Doosan Infracore is a high-rigidity vertical machining center The compact diesel engines developed by Doosan Infracore are designed to deliver high capable of controlling five axles simultaneously. Functionality, productivity and operator output while lowering fuel and lubricating oil consumption. Technology innovations convenience are all outstanding. Built-in spindles that run up to 12,000 rpm provide remove more of the pollutants from the exhaust without having to add a diesel powerful cutting during high-speed machining, allowing for the machining of complex particulate filter. Exhaust, smoke and toxic substances have all been lowered by more shapes. Accelerated automatic tool changer, rapid feed rate, spindle cooling system than 99%, enabling this model to comply with the U.S. EPA’s Tier 4 Final and EU’s Stage and micro-boring bar are all standard equipment, while the automatic pallet changer is IIIB & IV emission standards. The compact diesel engine with high fuel efficiency and optional, allowing new work-pieces to be set up even while the machine is in operation. better eco-friendliness is the product that will satisfy demand going forward, and the Customer satisfaction is maximized with convenience features such as the thermal D24 is sure to enjoy great competitiveness in the world’s most advanced markets. displacement compensation on the “Z” axis and automatic measuring system. 75 30,000 Tier 4 Final Repeat purchase rate (%) Maximum output (rpm) Latest emission regulation compliant 12 13 99 Reduction in harmful emissions (%) Construction Equipment Business Review 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Business Outlook for 2013 Brazil Plant Completed with The Chinese construction equipment market continued to Annual Output Capacity of 1,500 Units be lackluster in 2012, but activity in the housing market and the macroeconomic picture have begun to pick up in 2013. Doosan Infracore has increased activities in Brazil, a Consequently, the demand for construction equipment is market with strong growth potential. The company began exporting excavators to Brazil in 2006, and established expected to recover in the second half of the year. Sales of a local branch the following year. Doosan Infracore construction equipment in the North American region showed South America (DISA), a local production subsidiary, growth from 2011 and this growth is expected to continue was launched in 2011, and ground was broken for an in 2013, although at a more modest rate. The aftereffects of excavator factory in Americana, Sao Paulo, in May 2011. the fiscal crisis will persist in Europe, where risk will ease After one year and eight months of construction, Doosan somewhat but the general slowdown will continue without a Infracore’s first production facility in Latin America was dramatic turnaround. Southeast Asia, South America and the completed, and regular operation started up in the second half of 2012. Initial annual output capacity is Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS, which includes 1,500 units. The project is highly significant because all Russia) were all slow in 2012 with the downturn on raw material the related processes, from site purchase to construction exports. However, a stronger economy in China, a major completion, were carried out exclusively with internal importer of minerals, should lead to steadily improving market resources. The excavators made here are currently being conditions in these regions in the second half of the year. sold in Brazil and three other Latin American countries, and they will help to advance the local infrastructure Key Action Plans for 2013 support business. The Construction Equipment Business Group intends to achieve Importantly, the World Cup will be held in Brazil in 2014, 9% year-on-year sales growth in 2013. To this end, efforts will followed by the Olympic Games in 2016. Preparations Doosan Infracore’s Construction Equipment Market Conditions and Business Results in 2012 focus on (1) creating a business structure capable of responding for these events are expected to drive local demand Weakened overall economic performance in the U.S. and Eurorapidly to the sluggish global market and (2) improving internal for construction equipment, and Doosan Infracore Business Group has been supplying highis now in a position to supply excavators locally. In zone heightened a sense of crisis in the global construction fundamentals. More specifically, market share will increase in quality large excavators and loaders to equipment market in 2012, while sluggish growth in the Chinese China by rearranging the sales network to secure solid sales addition, a local parts distribution center operates a delivery network 24 hours a day for greater customer construction sites since 1977, contributing to the economy exacerbated the market contraction, which was 31% channels and by bolstering the product lineup. New excavator satisfaction. The goal is to rank DISA among the Top 3 advancement of infrastructure around the world. smaller than it had been a year earlier. Breaking down the and wheel loader models will continue to be developed to excavator makers in Latin America with a 20% market 14 We acquired Bobcat (compact construction numbers by region, construction equipment sales actually were up 19% from the previous year, but excavator demand in accommodate user requirements in specific new markets such as Brazil, Indonesia, the Middle East, Africa and Russia. share. The annual output capacity of the Brazil factory will be increased in stages to reach 2,500 units. 15 equipment) in 2007 and Moxy Engineering China was flat, causing excavator sales there to fall 38% from Dealer networks will expand in the most important of these (heavy-duty articulated dump trucks) the previous year. Performance was also lower in Europe, India regions, while dealer sales and after-sales service capabilities • Total investment: KRW 60 billion and Latin America. The market in Korea was also tough, as the will improve to increase sales performance. In North America, • Site area: 116,000m2 the following year, helping to fill out our • Annual production capacity: 1,500 excavators overall construction industry was slow. These factors weighed meanwhile, upgraded product models will be introduced and construction equipment portfolio from compact on Doosan Infracore’s Construction Equipment Business Group, production capacity expanded to maintain market leadership to large-sized models. where sales dropped 6% from the previous year to just over and raise profitability. Doosan Infracore solidly remains on top in KRW 6,132 billion. Sales were lower in China, but rose 19% in North America and 4% in Europe during the period. the Korean construction equipment market and the global reputation for excellence is Efforts to Raise Global Competitiveness helping to make Doosan Infracore one of the In 2012, the Construction Equipment Business Group launched its own Corporate Research & Design Division, dedicated to world’s leaders in construction equipment, advancing sophisticated technology and elevating product attachments, air compressors, lighting systems quality. Cooperation with the Quality has stepped up; greater and generators. investment is now being made in platform and cutting-edge Doosan Infracore operates factories in technologies; and a supplier system has been established with the Engine Business Group. Product management is also Korea, China, the Americas, and Europe, being integrated globally to raise the competitiveness of midwhile the brand portfolio includes such sized and heavy-duty models, and an Innovation Center is to globally renowned names as Doosan, Bobcat, be established in North America to bolster the competitiveness of compact construction equipment. Meanwhile, overseas 6,132 Montabert, Tramac and Geith. production will continue to expand. An excavator factory with an annual production capacity of 1,500 units was completed in Sales Performance (Unit: KRW in billions) Brazil in 2012 and is now in regular operation. In addition, a new organizational unit was formed to offer an integrated solution to customers’ after-sales service and parts needs, thereby 2010 5,963 elevating customer satisfaction. The percentage of parts 2011 6,487 supplied locally continues to rise around the world. 2012 6,132 Machine Tools Business Review 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Business Outlook for 2013 China DIMF Held to Bolster China Business The persistent fiscal crisis in the Eurozone will be a drag on new facility investments in 2013, adversely affecting the Doosan Infracore entered the Chinese machine tool machine tool market. Indeed, growth is generally expected to market in 2002, and marked the 10th anniversary of this slow in both the advanced and emerging markets. Economic event by hosting the China Doosan Infracore Machine recovery in the U.S. will be delayed, but new investments Tools Fair (DIMF) at the Doosan Yantai factory on May 1819. This was the third annual event, which was also held in manufacturing and other sectors should spur machine in 2006 and 2008. More than 650 people from customers, tool demand. On the other hand, the Western European dealers and the Chinese government attended the twoautomobile industry is contracting, which will lower the need day show. The Machine Tools Business Group displayed for new machine tools. In China, demand is switching over 25 new models, including 11 turning centers, 13 machining from a volume of low-end machines to a smaller volume of centers, and one electrical discharge machine. Also higher-end models, which will lower the overall growth rate. introduced was the SMART-i System, which enables Meanwhile the markets in Eastern Europe, Turkey, Russia, customers to monitor machine tool status remotely by smartphone. The dealer and customer representatives Southeast Asia, and Latin America are forecasted to register at the show were also briefed on plans to greatly expand high growth as governments invest in infrastructure, the local R&D and production capacities (doubling the internal markets expand, and global companies are induced Yantai factory output) by 2016, and their response was to invest in local manufacturing facilities. In Korea, activity will enthusiastic. remain sluggish in all industrial sectors except automobiles and some mold and dye making segments during the first half • Event location: DIY factory, Yantai, China of 2013, which will intensify competition among machine tool • Event dates: May 18-19, 2012 • Products on display: makers. However, overall demand should recover somewhat 25 models, including turning centers, The Machine Tools Business Group at Doosan Market Conditions and Business Results in 2012 in the second half of the year. machining centers, and electrical discharge machine The global economic downturn slowed most regional markets Infracore started out with the completion of a for machine tools, but the U.S. was an exception. The machine Key Action Plans for 2013 factory in Changwon in 1976. Through ongoing tool industry is swayed by investments in manufacturing Doosan Infracore aims to increase sales by focusing differentiated R&D investment and great sacrifice, the Business facilities, and the Machine Tools Business Group has addressed marketing strategies on China and emerging markets, where Group has managed to secure proprietary this issue by implementing marketing strategies that vary significant growth is expected. Sales networks will be reinforced 16 technologies and deliver superb product quality. according to the market conditions in specific regions. Overseas, marketing is being strengthened at the local level. Marketing in advanced markets in anticipation of the market turnaround, and marketing strategies will be devised for each region to 17 Today, the world-class machine tools from Doosan activities are conducted on a regional basis; the sales network reflect local characteristics. Product lineups will also be built to Infracore are contributing to the advancement is being expanded, and the Business Group is participating accommodate changing customer needs. Additionally, global in all the major trade shows. Domestically, meanwhile, we competitiveness will be raised and an integrated quality control of industry at home and abroad. Importantly, have marketed aggressively by taking advantage of superior system will be put in place to bolster the growth platform for the Doosan Infracore boasts some of the world’s most competitiveness in order to increase sales and maximize profits. machine tool and factory automation business. The Machine sophisticated technologies for turning centers The concerted efforts inside and outside Korea enabled the Tools Business Group will also open the in-house product fair and machining centers, which are mainstay Business Group’s sales to surpass KRW 1,473 billion in 2012, up (DIMF*) in Korea and attend the EMO show in Germany to elevate 3.3% from the previous year. global recognition of Doosan’s outstanding new technologies and product lines. brand. At the same time, aggressive marketing will be aimed at The Business Group is also on the cutting Differentiated Growth Strategies by Region the medical, energy, IT, aerospace and defense industries, where edge of the industry, developing advanced, In 2012, the Machine Tools Business Group followed growth demand for machine tools is expected to continue rising. The goal strategies designed for each major geographical region and is to achieve a steady increase in the sales of high-end (valuevalue-added models that are essential in ecodiversified the product portfolio as part of a region-specific added) models, thereby improving overall profitability. Internal friendly automobile production, aerospace, IT, marketing approach, thereby minimizing the effects of competencies will be improved through process innovation bioengineering, and components for medical changing market conditions. This concerted effort boosted activities, an upgraded market sensing system, and better machines. Moreover, the product lineups continue Doosan’s international stature and brought significant business product support functions, which will lead to higher customer results, including the Business Group’s largest single order for satisfaction. to be diversified from the customers’ perspective. machine tools ever, which was received from China’s Jianghuai Not only is engineering tailored to individual Automotive Group. Meanwhile, the Business Group continued to * DIMF (Doosan International Machine Tools Fair) needs, but the global sales and after-sales introduce new models and elevate the brand image, hosting the China Doosan Infracore Machine Tools Fair (DIMF) in Yantai, and 1,473 network and number of technology support taking part in the Seoul International Manufacturing Technology centers continue to expand to maximize customer Show (SIMTOS) in Korea and the International Manufacturing Sales Performance (Unit: KRW in billions) satisfaction. Technology Show (IMTS) in the U.S. Prominently on display was the Global Standard Turning Center (GT2100), an upgraded Puma P240 version that is setting new trends in the turning center 2010 1,022 segment. The GT2100 represents the first model in the new G 2011 1,426 Series, which is boosting Doosan Infracore’s global product 2012 1,473 competitiveness. Engines Business Review 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Business Outlook for 2013 State-of-the-art Factory for Compact Diesel Engines The business environment is expected to worsen in 2013, as the slowdown in Korea’s construction industry and the fiscal crisis Doosan Infracore completed a plant for high-efficiency, in Europe continue. Demand will also be lower in China, where eco-friendly compact diesel engines that completely economic recovery is delayed. On the other hand, demand for satisfy the strict exhaust emission standards recently put into effect in the U.S. and Europe. The plant, which clean-burning gas engines and high-output diesels continues went into regular mass production in October 2012, is to rise, and overall demand should recover, led by the emerging located on a 14,000m2 site on the premises of the Incheon markets of the Middle East and South America. In addition, manufacturing complex. It is equipped with the latest the various opportunity factors are not small, including the facilities and is scheduled to produce 10,000 units in 2013. potential purchasing power of large-scale operators and the Annual production will reach 100,000 units a year by 2016 expanding base of regular customers. The possibility exists for and will eventually double to 200,000 units. securing growth momentum for the mid-to long-term. At the The greatest feature of this plant is the advanced same time, government-led economic stimulus packages are production system that checks the engines in real time, helping the construction industry to recover and are promoting adjusts valve clearance automatically and employs new infrastructure projects, which should mean sales growth Vision Check robots and other automated robotics on the for Doosan Infracore as well. The domestic market for assembly line. An advanced manufacturing environment commercial vehicle engines is likely to grow modestly, led by with real-time monitoring is in place to ensure consistent demand for mid-sized trucks. The generator engine segment is product quality. Moreover, features such as the digital maturing and growth will slow. Continued growth in demand for picking system and on-screen assembly work orders help prevent human error, while the state-of-the-art production CNG engines, however, is seen over the mid-to long-term with control system, which is equipped with advanced features the increase in shale gas extraction. such as RFID* and MES*, provides the competitiveness The Engine Business Group started making Market Conditions and Business Results in 2012 and quality of a world-leading engine manufacturer. This The adverse business environment continued in 2012: Low Key Action Plans for 2013 new factory will contribute significantly to the realization Korea’s first diesel engines in 1958 and has been of Doosan Infracore’s ultimate goal: to be ranked among economic growth in China caused demand for construction The focus in 2012 was on improving short-term profitability expanding its business ever since. equipment to plummet, and the market for commercial vehicle and bolstering fundamental competitiveness in preparation the world’s top three machine manufacturers. Today the Business Group supplies global and generator engines was sluggish, sparking fierce price for the market turnaround, and these activities will continue * RFID: radio frequency identification customers with diesel and compressed natural competition. However, steps were taken to minimize the drop in 2013. Sales capabilities are being reinforced in the key * MES: manufacturing execution system 18 gas (CNG) engines for buses and trucks, in sales amid the market downturn, including an aggressive drive in the North American generator market that resulted in regions of North America, the EU, and China. The sale of CNG engines and value-added models will be promoted to generate • Site area: 14,000m2 19 industry, power generators, and ships. • Annual capacity: 100,000 units a strategic alliance with North America’s largest maker of gas more revenue. In addition, a new generator engine scheduled • Facilities: production building, warehouse The R&D team has been devoted to developing engines and a new partnership with a maker of firefighting for release will deliver 10-20% more output than existing • Main systems: pump engines. These contracts will translate into some models. Multifaceted efforts will be made over the mid-to longautomatic vision checks, digital picking, RFID eco-friendly engines to meet ever-stricter KRW 100 billion in new sales through 2015. In addition, the term to elevate fundamental competitiveness in the areas of exhaust emission standards, and has come major earthquake that struck Japan in 2011 sparked demand product quality, technology and cost. At the same time, new out with Euro IVand Euro V-compliant diesel for emergency power generation equipment, and Doosan construction equipment engines in the small and new-midsized engines for vehicles as well as the GK12 CNG has aggressively gone after this market, concluding supply range will be launched globally to great success; the markets agreements with leading local generator makers. Doosan’s will be expanded for generator and marine diesels as well as engine for power generation. In 2012 the stature in Japan has been strengthened as a result, and the CNG engines; and the feasibility and commercial viability of Business Group completed development of Business Group’s sales for the year came to KRW 553 billion, investments in new product development will be ensured. sophisticated compact diesels that satisfy the up slightly from 2011. tougher U.S. Tier 4 Final and EU Stage IIIB & IV Laying the Groundwork for Global Leadership standards, and these new models are now in In 2012, the Engine Business Group bolstered the platform for mass production. advancing rapidly toward global leadership by raising technology and quality competitiveness and by developing and initiating mass production of eco-friendly compact diesel engines. Various efforts were made to further global competitiveness through improved product quality and operational productivity: Old production facilities were either replaced or retrofitted; Six Sigma activities were extended; support was provided for activities to bolster suppliers’ competitiveness; and new testing and measuring equipment has been brought in. Of special note, the Business Group applied advanced combustion and Sales Performance (Unit: KRW in billions) 553 exhaust after-treatment technologies to develop compact diesel engines with outstanding environmental performance. A high2010 497 tech factory capable of turning out 100,000 units a year was 2011 550 completed in October, and mass production has begun. 2012 553 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Bobcat Is Successfully sparking growth Growth Driven by Bobcat’s Improved Performance in North America 20 21 Bobcat’s steadily improving performance is sparking Doosan’s North America operations. Doosan Infracore acquired Bobcat in 2007, just before the onset of a global economic crisis. However, the company managed to return to the black in 2011 and its profitability has continued to improve, which has contributed significantly to Doosan Infracore’s overall business activities. The construction market in the U.S. began to pick up again in 2010, fueling the need for builders to replace aging equipment. Meanwhile, the concerted effort at Bobcat to cut costs and improve returns on investment has started to pay off and the company introduced the popular M-Series excavators and loaders. These combined developments resulted in 163% higher operating profit and a 16% increase in compact construction equipment sales in 2012 over the previous year’s figures. West Fargo Office, On the other hand, Bobcat benefited from Doosan Infracore’s Growth in North America, Greater Inroads into Emerging Markets 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report North Dakota, USA broad-based support, bolstering its global competitiveness in all Activity returned to the U.S. housing market in 2012, and it is areas, including production, technology and after-sales services, expected to carry over to 2013, along with growth in the market to establish a solid growth platform. The global economic crisis for construction equipment. The housing market index and and subsequent slowdown in the U.S. real estate market posed new housing starts are both on an upward trend, and growth difficulties soon after the landmark deal was concluded. However, is now forecast to continue for the next 2-3 years. Construction Bobcat’s performance started to turn around in the third quarter equipment replacement demand is also rising steadily while the of 2010 and the company regained profitability in 2011, and both housing market is returning to life, and these factors should add sales and operating income have continued to grow since then. resiliency to Bobcat’s own growth. This growth has been fueled by the recovery in the U.S. In addition to the steady growth in the North American market, construction equipment market since 2010 and increased demand the growth projected for emerging markets over the mid-to longfor replacement equipment in North America. At the same time, term will have a positive effect on Bobcat’s performance. In the Bobcat has reduced fixed costs and implemented various strategies early stages of their economic development, nations mainly Bobcat’s Unique Strengths Bobcat®: the World’s Top Name in Compact to maximize returns on investment for improved operational require heavy-duty construction equipment to build the basic Construction Equipment efficiency. Another important factor driving sales growth has been infrastructure. However, once such infrastructure is in place and Robust attachment solutions 1 Bobcat has been in the business of making compact construction the introduction of the new M-Series, which has major performance requires maintenance and repair, demand for compact equipment Bobcat offers the most attachments in the industry to maximize equipment for more than half a century and now is the premiere improvements over other models sold by Bobcat as well as by rises. In addition, when GDP reaches a certain level in developing construction equipment utility . brand in this product segment. The company started out in competitors. countries, then work that was traditionally performed by hand is Gwinner, North Dakota, in 1958, introducing the world’s first skidincreasingly done by compact machines. These factors will most Great operator convenience 2 steer loader. The Bobcat brand was launched in 1962, and the Bobcat Technology and Products Trusted Worldwide likely translate into additional growth opportunities. Such rising Performance: More powerful hydraulics boosts excavation company began exporting its products in 1970, after which its Dominant brand power and integrated solutions encompassing demand for skid-steer loaders, mini excavators and other compact performance, and the machine can do more while consuming less fuel. Work can be completed faster and more efficiently. business grew rapidly. In addition to skid-steer loaders, Bobcat product design, production, distribution and technical support construction equipment types will enable Bobcat to expand its Stability: Adjustments in cabin positioning and increased continued to be first to bring new product categories to market, are why Bobcat products are so eagerly sought and thoroughly presence from advanced markets to include emerging markets. cabin size have enlarged the operator’s field of vision to the including mini excavators, utility vehicles, and mini track loaders. trusted worldwide. Bobcat operates a unique system for new front, while the interior is roomy and the operator’s seat is For decades, Bobcat has maintained the largest share of the world product development through 12 R&D centers around the comfortable. Serviceability: The transversely-mounted engine facilitates market for skid-steer loaders, all-wheel steer loaders, mini track globe, and the Company’s impressive R&D competencies and inspection of all routine maintenance points (oil, various fluids, loaders and utility work machines (the Toolcat™) and the second core parts production technologies are evidenced by more than oil filter, air cleaner, and battery). Bobcat’s patented belt drive largest share for mini excavators and compact track loaders. 2,000 technology-related patents. In addition to technological system has been applied, reducing fuel consumption and The company holds a 40% share of the compact construction superiority, robust attachment solutions boost Bobcat’s product providing better accessibility to the engine. equipment markets in North America and Europe. utility, while operator convenience features raise productivity. Eco-friendliness (Tier 4) 3 Bobcat machines are also built to comply with ever-stricter Doosan Infracore is committed to keeping the air clear and Approximately 1,000 independent dealers in more than 100 emissions regulations, including Tier 4 Interim and Tier 4 Final. countries as well as more than 3,000 salespeople provide services Taken together, these benefits add up to higher customer 22 23 protecting public health. A new line of diesel engines has been developed that satisfies Tier 4 Interim and Tier 4 Final exhaust to Bobcat customers. Bobcat provides its dealers with professional satisfaction. emission standards, minimizing the amounts of particulate training and management to ensure the best customer service, matter, nitrogen oxides and other substances that are released and the resulting longstanding trust is the basis for an excellent The quality of Bobcat’s customer service is also among the best into the air. relationship with customers. in the business. Ten plants are in operation around North America and Europe, and products are delivered to customers through a A Major Global Brand at Doosan Infracore The acquisition of Bobcat by Doosan Infracore in 2007 served global network that spans more than 900 locations. As a result, customers can quickly receive the products and after-sales 248 (2,520) both companies well, laying the groundwork for a new round of services they need. rapid growth. On the one hand, Doosan Infracore secured new production and sales networks in North America, Europe and Market Share of Skid-steer Loader by Region China, while the product portfolio also achieved better balance with the addition of compact construction equipment to its North America existing lineups of mid-sized and heavy-duty models. Now Doosan 213 (2,580) 2011 37.2% Infracore is able to address the volatility in both emerging and advanced markets more effectively. 2012 40.1% EMEA (Europe / Middle East / Africa) 2011 47.0% 2012 49.5% Bobcat is releasing new models with significant improvements to fuel efficiency and performance, thereby 81 (2,232) bolstering its market leadership. Major profitability gains will also be achieved after Doosan’s compact diesel engines Bobcat’s Operating Profit for North America (Sales) are mounted in Bobcat machines. (Unit: KRW in billions) 2011 2012 2013 (E) Increasing Sales and Elevating Stature Of special note, the Machine Tools Business Group participated 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report in Advanced Markets in the International Manufacturing Technology Show (IMTS) in The Chinese economy continues to grow, making China September 2012, and the Doosan Infracore booth was right in the world’s largest market for machine tools. The economic front of the main booth area, where the world’s top five firms slowdown may have caused machine tool demand to contract displayed their wares. The IMTS is one of the world’s leading in Europe and the U.S., but they still remain the secondand trade shows for manufacturers of all kinds (more than 100,000 third-largest machine tool markets. The advanced markets industrial decision-makers in attendance), and it served as an are not only vast in themselves, they are very important when important opportunity for Doosan Infracore to promote its rising marketing to new customers in emerging economies. Such global stature. customers have experience in purchasing machine tools from suppliers in the advanced markets and they are very sensitive to The European machine tool market, meanwhile, contracted brand reputation. In step with this reality, the Doosan Infracore 4% from 2011 due to the ongoing slowdown in business Machine Tools Business Group is employing differentiated activity overall. However, the Machine Tools Business Group business strategies and they are paying off. managed to increase regional sales by 6% year on year. To make this happen, marketing resources were focused on Eastern Demand in the U.S. machine tool market grew by about 20% Europe and Russia—where demand for machine tools was the in 2012, as the economy started to rebound and automakers strongest. At the same time, aggressive marketing along with and other manufacturers increased their investments in new corrective actions in underperforming sales channels helped to facilities. The Machine Tools Business Group faced a severe raise market share in Western Europe. slowdown in business activity from 2009, but did not sit idly by waiting for things to improve. Rather, aggressive steps were The regional headquarters in Germany was relocated to a taken to bolster local sales organizations and technical support larger facility, and both the workforce and marketing apparatus capabilities, and as a result multiple large project orders from were expanded and reinforced significantly. The Machine Tools leading auto parts makers such as TRW, Valeo and Linimar have Business Group also engaged in robust sales promotions at been received and delivered. At the same time, many more regional trade shows such as EMO (Exposition mondiale de la heavy-duty machine tool models have been sold to customers Machine Outil), the largest European event for machine tools. in the oil & gas and construction industries. As a result, the The net result was a stronger brand and position for Doosan Business Group’s annual sales were up 51% year on year. Infracore in the European machine tool industry. 24 25 Sales by Region (Unit: KRW in billions) North America Europe 2011 2012 228.9 345.4 51% 6% 2011 303.0 2012 321.1 Elevating The Innovative SMX, a Next-generation Multitasking Machine Tool Design Our Stature in Regarding the Innovative SMX, a Next-generation Multitasking Machine Tool, to establish its unique machine tool product identity with the aim of innovating our product design, Doosan Infracore established the design spirit of “strength with sensitivity.” We thus gathered ergonomic data by element such as Innovation Advanced Markets accessibility to the main axis, and developed a solid design geared toward being user-friendly and stable performance, thus further bolstering our product competitiveness. Based on such innovation efforts, our newly unveiled SMX product achieved a visible directional combination structure, thus highlighting strength and dynamics. We applied metallic blue to the product, shedding the existing pastel-tone soft and warm feeling, and giving it a strong image suited Using Differentiated Strategies to Grow the to the spirit of strength. The Machine Tool Division’s innovative design renewal Machine Tool Business in North America and Europe strategy is expected not only to minimize the technical gap with advanced competitors, but also to help realize our vision of becoming one of the Global Top Three Infrastructure Support Businesses. 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 26 27 Future Growth Driver: Eco-friendly Compact Diesel Engine Our Compact Diesel Engine Will Sharpen Our Competitive Edge Doosan Infracore is being invigorated by its latest R&D success. The company applied sophisticated technologies to complete the development of compact diesel engines that can be mounted in a wide range of equipment for industrial use. Mass production started in 2012. These are the first engines of their kind made in Korea that satisfy the U.S. Environment Protection Agency’s latest Tier 4 Final standards. They are not only highly efficient, but are also very powerful. They conserve both fuel and lubricating oil, and run cleaner without the need for an external diesel particulate filter (DPF). A total of 10,000 units in three different models will be produced in 2013, with production eventually being expanded to 100,000 units a year. Increase in R&D Personnel Increase in R&D Investment Improvement in fuel efficiency based on Reduction in harmful particulate matter emitted 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report (from 917 in 2011 to 1,197 in 2012) (from KRW 154.49 billion in 2011 to KRW 181.01 billion in 2012) excavator work output by the compact diesel engine (D24) Comparison with other Doosan equipment Comparison with other Doosan equipment 30.5% 17.2% 24% 99% INNOVATIVE sustainable Stronger Technology Competitiveness through Stronger R&D Meanwhile, the Division will work to ensure that preset Effort to Develop Eco-friendly Technologies and Results Machine Tools Business Group: The Machine Tools Business Integration to Increase the R&D Organization’s Efficiency: costs are maintained at every stage, from planning to mass Climate change and other environmental issues are now Group has dedicated to the development of the technologies Changes were initiated at Doosan Infracore’s R&D organization production, by tightening design cost controls and employing recognized as global problems, and countries around the for energy and resources saving and successfully developed in 2012. In April, the R&D units at the Institute of Technology, cost prediction processes. With the adoption of DFSS (Design world continue to tighten their regulations governing exhaust Lubrication Adaptive Spindle Motor Control technology. This Engine Business Group, and Construction Equipment Business For Six Sigma) to ensure the design quality, quality problems emissions. Persistently high oil prices are also accelerating technology, implementing control linked with spindle operation, Group were brought together to form the new Corporate R&D will be faster resolved and problems will be further prevented. the need to develop new technologies and alternative fuels. can minimize lubricant consumption using an oil injection Division to devote companywide resources on innovating Doosan Infracore is responding aggressively to these changes system in accordance with the spindle operation. Minimization quality, developing new products, and acquiring the original Systematic Development of R&D Personnel: The Division has in business conditions, devoting R&D resources on finding of lubricant use leads to minimization of waste oil from the technologies. The Corporate R&D Division, with its centralized developed and implemented the R&D Functional Competency ways to improve machine operability and fuel efficiency as well shop and environment protection. R&D capabilities and strong project execution capability, will Program to systematically cultivate R&D personnel. This as to reuse and recycle resources. These efforts are paying off quickly construct the new R&D infrastructure as well as attract process is designed to cultivate “specialist-generalists,” while in numerous ways. Engine Business Group: The Engine Business Group has and nurture the necessary personnel. The Division will be taking into account researchers’ technology specialization and developed the eco-friendly, high-efficiency compact diesel able to supply, at the right time, construction equipment that career advancement paths, and to respond flexibly to future Construction Equipment Business Group: Priority research engines that comply with the tougher Tier 4 Final exhaust is the most competitive in terms of the market requirements requirements for technology changes and upgrades. projects at the Construction Equipment Business Group include emission standards for industrial-use equipment now in force 28 for quality, price, and performance. At the same time, a global R&D system will be put in place, along with the capabilities Expansion of Advanced R&D Infrastructure: In June 2012, reducing hydraulic fluid consumption and developing hybrid excavators. In order to enhance hydraulic fluid efficiency, the in the U.S. and Europe. The new models are made possible by intensive application of advanced design methodologies 29 to develop models that serve global markets. In the process, Doosan Infracore broke ground for an integrated R&D center D-ECOPOWER technology was applied. The technology is and know-how, and they are recognized for having a great Doosan Infracore can achieve its corporate vision at the earliest on the site of the Incheon Plant to concentrate personnel and designed to sense the hydraulic fluid and power necessary for competitive advantage over rival products. In January 2013, possible date. functions at one location. The KRW 56 billion project, scheduled the operation of the excavator, thus controlling the hydraulic the Korean government conferred its Jang Yeong-sil Award, the for completion in September 2014, includes a 12-story structure pump and supplying as much fluid and power as necessary. highest honor for industrial technology, on Doosan Infracore Robust Design Capabilities and Price Competitiveness for with two underground levels that accommodates some 1,000 As such, compared with the Company’s existing model, the for its breakthrough product. A key feature for minimizing Construction Equipment: The Corporate R&D Division is engaged R&D personnel. In addition to office and research areas, the fuel efficiency per excavator work was enhanced by 24%. emissions is Doosan’s Ultra-low Particulate Matter Combustion in various efforts to create robust product designs and raise price center will provide a “Town Hall Meeting Space” and “Idea The technology has already been installed on the 34and 38(ULPC) technology, which optimizes the combustion of competitiveness. In the design area, the Division is bolstering Rooms” for fostering communication and cultivating creative ton excavators, and its use will be steadily expanded to other harmful particulate matter by optimizing the combustion bowl analytical competencies and applying virtual gates. These new ideas. Meanwhile, a state-of-the-art wheel loaders R&D center models in the future. Moreover, other control technologies will shape, injector nozzle, cylinder head swirl, and exhaust gas processes thoroughly examine the operability and productivity of was completed at the production complex in Yantai, China, be applied to cut fuel consumption still more. Development recirculation mix. As a result, the engines can satisfy Tier 4 the new models to be developed, which is expected to halve the in January 2013. The new center will strengthen technology work began in 2007 on a sophisticated hybrid excavator. In Final without having to install a diesel particulate filter, and fuel time needed to create the prototype and reduce design changes expertise and work on the development of new models designed 2012, the prototype under development proved to be more fuel efficiency is improved as well. Meanwhile, various technologies from the pilot stage onward by up to 90%. specifically for China. efficient, and now durability is being improved and production have been applied to optimize the performance of 8and 11-liter costs reduced in order to achieve commercial viability. Currently, CNG engines so that they meet Euro VI standards. the Business Group is focused on developing ways to reduce the production cost of this breakthrough technology. Major R&D Achievements in 2012 Eco-friendly Products Construction Equipment Machine Tools Engines VBO system for 34/ 38-ton excavators Sensorless heat displacement correction Tier 4 Final-compliant engines VBO control and other fuel-saving Optimized cutting ULPC combustion technologies for excavators Improved spindle speed control Low-temperature combustion Hybrid excavator prototype Technology for high-deceleration travel system Unmanned process manufacturing system Technology for auto-transmission of Excavators (34and 38-ton models) with process program VBO system Compact diesel engines Hybrid excavators 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 30 31 Proud Global Doosan Proud Global Doosan & the Doosan Way “People” have always been at the center of the Doosan organization. We have been growing for more than 100 years the basis of the philosophy handed down from our founder. He believed that a business could only grow if investments were made in people and that people could prosper when a business grows. Although times have changed, along with the business environment and our business areas, we have managed to generate value ceaselessly because of this belief in “people.” With this belief, Doosan embarks on another century. Our employees are people who pursue shared aspirations by constantly aiming higher while maintaining a sense of camaraderie. We are willing to listen to one another and work closely together, and we achieve results by innovating constantly and taking on challenges. A consistent spirit and conviction guide the way that our people think and act. That is the Doosan Way, which encompasses the beliefs, management philosophy, corporate culture and business practices geared toward our becoming a “Proud Global Doosan.” The Doosan Way Employee Consensus and Internalization 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report We refined and codified the management philosophy and business practices We decided that the Doosan Way is meaningful only when employees The Doosan Way Workshop was a valuable opportunity for U.S. to think about and reach agreement on the that have been employed at Doosan over the past 100 years to create the voluntarily participate in it. Therefore, we disseminated the idea of the Doosan important values that we tend to forget during our Doosan Credo, which lists our aspirations and details nine core values. These Way to our employees in a totally new way. In order to build understanding of busy work schedule day to day. Among the explanation core values serve as the basis for how all decisions are made and what actions the Doosan Way, the Doosan Way Workshop was conducted for all employees in on core values, the concept of “harmony,” or inhwa are taken at Doosan. In the process, we will achieve our ultimate aspiration. 2012, starting with the top management at all group affiliates, including Doosan (人和), touched me the most deeply. “inhwa” at Infracore. Through the workshop, employees had opportunities to understand Doosan is the true meaning of teamwork grounded in human dignity and warmth. Doosan employees Doosan has grown rapidly while overcoming Aspiration and build a consensus on the Doosan Credo and desirable qualifications of the express their individual characters and personalities a series of economic crises. Recently, we have To be the “Proud Global Doosan” is our ultimate aspiration. This means that “Doosan employee.” At the workshop, in-depth discussions were held on each through inhwa, which is revitalizing our organization by our stakeholders including employees, feel pride and satisfaction through item and related practices were shared. As such, the participants embraced the bringing people more closely together in solidarity and acquired or merged numerous companies increasing organizational transparency. I believe that their relationship with Doosan. For employees, this pride comes from being Doosan Way through enhanced understanding of it, and exploring the future as part of our business expansion. As a what we’re really talking about when we say “growth part of the organization; for customers, from using the high-quality products direction of the company through open communication. through the Doosan Way” are constant training and result we began to formulate the Doosan and services that Doosan provides; and for shareholders, from the fair and open communication side by side. substantial returns that they may get from their investment. In 2012, all employees came to understand and develop a consensus regarding Way based on our traditional concern for CHINA the Doosan Way’s 6 Traits and 9 Core Values through the official launch of Manager Haedong Lee, people. In early 2004, while getting ready Core Values the Doosan Way implementation and the subsequent workshop. We intend Planning Team IT to acquire Doosan Infracore, we started to Doosan people around the world practice the nine core values stipulated in the to make 2013 the first year in which the true Doosan Way is practiced. To that define in detail our corporate philosophy, Doosan Credo with the aspiration of realizing the “Proud Global Doosan ideal.” end, we have been conducting Doosan Way Time, in which teams discuss These core values, which cover the ways we do business, treat one another and the Doosan Way regarding their own work and explore and review measures The most impressive subjects discussed at the Doosan values, and ways of thinking and acting. After Way Workshop were communication and Inhwa, for work with partners, are as follows: for internalization of the Doosan Way. In addition, employees regularly share extensive preparation, we finally launched they represent the excellent corporate culture that I successful practices of the Doosan Way on the website. People Cultivating People Integrity & Transparency have experienced first-hand since I joined the Doosan the Doosan Way in 2012. The Doosan Way is organization after having worked at a different company. The purpose of these activities is the realization of the Doosan Way while at I also remember well “Our Pledge” to practice the the philosophy that will lead our organization World-class Technology Inhwa Customers work. Doosan people are making a significant difference by sharing opinions Doosan Way on the final day of the workshop. The & Innovation for the next century. on the Doosan Way freely, and devising creative ideas on the job based on the Doosan Way stresses that individual growth is part of Safety & corporate growth. As I practice this credo, I would like Profit Social Responsibility Environment Doosan Way. Doosan Infracore will continuously grow, reinforcing fundamental to see not only my own capabilities advance but also to competitiveness by making the Doosan Way the standard of decision-making assist my colleagues in their growth. and realizing the genuine Doosan Way during the performance of work duties. KOREA Doosan Employees (Doosan People) Asst. Mgr. Seungwook Chung, Doosan employees, or “Doosan people,” constantly strive to improve Engine Parts Quality Team themselves and to continuously increase their capabilities and willingness to contribute to the company, no matter how talented they may be. Also, Doosan people cherish fundamental values and desirable qualifications and practice I found the concept of Inhwa in the Doosan Way to be the what they believe. The characteristics of Doosan people are as follows: most interesting and inspiring concept. True teamwork, 32 based on fairness, openness and contributions toward the progress of the team, is a trait we should all strive to 33 embody, both at Doosan and in the world at large. Right from the start, the leadership in Atlanta demonstrated openness to the process and input from their team members. I hope to see that continue as we implement the Doosan Way. It is not a goal that can be achieved and then forgotten about. It’s a way of thinking and acting that needs to guide U.S. every day. North America Jason Mayberry, Corporate Counsel Law Department They impose no limits to their aspirations, constantly setting higher goals. They cultivate people with genuine care. They achieve strong teamwork in the truest sense of the word, one that is firmly grounded based on fairness and camaraderie. They are completely open in communication. They have deep-seated tenacity and drive to make the hardest things possible. They truly focus and prioritize what matters most. The Doosan Way ... after the Doosa n Wa y Wo r k s h o p A Virtuous Circle of 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Partnership with Suppliers Doosan Infracore is realizing shared growth Systemic and Strategic Support for Suppliers with suppliers by building a system that Doosan Infracore runs a company-level Shared Growth Promotion Team that is dedicated to building partnerships that are based on a virtuous cycle. The winGrowing into a Leader with Technological Competitiveness through Close Cooperation Sungwoo Co., Ltd. allows a virtuous cycle of partnership. Under win ties with suppliers are being bolstered on multiple fronts, to include greater this arrangement, we move away from the openness and communication with suppliers, as well as additional support for Sungwoo Co., Ltd. is a leading supplier for Doosan Infracore, equipped with strong competitiveness driven by advanced technologies. conventional practices of simple purchasing raising their competitiveness, providing funds, advancing overseas with Doosan This solid partner was designated as “Preferred Supplier” in 2006, received the Award of Excellence for Innovation Activities in 2009, Infracore, and helping them with compliance programs. Importantly, interaction and then won the Doosan Award of Excellence for Shared Growth for two straight years, in 2011 and 2012. Sungwoo mainly produces and subcontracting to include suppliers between Doosan Infracore and suppliers is being expanded voluntarily (i.e., machine tools and attachments, including auto-tool changers (ATCs). Notably, the company is a technology and quality leader in the in our system of proprietary technologies, beyond the government’s requirements). The CEO and division chiefs now ATC area. Doosan Infracore has been providing Sungwoo with various types of support to improve its competitiveness. For example, quality assurance and management. Doosan provides Sungwoo with specialized technical training, helps to recruit new engineers, offers technical guidance, shares booths visit suppliers regularly to promote onsite operations and support shared at trade shows and stations permanent inspectors on site. As a result, Sungwoo has managed By doing so, we aim to improve our advancement. The Shared Growth Council meets whenever necessary to discuss to completely localize the production of ATCs and chip conveyor turning centers, improve OEM the shared growth initiative with the executives from supplier companies. process quality by 166%, receive globally-recognized technology certifications and reduce competitiveness in production and the Meanwhile, cooperative committees are also run at the division level. production costs. In addition to the win-win cooperation with Doosan Infracore, the company overall supply chain and share the benefits has improved its performance by working closely with its own suppliers. Sungwoo has been with suppliers, thereby establishing an even Shared Growth Program Expanded to Secondary Suppliers recognized for its achievements with an award from the Minister of Knowledge Economy at an Doosan Infracore’s support for shared growth is being extended beyond primary event on the occasion of Shared Growth Week held by the Commission on Shared Growth. In stronger partnership. addition, the company was introduced in the book of best practices for shared growth in 2011suppliers to include secondary suppliers, as their role is also important for 2012 released by the Small and Medium Business Administration and Large & Small Business ensuring that the virtuous cycle of partnership is solid. The primary suppliers Cooperation Foundation. internalize Doosan Infracore’s shared growth program, establish cooperative committees with their own suppliers, conclude shared growth agreements Growing into a Small But Powerful Machine Manufacturer through Cooperation S Steel Co., Inc. 34 and engage in other practical shared growth initiatives with them. Doosan 35 Infracore’s support for secondary suppliers as well includes improving the precision of their equipment, checking and calibrating their testing and S Steel started out in 1986 as a maker of heavy parts for construction equipment, including excavator counterweights, buckets, blades, inspection machines, evaluating their technologies, assisting with their and loader arm levers. The company started to supply its products to Doosan Infracore in 2000, and since then, has grown into a worldclass company that is competitive in price, quality and technology by successfully participating in various shared growth programs. overseas marketing and benchmarking activities, and providing their executives The development of an excavator counterweight can be called a “Best Practice” in shared growth. Doosan Infracore dispatched a team with regular health checkups. The Company’s general support for the activities of experts to S Steel to help develop a new counterweight and boost the Company’s competitiveness. They transferred inspection between the primary and secondary suppliers is also being expanded to include methods, tailored production process technologies, provided the molds and related equipment required for production and helped production, quality control, and EHS. recruit and train the needed personnel. With Doosan Infracore’s support, S Steel was able to develop a new excavator counterweight with an improved surface quality than conventional Supplier’s Day for Promoting Harmony and Openness versions, while taking less time and costing 79% less to make. S Steel is now sharing the Doosan Infracore hosted Suppliers’ Day on February 21, 2012, to ensure smooth experience of cooperating with Doosan Infracore with its own suppliers. In recognition of these efforts, Doosan Infracore made S Steel a “preferred supplier” in 2011. In 2012, the company was communication. The event was attended by representatives of 171 primary awarded the Korean government’s bronze tower industrial medal at an event on the occasion of suppliers and executives of Doosan Infracore. Awards were handed out to the Shared Growth Week held by the Commission on Shared Growth. top-performing suppliers; new initiatives for improving quality and lowering costs were announced, and the participants discussed their mid-to long-term * For more details on shared growth initiatives, please turn to Page 66. operational plans. We set common goals, including a 60% reduction in defective parts by 2015 and cost structure improvements. To that end, Doosan Infracore agreed to support Six Sigma activities at suppliers, transfer cost-cutting methods to them and build a system for performance sharing. Financial Support (Unit: KRW in billions, excluding indirect support) 106% (Compared to the previous year) Training Support (Unit: persons) 705% (Compared to the previous year) 2011 22.2 2011 435 2012 45.7 2012 3,501 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 1st 115 new big Supporting Supporting the Self-reliance of People the Growth of People 36 37 dream dreams My first encounter was thrilling. On March 31, 2012, mentors and young mentees gathered The last promise was a heart-touching one. At the Dream School Graduation ceremony together for the launching of Dream School. They looked at each other happily and vowed held on December 15, 2012, mentors and young mentees shared dreams and encouraged to look for their dreams. At Dream School, young people will foster their capabilities for each other. Young people expanded their dreams and capabilities for the future exploring and expanding their dreams throughout the year. achievement of their dreams through Dream School. They promised to expand their hopefilled future. Their dreams have now begun. 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Dream School Based on Doosan Management Philosophy Mentors and Mentees Share Precious Dreams and mentees presented a talent show, and a good time was volunteered to be guest lecturers from the March launching Dream School, a program to help people develop their talent Dream School is a process in which young mentees explore had by all. In the last moments of the enjoyable night, the ceremony to the December graduation. Their success stories for economic independence, originates from the Doosan their dreams with their mentors. The dream mentors were mentors handed gifts along with hand-written letters to their greatly helped young mentees shape their own dreams. philosophy, which stresses that people represent the future selected after an in-house briefing. The employee response was mentees, impressing them deeply and moving them to tears. of the world. We believe that an individual’s future begins enthusiastic, and more people were selected to be mentors On Day 2, Doosan Infracore President and CEO Yongsung Kim Endless March Toward Precious Dreams during the process of searching out and expanding upon their than had been originally gave a lecture on professional The year-long Dream School steadily transformed marginalized 1 dreams. Dream School was planned as a CSR program that planned. Mentors and mentoring, followed by a young people for the better. Their dreams were diverse, such as embodies Doosan’s corporate values. The project aims to help mentees continued their Q&A session in which he becoming a crime detective, food stylist, zoologist, World Vision Dream Expedition Squad branch manager, astronomer, teacher, professor, entrepreneur, marginalized children realize the importance of their ambitions activities throughout the year replied to the young mentees’ and create a social atmosphere for them to foster dreams both by meeting once a month. Mentees experience their frank questions, making the designer, entertainer, and cook. On December 15, 2012, the first small and large. In particular, young people from low-income Pa r t i c i p a t i n g i n d i ve r s e future occupations and make meeting very meaningful. The Dream School graduation ceremony was held at the Changwon homes lack role models and experience, thus limiting the extent programs, the mentors last session of the camp had Plant R&D Center, making it more meaningful with such diverse their dreams more specific of their future potential and their dreams for it. Thus, they need became the intellectual and mentees and mentors move dreams. The 115 young mentees produced and displayed Dream more help. Against such a backdrop, we, together with the emotional supporters for the by mingling with experts in to the Korea Job World in News about their dreams. Our Story Zone featured activities social welfare corporation World Vision, launched Dream School mentees, and the mentees relevant sectors. In the process, Bundang, Gyeonggi Province by region. Twenty-one mentees and 16 employee mentors step to help youth explore their dreams and foster their capabilities were inspired to initiate in Korea, where they could were selected as best performers, and were provided with an mentors help mentees design for realizing them. changes in their lives. Mentors experience what their future opportunity to participate in volunteer community service in the their future and support them and mentees became true jobs could be like. Philippines. Diverse programs were conducted by mentors and Launching Dream School for Young People dream partners through the emotionally. mentees by region. President and CEO Yongsung Kim delivered Self-exploration To realize their dreams, young people need to bolster their Dream School experience. Professional Mentoring by a speech to the effect that “dreams never have a graduation 2 capabilities, build up their experience, and have a strong Dream School’s young Experts in Various Sectors ceremony,” and as the message implies, the young people were support system. Thus, Dream School has programs that allow Summer Dream Camp mentees identify their Dream School became more encouraged to carry on their dreams. The first Dream School 38 the students to explore themselves, receive professional Amid the scorching summer aptitude through meaningful as experts in graduation ceremony was thus finished. 39 mentoring (including from Doosan employees), and talk to heat, from August 13-14, various professions gave talks experts. Parents and teachers can also receive training at 2012, Dream Camp, part of passionate development on mentoring. Yuntaek Im Looking Further for New Dreams Dream School. The first students were selected from among the Dream School program, training, self-initiated from the music group Ulala Doosan Infracore will review and evaluate the 2012 Dream seventh and eighth graders in the vicinities of our workplaces was opened at Nurigul Culture learning training, and Session; producer Jinman School activities to plan for a better Dream School in 2013. In in Seoul, Incheon, Gunsan, and Changwon. On March 31, Village in Anseong, Gyeonggi Kim, famous for directing 2013, we will focus more on individual mentees to increase their positive mind training. 2012, the official opening of the first Dream School class was Province in Korea. A total the documentary entitled experiences suited to their dreams. We will also use employee step held at the Doosan Leadership Institute. Attending the event of 118 young mentees and Tears of the Amazon; South mentors’ resources and networks to create a new story of were 127 young mentees and 93 Doosan Infracore employee 80 mentors attended. On Korea’s first astronaut Soyeon both mentors and mentees growing together. Dream School, mentors. The ceremony began with the oath taking by mentor Day 1, World Vision’s former Lee; Korea publicity expert anchored in our management philosophy of “people are the and mentee representatives, and the Dream School curricula publicity ambassador announcer Narim Park gave a lecture Gyeongdeok Suh; cooking specialist Hyejeong Lee; comedian future,” will certainly serve as a catalyst for young people in our consisted of recreation, lectures by invited celebrities and on professional mentoring, followed by programs about selfJongchul Jung; announcer Narim Park; Olympic gold medalist society to dream, realize good dreams and create a better world. other programs. Mentors and mentees were inspired to pursue initiated learning methods and self-confidence enhancement. Haksun Yang; and sand artist Hajun Kim were among the the one-year program with diligence. At the night campfire, mentors staged a surprise performance, celebrity broadcasters, athletes, entrepreneurs, and artists who * For details of corporate social responsibilities, please see page 70. “The shared time at Dream School will surely be instrumental in mutual growth!” “Dream School made me a dreamer. I’ll recommend it to my friends!” First Dream School As one of the first Dream School mentors, I felt a lot of things. At first, I thought mentees were First Dream School At the Dream School launching ceremony, I met my “Uncle Mentor,” which made me very happy merely childish middle school students. But, I came to realize that my every word and deed because I thought that I would have an advisor. At first I felt awkward, but as I participated became their measure of me. This made me reflect on my speech and behavior. Above all in Dream School programs each month, we became close. We were picked as one of the Mentor Inchul Park things, I never forget about a gift from my mentee. A cup engraved with a photo of the two of U.S. best mentor and mentee groups, and were honored to have an opportunity to participate in (Researcher at Doosan and the mentee’s diary letter prepared for months were really impressive. I was grateful when Mentee Eunkyung Kim the volunteer service in the Philippines in January 2013. My mentor did not leave me out of Infracore Engine he accepted what I said to him as precious lessons and not as meddlesome lecturing. I believe (false name / 3rd grader his thought process, but rather always put my position first. He helped me with challenging Development) in middle school) that the shared times were of great help for our mutual growth. mathematical problems, and advised me when I quarreled with my friend. I have now become a more outgoing person. My dream is to become an elementary school teacher. I wish to recommend Dream School to my friends who have yet to have dreams. 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 42 Sustainable Business Process and Distribution of Economic Value 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test 48 Accountable Corporate Governance 50 Transparent and Ethical Management 51 Risk Management 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  ➊ Establish a Real-Time System to Report, Share and Respond Quickly to Quality Complaints ➋ Prevent Chronic Quality Problems from Recurring by Thoroughly Analyzing the Causes ➌ Make a Breakthrough in Parts Quality BUILDING ➍ Strengthen Advanced Quality Management Capability to Assure New Product Quality ➎ Strengthen the Enterprise-wide Quality Management System 56 Improvement of Employee Value VALUES ➊ HR Management ➋ HR Development ➌ Win-Win Labor Relations 40 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System 41 ➊ Integrated EHS Management System ➋ Climate Change Response and GHG Reduction Management ➌ Management of Environmental Impacts Doosan Infracore’s CSR activities are focused on the creation and promotion of value for customers, ➍ Prevention and Management of EHS Risks shareholders, investors, employees, suppliers, communities and other stakeholders. The systematic ➎ Promotion of Employee Safety and Health and strategic importance of these activities is enhance by our building a sound corporate governance, implementing transparent and ethical management practices, and adopting an effective risk management 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation ➊ Improvement of Communication with Suppliers system. These efforts help U.S. satisfy customers, offer greater profits to shareholders and investors, provide ➋ Enhancement of Suppliers’ Competitiveness employees with higher rewards and compensation, and share the benefits of growth with suppliers. In ➌ Expansion of Financial Support for Suppliers addition, we remain committed to preserving the environment in our operations inside and outside Korea, ➍ Joint Entry into Overseas Markets ➎ Expanded Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program contributing to the development of communities, and fulfilling our responsibilities as a corporate citizen. 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution ➊ Systemization and Institutionalization of Social Contribution Activities ➋ Enhancement of Employee-Participatory Volunteer Activities ➌ Activation of Internal and External Communication SUSTAINABLE 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Doosan Infracore distributes economic value created from business activities to various stakeholder groups, including shareholders and investors, employees, suppliers, local BUSINESS PROCESS communities, the government and municipalities, thereby fulfilling the economic responsibilities of a business. We distribute the value fairly through the integrated management of all business processes, from research and development, purchase, production, and sales and marketing to & DISTRIBUTION OF use, disposal and recycling. Our business activities are also directed toward continued growth of stakeholder value. We aim to achieve growth based on the aggressive expansion of sales and ECONOMIC VALUE pursue stability by strengthening profit-making bases and sticking to sound financial principles. Doosan Infracore will keep developing through efficient management with an accompanying balance between growth and stability and sharing greater value with more stakeholders. · Run a support team for improving supplier competitiveness · Expand production sites · Expand training, technology and EHS support for suppliers · Build an integrated management system for quality information · Provide suppliers with financial support · Run an enterprise-wide energy reduction task force · Run a fair transaction voluntary compliance program Procurement Production 1,099 Employees Salaries, retirement benefits, welfare cost, etc. (412) 42 Division of created direct economic value Government and municipalities Cost of taxes, public charges, and income tax based on the financial statement 43 (Unit: KRW in billions) * North America and Europe income tax profit due to deferred income tax being recognized as assets Continue to expand R&D investment · Improve the energy efficiency of hydraulic systems · Develop eco-friendlier small engines · Establish an NPD process that reflects cu stomer needs · 7,925 Value excluding other and depreciation costs from 6,439 Suppliers Cost of products and services purchased by the company for sales and marketing 15 · Tighten customer information security · Provide for manuals and labels for better customer safety the economic value created through sales and Communities other revenue Cost of corporate social responsibility activities 382 Investors (stocks, bonds) Cost of interest paid to creditors 403 Reinvestment Future reinvestment fund and retained earnings Waste & Recycling Use · Run an integrated customer feedback management system · Carry out Doosan REMAN in China and North America · Strengthen the capabilities of designated maintenance centers · Donate test engines after overhaul · Use the technology support system for video communication services CSR Management / Materiality Test 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test < 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution Structures to Execute and Manage CSR Activities External Assessments CEO Doosan Infracore’s CSR activities are managed by the CSR · Listed on the DJSI Asia Pacific for the second year in a row (2011, 2012) Team that was established in 2011 under the Planning and · Awarded a top grade and named the best company in the environment, CSR Committee Coordination Office, which reports directly to the CEO. The society and governance (ESG) assessment by the Korea Corporate Governance Service Working-level Committee, which consists of the leaders of · Gained the highest (“AAA”) grade by Eco-Frontier’s sustainability assessment CSR Team at the Planning and 33 teams throughout the entire organization, encourage · Gained the best grade from Sustinvest and ranked first in the machinery sector Coordination Office enterprise-wide practices and involvement in CSR activities in · Selected as one of the 2012 Korea CSR 30 by Hankyoreh Economic Research Institute conjunction with the CSR Committee, which assumes the role The Enterprise-wide Working-level The Enterprise-wide Working-level of the highest-level body for making CSR-related decisions. Committee in Korea (33 teams) Committee in China (15 teams) Our CSR activities are integrated into our business strategies, products and services. The CSR Team covers broad aspects CSR Operational Structure (Annual Process for Major Tasks) of CSR-related work ranging from evaluating the performance of stakeholder engagement initiatives and CSR activities, Planning & Upgrading CSR Activities CSR assessment establishing enterprise-wide CSR goals and strategies’ Stakeholder engagement Materiality Analysis · Identify key issues to manage monitoring performance, and publishing the integrated report. Analysis of global / external trends Doosan Infracore CSR Committee CSR Committee & · Feedback from stakeholders Working-level CSR Council · Publish an integrated report · Identify tasks for further improvement and Chairman: CEO · Share results and establish set work-related roles and responsibilities the improvement plan · Establish action plans and Secretariat: CSR Team monitor development regularly 44 Customers HR EHS Suppliers Local Communities Advisory Group 45 Legal affairs, CSR Assessment Marketing, Human resource Social contributions, Finance, Management support compliance, quality, management, external cooperation, strategies, (EHS), R&D mutual growth, R&D technological HR purchase public relations Doosan Way Doosan Infracore developed an in-house CSR assessment tool which allows the company to deal preemptively with assessments inside and outside Korea. The tool is also used to identify CSR issues the company is required to respond to in the future and develop related We instituted the CSR Committee consisting of the CEO and key of individual programs to assessing business risks and seeking action plans. The assessment tool consists of 356 evaluation items in the nine groups of customer value, technology & innovation, management directors in 2013. The committee is the highest opportunities arising from the changes in the CSR environment. corporate governance, eco-friendliness, HRD, corporate culture / human rights / labor relations, corporate ethics, mutual growth, and decision-making body regarding the CSR activities of Doosan We will pursue world-class CSR activities by forming a CSR social contributions. The working-level CSR Council discussed and determined the annual improvement targets and mid-to long-term Infracore. The work scope ranges from establishing enterpriseadvisory group in the five sectors of customers, human resources, directions. Starting from 2012, the same tool was applied to Chinese worksites and helped implement improvement activities. wide CSR strategies and policies and reviewing the performance employee health and safety, suppliers and local communities. Stakeholder Engagement CSR Structure Doosan Infracore’s stakeholder engagement process includes three phases. In the first phase, media, international CSR standards and guideline index, and the external environments and internal conditions are analyzed to identify latest CSR issues and the levels of social consciousness. In the second phase, in-depth interviews and surveys are conducted on key stakeholders. These efforts to Vision Positioning as a Global Top 3 Machinery Manufacturer by 2020 listen directly to stakeholders help U.S. raise the usefulness and relevance of stakeholder engagement initiatives. Stakeholder Working-level CSR Council Working-level CSR Council Engagement Process Agree on proposal, review survey, Share major stakeholder issues and discuss reflect employee opinion employee opinions Mission Support for Responsible and Sustainable Growth STEP 1: Planning (analysis of internal & STEP 3: Identification of Major Stakeholder STEP 2: Study of Major Issues (interview, survey) external environments) Expectations and Demands Core Areas Customers HR EHS Suppliers Local Communities · Identify basic issues through the analysis of · In-depth interviews with stakeholders · Prioritize issues according to the survey results internal / external data Period: Aug.25~Sept.7, 2012 · Analyze and build business strategies, Media analysis Subject: 20 stakeholders in the seven most core performance index and corporate policies in Analysis of international CSR standards and significant stakeholder groups consideration of the issues Operational Framework Stakeholder engagement Analysis of global CSR trends CSR assessment guideline index · Stakeholder survey · Disseminate the identified major issues in the Analysis of in-house rules and documents Period: Sept.10~25, 2012 Working-level CSR Council · Develop survey tools Subject: 1,389 stakeholders in the seven most · Conclude the results for Stakeholder Materiality Credo & Philosophy The Doosan Way, One Doosan, Global Talent · Secure stakeholder pool for the survey significant stakeholder groups Test (external personnel: 96, employees: 1,293) 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test < 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution Stakeholder-oriented CSR Activities Materiality Test Results Stakeholder engagement supported by effective communication by each functional department. The CSR Team also conducts an The materiality test was conducted with the main goals of and performance, and better CS activities, while three issues with stakeholders represents the single most important annual survey and in-depth interviews to collect stakeholders’ identifying CSR issues and promoting stakeholder engagement. stood out in the social sector, including mutual growth with phase in determining the CSR strategies at Doosan Infracore. opinions. The issues identified through these efforts are The results were analyzed according to business impact from suppliers and effective communication within the organization. The expectations and demands of the seven most significant reflected when making management decisions and the results of the corporate viewpoint as well as the level of concern from the In the environment area, four issues were extracted, including stakeholder groups, including customers and suppliers, are the CSR activities are publicly open, creating mutually beneficial perspective of stakeholders, and identifying major issues in the the development of eco-friendlier products and compliance with collected through regular communication activities performed relationship with stakeholders. economic, social and environmental areas. Four major economic environmental regulations. issues were identified, including improvement of product quality Stakeholders’ viewpoint Classification Customers / dealers Suppliers Customer monitoring Suppliers’ Day Communication VOC, call center Suppliers’ Council 80% channel Joint workshop Education & training for suppliers Customer satisfaction survey Consulting services / 5 Integrated customer management system technological support for suppliers · Strengthen CS activities by dealing with · Expand idea exchange and the scope of 8 customer complaints quickly information shared with suppliers Major expectations and 1 · Manage customer feedback systematically · Expand support for suppliers to raise demands · Improve product quality, performance, competitiveness and capabilities 2 safety and convenience (finance, technology, training, environment, 60% 6 · Protect customer information thoroughly ethical management, etc.) 3 46 47 · Expand R&D investment and sharpen · Provide support for suppliers to enter into technological edge overseas markets and open overseas 11 · Distinctive customer services worksites together with suppliers 9 · Strengthen fair transaction practices 4 7 Employees Local communities (environment / NGOs) Shareholders / investors 10 40% Labor-Management Council, Meetings with communities Shareholders’ meeting, public announcements grievance handling tools Social contributions IR homepage intranet, company newsletters, SNS Ties with communities Conferences Internal communication programs · Develop eco-friendlier products Ad-hoc IR meetings Employee satisfaction survey · Enhance the environment in and around · Enhance profitability · Fair evaluation and compensation worksites and prevent pollution · Manage risks · Enhanced support for HR development · Establish environmental management system · Adopt a high payout ratio policy (training and capability development courses) and strengthen public communications · Strengthen communications · Dialogue with local communities 20% · Work-life balance and family-friendly · Maintain sound corporate governance management practices · Engage in various social contribution and · Manage business opportunities and risks · Harmonious labor relations volunteer activities · Effective intra-organizational communication · Facilitate local economies Corporate viewpoint 0% Local / central governments Media 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% Participation in standardization programs Press release Participation in government-operated projects Press conference Joint cooperation programs Ad-hoc meetings · Compliance with rules and regulations Company visits (guided tours) Major Issues · Private-government cooperative partnership · Share accurate information quickly Economy Society Environment 1 Improve the quality and performance of 5 Share goals and vision among suppliers 8 Develop eco-friendlier products volume products 6 Support the improvement of supplier 9 Respond to environmental regulations on 2 Strengthen CS activities capabilities products (VOC, after-sales services, etc.) 7 Communicate vertically and horizontally 10 Reduce and manage environmental 3 Secure leading technological edge within the organization pollutants from worksites (R&D investment) 11 Establish environmental vision, strategies, 4 Develop new products in consideration of directives and system safety and user convenience ACCOUNTABLE CORPORATE 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management < GOVERNANCE 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution Composition of BOD and Decision-making Systems 2012 BOD Activities: In 2012, 11 Board meetings were held on 52 agenda items. Board meeting attendance for outside directors stood at 94%. Doosan Infracore has raised value for the company and shareholders by implementing accountable and transparent management practices. As No. of attending outside the highest business decision-making body, the Board of Directors works on behalf of investors and oversees and approves decisions regarding Date Agenda item directors (total) massive investments or borrowings, consolidation or division of business entities, and other major business issues from the perspective of Feb. 16, 2012 Approval of the 2011 report on the operations of the internal accounting management system, 6 (6) long-term growth. In addition, management positively collects and incorporates the expectations and demands of shareholders, investors, liquidation of overseas subsidiaries (DIBE and DIUK), and 8 other items customers and other stakeholders into the decisions concerning investment and other major events. We make positive and transparent IR Mar. 9, 2012 Approval of the 2012 Audit Report, and the call for the 12th Regular General Shareholders’ Meeting 6 (6) activities and announcements on major changes in the company and performance with our priority placed on trust. and the meeting objectives, and 2 other items Mar. 30, 2012 Appointment of the CEO, appointment of a member of the Outside Director Candidate Recommendation 3 (4) Intra-organizational Committee, appointment of a compliance supporter, and 6 other items BOD decision-making system Apr. 26, 2012 Report on financial statements for 1Q12 (provisional) and 1 other item 4 (4) May 21, 2012 Approval of providing guarantee on the loan of DISA, and 3 other items 4 (4) Jun. 28, 2012 Report on the performance of the Compliance Program for 1H12 · 3 (4) Outside Director Candidate Internal Transaction Audit Committee appointment of a compliance officer, and 5 other items Recommendation Committee Committee Jul. 27, 2012 Appointment of a compliance officer · Establishment of compliance standards and 2 other items 3 (4) Aug. 23, 2012 Report on financial statements for 1H12 and 1 other item 4 (4) Sept. 24, 2012 Approval of issuing offshore securities and 3 other items 4 (4) Composition of BOD Nov. 12, 2012 Approval of acquisition of common stocks of DII&DHEL due to the exercise of FI’s put options · 4 (4) Attendance Approval of raising loans collateralized with shares, and 2 other items The BOD of Doosan Infracore consists of two inside and four Name Current position / Role within the Board rate Dec. 17, 2012 Approval of internal transaction with Doosan Inc., and 1 other item 4 (4) Yongsung President and CEO of Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. / – outside directors as of March 2013. Directors are elected at the Inside Kim Chairman of the Board Company’s General Shareholders’ Meetings. The candidates Okyoo Lee President and CEO of Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. / – Director for outside directors are recommended by the Outside Director Sairee Yun Representative Lawyer of Yulchon LLC. / 89% Detailed Explanations about the Initiatives to Protect Candidate Recommendation Committee after evaluating their Chair of the Internal Transaction Committee, Evaluation and Remuneration Minority Shareholders member of the Outside Director Candidate expertise and their relationship with the company to ensure Recommendation Committee Jaehoon Lee Advisor to law firm Kim & Chang / 89% Remuneration for both inside and outside directors is We allow shareholders to vote in a General Shareholders’ Meeting they have no interests in the company. In 2013, a former vice Chair of the Audit Committee, member of the determined within the limits approved at the Shareholders’ by letter to protect the voting rights of minority shareholders. Outside chairman of the National Competitive Council was appointed Internal Transaction Committee 48 an outside director to promote reasonable decision-making Kijong Hong Lawyer at Kim Chang & Lee / Chair of the Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee, 91% Meeting. The company also has a performance salary system which links executive compensation with the business The company attaches ballot paper for individual items to the General Shareholders’ Meeting notification so that minority 49 processes in the financial and economic aspects. member of the Audit Committee, member of the Internal Transaction Committee performance. Accordingly, the directors are given basic salary shareholders can express their opinions by letter without having Taeshin Member of the Audit Committee, Newly Kwon member of the Outside Director Candidate appointed on for their pay grade as well as a performance bonus based on to physically attend the meeting. Shareholders can exercise Recommendation Committee Mar. 29, 2013 the organization’s management results. In 2012, a total of KRW their voting rights by completing the ballots and sending them The Operation of the BOD 270 million were paid to outside directors. back to the company at least one day before the meeting date. The BOD deliberates on, makes resolutions on, and verifies key Committee Activities management decisions. It also decides upon items specified under laws and company bylaws, items that the General All of the Audit Committee members are outside Effective Communication with Shareholders and Investors Public Announcements directors, guaranteeing the transparent and independent Shareholders’ Meeting delegates authority to deal with, basic auditing processes. The main duties of the Audit business directions, and major issues regarding the execution of Committee is to supervise the transparency and fairness Doosan Infracore’s IR activities are organized with trust as the Provisional business performance business activities. It incorporates the opinions and suggestions of the Company’s accounting and business practices. It top priority. In the past, financial risks related to the acquisition Quarterly and semiannual reports, business reports also monitors the operations of the internal accounting Regular and ad-hoc General Shareholders’ Meetings of shareholders, executives and employees collected through management system, which was instituted for creating of Bobcat Company, the sales of shares in DICC (Chinese Disposal of equity shares Shareholders’ Meetings and IR activities in decision-making. The and announcing reliable accounting information. The construction equipment manufacturer), and other major issues Changes in equity structure Audit Committee Committee is bestowed the authority to require the BOD Board confirms and adjusts any interests by sharing information to submit reports on the Company’s business operations that may have a potential impact on the company’s share prices Statements as required to a large business group declared in advance. All directors are permitted to participate in the BOD’s and to review the status of the Company’s financial were subject to preemptive and responsive IR activities, earning by the Fair Trade Commission assets. To this end, the committee members can attend Voluntary compliance program for fair transactions deliberations via telecommunication devices transmitting audio BOD meetings and other important meetings, receive trust from investors. As a result, the company received the Environmental management and video data simultaneously, which demonstrates attendance updates on management and business operations from Grand Prize in the 2011 IR Awards by Money Today, a Korean Roadshows for investors directors, if needed, and request the BOD to review the at the meeting. Directors may not delegate their authorities company’s certain reports on major business issues and financial newspaper, in the heavy industry sector. Moreover, we Decisions on the acquisition of shares or securities of other to a proxy, and directors with a vested interest in a particular to supplement the documents. engage in IR activities transparently and preemptively, raising business entities agenda item may not vote on it. Three committees—the Audit the corporate image further as a company worth receiving The company bylaws stipulate that “[the Committee] Committee, Outside Director Candidate Recommendation The Outside shall consist of three or more outside directors.” Thus, continued trust from investors. In order to offer reliable Doosan Infracore abides by the rules and regulations on public Committee, and Internal Transaction Committee—are Director Candidate the Outside Director Candidate Recommendation information to as many investors as possible, we are engaged announcements prescribed by relevant law. The company is committed Recommendation Committee is composed of three outside directors. It to ensuring balanced announcements between financial and nonestablished under the BOD. They are guaranteed transparency Committee nominates candidates for directors who are subject to in quarterly investment roadshows inside and outside Korea, financial performances by voluntarily disclosing information on in the decision-making processes by maintaining independence election at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. conferences for securities companies, and about 400 company environmental management and the voluntary compliance program from major shareholders and executives. In 2012, it deliberated The committee, composed of three or more outside visits a year. Our CEO and CFO have continued to hold unofficial for fair transactions. on and approved the financial performance report, the report directors as stipulated by the company bylaws, is meetings with investors to collect their opinions. In 2013, we tasked with enhancing the Company’s management on the performance of the fair transaction voluntary compliance The Internal transparency by establishing a framework for complying plan to ensure that these IR activities help investors recognize Transaction program for the first and second halves, transactions among with fair trade regulations. The committee evaluates and the stature of the company, which has come to be a truly global Committee approves any transaction equivalent to KRW 5 billion or affiliated companies, liquidation of an overseas subsidiary, player. Going forward, we will remain committed to building more with affiliated companies and has the authority to acquisition of shares and other important items. Starting from investigate internal transactions and propose corrective strategically important business relationship with investors by 2013, CSR activities will be reviewed semiannually by the Board. measures. leveraging the trust-based IR activities. TRANSPARENT AND ETHICAL RISK MANAGEMENT 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management < MANAGEMENT 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution Transparent and Ethical Management Directives and Implementation Risk Management Directions Risk Reporting System All affiliates of the Doosan Group, including Doosan Infracore, adhere to the same Code of Ethics. In this way, all operating systems We prepare risk management plans in order to respond to internal We put together and operate a risk management and reporting companywide, including ERP, e-Procurement, Internal Control (Oversight) and Fair Trade Compliance, are interlinked. This helps ensure that all and external management crises that may occur due to changes framework in response to various risk possibilities that may reduce business activities are conducted transparently with higher work efficiency. In addition, the Audit Committee is operated under the Board of in the business environment. A risk management process has company value or cause economic loss. Risk factors are analyzed and Directors, and the Audit Team is tasked with promoting, reviewing and assessing transparent and ethical management practices. been established so that executives and employees can promptly managed for possibility of occurrence and the impact it may have on recognize and respond to any signs of problems. the company. When any sign is detected, it is reported to the CEO so Code of Ethics rapid decision-making and an early response can take place. Enterprise-wide ERP system e-Procurement system Internal Control & Assessment system Companywide response Create and distribute to risks manuals, provide Monitor changes in Rules of ethics Online reporting system training sessions, Monitor constantly internal and external Identify risks Defines employees’ responsibilities and provides business conditions Response to risks at the and make other guidelines on transactions with business partners with Internal reporting system functions and divisions communication efforts whom conflicts of interest may exist levels Main Achievements in 2012 Key Risks and Relevant Responses Communicating and Promoting the Ethical Management Policy The reporting can be made anonymously and the details Key risks Responsive measures Scope CEO’s Letter on the Code of Ethics: The CEO issues a letter remain confidential to protect the whistleblower from any Strategic risks Global economic slowdown Maximize short-term profitability and strengthen core competitiveness Enterprise-wide Stricter environmental regulations on Develop and apply eco-friendlier technologies Corporate R&D Division, around the time of major Korean holidays (when gifts are discrimination or disadvantage. Once a report is made, it is products Machine Tool R&D traditionally exchanged) to all the employees of Doosan quickly investigated and handled according to established Financial risks Market risk Manage exchange rate fluctuation, interest rate and price risks Finance Infracore and suppliers. The letter is written to remind readers processes. The results of investigation are reported to the Credit risk Manage credit risks and minimize losses through safeguarding of how important ethical conduct is and encourages them to whistleblower and shared throughout the company as well, measures in bonds 50 51 Liquidity risk Establish quarterly and annual financial balance plans comply strictly with the company Code of Ethics. In this way, the raising the sense of ethics to prevent the recurrence of the same Capital risk Reduce capital costs, manage liabilities letter has contributed to preventing problems that can occur problems. Operational Quality risk Establish quality information system Quality Strategy during the conduct of business transactions. risks Ethical management and compliance risks Audit unethical irregularities, provide employees with ethical training Audit Internal Control Evaluation System Risks related to personal information and Establish personal information protection guidelines, build an Information Security Expanded Training on Ethical Practices: Each year, all employees To realize ethical management, Doosan Infracore operates an data security information management system, and provide employees with information security training courses are required to attend a training session on professional ethical internal controls evaluation system, established in 2006. The Environmental Climate change risk Build a system to respond to climate change EHS Planning conduct. This program, provided by the team leader, helps company follows the Act on External Audit of Corporations, and natural Occupational safety and employee health Build the field manager-led EHS system, and manage the safety and Safety and Health to raise their awareness of potential problems that they may reporting the results of regular, company-wide evaluations of disaster risks health of employees encounter in the course of doing business. The content of the finance, sales, purchasing, and production operations to the CFO Efforts to prevent fire Voluntary fire safety management (Firefighting Center) Environment & Firefighting training covers the Code of Ethics, ethical principles, employee / CEO, and then to the audit committee and executive board. System to respond to natural disasters Manage natural disaster risk and mitigate damages Contingency Planning responsibilities and guidelines on transactions with suppliers with whom conflicts of interest may exist. Expanded Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program Financial Risk Avoidance and Management Audit and Monitoring Doosan Infracore aims to be a compliance program (CP) global Audit Offices in North America and China: In March 2013, Exchange risk: Doosan Infracore is exposed to risks arising Credit risk: Credit risk arises from ordinary transactions or leader. To this end, we expand the CP to suppliers, provide audit teams were newly established in North American and from changes in currency exchange rates, which may affect the investment activities when a customer or business partner does suppliers with CP training courses, monitor the performance Chinese subsidiaries. As the expansion of overseas operations forecast of future deals, perceived assets and liabilities, and net not follow the conditions of business agreements. To manage before and after the CP is implemented, expand rewards for CP and the implementation of IFRS resulted in the increased investment in overseas operations. As such, our basic strategies the credit risks, we regularly asses the financial credit ratings of best practices, update the CP handbook regularly, and cultivate responsibilities and risks for the parent company, audit teams call for U.S. to manage exchange late risks and reduce exchange customers and business partners by taking into account their CP experts in each business group. In 2010, we provided needed to be established at overseas subsidiaries. They are rate-driven profit fluctuations in accordance with foreign financial status and track records. We set different credit limits 13 suppliers that adopted the fair trade CP with consulting aimed at assessing the status of overseas subsidiaries and exchange regulations. for individual customers and business partners. expenses for contracting services. In 2012, twelve first-tier assuring transparent accounting practices, while respecting suppliers completed the implementation of the CP. We held their own management responsibilities, which include regular Interest rate risk: Interest rate risk is often associated Liquidity risk: We establish the three-month and annual training courses on fair trade and subcontracting laws for 88 or ad-hoc audits for the integrity of financial reporting, financial with variable-rate deposits and loans. Our efforts to cope financial balance plans, which allow U.S. to forecast monetary key suppliers. In 2012, no case was reported in violation of the fraud, compliance, operations and other significant issues. We preemptively with these risks include minimizing external balance affected by business, investment and financial laws managed by the Fair Trade Commission. will constantly monitor the audit process and results of overseas borrowings, reducing high-interest-rate loans, improving activities. The forecasts help U.S. secure and maintain sufficient subsidiaries and conduct joint audit sessions, if needed. borrowing structure, and maintaining the ratio between fixedliquidity in preparation for possible liquidity risk in the future. Improvement Plan in 2013 rate and variable-rate loans. Processes for Reporting and Investigating Non-ethical Conduct In 2013, we will reflect Doosan Way in the Code of Ethics, and Capital risk: We adjust dividend payouts to shareholders and An online reporting system is in place, whereby acceptance further systematize the compliance system by reorganizing the Price risk: Quoted equity instruments are exposed to price repay capital reserves in order to maintain or modify capital of money, unfair work operations, irregularities and other internal reporting programs, disciplinary processes, and the fluctuation risks. Therefore, management regularly assesses the structure, while issuing new shares and selling assets to reduce unethical practices conducted by employees can be reported. publication of the white book. risk of market price changes affecting fair value or future cash flow. debts. Enhancement of customer value and 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management quality competitiveness 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness < 56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution core issues 2012 Establish a Real-Time System to Report, Share and Respond Quickly to Quality Complaints ➊ ➋ ➌ ➍ ➎ Special Activity Our customer-oriented quality management approach calls for U.S. to expedite the sharing of quality complaints received Establish a real-time Prevent chronic Make a Strengthen Strengthen from customers with all concerned persons, including members system to report, quality problems breakthrough in advanced quality the enterpriseAnnouncement of share and respond from recurring by parts quality management wide quality of top management. When attention is raised companywide, Quality Management Directive quickly to quality thoroughly capability to assure management quality problems can be resolved quickly, thus minimizing complaints analyzing the causes new product quality system customer dissatisfaction. Our employees are all dedicated to achieving the same goal: make Doosan Infracore one of the world’s Top 3 machinery System for Handling Quality Complaints roleS & RESPONSIBILITIES Stakeholders’ Interests makers, competing head to head with the industry’s A system was built to share in real time all information related to very best companies who are backed by experience and CEO Q. What are the key customer value categories for the processing of customer complaints (from time of Call Center technology built up over many decades. This goal must be sustainable growth? achieved amid a global economic downturn and sharply receipt to PS service steps taken, and claims filed). This provides 1. Improved quality and performance of mass-produced items intensifying competition in emerging markets such as the basis for focusing on corrective action and shortening the Operations Division Corporate R&D Division Sales Division (oil leaks, water leaks, noise levels, durability) China. To realize our ambition, we have made customer time required to complete the job. Information on product Quality Division New product After sales service 2. Stronger customer satisfaction activities (Reflect Customer feedback, satisfaction a top priority. We announced a set of six main development Customer feedback bolster After-sales service, customer retention policy) quality management directives in September 2012 as a quality issues have also been made more transparent and Develop new products 3. Develop new products that take user safety and convenience into account pledge to leverage our technology competitiveness and response accelerated. The lead time for addressing the quality that take user safety secure unsurpassed quality from the customers’ perspective. problem was cut by 63% (based on changes in construction 4. Diversify product lineups (low-end, mid-range, and high-end) and environmental 5. Develop eco-friendlier products Detailed action plans have been devised and implemented equipment design). protection into account so that all employees are practicing the quality directives * Results of 2012 dealer survey (Sept. 2012, 25 major dealers respond) by 2017 and providing customers with clearly discernable quality improvements. In addition, the six following pledges Channels for Sharing Information on Various Quality Issues Key performance indicAtors will be fulfilled to the letter so that we gain the strong trust Quality-related information is shared through a variety of required from customers and the marketplace to join the settings. Whenever an important quality related issue is raised ranks of the world’s Top 3. in the marketplace, it is reported immediately to the CEO 52 1. We shall quickly address any complaint that is via the chief executive at the office in charge and registered in the CEO’s issue pool for corrective action to be initiated. 53 submitted from our customers. Product Quality Quality Quality Informal technology discussions are called with the President Information Management Academy 2. We shall get to the root cause and correct any and CEO, technology advisors, President of Corporate R&D critical problems. Product Quality Data Quality Improvement Lead Time Quality Management Quality Academy Customer Information Division, President of Operation Division, and VP of Quality all Build a comprehensive 63% shorter Establish & Build & run Leakage 3. We shall greatly improve the quality of our parts. in attendance, and a companywide integrated quality meeting quality management (based on construction promulgate a charter system equipment design changes) 4. We shall achieve unsurpassed quality from the is held each month for top management to make the final product development stage onward. decisions. Weekly market quality meetings convene to review the product quality improvement processes. 5. We shall reinforce our quality-related infrastructure Performance chart companywide. Prevent Chronic Quality Problems from Recurring by Main Issues 2012 Results 2013 Plans 6. We shall extend our product warranty periods. Thoroughly Analyzing the Causes ➊ Establish a real-time system System built for processing quality complaints Develop an index for customers’ perceived quality, to report, share and respond run a pilot program, reorganize quality-based data Total Quality Management (TQM) activities that apply Six Sigma quickly to quality complaints methods are being stepped up and quality and technical training Informal technology talks held Hold quality conferences for suppliers of each part category, Channels built for sharing quality complaints bolster task force activities for rapid on-site response is provided to all employees, including those at suppliers, ➋ Prevent chronic quality Meeting held to firm up resolve on quality innovation, Visit customer companies and hold hands-on events at their Build a System for Handling Quality Complaints according to organizational rank and job position. Engineering problems from recurring defective parts exhibited (Sept.) locations capabilities are being improved while the focus is on eradicating by thoroughly Informal talk held on quality issues for service people Broaden scope of improvement by running a quality innovation Domestic Overseas critical and chronic quality problems and ensure they do not recur. analyzing the causes companywide (Dec.) task force Call Center receipt Dealer receipt ➌ Make a breakthrough Run 350 parts quality innovation activities (to improve Hold 330 activities for parts quality innovation Greater Use of TQM (Total Quality Management) in parts quality quality at suppliers) PS measures & inputs Overseas subsidiaries / PS inputs Chronic quality problems are being selectively and innovatively Run task force on front quality innovation Inspect the painting process to discover and address problems addressed through TQM improvement processes. A total of 48 Run activities to improve the cleanliness of hydraulic parts Implement a “3 Strikes and You’re Out” rule Sensing Point / ERP registry different tasks have been initiated to (1) improve production Dedicated inspection system established for heavy-duty Improve the system for assessing welders’ skills boiler-making process Claim judgment quality and eliminate the root cause for recurring and chronic Improved parts-related capabilities at engine suppliers quality problems, (2) improve production processes to increase Claim data ➍ Strengthen advanced quality NPD gate review held Improve the development verification process through retrospective output volumes and production efficiency, and (3) improve management capability analysis of Tier 4i models Assign weighted value (S1, S2) procurement procedures to ensure consistent quality at to assure new product quality Improved capabilities to address quality issues proactively Initiate preventative activities by establishing a new Quality suppliers and meet delivery deadlines. As a result, the daily Systems Team Notify the concerned unit, boom production output was raised 27%, and the incidence of Major claim ➎ Strengthen the enterprise-wide QMS (Quality Management System) assessed Expand the assessment to 9 factory sites share the information faulty starters was reduced by 90%. These results lowered costs quality management system PTS adopted to manage on-site quality improvement Establish a system for managing QMS processes * S1 (equipment downtime), S2 (general claims) and greatly improved production efficiency. processes 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test Doosan Infracore took advantage of strong execution capabilities to build a system for responding 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management rapidly to customer and market demands. In addition, companywide competencies have been brought 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness < together to eradicate the root causes of chronic quality problems. Quality competitiveness is being 56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System leveraged to secure maximum quality from the customers’ perspective. 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution Informal Discussion for Companywide Service Personnel Safeguard Communication with Customers and After-sales Service (December) Customer Data A Voice-of-the-Customer (VOC) Center is in regular operation A total of 110 people, including the CEO, gathered to discuss Doosan Infracore is creating a system that puts customer to receive and process customer complaints rapidly. Training the feedback received from customer sites by the Customer opinion first in all processes at customer contact points, on product maintenance and repair, and methods for dealing Service people with the people from the R&D, Production including new product development, production, sales, and with customers is provided three times a year to develop and Quality control units. The event elevated understanding after-sales service. Importantly, a new product development the customer service mindset in service representatives at of steps to address current quality issues and new customer (NPD) process has been built that reflects customer feedback designated after-sales service centers and parts dealers. needs, while people throughout the company were encouraged in NPD during the development and production stages. The designated after-sales service centers are inspected and to participate in the quality improvement effort. Company representatives visit major customers directly at evaluated annually to prevent mistakes in maintenance and Reinforced Competencies for least once per quarter and listen carefully to what they have repair services. Field service engineers and the Call Center Make a Breakthrough in Parts Quality Advanced Product Quality Control to say. These opinions are then reflected in NPD. maintain real-time contact via smartphone to provide various Warehouse acceptance inspection standards and methods To secure the capabilities for performing advanced product after-sales services rapidly at the customer’s location, to as well as supplier selection and assessment standards have quality audits, data is collected on excavator and engine NPD NPD for Customer Safety include correcting machinery malfunctions, solving software been overhauled to prevent defective parts from entering the quality targets regarding the actual performance and history of All new product development processes are approached with problems, and assisting with parts and machine operation. production process and to greatly improve parts quality overall. problems encountered during NPD. This database provides the the safety and health of machinery operators and mechanics Many efforts have also been made to improve the capabilities capability to anticipate quality problems. in mind. During new product planning, careful studies are Safeguard Customer Data at supplier companies. made of various national safety regulations and international The Data Security Team was newly established in 2012 Strengthen the Enterprise-wide Quality Management System standards governing technologies for overall product safety, with a Chief Privacy Officer and staff who run the personal 350 Parts Quality Innovation Activities Our companywide quality-related infrastructure is being exhaust emissions, fires, explosions, noise, operator field data protection system at the corporate level. Each division We conducted quality improvement activities targeting 17 reinforced as we hire trained engineers to quality control of vision, vehicular rollover, electromagnetic radiation, and also designates a working-level data protection officer. In suppliers with low process quality. Notably, quality goals were positions as well as inspect and invest aggressively into utilities toxic chemical substances. Based on these findings, plans September 2012, personal data protection regulations, allocated to poor-performing suppliers for boosting their sense that influence quality. All worksites, including those in China, are drawn up for developing and inspecting products. The internal data control plans, an encryption guide and written 54 of responsibility. Faulty results were checked weekly and improvement meetings were held with poor performers. With will be equipped with the ISO / TS16949 quality standards system by 2016, and assessments will be made continuously to guidelines for the construction equipment standards in Korea, the Machinery Directive in the UE, the OSHA and MSHA rules pledge were announced. Then data protection briefings were given to all employees in Korea and China. In addition, 55 these efforts, 52% quality improvement was achieved. ascertain whether those standards are being strictly met. Thus in the US, and the GB Standards in China are reflected in the encryption has been completed for the database that stores the groundwork will have been laid for our quality management NPD targets. The proposed designs are examined to confirm citizen ID numbers and other personal information. Access Activities to Improve the Cleanliness of Hydraulic Parts to proceed on the basis of regulations and policies. their conformity to the established NPD targets during the to the database is strictly controlled and a log monitoring Contamination by foreign substances can debilitate hydraulic new product design stage. The testing and accreditation by system has been installed. All units in the company that systems, and processes improvements have been made New Quality Academy a certification authority during the verification stage confirm handle person information are monitored and inspected. to prevent this from happening. Purity of hydraulic fluid The newly-built Quality Academy has developed a training whether targets are reached regarding those performance No personal data leaks or law violations regarding personal and cleaning fluid and the cleanliness of parts are regularly system and is now running its first year of instruction. Better areas that have a direct bearing on product safety. data have occurred during the past three most recent assessed, and damage from foreign substances on the factory quality competitiveness will be secured by organizing the years, starting from 2012. Comprehensive monitoring is floor and in the field have been greatly reduced. The cleanliness training programs by work position, thereby elevating Provision of Accurate Product Information also conducted to detect suspicious behavior regarding inspects were conducted 48 times at 14 companies during 2012, specialization. At the same time, the Quality Academy operation Doosan Infracore regulates everything from the design of data leaks, or misuse, to include reading the data outside and a clean process improvement rate of 95% was achieved. is structured to integrate core competencies and achieve manufactured products to their sale and after-sales services. work hours, or accessing the data excessively. Systematic connectivity among various job functions. Training contents These rules govern the work scope and approaches for each training and guidelines are provided to the people who work Strengthen Advanced Quality Management Capability to are segmented according to work position and training year function regarding product liability and related product safety in Human Resources, Marketing, Customer Service, ICT Assure new Product Quality as well as by expectation level. Currently twenty courses activities. In addition, customers receive information on the and other units that handle personal data. Training is also Rigorous inspections are conducted to ascertain whether are available for office employees, and twelve for technical safe use and servicing of these products, and every effort is provided at delivery companies, training centers and other the quality targets set for each stage of new product employees. Specific courses cover the principles of TQM and made to communicate with the customer most effectively and outsourced service providers that are provided with personal development (NPD) are met. Moreover, NPD processes are lean production, Six Sigma, adopting a quality mindset, and clearly. Safety labels bearing the words “Caution,” “Warning” data. Personal data processing systems such as e-HR and rigorously performed according to the legal, safety and quality taking corrective action on the factory floor. or “Danger,” depending on the risk level, are provided as ERP now minimally store citizen ID numbers and access to perspectives to ensure that quality problems found in current reminders so that the machine is operated and serviced these systems is monitored. models do not recur in new models. Quality Management System Assessment safely. In addition, the product manual preface clearly The maturity levels of the QMS were evaluated at all Korean and presents and emphasizes what users must bear in mind for Accountable Sales and Marketing Activities NPD Gate Audit five Chinese work sites, and corrective steps were subsequently safe operation and servicing. The safety labels affixed on the Doosan Infracore complies with laws regarding false or “NPD gate” audits are conducted to identify quality-related taken. To achieve meaningful quality gains, an optimized machines are made in strict accordance with ISO 9244, while misleading advertising. We strictly follow the laws in this risks and that transparency enhancement activities are being quality management assessment scheme was created and a the product manual and accompanying operator’s manual regard, offering only transparent and honest information in carried out. In the process, corrective actions are taken on system was simultaneously established to evaluate the quality are prepared according to ISO 6750 guidelines. our sales and marketing activities. quality issue categories that surface during the NPD pilot of the supply chain, to include suppliers. In the future, a Quality program and early warning period, when advanced product Systems Team will be newly formed; quality assessment * Products are made and delivered to customers that satisfy the safety regulations and quality control is in effect. Correction rates of 99% (for midspecialists will be secured; the number of subject worksites accident prevention activities in their region, such as the European safety regulations, sized and heavy-duty construction equipment) and 97% (for will be increased, and a QMS task management system will be Chinese safety regulations and product liability laws. engines) have been achieved. established to make the tasks more viable. Improvement of 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management employee value 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  56 Improvement of Employee Value < 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution core issues 2012 HR Management Create Jobs and Realize Diversity ➊ ➋ ➌ Special Activity Our workforce of 15,206 consists of people from all over the world and drives the growth and advancement of Doosan Infracore. Of HR management HR development Win-win labor this total 5,764 work inside Korea, and 9,442 are outside Korea. relations Job Competencies System The number of regular hires in Korea is 5,577 (96.8%), while 191 persons (3.3%) are on a temporary contract. As stipulated by A job competencies system was put into full effect in 2012 to the Doosan Way, no employee should suffer discrimination on ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES Stakeholders’ Interests address strong demands and requirements for a mechanism the basis of gender, religion, race, or age with respect to hiring, that nurtures specialists in balance with the Doosan CEO Q. What are time important employee-related values for performance assessment or compensation. In Korea, persons who sustainable growth? Infracore HR philosophy. As a result, employee capabilities can now be continuously enhanced. have served in the military are afforded preferential treatment in Corporate Center Doosan Way 1. Improve employees’ working conditions (fringe benefits, work-life hiring under the law. balance, enhanced work environment) 2. Systematize and upgrade work processes Progress in 2012 System established to model and manage job Family-friendly Management Policies HR Finance & Administration 3. Communicate vertically and horizontally within the organization competencies The quality of employees’ lives improves when the proper balance Division Technical HR 4. Evaluate performance accurately and compensate fairly Significance is struck among work time, family time and leisure time. To this HRM / HRD for administrative HRM / HRD for R&D positions 5. Prohibit discriminatory practices against employees positions (gender, region of origin, school ties, age etc.), respect diversity, provide The pool of employees with specialized skills has been end employees in Korea are provided at least two weeks’ summer equality opportunities (for promotion, awards, etc.) expanded, and employees have been given the option vacation, while Family Day is in effect to allow employees to Global HR Labor relations of aspiring to grow in their careers as specialists. Various * Recent Survey Results (September 2012, 1,293 employee respondents) leave work early and spend quality time at home. In addition, a diagnostic and competency-related programs are being made to enable robust self-development activities. fringe benefit package helps Korean employees with home loans, maternity leave, childcare, health checkups, medical treatment, Key performance indicators Anticipated Effects The new system strengthens the specialist training track and children’s education. Childcare centers and nursing stations in-house and improves the job competencies-based are being installed at worksites to assist women employees who Per capita training expenditure (KRW in thousands) *Employees in administrative positions in Korea career development plan (CDP) system. It is expected are mothers of infants. Childcare centers were put in place at the 56 Per capita training time (hours) *Employees in administrative positions in Korea, includes e-learning to build systematically an environment for nurturing job competencies so that the Company’s hiring competitiveness Incheon factory, Seoul head office and Changwon factories in 2012. In addition, employee families in Korea are encouraged to 57 is strengthened and newly hired personnel are brought up 1,549 join in various volunteer community service programs such as 1,389 to speed more quickly. 1,247 picking up litter from mountains and streams, providing a helping hand to rural communities, and delivering charcoal briquettes Turnover rate (%) * In Korea to low-income families. Family togetherness is reinforced while 182 175 160 practicing the tenets of the Doosan Way. In 2013, employee families are invited to attend briefings on company operations, 1.6 helping family members to better understand their employer and to communicate freely with other employee families. 2010 2011 2012 Objectives of Job Competency System Fair Performance Assessment and Compensation Coordinator Specialists in each area The Doosan Infracore employee competency assessment is based Performance chart on the concept of the Doosan employee ideal and conducted in Offer a career Major issues 2012 Results 2013 Plans growth vision an objective and fair manner. The assessment identifies individual ➊ HR management Established and implemented plan for attracting excellent Make the organization more efficient and strengthen the strengths and areas that need further development, and then the engineers quickly organization system appropriate opportunities for growth and nurturing are provided. Established and implemented a systematic program for nurturing Strengthen the program for hiring excellent engineers overseas In 2012, the personnel management system was upgraded to world-class talent from around the world Migrate, reflect visibly in performance assessments the growth of the Improved operation competencies for global personnel Improve the regulations based on the Doosan Way philosophy Cultivate deploy crossindividual in step with the Doosan Way. Performance assessment Integrated global mobility nurturing Secure global mobility operation functionally specialists is carried out according to MBO (Management By Objective) Direct technology instruction and ➋ HR development Established a job competencies system Build a system for nurturing job specialists Make use of (linked with the HR system) Expand pool of specialists strategically methodology in a one-on-one discussion with feedback between Reestablish a job training system based on job competencies important personnel the evaluatee and his or her supervisor. This approach heightens Created a job academy system Enact a consultation system for nurturing global, the employee’s receptivity to the results and makes the link training for new hires Established the platform for a global HRD consultation system Expand the global leadership training program between performance and pay more transparent. Received approval for a technology training center practice facility Build a welding training center Build a practice facility for assembly and disassembly of products; remodel the practice facility at the technology training center Pool-in ➌ Win-win labor Reinforced the communication between labor and management Form and run on-site committees for competitiveness enhancement relations Self-directed cultivation activities based on Reinforced win-win labor union activities Advance customer support activities the job competency assessment results Build a system for joint CSR between the labor union and the Advance CSR activities through the Hopes & Dreams Corps company 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test Employee growth leads to business growth, and part of the increased revenue is 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management reinvested in employees in a virtuous cycle that fosters the core competencies of the company. 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  In other words, this is the Doosan Group’s “2G strategy” (Growth of People, Growth of 56 Improvement of Employee Value < 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System Business) for all-around success. 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution strikes, recognition of the Company’s right to set wage increase HR Development for minimal collective bargaining, and labor-management Job Academy System agreement on the improved personnel system for employees The job training system is organized by work function, to in technology positions. The competitiveness of technologyinclude R&D, procurement, quality assurance, sales & related jobs at Doosan Infracore has been strengthened, and marketing, finance, and human resources. The academy the groundwork has been laid for win-win cooperation going system is being revamped around job-specific competencies. forward. Job competencies are cultivated from the time the employee Channels for Dialogue between Labor and Management enters the company to grow him or her into a specialist System for Joint CSR between Labor Unions and the Company Committee on systematically. The Corporate R&D Division and Choong-Ang leadership skills for each organizational rank. It is being Labor-Management Musculoskeletal Grievance Committee Labor and management now seek to be partners with local University jointly run the Academy of Innovative Technology, a introduced in stages, starting with executives and team leaders. Council communities and are expanding communication with the Disorders program that cultivates R&D specialists. Program participants In addition, all employees will be offered “Strategic Thinking Industrial Safety disadvantaged in society. The Hopes and Dreams Corps was receive three weeks’ instruction from Choong-Ang University Enhancement through Problem Solving” (STEPS), a course Joint Safety established as a CSR body supported by both labor and Welfare Committee and Worker Health Inspections faculty members and use the R&D facilities on campus to based on Mckinsey’s 7-step problem-solving theory, to assist Committee management, and their intention to engage in community conduct experiments and acquire hands-on experience, thereby them in adopting better work methods. service was publicly announced. The groundwork was also developing their individual capabilities while honing job-related Reinforced Communication between Labor and Management laid for local communities to join the effort and for better competencies. Reinforced Program for Cultivating R&D Personnel Labor and management at Doosan Infracore are engaging communication with local communities. A pact was signed with In 2012, employees working in R&D were invited to attend in candid and open dialogue in an effort to improve labor the Central Region Bureau of Employment and Labor, under the Global HRD Consultation System Leadership School, Job School, Organizational Vitalization relations. The company gives quarterly performance briefings Ministry of Employment and Labor for labor and management Doosan Way workshops serve as the starting point for building School, or Career Development School, and each person to the labor unions at the Operations Division and each BG, to fulfill social responsibilities together, broadening the a network linking the HRD units at overseas subsidiaries. A received an average of 28 hours of instruction during the while the President and CEO leads a briefing for each one in a consensus for shared growth with local communities. The regularly-held global HRD conference provides the venue for year. The number of training hours per year, annual training constant effort to ensure managerial transparency. The Laborefforts in 2012 were recognized by Ministry of Employment discussing and sharing views on the training systems and core expenditures and other HRD indicators have been rising and Management Council, round-table conferences between labor and Labor, which designated Doosan Infracore as an “excellent training programs in each geographical region. improving steadily since 2008. Importantly, the Machine Tool and management, and working-level councils to improve enterprise for labor-management social responsibility.” 58 HRD Direction College (MTC) has been established to hone the technology skills of new hires in technology positions inside the Machine policies all serve as channels for dialogue. In addition, “workplace competitiveness improvement committees” CSR Activities Jointly Organized by Labor and Management 59 Cultivate Global Leaders who can guide organizational change and Tools BG. The diverse curricula cover machine tool scraping, are being formed consisting of labor and management Deliver charcoal briquettes for heating to low-income 2x a year families and make kimchi for charity innovation on the basis of the Doosan Way machining operation, and basic assembly. Doosan Way representatives along with front-line supervisors to discuss all Stage athletic events for persons with disabilities 1x a year workshops were held for all R&D employees in 2012, providing pending issues. These committees further expand the scope Organize volunteers programs to help the needy 2x a year the opportunity to learn and share the values stipulated in the of discussions between labor and management, and act as corporate philosophy of Doosan. In 2013, a Welding Training effective deliberative bodies. (Seven committees met a total of Center opens inside the Incheon factory to hone work skills, and 51 times in 2012.) Addressing Employee Grievances Make all organizational members Cultivate next-generation leaders true “Doosan Employees” who guide change and the Technology Training Center is being remodeled to be more The Grievance Committee, which consists of three The decision to never call a strike An opportunity for genuine laborthrough the sharing of innovation effective in imparting an understanding of product mechanisms representatives each from labor and management, receives was made to build a new labormanagement communication has values and culture and manufacturing processes. The job training programs will be management culture based on been created, discarding conflict grievances and opinions from employees, reaches a consensus Values Leadership cooperation and mutual trust. and confrontation and building expanded with new courses being developed to accommodate on the basis of mutual trust and on action, and helps to raise employee morale. Thus Cultivate global HR who play a leading Cultivate job specialists to reinforce the the needs of employees in technology-related jobs. In addition, respect. employees are able to concentrate better on their work. From role in the global business capability to conduct business programs will be offered to hone the skills needed to fulfill the The year 2012 marked the Outside consultants came in to 2013, free legal advice is being provided to employees to help role at each rank according to the revised personnel system for beginning of a new era in win-win survey and analyze the current them resolve any grievances they may have. Global Expert labor relations, with a consensus state of labor relations, establish employees in technology positions. formed between labor and a direction for future improvement * Compliance with ILO: Doosan Infracore complies with management on how to realize and find a plan for strengthening the International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions that ban discrimination, the corporate vision. competitiveness. The EDU System (e-Doosan University) Training for Upcoming Retirees child labor and forced labor, and allow freedom of association. A process has been established that serves as a joint HRD Doosan Infracore holds training each year for employees index among individual business divisions, setting and who are reaching their retirement age. Lectures are provided managing division targets for foreign language proficiency on goals in later life, change management, and health levels, learning credits, and training plans. In addition, EDU management solutions, thereby helping participants make a has gone online as an e-HRD portal at the group level, helping smooth transition to their retirement years. to stimulate activities to hone all employees’ work-related Global Support for Diversity and Equal Treatment, Protection of Human Rights Zoom-in competencies. To realize Doosan’s unique HRD philosophy Win-Win Labor Relations In North America, Doosan Infracore International, Inc., Bobcat to support diversity and ban discrimination in our workplaces. going forward, a system will be established for managing the During 2010, various labor-management cooperation programs Company and Doosan Portable Power carry out activities aimed at standardization of the HRD index allowing effective monitoring were run together, while a consensus between both sides fostering respect for diversity and creating a workplace free from As a part of such efforts, the employees of our Atlanta Office, marking of all HRD activities. was built on the basis of mutual trust and respect. These discrimination. We operate diverse recruitment systems in tandem Martin Luther King Day, conducted volunteer services at the Atwood with support activities to allow women, minorities, soldiers discharged Community Garden, together with the community organization Hands developments have spawned a new labor-management from the army, and the disabled to be admitted to the company, on Atlanta. They made chests of drawers in classrooms along with Expanded Leadership Training partnership that marks the beginning of “win-win” cooperation. thereby guaranteeing diversity among our employees. We also post the provision of stationery for students entering a new semester and The Insight Program is designed to help all Doosan employees, The launch of this “win-win” labor union has led to some newsletters, policies and efforts under the name of an executive officer organized the classrooms and school surrounding. inside and outside Korea, understand and acquire the essential unprecedented developments: a declaration of no more ESTABLISHMENT OF THE 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM 52 Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System < 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution core issues 2012 Integrated EHS Management System Construction of the Integrated EHS System ➊ ➋ ➌ ➍ ➎ Special Activity Doosan Infracore determined twelve strategic tasks to be carried out in conjunction with the following four strategic Integrated Climate change Management Prevention Promotion directions: establishment of a voluntary safety protection system; EHS response of environmental and management of employee safety Overseas medical support service for overseas staff management and GHG reduction impacts of EHS risks and health improvement of EHS management excellence; enhancement of and employees dispatched on business trips system management EHS manpower leadership and professionalism; and improvement of efficiency via implementation of the integrated EHS system. In 2012, to ensure the health and safety of our overseas As such, we have built and implemented the integrated EHS ROLES & RESPONSIBILITies Stakeholders’ Interests staff and employees dispatched on business trips, we management system across the company, and have ensured Q. What are the most important environmental values implemented the safety management program of the Finance & Administration Division that the four EHS strategies and twelve key tasks are thoroughly required to ensure sustainable growth? world’s top medical and security support service company on a companywide basis. Under this program we began in all operations at home and abroad by our EHS teams and 1. Development of eco-friendly products EHS Changwon EHS Gunsan EHS providing a comprehensive safety, healthcare and health professional employees represented by the planning team. These 2. Establishment of an environmental vision, strategy, policy and system management service in 2013 to 2,800 employees around the efforts form the basis for creating eco-friendly workplaces, and for EHS planning 3. Response to product environment regulations (GHGs, emitted gases, world including overseas staff and their family members, chemicals, and hazardous substances) establishing a voluntary safety management culture. Safety, health employees dispatched on business trips (as of 2012), and 4. Reduction and management of workplace environmental pollutants all domestic employees dispatched on overseas trips. Environment, firefighting (water, air, waste, noise, foul odors, etc.) Bolstering of EHS Capabilities and Securing of Professionalism * In addition, EHS operation teams are separately Energy reduction operated within the Engine BG, Operations Division and 5. Response to climate change (management and reduction of energy 1. Overseas medical support service (training system and performance) taskforce Corporate R&D Division. consumption and GHGs, and introduction of emissions trading) This service includes the provision of medical Based on a systematic EHS training system, from 2013 we will * 2012 survey results (based on the responses of 96 external stakeholders, September 2012) information in each country, emergency medical begin operating the EHS Academy to bolster the capabilities of Key Performance Indicators transfer and rescue services, 24-hour medical the EHS employees and to foster experts. We will analyze EHS counseling, and outpatient diagnosis booking and jobs, survey education demands, introduce yearly curricula, management. Water use amount (Unit: ton / KRW in millions) and establish the required credits by rank, thereby operating 2012 industrial accident rate (Unit: %) GHG emissions (Unit: ton CO2eq / KRW in millions) * Approval criteria for industrial 2. Overseas security support service credit-based courses. We will also integrate the operation of the This service includes the provision of travel security 60 61 accident-related medical treatment existing EHS training system by individual and team through a 0.28 information, the operation of a security situation 0.202 professional training system, thereby significantly enhancing 0.184 room, and the provision of transfer support for security situations. educational levels and fostering EHS experts. 0.143 2012 smoking-cessation fund success 3. Trip support service ratio (Unit: %) This service comprises legal service support and Holding of Global EHS Seminars * 2012 first implementation: Of 580 smokers, 0.041 0.037 0.036 306 people quit smoking successfully. an emergency translation and interpretation service. Since 2011 we have held EHS seminars once every half year to enhance our companywide EHS manpower capabilities, to share 52.7 information and to actively communicate. The relevant personnel present the technical trends in and advanced practical application 2010 2011 2012 measures for various EHS areas such as safety, environment, healthcare and climate change, and awards are presented based Performance Chart on fair evaluation. In 2012, we held a global seminar to which Major management issues 2012 performance 2013 plan our Chinese subsidiary staff members were invited, and future ➊ Integrated EHS Construction of integrated EHS system Application of global evaluation system, and our own evaluation seminars will be expanded to include participants from European management system Construction of integrated EHS IT system Change management and system improvement by area and other overseas workplaces. ➋ Climate change response Construction of climate change response system Operation of companywide midand long-term carbon and GHG reduction management strategies management Building and Operation of the Integrated EHS IT System GHG reduction efforts Analysis of reduction potential and formulation of roadmap (Integrated operation of air compressors) We have built the integrated EHS IT system to bolster the EHS management process in a bid to establish a solid basis ➌ Management of Air management (Investment of KRW 10 billion to Improvement stage 2 for dust transfer systems environmental impacts install foul-odor reduction facilities, etc.) for responding to diverse domestic and overseas regulations. Water management (replacement of SOD tank carriers) Construction of wastewater zero discharge systems This has enabled U.S. to share EHS information in real time, to 60% of soil management and purification completed Restoration of contaminated soil monitor ongoing situations, and to analyze system operations Hazardous substance management along with the totaling of analysis results, thereby enabling (replacement of dilapidated oil piping) rapid decision-making and work advancement, shortening work ➍ Prevention and management Construction of field worker-initiated EHS system Construction of and support for risk factor self-management system times, and consequently maximizing our work efficiency. The of EHS risks Construction of comprehensive employee safety and EHS IT system involves the development and implementation of health systems 249 programs targeting 31 work processes, and is classified into Prevention of fires and safety accidents Construction of real-time monitoring systems for work EHS business management, safety management, environmental involving fire equipment management, firefighting management, healthcare management, ➎ Promotion of employee Operation of health promotion program Exemplary operation of smoking cessation clinics and in-house safety and health (smoking-cessation fund) restaurant low salt food and greenhouse gas management. The system consists of ERPbased EHS (SAP) for EHS managers, EHS portal (Web) for field Support for supplier health promotion staffers, and mobile EHS (smartphones, table PCs) for field use. 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test Doosan Infracore recognizes EHS as an important CSR issue and uses it as a new business opportunity, 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management positively responding to the issue. In particular, we see climate change response, pollutant management, 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  safety and healthcare as important issues from the perspective of business operations and stakeholders, 56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System < and are committed to comprehensively improving and managing them. 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution Investment in and improvement of facilities: In order to formulate an improvement plan including two-phase investment in environmental improvement, adopt a fundamental approach to odors, and carry out effective facility investment, we formulated stages 1 and 2 of the master plan for the two years from 2010 – 2011. Under stage 1, we installed odor reduction facilities at our foundry casting lines and dissolution facilities, and used ventilation systems and constructed a top dust collection structure. Under stage 2, we redeployed the layout for enhancing the performance of existing foul-odor reduction facilities, and invested a total of Climate Change Response and GHG Reduction Management KRW 10 billion in improving the odor reduction facilities at our Construction of the Climate Change Response System heavy material manufacturing facilities. To improve the molten To effectively respond to the major global issue of climate metal injection systems, and to prevent fumes created during change, we have formed an exclusive team and staff. We injection, we applied automatic damper systems. To boost air thoroughly manage and verify GHG emission inventories exhaustion during the pouring of molten metal, we installed Water Management in our workplaces, beginning with the 2004 data. Also, molten metal injectors designed to automatically adjust the To continue to comply with the total permissible level of based on our midand long-term climate change strategies wind amount. nitrogen emission, a cause of water eutrophication, we have and yearly business plans, we manage our GHG reduction replaced our Green Center SOD tank carriers. We have injected goals and conduct various response activities. In 2013, we We are continuing with our facility investment and improvement new microbe-contained carriers to enhance the efficiency began operating a companywide energy saving task force to air compressors, applied the integrated operation system to activities so as to continue to comply with the relevant of wastewater treatment, and improved our facilities for systematically respond to climate change. Furthermore, to its air compressors to better control their load. This system regulatory laws (under 50% of the regulatory level). However, managing pollutants to under 40% of the legally permissible diagnose our Chinese operations’ climatechange response enables integrated control of the air compressors, operates in line with the influx of residents into the community and everlevel. activities, from this year we will calculate GHG emissions in multiple air compressors as one, and controls their load, thus rising expectations about the surrounding environment, we four Chinese workplaces and analyze their GHG management minimizing waste during operation. A total of KRW 400 million will decrease our foundry production volume and relocate Soil Management system. was invested in the construction of the integrated operation the plants gradually in a drive to ensure more fundamental Starting in 2009, the Incheon plant conducted a two-year system, which helps save an estimated 14 million kWh of improvements and reduce the overall generation of odors. We precision survey of its entire premises site to identify the 62 Basically, our companywide GHG emission management is assessed and analyzed based on the EMS (Energy Monitoring electric power and KRW 139 million in costs each year, as well as reducing annual GHG emissions by 671t CO2. will also build odor monitoring systems (real-time monitoring of discharge outlets and management of site borderline scope of soil quality resulting from its long-term business operation, and for a period of three years (2011-2013), we 63 System) and the GHG management system within the EHS IT odor concentration through automatic gauge sensors), thus voluntarily improved the quality of the soil. By 2012, with an system. The consumption amounts of electric power, LNG, and Improved Air Compressor Efficiency Achieved through Resizing: ensuring permanent odor management. investment of KRW 3.5 billion, we had improved 60% of the other major forms of energy are automatically entered into the An analysis of compressed air at the Incheon South plant contaminated soil. In 2013, we will complete soil purification system by gauges, and the consumption amounts of other less revealed that the 450HP air compressors caused a significant Management of Dust by fundamentally improving soil quality and creating an ecowidely consumed forms of energy such as diesel are managed amount of operational losses; thus, 250HP air compressors To improve our working environment and the community friendly plant. by the relevant personnel. This management process is were adopted, and conversion-type and fixed-type air residential environment, we are continuing to invest in facilities implemented according to the in-house “Rules on Energy and compressors were operated together. This dual system, in and improvements aimed at reducing the dispersion of dust Management of Hazardous Substances GHG Management”, which continue to be updated according consideration of the then load change characteristics of the into the local atmospheric environment. We have improved the Oils: In 2012, the Incheon plant began to replace oil pipes to to the prevailing laws and trends. south plant, uses the conversion-type air compressors to environment where scattering dust is created in the processes improve its oil leakage management. We are able to operate supply compressed air on a constant basis, and activates the of transferring dust through dust collectors equipped with speedy response systems by installing existing buried pipes Efforts for GHG Reduction: Emissions by Major Emission fixed-type compressors during sudden load occurrence. This filters and where waste molding sand is loaded onto vehicles. on the ground and double pipes. We also ran educational Source and Performance vs. Reduction Goal resizing, which required an investment of KRW 500 million, To improve the process of transferring dust collectors with courses on the handling of dangerous goods with the aim of Our G HG emission pattern is such that, due to the saves 1,527Kwh in electric power and KRW 148 million in costs filters, instead of using the existing fork lift transfer method, fostering DGR license holders, and increased the number of characteristics of our assembly processes, indirect emissions each year, and reduces GHG emissions by 712t CO2. we have built a dust sealing system designed to transfer and license holders to 18 (up from the legally required number by purchased electric power account for over 70% of the collect dust through sealed pipes by using air injection. Also, of 8), thereby bolstering our human resources inspection total, followed by heating LNG and diesel used for product Management of Environmental Impacts we have remodeled waste molding sand storage into a closed management. Furthermore, we are constructing a system test operation and the transfer of vehicles. The Incheon plant Air Management structure, installing rooftop dust collectors to prevent dust whereby DGR safety personnel can inspect hazardous (HQ), which runs the largest scale operation, is the largest Performance through odor treatment technology: Doosan from being dispersed outside, and ensuring fundamental substance via EHS IT mobile systems to conduct companywide GHG emitter, followed by the Changwon and Gunsan plants Infracore does its best to create pleasant workplaces and to improvement. Furthermore, to reduce the dispersion of dust integrated management of non-conformances. respectively. The Incheon plant, which in 2011 became the first minimize environmental impacts on the local communities caused by vehicles moving within the plant, we have installed plant to be the target of GHG emission goal management, was concerned. Regarding the reduction of odors at foundries, automatic wheel and car washing facilities to thoroughly Gas: To prevent explosions caused by gas leaks, we implemented allotted an allowable emission amount of 134,474t CO2 for there was a general lack of domestic technological power monitor dust dispersion. various production gas facility improvement measures including 2012 following our negotiation with the government, although and the application thereof, but we eventually improved the the replacement of gas containers and breakers. We removed its actual emissions amounted to a lower figure of 106,373t existing facilities’ treatment of mixed odors (including organic To continue to improve the issue of dust dispersion, we will unused and idle gas facilities from the plants, thereby CO2 due to the successful implementation of various reduction solvents, ammonia, and sulfur). In 2012, we reviewed the odor use sealed pipes, as well as building dust transfer sealing minimizing the number of gas facilities and greatly reducing activities. reduction technologies of advanced companies in Germany management systems in all our major processes. We will also the risk of explosion and other dangers. We also educated * For details, see Appendix page 80. and Japan, and applied technologies and facilities capable of build dust monitoring systems (i.e. real-time monitoring of gas handlers and appointed licensed personnel in order to Establishment of Integrated Operation Management System removing mixed odors by material. This enabled U.S. to lower discharge outlets and management of site borderline foulstrengthen our human inspection management, and established for Air Compressors: The Incheon plant, which experienced the odor discharge concentration to under 50% (150 times) of odor concentration through automatic gauge sensors), thus gas installation and operation safety standards by reviewing the considerable energy loss due to the operation of individual the enhanced legal standard (500 times  300 times). ensuring permanent management. gas safety management rules. Accident rates Improvement overview based on safety observation system (Unit: No of cases) Early detection of high-risk patients 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 36.4% 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management 2010 4 (3 people treated) 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  56 Improvement of Employee Value 2011 0.44% 2011 2,115 2011 21 (16 people 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System < treated) 2012 0.28% 2012 2,759 2012 8 (4 people treated) 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution Prevention and Management of EHS Risks Construction of the Field Manager-Led EHS System Promotion of Employee Safety and Health Construction of voluntary safety inspection system of machines Operation and Results of the Smoking Cessation Fund and facilities: To build a field-led voluntary safety inspection In 2012, to promote our employees’ health and to create a nonsystem, Doosan Infracore has prepared pre-work inspection smoking environment, we launched a companywide smoking lists and specific inspection standards, and produced the cessation fund. As a result, 580 employees participated in the corresponding manuals for the personnel concerned. program, of whom 306 (i.e. 52.7%) successfully quit smoking. Under the smoking cessation fund, individuals and the Vaccination Support for Employees and Voluntary safety inspection system of machines and facilities company each added KRW 50,000 per month to a pool: after Their Family Members Inspection time Before work (once daily) To protect the health of our employees, we provide vaccination six months, those employees who have succeeded in quitting Inspector Relevant worker Fire Prevention Activities smoking receive KRW 600,000 and have their success stories services for six common major diseases (yellow fever, cholera, Inspection method Visual inspection according to checklist and manual The Incheon plant won the Excellent Firefighting Award publicized across the company, while those who have failed malaria, typhoid, A-type hepatitis, and tetanus) to employees Targets of inspection Ten legally required types (21 items), nine types organized by the National Emergency Management Agency donate the money for use in social responsibility activities of prior to dispatching them on business trips to vulnerable outside those legally required (21 items) and awarded by the Minister for Home Affairs. This award aims their choice and in their name. overseas regions. We have vaccinated all our employees * Legally required targets: High-location work benches, air compressors, internal carriage to promote the workplace’s firefighting and safety capabilities for water-borne A-type hepatitis. We provide a medical vehicles, robots, lifts, mobile cranes, forklifts, conveyors, cranes, presses. Other targets (not legally required): Gas facilities, local exhaust facilities, painting facilities, battery chargers, and professionalism, and to build a voluntary private-sector Expansion of Health Examination examination to new employees, and vaccinate those who oxygen cutters, pressure containers, acetylene welding devices, dangerous goods storages, and positioners. safety management system. The review of the candidates for In 2011, Doosan Infracore conducted comprehensive employee test negative in the antibody test before assigning them to the award was conducted for eight months from March 2012 health examinations, expanding the targets from employees their departments. We also provide cost support for influenza Safety observation system and safety keepers: To secure the based on document and onsite investigations. We earned a over 40 years old to those aged 35 years old and over. After vaccination for employees and their family members, on a effectiveness of EHS management, we have implemented a high score in the firefighting safety management area, largely 2011, we discovered 29 cancer and high-risk patients, of whom request basis. safety observation system by unit to eliminate any risks or for our enhanced monitoring of fire equipment work before, 20 were cured. (cure rate: 69%) dangers, to raise employees’ awareness of safety issues, and during and after work led by our disaster prevention center, Support for Suppliers’ Employee Health Management 64 to strengthen our manpower capabilities under a virtuouscycle safety management system. which we established in 2011, and for our enhanced wintertime management of heating devices. Winning this award exempts Enhanced Management of Employees with Examination Findings (implementation of the health Under our supplier health promotion program, to be run for six months from March to September, we will implement cerebro65 our company from firefighting inspections, as well as attracting management program) and cardio-vascular disease programs in a bid to manage Campaigns for the enactment and observance of “my” economic incentives worth around KRW 50 million and We carry out a health management program, including doctor the health of our suppliers’ employees and to realize shared workplace safety rules: The safety rule enactment / observance promoting our corporate image to the public. counseling and blood examination, every four months following growth. The programs include smoking cessation, abstention campaign by unit aims to identify potential risks associated the yearly health examination, targeting employees who require from drinking, and work stress management targeting our with “my” work processes, and to voluntarily enact, educate, Win-Win Program follow-up care. Such employees are classified into 4 classes, and suppliers’ workers requiring follow-up care (274 people from and observe the safety rules by unit in a bid to fundamentally Doosan Infracore implements safety and healthcare winare prevented from engaging in overtime and nighttime work to ten companies), along with customized disease counseling prevent safety accidents under EHS awareness reform activities. win programs together with its suppliers: we evaluate the ensure that they take proper care of their health. and management programs. In 2012, we enacted 158 safety rules across the entire company suppliers’ risks and provide them with technical support for and used them in our risk prevention education. their safety and healthcare initiatives. These efforts enable Management of Physical, Bolstering of Preventive suppliers to secure safety and healthcare management Chemical Hazardous Factors at Workplaces Personal Health Habit Improvement Program Self-management of risk factors: Doosan Infracore will build capabilities by themselves, while allowing U.S. to build a Pursuant to Article 42 of the Industrial Safety and Healthcare Smoking cessation clinic: Under this program, run in association a management system with which we will be able to apply collaborative system to continuously improve our safety and Act, we assess the working environment of our plants with with regional public health centers, employees wishing to quit systematic, scientific methods of pinpointing risk factors when healthcare systems. This program is applied to 500 large regard to hazardous work processes (noise, dust, heavy metal, smoking receive counseling and guidance for six months. From identifying and evaluating risk factors and assessing risks to companies in terms of sales (ranked 78th) and their suppliers. organic solvents, etc.) twice a year. We take improvement February 2013, the program is being conducted companywide allow all employees to participate in these safety activities. In 2012, we implemented the safety and healthcare win-win measures such as the adoption of low-noise electronic tools, with the participation of 211 employees. This will ensure field-oriented safety management, enhance program with the focus on our Incheon, Changwon and Gunsan installation of local exhaust ventilators, and closure of the field workers’ capabilities, and secure the organization’s plants and their 76 suppliers. We earned an “A” grade for all relevant sources. As a result, we have reduced the exposure Provision of low-salt food: From March 2013, we began a trial fundamental competitiveness. three workplaces. process by 30% compared with 2010. run of the “low-salt corner” (serving foods whose sodium content is reduced by 25%) at the in-house cafeteria to Management of Hazardous Factors of reduce the incidence of hypertension, obesity and other adult Global North America’s EHS Activities Zoom-in Musculoskeletal Disease Pursuant to the industrial safety and healthcare criteria rule diseases among our employees. We plan to further expand this program in the near future. North America’s 2012 EHS activities were focused on reducing improvement tasks, and analysis and evaluation of the ergonomic Article 657, under the Industrial Safety, Healthcare Act – Article accident rates as Doosan Infracore International experienced 79 aspects of workplaces. accidents across the USA in 2011. In 2012, we aimed to reduce the Thus, the Wahpeton plant in North Dakota posted 487,000 hours 24, we conduct a biannual survey of hazardous factors related “119 healthy drinking” campaign: To prevent employees from accident rate by 10%, but we actually reduced it by well over 50%, of uninterrupted, accident-free operation for two consecutive to musculoskeletal disease, identify vulnerable work, and developing liver complaints and other adult diseases, we are recording only 31 accidents. Our 2012 accident reduction activities years. Also, Bobcat Gwinner plant recently replaced paints used in take the appropriate measures, such as the improvement of conducting the 119 healthy drinking campaign as part of a included the implementation of an action-based safety procedure the manufacturing process with paints containing no hazardous jigs (manufacture of jigs and installation of nut runners) and drive to establish a healthy drinking culture and a sound after(delegating authority to employees), auditing of compliance air-pollutant substances, thereby transforming the Gwinner plant the adjustment of work points, thereby improving the work work social culture. with safety norms, monthly safety education for operating lines, an achievement certified by the U.S. Environmental Protection analysis of causes of accidents, monitoring of fulfillment of Agency’s North Dakota office. environment. * 119 campaign: Finishing an after-work party with one just round, and one type of liquor, and before 9 p.m. Mutual growth 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / through win-win cooperation 52 Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation < 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution core issues 2012 Improvement of Communication with Suppliers Communication with Suppliers ➊ ➋ ➌ ➍ ➎ Special Activity Doosan Infracore bolsters its field management and shared growth activities by having its CEO and BG Heads visit the Improvement of Enhancement Expansion of Joint entry Expanded fair suppliers on a regular basis. Also, through the official channel communication of suppliers’ financial support into overseas trade voluntary Expansion of Secondary Suppliers for with suppliers competitiveness for suppliers markets compliance of the Shared Growth Association, we discuss shared growth Shared Growth Activities program measures with the association’s executives from time to time, and pursue shared growth by voluntarily engaging in In a bid to build trustworthy relationships and realize exchanges. From 2012, celebrating Suppliers’ Day, we further shared growth through win-win collaboration, Doosan expanded the scope of our communication with suppliers, ROLES & RESPONSIBILITies Stakeholders’ Interests Infracore is expanding its shared growth scheme to include invited the CEOs of 171 suppliers in order to award prizes to the Q. What are the most important shared-growth issues for not only primary suppliers but also secondary suppliers. As Operation Division well as bolstering support for our primary suppliers, we are best suppliers, share our vision, and present shared growth sustainable growth? establishing compliance programs for secondary suppliers. strategies and programs. In addition, through the Shared 1. The sharing of goals and visions between Doosan Infracore and To strengthen the competitiveness of our secondary its suppliers Growth Day and other activities, we gather the opinions of Shared growth Purchase suppliers, we supported their observation tours of advanced suppliers and explore shared growth strategies. 2. The provision of support aimed at strengthening suppliers’ capabilities overseas enterprises, thereby expanding direct and indirect Support for suppliers Competitiveness reinforcement (technical and financial support, EHS training, etc.) support team support activities for them. Fair trade compliance program 3. Fair contracting with suppliers and compliance with fair trade regulations Furthermore, we positively communicate with our suppliers 4. Recognition and treatment not as a principal / contractor relationship 1. Supporting twelve primary suppliers’ adoption of in order to gather their opinions and reflect them in diverse * The Purchase / Strategy team operates competitiveness reinforcement support teams by but as equal partners business category of the Engine / Machine Tools BG. the fair trade compliance program in 2012, thus shared growth programs with the aim of achieving true shared * 2012 stakeholder interview and survey results (employees of 29 suppliers, September 2012) establishing fair trade compliance for secondary growth. We also operate a supplier hotline consisting of suppliers online and phone channels in an effort to establish a fair trade Key Performance Indicators 2. Expanding support for comprehensive culture. medical examination to secondary suppliers Support amount: KRW 47.4 million Major channels and communication activities Financial support amount Cash settlement ratio Support for supplier education 138 people in 75 primary suppliers / 66 67 2012 Support for strengthening Suppliers’ communication channels 2012 (Unit: KRW in billions) (Unit: %) (Unit: no. of people) * Excluding indirect support supplier competitiveness 20 people in eleven secondary suppliers Suppliers’ Day 200 people from 171 suppliers 3,519 (Unit: man-day) 41.6 3. Shared growth with secondary suppliers / presenting Working Consultative Council for 238 people from 210 suppliers 45.7 and sharing policies, and gathering opinions Shared Growth 3,111 96 people from secondary suppliers were invited 4. Supporting secondary suppliers’ observation tours of advanced overseas enterprises to enhance their Shared Growth Day No. of CEO visits to suppliers 175 people from 155 suppliers 6 2012 Support for technology 22.2 20.1 competitiveness development (Unit: no. of suppliers / no. of cases) Support provided to 16 people from secondary Establishment of Shared Growth Corporate Culture suppliers with a fund of KRW 24 million To deliver the management’s vow to drive forward shared 59 / 95 on three occasions growth, and to bolster action power, executives are evaluated for 435 5. Large and Small Business Cooperation Foundation their shared growth performance as reflected in the evaluation support provided to five consultative councils by MBO (Management By Objective). Doosan Group’s holding 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 of primary and secondary suppliers-commissioned company each year evaluates group affiliates’ shared growth enterprises performance and provides additional stock options to CEOs and 6. Enhancing the precision of secondary suppliers’ executives who are the best achievers. Performance Chart machining facilities via the Machinery Industry Major issues 2012 results 2013 plan Shared Growth Promotion Foundation ➊ Improvement of communication Supplier communication activities Provided financial support totaling KRW 217 million Suppliers’ Day / shared growth policy working-level consultative with suppliers meetings / Shared Growth Day / CEO’s visits to suppliers over 33 occasions / provided calibration support six times for tests and test devices / ➋ Enhancement of suppliers’ Operation of a supplier competitiveness reinforcement team Continue operating the supplier competitiveness provided technical diagnosis four times competitiveness reinforcement team Support for suppliers’ parts development efforts Localized development of parts (10 cases) / joint development of new machine models (35 cases) / OEKM and module support (5 cases) / Support for molds and related equipment (KRW 20.5 billion) / Technology escrow system (25 cases) Process of gathering of supplier opinions and reflection thereof in business activities Support for health examinations for suppliers’ employees Over 200 people ➌ Expansion of financial Operation of supplier shared growth fund Raising of KRW 40 billion Strategies / decision Suppliers Shared Growth Team Execution support for suppliers Operation of various financial support programs Facility investment worth KRW 3 billion / 3-time payment / Regular & irregular channel making Indirection support worth KRW 165 billion ➍ Joint entry into Support for suppliers’ entry into overseas markets Entry into overseas markets through joint development of parts overseas markets CSR Team Regular channel ➎ Expanded fair trade voluntary Enhancement of the fair trade compliance program Support for supplier operation / Education about the compliance program Subcontracting Act / Support for adoption of the fair trade compliance program Feedback 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test To ensure enhanced global competitiveness and shared growth, Doosan Infracore embraces the 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management establishment of virtuous-circle partnerships with suppliers under the shared-growth motto, bolstering 52 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  suppliers’ technical capabilities, and upgrading supplier business systems, thus expanding and exporting 56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System our own technology, quality and management systems into all our suppliers. 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation < 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution Expansion of Financial Support for Suppliers Doosan Infracore provides financial support to suppliers in Enhancement of Suppliers’ Competitiveness in four different directions, namely, direct support, indirect Operation of Competitiveness Reinforcement Team support, mixed support and special support. In particular, for Suppliers under the mixed support program, we raise and operate a To enhance supplier competitiveness and stabilize supplier special fund for shared growth, based on an escrow in an management, we operate a support team comprising of 50 association of banks to support suppliers’ operating fund in-house experts and technical engineers who continuously at low interest rates. In 2012, we deposited KRW 19.5 billion visit suppliers, expanding their guidance and support and raised a fund of KRW 40 billion, and supported suppliers Expanded Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program activities for a period of six to twelve months. To bolster with a total operating fund of KRW 36 billion. Furthermore, Bolstering of Supplier Participatory Compliance Program supplier manufacturing competitiveness and innovate to help suppliers stabilize their operations, we provided KRW To establish a supplier fair trade culture, we are pushing supplier quality, we provided key technical support such Support for Supplier Technology Development and 170 billion worth of financial support, including equipment the support of CP adoption and compliance with the as welding, material manufacturing, and non-destructive Protection of Their Technology purchase support, network loans, family corporate loans, Subcontracting Act. In 2012, we introduced CP to twelve inspection, as well as innovation support on 3 R 5S*, Lean*, We support suppliers in development of technologies, and investments in the Machinery Industry Shared Growth primary suppliers, and offered education on the fair trade and DTC*, Single PPM*, quality guidance and problem solving. In helping them bolster business competitiveness and increase Promotion Foundation. Starting from 2012, we improved Subcontracting Act to 88 major suppliers, thus consolidating 2012, we provided 3,111 daily supports. earnings. We supported 59 suppliers in development of our settlement practice by increasing monthly settlement the ground for fair trade compliance. In particular, according * 3 R5S: 3 Jeong (right position, right product, right quantity) technologies in 2012, helping them to develop parts with frequency from 2 to 3, and increased the cash settlement to the fair trade and shared growth agreement between 5S (arrangement, cleanup, cleanliness, and habituation) activities local technologies, OEM products and modules, and also ratio from 20% to 40%. large and small-sized companies, signed in January 2012, we * Lean: Activities to minimize inventories and to innovate work processes, thus reducing costs and enhancing productivity jointly developing new machine models, helping them encouraged our primary suppliers to sign the said shared * DTC: Design to Cost innovation * Single PPM [Parts Per Million]: Activities to set a quality management goal of post KRW 13.5 billion in sales. Furthermore, we spent KRW Joint Entry into Overseas Markets growth agreement with our secondary suppliers, thus reducing faulty products to under 100,000 per 1 million products produced, and to require all members to participate in this campaign 23.5 billion supporting molds and related equipment, and Supplier Support Program for Joint Overseas Market Entry promoting shared growth (support for 156 primary suppliers). supported suppliers in filing patents for new technologies. We implemented a supplier support program for joint Education Support for Suppliers We also adopted a technology escrow system in order overseas market entry for those suppliers that, although Report of CP Performance to the Board of Directors To bolster suppliers’ competitiveness and improve their to protect suppliers’ technology. As a result, in 2012, we they engage in export operation with excellent technological Starting from 2012, once biannually, we research our own 68 management, Doosan Infracore operates a diverse range of educational support programs. In 2012, we operated supported 21 cases of technologies of 16 suppliers under the system. prowess, have financial difficulty in manufacturing due to the small size of their operations and / or lower visibility. Under fair trade performance and monitor any possible violations of laws, reporting such fair trade CP activities to the board of 69 74 courses, including university-linked courses, with a 2012 Support for Supplier Technology Development and Performance this program, we are supporting excellent suppliers to bolster directors, along with the public disclosure thereof. We thus total of 3,519 participants. Furthermore, to help suppliers their competitiveness. In association with the Korea EXIM declare our vow for fair trade compliance to both internal and Local development of parts 26 suppliers 29 cases KRW 5.3 billion with human resources, we offered them university-linked in sales Bank, we will increase its local network support, obtain local external stakeholders, and promote our CP practice. employment education, helping them to secure HR in Joint development of 8 suppliers 38 cases KRW 6.8 billion loans, and help suppliers effectively respond to exchange manufacturing, assembly, electricity and electronics. new machine models in sales risks. Dissemination of Ethical Management and 2012 Supplier Education Support Program Performance OEM and modules 25 suppliers 28 cases KRW 1.4 billion Bolstering of Action Power in sales Support for Joint Participation in Exhibitions and To promote ethical management to suppliers and promote University-linked education 22 courses 218 suppliers 294 people for Global Benchmarking its practice, we have opened a page on our website to share Government and other 2 courses 2 suppliers 2 people Support for Suppliers’ Employee Medical Examination To help suppliers bolster their competitiveness and enter information about illegal transactions of employees and agencies-linked education We operate a free medical examination program for supplier overseas markets, we operate a support program for suppliers, and established a cyber-audit team in a bid to Doosan education 38 courses 1,933 suppliers 2,626 people (quality, FTA, etc.) CEO spouses. In 2012, 158 people from 86 suppliers benefited participation in domestic and overseas exhibitions. In 2012, establish internal reporting system regulations. In particular, Supplier CEO education 7 courses 441 suppliers 456 people from this program, and we will expand this program from we invited 28 people from 27 suppliers to observe Intermat in we operated an unfair trade report center for improprieties Education by 3 courses 3 suppliers 123 people primary suppliers to secondary suppliers. France, and to visit Bobcat plants in the Czech Republic, thus of employees and suppliers, and a supplier hotline (online, visiting suppliers Support for Suppliers’ Free Medical Examination allowing them to learn about advanced technological trends. exclusive phone). We require not only individual employees Employee candidate 2 courses 12 suppliers 18 people We also expanded the advanced companies’ observation but also suppliers (when registering with us) to submit an education 2011 80 suppliers 163 people program to secondary suppliers, supporting their global oath on ethical management practice, thus continuing to Total 74 courses 2,609 suppliers 3,519 people 2012 86 suppliers 158 people competitiveness enhancement. promote ethical management. A Shared Growth Success Story from SMBA’s Best Practice Collection 2012 Performance of Financial Support for Suppliers This is a shared growth success story involving Doosan Infracore and its develop a comprehensive multi-tasking ATC & Magazine (40-Tool). This machine tool supplier Sirjin Tech Co., as introduced in SMBA’s Small R&D collaboration, the first of its kind for the domestic machine tool industry, Support programs Seed Making Big Economy, a success story collection of new product drew the attention of the industry. As a result, the tool type used mainly development business with the condition of purchase, published in for a multi-tasking machining center led to the successful development January. The new product development business with the condition of of the newly applied tool magazine and ATC system, and enabled the purchase is a program by which the government, large companies, and exchange of precision tools and the structural simplification of cam boxes. Special support small companies work together to help small firms with R&D efforts, thus This also helped to secure the assembly technology competitiveness and Direct support Indirect support Mixed support Establishment of, and investment in, allowing them to remain viable and to provide them with opportunities supply good-quality products at affordable prices, thus cutting costs. This 11 suppliers Network loan: KRW 133.9 billion Special fund for shared growth Machinery Industry Shared Growth to explore markets. Under this program, Doosan Infracore, in developing is a model case of collaboration between a large company and a small KRW 5.3 billion Family corporate loan: KRW 30 billion KRW 40 billion raised Foundation: KRW 370 million multi-tasking machining centers, worked together with Sirjin to company. * For details, see page 35. DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES 44 CSR Management / Materiality Test 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 Accountable Corporate Governance / THROUGH SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 52 Transparent and Ethical Management / Risk Management Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness  56 Improvement of Employee Value 60 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System 66 Mutual Growth through Win-Win Cooperation 70 Development of Local Communities through Social Contribution < core issues ➊ ➋ ➌ Systemization and Enhancement Activation institutionalization of employeeof internal of social contribution participatory and external Systemization of Social Contribution Activities (3 major areas) activities volunteer activities communication Support for Future Generations Dream School: The Dream School, our representative CSR program for supporting future generations, embraces the ROLE & RESPONSIBILITies KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORs concept of “when one has a dream for the future and makes CEO efforts towards a goal, he or she can succeed,” targeting first CSR cost Participation ratio of 2012 CSR investment vs. 2012 sales 2012 Employee salary portion amount and second graders of middle schools. The program aims to Support Using Our Work Capabilities (Unit: %) donation campaign (Unit: %) (Unit: KRW in billions) allow participants to respect their dreams, as well as others’, Junior Technical School: Under this program, our researchers, Finance & and to create a culture fostering a diverse set of dreams. The mostly specializing in natural sciences and engineering, Corporate Center Administration Division program targets mainly children from low-income and singlesupported elementary school students in nearby community 0.35 89.7 14.9 parent homes with less experience in role models. It helps the children centers for one year in making hands-on-kits together Corporate social contribution Administrative support participants bolster their skills and have experiential activities, and learning about scientific principles. Started in 2008, Formulation of companywide CSR activities in fostering a positive confidence in the future and their potential the 2012 program was conducted for students in the Osan CSR strategies Incheon and Changwon Planning and operation occupations. In particular, employees serve as mentors, community children center. representative programs advising and emotionally supporting student mentees in Support for workplace / exploring their dreams. Equipment Donation: We improve test engines, and donate employee volunteer activities them to universities near our workplaces for the purpose of In the 2012 Dream School, the first year of the program, 127 practicing assembly and disassembly, thus helping students Performance Chart students were selected from four regions nationwide (Seoul, improve their skills. 70 Major issues ➊ Systemization and 2012 performance Systemization: Planning and implementation of CSR 2013 plan Establishment and stabilization of the Dream School Incheon, Changwon and Gunsan), with 115 completing the course. Of 93 employee mentors, 87 worked through Institutionalization of Social Contribution Activities 71 institutionalization of social classification / representative programs by area the course. Through ten professional mentoring programs Improvement of Work-Report System contribution activities (Launching Dream School program) Institutionalization: Improving of CSR personnel affairs Pursuit for adoption of CSR mileage involving experts in various areas, mentees learned about the for the Activation of CSR system and guidelines right attitude and information about occupations, engaging in Doosan Infracore embraces CSR, and to further increase (Reflection of personnel affairs system, building of club occupational experience, occupational interviews, and school employees’ participation in and access to CSR, we have support system, and awarding system for best participants) visitations together with employee mentors, thus making their established a CSR work-report code in the evaluation system. ➋ Enhancement Enhancement of participation access and convenience Sharing of relevant information through site and of employee-participatory (building of CSR information system) building of database dreams more specific. After the one-year course, mentees will volunteer activities Performance of CSR activities Continued support for clubs be provided with follow-up support. Establishment of an Awarding System (support for the creation of 14 voluntary clubs) for the Activation of CSR ➌ Activation of internal Education and presentation of CSR (8 times) Continue education targeting of new employees and career employees. and external communication Support for Local Communities We established the CSR Awards to raise employees’ interest Presentation of CSR to deputy general managers and higher ranking staffers Dream Communication Day: We hold companywide Volunteer in CSR and to reward the best participants. We have Communications with local communities Continue communications with stakeholders Day twice a year. Celebrating the company anniversary institutionalized an awarding system for three categories, (regular meetings with relevant community institutes, including partner institutes day (June 4) and World Volunteer Day (December 5), each namely, the Dream School, individuals, and clubs, thus occasional meetings with communities) workplace conducted community outreach activities, such rewarding the best participants and raising employees’ interest as making stationery boxes and kimchi for the communities’ in CSR. 2012 elderly people and children. Special Building a Volunteer Club Support System Dream Start Support Project: We participate in the Dream for the Activation of CSR CSR Base Building and In 2011, we established the CSR Team and formulated the activity Activity Implementation direction and mid-term roadmap, In 2012, we laid the groundwork for strategic CSR activities, and built infrastructures for representative projects. Start project led by the Ministry of Health and Welfare to support children from low-income homes to grow up as We built a support system involving a fund of KRW 1 million for volunteer employee clubs, thus encouraging employee healthy members of the society. Under this program, volunteer volunteer activities. employees in our five workplaces nationwide engage in providing opportunities for elementary school students in their Enhancement of Employee-participatory Volunteer Activities 1. Implementation of hallmark CSR programs 2. Building of CSR infrastructures respective communities to have culture experiences. Volunteer Groups & Volunteer Clubs Doosan Infracore’s CSR activities are in step with the Group’s Doosan Infracore has built infrastructures for pursuing Employees actively participate in companywide CSR activities CSR theme of HR growth and self-help, focusing on the CSR activities in terms of institutional and operational aspects. Community Volunteer Activities: We positively engage in such as the Dream School and Community Day, and about three following areas: (1) support for future generations, We created a CSR work-report evaluation code, built club (2) support for local communities, and (3) support using support and CSR information systems and established an community volunteer activities to achieve win-win benefits. In 90% of all employees participate in the campaign of donating our work capabilities. Importantly Dream School was launched awarding system for best participants. their respective communities, our five workplaces provide free a portion of their salary to raise CSR funds. 15 volunteer clubs in 2012 to support the development of future generations, meal dispensing services, support disabled people marathon in each workplace also engaged in a free meal dispensing a key area of concern. competitions, and conduct one-company, one village support service at child protection facilities, while studying how they campaigns. can support for children. 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 2012 Volunteer Groups’ Activities Activation of Internal and External Communication Volunteer club members in our various workplaces engage in CSR Education a free meal dispensing service, serving at children protection Starting from the second half of 2011, in the introduction facilities, and study how to support the children, making their course for new employees and career employees, we activities meaningful. In particular, in 2012, 87 employees provided education on CSR and Doosan Infracore’s CSR engaged in the companywide CSR Dream School as mentors, activities. We presented the CSR concept, the Doosan CSR serving as advisors for children from low-income homes, direction, and our CSR outline and method. (In 2012, we inspiring them with dreams and fostering their skills. offered eight courses with a total of 500 participants.) Participation in the campaign to donate a portion of salary appendix Presentation of CSR Item No. of Participation 2012 total fund raised Along with the launch of the 2012 Dream School, we presented participants ratio (KRW 1,000) our CSR direction, new programs and participation methods Results 4,895 89.7% 182,327 in workplaces nationwide, thus raising employees’ consensus Our volunteer clubs on CSR. (6 times: 220 people participated from Seoul, Suji, Incheon, Ansan, Gunsan and Changwon) Region Club name Companywide Winning Team Chorus Sharing of CSR News Doosan Infracore pursues a harmonious realization of economic performance, CSR and environmental Seoul Sharing Club (Machine Tools),·Together Club (CE), To share CSR news, Doosan Infracore published nine HR Volunteer Club Mangwoni values. We make a concerted effort to provide world-best products and services and to bolster fundamental newsletters from November 2011 to December 2012. (Major Incheon Hope Dream, Field Manager Association, Celper·E, competitiveness, thus laying a solid groundwork for creating economic performance. We strive to build a Sharing Plus, Throbbing CSR activities, participating employees, and funds raised) Suji Sharing Junior Technical School virtuous-cycle partnership with a view to growing together with partners, and to conduct CSR activities. We Ansan Hanaro Club exert ourselves to respond to climate change and to conserve the environment, while endeavoring to ensure 72 Changwon Warm Air 2006 the safety and healthcare of employees and communities to improve environmental values. Doosan Infracore 73 vows to conduct more systematic, strategic CSR activities to realize our vision as a global leading corporation and to open up a better future for all stakeholders. Global Global CSR Zoom-in Doosan Infracore conducts CSR activities based on people and communities. In our global operation communities, we established 74 Consolidated Financial Statements elementary schools, supported emergency rescue activities, and assisted in the remodeling and repair of community facilities, thus 78 Independent Auditors’ Report positively participating in community growth. Through the establishment of the CSR Committee, we encourage employees to engage 80 Csr Facts & Figures in volunteer activities. Our overseas employees also raise diverse funds for socially alienated members including children and young people, provide free meals, improve roads, and repair institutes’ facilities using our company machines. As such, we positively engage 82 Independent Assurance Report in CSR activities. China – In China, under the slogan of Constructing a Beautiful, $5 per person, cooking competitions, and tricycle competitions in Happy China, we invest in public-interest businesses and endeavor a bid to raise donation funds, thus establishing a voluntary CSR to develop together with the local communities. From 2001 to culture. We raised a total fund of USD $46,945, and donated the fund 2012, we donated a total of CNY 9.85 million to the Chinese Youth to United Way to be used for the development of local communities. Development Fund Association, establishing 33 Doosan Schools of Employees feel proud to participate in the development of Hope across China. Our dealers serve as honorary principals for the communities. In recognition of such activities, in North Dakota, in 26 schools as part of support activities, and we hold summer camps 2012, we were awarded the United Way Contribution Prize. each year by inviting students and teachers. In recognition of our CSR activities, in January 2012, DICC was awarded the Best CSR Prize Europe – Starting from 2012, the Doosan EMEA Integrated Service by the Yantai Development Zone Economic Work Committee. Center, based in Dublin, the capital of Ireland conducts CSR “Be a Doo-er!” campaign. Our Dublin office established a CSR Committee North America – In North America, we work together with the U.S. in 2012, and formulated a 2013 Action Roadmap for employees charity organization called the United Way of America that supports to participate in diverse community activities. In October 2012, community education, income stabilization and health. Our offices all employees of the center participated in painting community in Bismarck, Fargo, Gwinner, and Wahpeton in North Dakota have facilities, and in November, engaged in the Movember campaign. conducted CSR activities suited to their respective communities. Movember boosts the awareness about prostate cancer and raises Employees in North Dakota auctioned off sports match tickets and donation funds for supporting patients as participants must grow a electronic products, sell parking tickets, and sell gift certificates mustache during the month of November. Most of our Dublin office of community stores, thus helping the communities. We also hold male employees participated in the campaign. events of preparing and sharing foods, Casual Day for donating USD 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Financial Position consolidated statements of income FY2012 from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 / FY2011 from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 (Unit: KRW) FY2012 from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 / FY2011 from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 (Unit: KRW) Description FY2012 FY2011 Description FY2012 FY2011 Assets Ⅰ. Sales 8,158,350,959,705 8,463,085,724,023 Ⅰ. Current assets 3,861,994,577,716 4,232,530,064,182 Ⅱ. Cost of sales 6,478,129,915,411 6,615,691,255,830 Cash and cash equivalents 462,494,292,429 624,031,624,968 Ⅲ. Gross profit 1,680,221,044,294 1,847,394,468,193 Short-term financial instruments 222,294,825,630 118,138,828,715 Selling and administrative expenses 1,317,803,816,096 1,167,779,498,194 Short-term investment securities 1,200,000,000 Ⅳ. Operating income 362,417,228,198 679,614,969,999 Trade receivables and other receivables 1,309,109,422,991 1,569,429,050,863 Financial income 249,570,319,161 175,052,455,482 Derivative assets 73,437,207,075 19,307,871,952 Financial cost 570,352,372,508 601,234,228,163 Inveantories 1,662,008,926,258 1,782,004,735,816 Other non-operating income 35,901,618,689 84,440,796,526 Assets intended for disposal 2,645,196,457 2,645,196,447 Other non-operating cost 79,589,210,926 55,602,159,820 Other current assets 130,004,706,876 115,772,755,421 Equity method-based investment income (loss) (18,393,850,149) 4,845,287,022 Ⅱ. Non-current assets 7,690,846,046,311 7,471,144,567,281 Gain (loss) on equity method-based investment asset disposition 704,719,182 (6,771,471,314) Long-term financial instruments 2,011,500,000 11,500,000 Gain on disposition of stocks invested in subsidiaries 4,907,819,621 Long-term investment securities 9,244,959,753 2,461,782,534 Ⅴ. Pretax income (loss) from continuing operations (19,741,548,353) 285,253,469,353 Long-term trade receivables and other receivables 8,374,860,523 6,648,162,487 After-tax income (loss) from continuing operations (423,761,523,933) 78,313,983,623 Non-current derivative assets 4,525,583,392 Ⅵ. Income from continuing operations 404,019,975,580 206,939,485,730 Tangible assets 2,023,666,222,683 1,907,310,779,496 Ⅶ. Income from discontinued operations 103,870,554,756 Intangible assets 4,754,639,097,102 5,038,112,718,225 Ⅷ. Consolidated net profit 404,019,975,580 310,810,040,486 Investment properties 27,871,356,394 29,032,623,853 Controlling interest 349,803,841,202 298,223,624,003 Investments in joint ventures and affiliated companies 145,002,625,289 163,787,811,240 Non-controlling interest 54,216,134,378 12,586,416,483 Deferred income tax assets 597,141,831,491 189,780,215,316 Ⅸ. Earnings per share of controlling interest Other non-current assets 118,368,009,684 133,998,974,130 Basic ongoing operating income per share 2,075 1,153 Diluted ongoing operating income per share 2,074 1,153 74 75 Total assets 11,552,840,624,027 11,703,674,631,463 Liabilities Basic earnings per share 2,075 1,769 Ⅰ. Current liabilities 3,539,078,481,832 4,473,166,145,503 Diluted earnings per share 2,074 1,769 Trade payables and other payables 1,067,423,350,749 1,918,021,666,401 Short-term borrowings 1,325,079,857,757 616,572,690,475 Current bonds payable 469,592,187,972 232,824,289,736 Current long-term borrowings 270,380,842,054 1,149,062,279,887 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Current income tax debts 31,856,682,031 121,456,321,048 FY2012 from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 / FY2011 from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 (Unit: KRW) Derivative debts 831,659,485 22,851,007,390 Provisions 146,441,019,324 171,514,008,843 Description FY2012 FY2011 Other current debts 227,472,882,460 240,863,881,723 Ⅰ. Net profit 404,019,975,580 310,810,040,486 Ⅱ. Non-current liabilities 5,017,049,613,095 4,945,307,457,212 Ⅱ. Other comprehensive income / loss (178,398,265,596) (97,733,726,945) Bonds payable 1,585,861,248,159 1,594,857,576,069 Actuarial gain and loss under the defined benefit retirement pension (841,308,862) (156,771,019,333) Long-term borrowings 2,508,227,472,114 2,451,412,211,189 Gain and loss of valuation of financial assets available for sale (61,673,396) (42,746,482) Other non-current debts 27,504,331,079 2,287,962,219 Capital changes not under the equity method (1,195,628,629) 2,523,942,012 Allowance for severance and retirement benefits 773,747,548,161 758,148,077,218 Gain or loss on overseas operations translation (266,406,054,959) 72,531,233,167 Non-current derivative debts 7,707,578 286,042,423 Gain or loss on valuation of derivative instruments for cash flow hedge 90,106,400,250 (15,975,136,309) Deferred income tax debts 3,561,696,033 45,568,743,327 Ⅲ. Total comprehensive income 225,621,709,984 213,076,313,541 Non-current provisions 7,370,145,747 4,430,255,524 Ⅳ. Beneficiaries of total comprehensive income Other non-current provisions 110,769,464,224 88,316,589,243 Controlling interest 211,441,589,853 222,416,812,834 Total liabilities 8,556,128,094,927 9,418,473,602,715 Non-controlling interest 14,180,120,131 (9,340,499,293) Stockholders’ equity Ⅰ. Equity ownership of controlled entity 2,446,500,738,076 1,845,065,836,099 Capital stock 843,290,170,000 842,779,420,000 Capital surplus 14,254,797,512 8,288,339,555 Hybrid bonds 508,259,603,649 Other capital (30,403,879,853) 94,339,619,629 Other cumulative comprehensive income (177,281,421,248) (42,494,821,600) Earned surplus 1,288,381,468,016 942,153,278,515 Ⅱ. Non-controlling interests 550,211,791,024 440,135,192,649 Total stockholders’ equity 2,996,712,529,100 2,285,201,028,748 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity 11,552,840,624,027 11,703,674,631,463 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report consolidated statements of changes in equity consolidated statements of cash flows FY2012 from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 / FY2011 from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 (Unit: KRW) FY2012 from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 / FY2011 from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 (Unit: KRW) Description FY2012 FY2011 Description Capital Capital Hybrid bonds Other capital Other Retained Non-controlling Total surplus item cumulative earnings interests Ⅰ. Cash flows from operating activities (432,791,142,239) 117,185,373,031 comprehensive income Cash from operations 455,983,304,342 526,735,894,251 January 1, 2011 842,242,420,000 5,298,993,755 (73,759,338,761) (107,243,585,324) 784,485,229,405 306,514,098,989 1,757,537,818,064 Net profit 404,019,975,580 310,810,040,486 (the beginning of the Adjustment 234,753,936,999 646,834,882,386 previous term) Net changes in assets and liabilities resulting from operations (182,790,608,237) (430,909,028,621) Consolidated net income 298,223,624,003 12,586,416,483 310,810,040,486 Actuarial gain and (140,555,574,893) (16,215,444,440) (156,771,019,333) Receipt of interest 27,692,389,440 24,096,530,961 loss under the defined Payment of interest (782,514,855,762) (325,021,059,608) benefit retirement pension Receipt of dividends 9,599,997 Exercising and expiration of 537,000,000 2,989,345,800 (1,319,305,800) 2,207,040,000 stock options Payment of income tax (133,961,580,256) (108,625,992,573) Share-based payment 4,146,126,117 4,146,126,117 Ⅱ. Cash flows from investments (544,638,275,661) (290,228,057,596) Gain and loss of (42,746,482) (42,746,482) Cash inflow from investments 130,677,843,934 386,014,724,115 valuation of financial assets available for sale A decrease in short-term investment securities 23,622,412,492 Capital changes not 2,523,942,012 2,523,942,012 A decrease in short-term loans 37,934,761,916 under the equity method Disposition of long-term investment securities 244,033,153 27,650,000,000 Gain or loss on overseas 78,242,704,503 (5,711,471,336) 72,531,233,167 operations translation Disposition of tangible assets 90,913,565,877 62,144,082,589 Gain or loss on valuation of (15,975,136,309) (15,975,136,309) Disposition of intangible assets 731,406,051 499,670,002 derivative instruments for cash flow hedge Disposition of investments in real estate 854,076,937 76 Paid-in capital increase in subsidiaries (16,218,695,915) 16,218,695,915 Cash inflow from the transfer of business 272,098,559,032 77 Cash outflow due to investments (675,316,119,595) (676,242,781,711) Partial disposition of stock 200,781,992,715 107,451,738,311 308,233,731,026 investment in subsidiaries An increase in short-term financial instruments 104,155,996,915 57,942,571,960 Business transfer between (13,259,336,389) 13,259,336,389 An increase in short-term loans 51,041,054,443 consolidated companies Acquisition of stocks invested in affiliated companies 6,410,284,877 73,393,989,467 Interest transfer between (6,031,822,338) 6,031,822,338 consolidated companies An increase in long-term financial instruments 2,000,000,000 December 31, 2011 842,779,420,000 8,288,339,555 94,339,619,629 (42,494,821,600) 942,153,278,515 440,135,192,649 2,285,201,028,748 Acquisition of long-term investment securities 7,095,495,328 1,544,411,586 (end of the previous term) Acquisition of tangible assets 460,076,971,556 426,060,429,897 January 1, 2012 842,779,420,000 8,288,339,555 94,339,619,629 (42,494,821,600) 942,153,278,515 440,135,192,649 2,285,201,028,748 (the beginning of the Acquisition of intangible assets 95,577,370,919 66,260,324,358 current term) Ⅲ. Cash flows from financial activities 811,064,576,961 328,608,601,748 Consolidated net income 349,803,841,202 54,216,134,378 404,019,975,580 Cash inflow from financial activities 2,181,526,256,158 3,596,096,434,579 Actuarial gain and loss (3,575,651,701) 2,734,342,839 (841,308,862) under the defined benefit An increase in borrowings 1,152,738,130,513 2,159,864,980,230 retirement pension An increase in private loans 496,658,603,591 1,125,790,683,323 Exercising and expiration of 510,750,000 5,966,457,957 (4,934,464,091) 1,542,743,866 stock options Exercising of stock options 1,594,320,000 2,207,040,000 Share-based payment 3,446,189,499 3,446,189,499 Disposition of stocks invested in subsidiaries 308,233,731,026 Gain and loss of (61,673,396) (61,673,396) Issuance of hybrid bonds 530,535,202,054 valuation of financial assets available for sale Cash outflow due to financial activities (1,370,461,679,197) (3,267,487,832,831) Capital changes not (1,195,628,629) (1,195,628,629) Redemption of borrowings 1,137,461,679,197 2,832,487,832,831 under the equity method Redemption of private loans 233,000,000,000 435,000,000,000 Gain or loss on overseas (223,635,697,873) (42,770,357,086) (266,406,054,959) operations translation Ⅳ. Effects of exchange change on cash and cashable assets 4,827,508,400 (8,273,578,753) Gain or loss on valuation of 90,106,400,250 90,106,400,250 Ⅴ. Increase (decrease) in cash and cashable assets (Ⅰ+Ⅱ+Ⅲ+Ⅳ) (161,537,332,539) 147,292,338,430 derivative instruments for cash flow hedge Ⅵ. Cash and cashable assets at the beginning of the term 624,031,624,968 476,739,286,538 Paid-in capital increase in (215,750,926) 215,750,926 Ⅶ. Cash and cashable assets at the end of the term 462,494,292,429 624,031,624,968 subsidiaries Conversion of convertible (94,499,680,439) 94,499,680,439 preferred stocks Business transfer between (1,181,046,879) 1,181,046,879 consolidated companies Issuance of hybrid bonds 508,259,603,649 508,259,603,649 Others (income tax effect) (27,358,746,646) (27,358,746,646) December 31, 2012 843,290,170,000 14,254,797,512 508,259,603,649 (30,403,879,853) (177,281,421,248) 1,288,381,468,016 550,211,791,024 2,996,712,529,100 (the end of the current term) 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Independent report on the assessment Auditors’ Report of internal accounting control system (IACS) To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of To: CEO, Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and subsidiaries (the We reviewed Doosan Infracore’s report on the assessment of internal accounting control system (IACS) as of December 31, 2012. “Company”). The financial statements consist of the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2012 The Doosan Infracore management is responsible for designing and operating IACS, while we are responsible for reviewing and 2011 and the related consolidated statements of income, consolidated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated the contents thereof and reporting review results. The company management states in the attached report on the assessment statements of changes in equity and consolidated statements of cash flows, all expressed in Korean Won, for the years ended of IACS: As a result of its assessment, the Company’s IACS as of December 31, 2012 is deemed to be designed and operated December 31, 2012 and 2011. The Company’s management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the effectively from the materiality perspective according to IACS standards. consolidated financial statements and our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We reviewed IACS according to IACS review standards. These standards require that the review procedures are planned and implemented so that it can be assured of the report on IACS assessment with a lower level compared with accounting audit We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. Those standards from the materiality perspective. The review procedures involve the understanding of the Company’s IACS, questioning about require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free the management’s IACS operation report, and confirmation of relevant documents within a limited scope as deemed necessary. of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made The Company’s IACS refers to the IACS regulations and the organization of control and operation thereof. The IACS regulations by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a were enacted to provide reasonable assurance of the trust of financial statements that were written according to K-IFRS for 78 reasonable basis for our opinion. the writing and disclosure of reliable accounting information. However, due to its inherent limitations, IACS may not detect or prevent significant distorted expressions in financial statements. 79 In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial positions of the Company as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, in conformity with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”). Accounting principles and auditing standards and their application in practice vary among countries. The accompanying consolidated financial statements are not intended to present the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows in accordance with accounting principles and practices generally accepted in countries other than the Republic of Korea. In addition, the procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and applied in other countries. Accordingly, this report and the accompanying consolidated financial statements are for use by those knowledgeable about Korean accounting principles and auditing standards and their application in practice. CEO, CEO, Deloiite Anjin LLC Deloiite Anjin LLC Jaesul Lee Jaesul Lee March 21, 2013 March 21, 2013 This report is effective as of March 21, 2013, the auditors’ report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred between the auditors’ report date and the time the auditors’ report is read. Such events or circumstances could significantly affect the accompanying consolidated financial statements and may result in modification to the auditors’ report. 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Corporate Report Report CSR facts & figures * The following data were based on the company HQ. Category 1 Category 2 Unit 2010 2011 2012 Notes Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Unit 2010 2011 2012 Notes Economic growth Consolidated Sales KRW million 7,481,919 8,463,086 8,158,351 From January 1, 2010, shifted to K-IFRS. Employee participation in No. of No. of people 4,552 4,895 Beginning in October 2010, (business results) sales Operating profit KRW million 725,672 679,615 362,417 “Salary Fraction Donation” participants performance entered from 2011. NonSales KRW million 3,879,948 4,426,917 4,243,619 campaign Participation % 91.8 89.7 consolidated Operating profit KRW million 529,250 369,376 53,691 ratio Financial soundness Credit rating Corporate bonds A A A Provided by Korea Investors Service Annual fund raised by Salary KRW 1,000 33,625 182,327 Beginning in October 2010, (asset status) Fraction Donation campaign performance entered from 2011. Governance structure Board Directors participation rate % 85 87 94 Environmental investments KRW 100 million 164 151 200 (outside directors) and operating costs Technological leadership R&D professionals No. of people 697 917 1,197 ISO 14001 (EMS) certification Domestic No. of workplaces 3 3 3 All domestic workplaces certified R&D investment KRW million 140,390 154,489 181,006 (Gunsan plant certified since 2010) Customer satisfaction Customer information security No. of breaches 0 0 0 Energy usage volume Companywide, Total TJ 2,981 3,018 2,978 breaches (Including direct and indirect domestic LNG TJ 443 468 382 Ethical management Ethical management education % 97.3 98.8 99.4 Once per year / person usage) Power TJ 2,324 2,339 2,396 Total no. of employees Total (domestic) No. of people 5,039 5,414 5,764 Excluding dispatched employees Diesel TJ 162 180 179 (E-HR based on December 31, 2012) Others (LPG, kerosene, TJ 52 31 21 Total (global) No. of people 13,196 14,376 15,206 etc.) By job Office No. of people 2,798 3,197 3,570 Basic unit TJ / KRW million 0.00077 0.00068 0.0007 Basic unit calculated based on yearly sales. Technical No. of people 2,241 2,217 2,194 Fuel usage volume Incheon Steel plate ton 30,115 20,452 20,131 By employment type Non-regular No. of people 116 172 191 Contracted jobs (commissioned jobs, commissioned technical Steel plate basic unit ton / KRW million 0.008 0.005 0.005 Basic unit calculated based on yearly sales jobs, outside directors, advisors, consultants, and externally Scrap metal ton 49,640 52,000 44,500 commissioned jobs) Scrap metal basic unit ton / KRW million 0.013 0.012 0.01 Basic unit calculated based on yearly sales Ratio of non-regular % 2.3 3.2 3.3 Non-regular / Total (domestic)*100 Sand (molding sand) ton 30,734 42,000 32,000 All molding sand is recycled. Diversity Disabled No. of people 123 109 121 Based on E-HR; national disabled classification (Levels 1~6) Sand basic unit ton / KRW million 0.008 0.009 0.008 Basic unit calculated based on yearly sales National merit recipients No. of people 114 133 145 Based on E-HR; national merit recipients Water usage volume Companywide, Water ton 784,365 813,254 607,251 Including use of service water and underground water (Merit no. or approved people) domestic Water basic unit ton / KRW million 0.202 0.184 0.143 Basic unit calculated based on yearly sales Elderly No. of people 275 250 233 Elderly: 55 and over (based on total-domestic) Reduction of service water Incheon ton 800 (use of grey 800 (use of grey 800 (use of grey Total service water reused and recycled Males No. of people 4,726 5,011 5,289 usage water) water) water) Females No. of people 313 403 475 Greenhouse gas emissions Companywide, Total tonCO2eq 158,513 164,257 153,441 Annual employee Total (domestic) % 2.2 2.4 1.6 Monthly employee turnover / (including indirect and direct domestic Basic unit tonCO2eq / 0.041 0.037 0.036 Basic unit calculated based on yearly sales turnover rate 80 81 47 monthly total no. of employees*100 emissions) KRW million Average annual training Office Hour 160 182 175 Including online training Incheon Total tonCO2eq 111,110 111,699 106,373 hours per person Technical Hour 11 26 31 Changwon Total tonCO2eq 18,782 19,950 19,198 Average training expenses Office KRW 1,000 1,247 1,389 1,549 Gunsan Total tonCO2eq 15,909 19,658 16,606 per person Technical KRW 1,000 160 270 289 Wastewater volume Companywide, ton 107,035 109,848 114,049 Return to work rate following Females % 100 100 Maternity leave ending in 2012 domestic maternity leave Incheon ton 93,716 89,439 95,420 Return to work rate following Females % 100 60 Users of their childcare leave and employees exempted Changwon ton 12,362 11,989 10,959 childcare leave from the leave in 2012 / Gunsan ton 957 8,420 7,670 employees with their childcare leave ending in 2012 Water pollutant emissions Incheon BOD mg / L 16.3 8.2 2.5 Legal limit: 120mg / L. Company limit: 48mg / L Union membership rate % 86.3 84.4 82.5 Technical employees in the production category volume COD mg / L 10 11.6 10.2 Legal limit: 130mg / L. Company limit: 52mg / L Sexual harassment No. of people 4,779 5,105 5,466 Employees dispatched overseas and resident employees have Suspended solids mg / L 7.0 8.3 2.0 Legal limit: 120mg / L. Company limit: 48mg / L education not completed education. Changwon BOD mg / L No BOD COD mg / L 19 7.5 5.6 Legal limit: 130mg / L. Company limit: 52mg / L Financial support for No. of financial recipients No. of suppliers 141 128 *2011 performance totaling criteria was changed. Suspended solids mg / L 2.0 2.0 2.0 Legal limit: 130mg / L. Company limit: 52mg / L suppliers Financial amount provided KRW 100 million 222 457 Gunsan BOD mg / L 133 147 90 Legal limit: 400mg / L, Company limit: 160mg / L (excluding indirect support) COD mg / L 113 121 110 Legal limit: 400mg / L, Company limit: 160mg / L Ratio of cash settlement cases % 20.1 41.6 Suspended solids mg / L 8.9 10.9 18 Legal limit: 200mg / L, Company limit: 80mg / L No. of price payments No. of payments Twice monthly Three times monthly Air pollutants Incheon NOx ppm 1.6 3.8 2.5 Legal limit 200ppm, Company limit 80ppm Technical development No. of technical development No. of companies / 47 / 80 59 / 95 SOx ppm 0.8 4.2 0 Legal limit 400ppm, Company limit 160ppm support for suppliers cases supported No. of cases VOCs ppm 8.5 13.8 11.7 Legal limit 200ppm, Company limit 32 / 160ppm No. of technical protection No. of companies / 6/6 16 / 21 Dust mg / m3 3.3 3.2 2.6 Legal limit 50mg / m3, Company limit 8 / 20mg / m3 cases supported No. of cases Changwon* VOCs ppm 15 18 25 Legal limit: 200ppm, Company limit: 160ppm Education support for No. of courses / no. 10 / 435 74 / 3,519 *2011 performance totaling criteria was changed. (No NOx, SOx) Dust mg / m3 3 3 5 Legal limit: 50mg / m3, Company limit: 20mg / m3 suppliers of people Gunsan NOx ppm 0.3 0.3 0.14 Legal limit: 200ppm, Company limit: 80ppm Competitiveness No. of operating days Man-Day 3,493 3,111 *2011 performance totaling criteria was changed. SOx ppm 1.2 0.9 1.15 Legal limit: 400ppm, Company limit: 160ppm enhancement support for VOCs ppm 2.3 2.4 2.73 Legal limit: 40ppm, Company limit: 32ppm suppliers Dust mg / m3 2.2 2.7 2.43 Legal limit: 50mg / m3, Company limit: 20mg / m3 Provision of casting molds No. of companies 349 298 589 Waste emissions and Companywide, Total volume of waste ton 61,973 63,431 54,932 to strengthen suppliers’ recycling rate domestic Recycling rate % 94 94.4 87 capacity of developing parts KRW 100 million 219 278 235 Incheon General waste ton 56,936 57,681 49,872 EHS support for suppliers No. of companies 19 76 Specified waste ton 2,971 3,340 2,637 CP adoption support for No. of companies 15 13 12 Recycling rate % 96 96 88 suppliers Changwon General waste ton 869 932 1,077 Employee participation in No. of people 500 972 4,275 2011 data covers the period of July 1 to December 31, 2011 due Specified waste ton 800 618 496 corporate social contribution to the establishment of internal standards and introduction of IT Recycling rate % 41 57 56 activities system following the establishment of CSR Team. Gunsan General waste ton 251 668 669 CSR investments KRW 100 million 124 203 149 CSR investments / sales Specified waste ton 146 192 181 % 0.32 0.46 0.35 Recycling rate % 76 59 71 Industrial accident rate Companywide % 0.41 0.44 0.28 Based on treatment approvals 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report independent assurance report To the management of Doosan Infracore Our work involved the following activities: of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data are that there were material deficiencies in the issue subject to individual assumptions and judgments. management system. We have been engaged by Doosan Infracore (the “Company”) 1. Interviews with the personnel responsible for A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than to perform an independent assurance engagement in internal reporting and data collection to discuss their a reasonable assurance engagement under ISAE 3000. • Nothing has come to our attention that causes U.S. to regard to the following aspects of Doosan Infracore’s 2012 approach to stakeholder inclusivity, materiality and Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures believe that CSR Data for the year ended December 31, Integrated Report (the “Report”). responsiveness. for gathering sufficient, appropriate evidence are 2012 are not fairly stated, in all material respects, in deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance accordance with the Reporting Principles. 2. Visits to the Company’s headquarter (Inchon plant) and engagement. In particular: Seoul office: to understand the systems and processes in place for managing and reporting the CSR Data. • We did not attend any stakeholder engagement Recommendations activities. Therefore our conclusions are based on our As a result of our work, we have provided the following 3. Review of a sample of internal documents relevant to discussions with management and staff of the Company recommendations to the management. output from the risk assessment process, CSR-related and our review of selected documents provided to U.S. policies and standards, the CSR Materiality Assessment by the Company. • Policy relating to the human rights, labor and Matrix and other documents from stakeholder environmental issues of the suppliers which are under Scope and subject matter engagement activities. • The scope of our work was restricted to 2012 performance the significant influence of the Company needs to be The information for the year ended December 31, 2012 only, as set out in the scope and subject matter section established and communicated. In the medium and (hereinafter, collectively referred to as the “Sustainability 4. Evaluating the design and implementation of the key above. Information relating to the year ended December long term, a management system to ensure compliance Information”) on which we provide limited assurance processes and controls for managing and reporting the 31, 2011 and earlier periods have not been subject to of these suppliers with the Company’s policy needs to consists of: CSR Data. assurance by us. be established through periodic review of the suppliers’ activities. 82 • The Company’s conclusion on meeting the principles 5. Limited testing, through inquiry and analytical review 83 of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness in the procedures, of the preparation and collation of the CSR Conclusion • It is recommended to continuously improve its AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 Data. Based on the results of the assurance work performed and performance measurement system such as the (“AA1000APS”); the Assessment Criteria, our conclusion is as follows: measurement of the financial impact of non-financial indicators, in order to facilitate the understanding of • The “CSR results” information on page 80 and 81 in the Respective responsibilities of the management of the • On the AA1000APS principles; the users of the information, regarding the Company’s Report (except for the GHG emissions Scope 1, Scope Company and Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers · Inclusivity short, medium and long term value generating business 2 data and Energy consumption data, the “CSR Data”) The management of the Company is responsible for The Company has collected concerns and model and strategies. which is based on the reporting principles set out on establishing assessment criteria that meets the principles of opinions through stakeholder communication “About This Report” (the “Reporting Principles”). Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness in the AA1000APS, channels that include customers/dealers, • The economic performances including the overseas measuring performance based on the “Assessment Criteria”, suppliers, employees, local communities business sites are being reported; however, the key We read the other information included in the Report and and reporting this performance in the Report. (environment/NGOs), stockholders/investors, the social and environmental performances are being consider whether it is consistent with the Sustainability Our responsibility is to provide a conclusion based on our local/central governments and media. reported mainly on the domestic sites. Therefore, a Information. We consider the implications for our report assurance procedures in accordance with ISAE 3000 and Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that discrepancy on the range of reporting exists. In order to if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or AA1000AS. material stakeholder groups were excluded in provide more meaningful information for the decision material inconsistencies with the Sustainability Information. This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared these channels. making of the main users of the full report such as the Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. for the management of the Company as a body, to assist shareholders and investors, reporting boundaries of the the management in reporting on the Company’s CSR · Materiality key social and environmental performances need to be performance and activities. To the fullest extent permitted The Company has identified most relevant aligned with those of the financial information. Assurance work performed by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone and significant CSR issues through process for We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE other than the management of the Company as a body and identifying material issues. 3000 (1) and AA1000AS (2). The term “moderate assurance” the Company for our work or this report save where terms Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that used in AA1000AS (2008) is designed to be consistent are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing. material issues were omitted in this process. with “limited assurance” as articulated in ISAE 3000. Our assurance is a Type II assurance engagement as defined in · Responsiveness the Guidance for AA1000AS (2008). Inherent limitations The Company has included in the Report its Non-financial performance information is subject to more response to the material CSR issues which are (1) International Standard on Assurance Engagement 3000 (Revised) – “Assurance inherent limitations than financial information, given the defined through process for identifying material Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” issued by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board characteristics of the subject matter and the methods used issues. Seoul, Korea (2) AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008), issued by AccountAbility for determining such information. Qualitative interpretations Nothing has come to our attention to suggest June, 2013 UN Global Compact – Ten Principles The 2012 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report uses FSC™ (Forest Stewardship Council™)-certified paper, bearing the logo carried only by products made using Human Rights timber from environmentally developed and managed forests. The report was Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and printed at a FSC-certified print shop using soy oil ink which drastically reduces Principle 2: Should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses the emissions of air pollutants. Labor Standards Status of Business Locations in Korea Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Seoul Office Doosan Tower, 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Incheon Plant 489 Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon Changwon Namsan Plant 40 Jeongdong-ro 162beon-gil, Seongsan-gu, Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do Changwon Daewon Plant 101 Samdong-ro, Uichang-gu, Changwon-si, Environment Gyeongsangnam-do Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Gunsan Plant 185 Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Jeollabuk-do Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility: and Asan Parts Service Center 48 Yongdam-ro, Sangnok-gu, Ansan-si, Gyeonggi-do Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Date Published June 2013 Anti-Corruption Publishing Team CSR Team, Corporate Center, Doosan Infracore Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Tel: 82-2-3398-2117 E-mail: infracore.csr@doosan.com Designed by HoneyCommunications Tel: 82-2-325-9889 Doosan Infracore supports UNGC – Ten Principles. Printed by Geumgang Printech Tel: 82-2-2275-5641
