60 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Dialogue and Transparency Implementation of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Examples of Implementation at Credit Suisse Human Rights1 Principle 1 Businesses should support and ƁƁ Credit Suisse adheres to the International Bill respect the protection of internaof Human Rights tionally proclaimed human rights; ƁƁ Involvement in the formulation of sector-specific and recommendations for the application of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights ƁƁ Participation in the UNEP FI working group on human rights Principle 2 make sure that they are not ƁƁ Application of Reputational Risk Review Process complicit in human rights abuses. ƁƁ Implementation of sector-specific policies Labor2 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freeƁƁ Staff Council in Switzerland (internal employee dom of association and the effective representation) recognition of the right to collective ƁƁ European Works Council bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of ƁƁ Progressive working conditions for own staff forced and compulsory labor; ƁƁ Supply Management: Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct3 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; ƁƁ Implementation of sector-specific policies and ƁƁ Supply Management: Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct3 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in ƁƁ Global Diversity and Inclusion respect of employment ƁƁ Accessibility4 and occupation. Environment5 Principle 7 Businesses should support a preƁƁ Application of Reputational Risk Review Process cautionary approach to environmenƁƁ Implementation of sector-specific policies tal challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote ƁƁ Global greenhouse gas neutrality since 2010 greater environmental responsibility; ƁƁ ISO 14001-certified environmental management and system ƁƁ Credit Suisse Cares for Climate (CSCfC) Initiative Principle 9 encourage the development and ƁƁ Use of clean energy technologies in our operations diffusion of environmentally friendly ƁƁ Offering of environment-related products and sertechnologies. vices ƁƁ Participation in the UNEP FI working group on biodiversity Anti-Corruption6 Principle 10 Businesses should work against ƁƁ Active member of Wolfsberg Group corruption in all its forms, including ƁƁ Further development of internal standards and extortion and bribery. training for employees 1 Pages 11 – 17. 2 Pages 36 – 41. PLS 3 Page 49. CHECK 4 Page 23. 5 Pages 11 – 17 and 42 – 49. 6 Page 16.
