Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology – Communication on progress Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: July 2011 To: June 2013 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) I am pleased to confirm that Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology (Private) Limited continues its support of the ten principles United Nations Global Compact in respect to Human Rights, Labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. With this communication we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day to day operations of our company and demonstrate these principles in our dealings with our clients, employees and the public at large. You would be pleased to know that as a research organization we have made a significant breakthrough in having invented a ‘slow release fertilizer’ that reduces the amount of urea been used by a plant by over 20%. This new improved form of fertilizer has the benefit of reducing the wastage that emanates to the environment. You would also be pleased to know that as an organization we pride ourselves in being an equal opportunity employer adhering and being compliant with all applicable labour laws and the principles of the UNGC. We have further established within the organization strict policies with regard to employee welfare, dignity at work and ethical principles of conducting business. For further information please visit our webpage at www.slintec.lk Asela Gunawardena Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals SLINTEC in reference to its commitment towards valuing human rights has made the following statement on its website. “Almost all the research activity at SLINTEC is focused on technologies which are directly applicable to solving the most urgent and important problems that emerging countries such as Sri Lanka have to address. These include affordable food security, safe drinking water, health care and sustainable economic development”. http://slintec.lk/research-development/ Implementation SLINTEC prides itself in being an equal opportunity employer, and has taken all necessary steps to ensure that within the organization there is no discrimination with regard race, religion or gender. We have an open door policy at SLINTEC enabling employees access to the entire senior management and a dedicated human resources manager to deal with any complaints with regard labour or human right violations. SLINTEC strictly adheres with all local legislation and has had no reported violation of Human Rights. Measurement of outcomes At SLINTEC there is a periodic review of HR policy. And there is established a Human Resources committee consisting of members of the Board of SLINTEC that oversees and supervisors the managing of Human Resources within the Company. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Labour rights are highly valued at SLINTEC and are overseen at several levels within the organization. There are written company policies with regard to labour and there is an open door policy within the organization allowing any employee to address any issue with any member of the management. There is also a dedicated HR manager to oversee all problems regarding labour. The organization strictly complies with all labour laws of the country including the,  Shop and Office Employees Act of 1954  Factories Ordinance of 1950  Employment of Women, Young Persons and Children’s Act No. 47 of 1956 SLINTEC also prides itself as an equal opportunity employer showing no bias or discrimination based on gender, race and religion. Implementation • There is an internal policy document or handbook for employees • There is a employed Human Resource manager • There is a Human Resource Committee within the organization consisting of members of the Board of Directors overseeing the management of Human Resources within the Company. Measurement of outcomes  The HR Committee of the Board of Directors supervisors the management of Human Resources within the organization. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals As part of the Company’s policy, SLINTEC has shown keen interest in conducting research on solving some of the world’s environmental problems. In light of this the Company has invented a ‘’Slow release fertilizer’’ that reduces the wastage of urea been used on a single plant. This invention alone has massive implications for reducing harm caused to the environment. This also results in fertilizer being cheaper and more affordable to the consumer. SLINTEC has strict policies on treatment of waste, and takes all necessary steps in ensuring that wastage is maintained in a non-hazardous manner. Implementation SLINTEC successfully invented and filed patents with regard to a ‘’Slow release fertilizer’’ that would reduce the harm caused to the environment by excessive urea. Measurement of outcomes The Science team leaders and the CEO constantly review the wastage management of the organization. Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals SLINTEC has approach towards ethical business. It has several independent directors on the board ensuring good governance at all times within the organization. The management strongly looks down / reprimands any form of corruption, thereby eradicating all forms of corruption from the organization. The Company strictly adheres by the Companies Act No 07 of 2007 ensuring good governance in the company. Implementation There is an open door policy within the organization by which employees can air their grievances. The Company strictly adhered with tender procedure with regard to all tenders held within the company. Measurement of outcomes •There are internal procedures / reviews been maintained by the management to ensure that corruption does not take place at any level.
