Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd UN Global Compact Communication on Progress May 2012-May 2013 Content Statement of continued support 3 Introduction 4 Human Rights Principles 5 Labour Principles 7 Environmental Principles 9 Anti-corruption Principles 10 Page 2 of 11 Statement of continued support MIT values the ten principles of UNGC and we assure our continued support to implement various initiatives and measures. We have integrated the principles into our core values and will try to be a role model in the industry. Yours sincerely, Dr. TunThuraThet Chief Executive Officer Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd. Page 3 of 11 Introduction MIT, Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd., was founded in 1997. Its vision is to promote IT industry within Myanmar and in doing so, would ultimately become or transform itself into one of the internationally recognized premier software developers inside the country. So far, MIT has succeeded in all its launches of new and state-of-the-art products and has become not only a significant player but also a leading force to reckon with in the industry. Because our mission or rather our action plan is to provide our clients with operational efficiency and effectiveness, business improvement and expansion and competitive advantages by means of highly innovative technology, MIT has managed to keep abreast with ever-changing technological advances and business requirements.MIT has designed and developed software application for local and foreign businesses in Myanmar and has already successfully entered into overseas market. Page 4 of 11 Human Rights principles Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2 : Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals The chief mission of MIT is to set up guidelines for our company in order to influence our employees, our business partners, suppliers and business communities to respect the fundamental Human Rights. A Key aspect of our mission is to help people take advantage of the capabilities that today’s global networks and technology provides, such as access to reliable information, opportunities for self-expression, engagement in public issues, and the ability to connect across borders. Implementation With regard to implementation Human Rights Policies, addressing Human Rights risks and responding to Human Rights related concerns, first and foremost, within our own company’s works sites, we’ve taken the following measures: 1. We’ve conducted a training session for all our employees to raise their awareness on human rights issues. 2. We’ve issued a Staff Hand book in which our employees are entitled to fair and equitable treatment. Any genuine complaints are allowed to be aired to a senior staff.(Section 2.7, clause ‘h’) Page 5 of 11 3. We’ve also clearly stated our opposition to forced and child labour and have also set out our respect for employee’s right to freedom of speech and freedom of association. 4. We’ve also adopted the right approach to Human Rights issues to ensure that we continue to live up to our stated policies and commitments and that we have effective communications and compliance mechanisms in place. 5. The responsibilities for the respect and support of Human Rights within our company have been assigned to the HR department. Over the last year, we have consistently integrated support and respect for internationally proclaimed Human Rights into our business operations. We continue to recognize that realizing human rights involves MIT adopting and enforcing policies to ensure that rights are respected within our own company. Fair employment practices are part of our commitment to responsible business practices and human rights.MIT policy prohibits discrimination in hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination, or retirement when such discrimination is based on race, caste, national origin, religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation. We continue our efforts to promote respect for the fundamental rights and well-being of internet and technology users, to protect children from harm that can arise from the misuse of technology, and to protect users from undue threats to personal privacy. Measurement of Outcome During the past year, our first year with/under UN Global Compact, not a single case of Human Rights abuses has been reported in our company. It reflects the interests in respect for and implementation of Human Rights principles in their entirety within our company. We also Page 6 of 11 make sure that our suppliers and partners are fully communicated about UN Human Rights principles, policies and guidelines. Our senior management is continuously monitoring on these matters and will carry out periodic review of results. Labour Principles Principle 3 : Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labour and Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our company staff handbook sets out to state in clear terms our policies concerning employee rights, compensation and responsibilities. Our senior management monitors, reviews and assesses labour related risks as well as environment and safety risks. We are determined to improve and update our employee handbook as required in future and incorporate them into Global Compact. MIT promotes a cooperative and productive work environment by supporting the cultural and ethnic diversity of its workforce and is committed to providing equal employment opportunity to all qualified employees and applicants.MIT does not discriminate based on race, religion, age, marital status, disability, sex in any personnel practice in recruiting, hiring, training, promotion and discipline. Page 7 of 11 Implementation All employees are entitled to a Central Saving Fund, annual leave, medical leave and maternity leave, etc. and other benefits so that our staff will have the initiative and incentive to bring their potential to the fore. We hold annual sporting events in the belief that mental health and bodily health goes hand in hand. We also hold an annual staff rest and recreation. MIT has taken initiatives to promote and integrate diversity at every level within our organization. We seek to enforce our commitment to it and ensure that our employees have the tools and resources that they need to grow professionally. MIT is committed to encouraging the next generation of technology leaders. We are also committed to attracting talented women to our company by providing generous work-life balance programs and opportunities for leadership-development and career-development. We have been awarded ISO 9001/2008, in recognition of our company outstanding performance base on the standard procedures. Measurement of outcomes We have a decrease in work-related complaints. We have had less cases of turnover and employee job satisfaction has markedly improved. One of our main targets in employment policy is that we consistently select candidates who are over eighteen, highly skilled and qualified for each position. Page 8 of 11 Environmental Principles Principle 7 : Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policies and Goal Since our company is wholly occupied to developing software systems, system integration and development is incumbent upon us to be aware consistently of environmental impact that our endeavors might have on our neighborhood directly and the whole country indirectly. From the very outset, we began to disseminate the environmental issues to ours employees, stakeholders and suppliers. We did this so that all people involved in our business will come to realize the importance of the environment and be aware of the impact it has on the globe as a whole. Implementation Our company’s top priority for this year is to reduce electricity consumption within our company. Instructions to reduce use of electricity have been given and the follow-up task is carried out not only by senior management but also by employees themselves. Since our company primarily focuses on production and distributing software, we also keep an eye on how to use electricity efficiently and save energy. We believe these small steps add up to making the Page 9 of 11 environment safe and viable in the long run. Emission of gas and carbon dioxide would be significantly reduced. The senior management has been educating all the employees to comply with the policy of electricity consumption reduction so that environmental conservation can be achieved. Measurement of Outcome We have seen a decrease in the expenses utilizing electrical energy. We hope we’ll be able to keep up this trend in the future by innovating new measures such as replacing the existing lights with energy saving LED-bulbs.Besides, MIT is in the process of finding and using better, yet energy-saving computing hardware components to reduce harmful gas emissions. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals MIT is committed to observing the principles that are set forth in the UN Global Compact, and to full compliance with the anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws of the countries with which we have business relationships. Myanmar is a member of the UNCAC, laws are being amended appropriately. MIT Code of Conduct and Ethics prohibits staff, agents and representatives from offering, promising or providing briberies directly or indirectly through third parties, in any form and applies to all branches within the country. Our company policy does not countenance corruption in any forms and has publicly stated its stand of zero-tolerance on corruption. In this regard, we fully support any or all international and regional legal Page 10 of 11 frameworks against corruption. We have heretofore, disseminated education for all level of employees up to management about corruption and how to avoid cases of bribery, kick-back etc. Implementation Compliance with our Code of Conduct and Ethics and supporting policies, rules and regulations forms part of all employment contracts and the assessment and management of employee performance. Our company management has maintained a check and balance system over transactions carried out within each year. Measurement of Outcome Internal auditing plays an important role in this regard. So far, our company hasn’t been involved in any legal cases or rulings related to corruption and bribery. Page 11 of 11
