UK Mail & the Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 2013 Communication on Progress The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit In Human rights abuses LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2013 Communication on Progress Contents 1 About UK Mail 2 Statement of continued support 3 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in Human rights abuses 5 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 9 Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 14 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2013 Communication on Progress About UK Mail Originating in London in 1971, UK Mail quickly evolved into a national parcel carrier and hugely successful market player. In 2004 we made postal history by signing the first ever Downstream Access agreement with Royal Mail, effectively ending its 370 year monopoly. UK Mail has over 4,500 employees, 3,000 vehicles and 52 depots across the UK, as well as delivering by road to more than 34 European countries and an express air service to more than 200 countries Worldwide. In 2012/13 we reported Group revenues of £475m. Parcels Choosing the right delivery solution is of paramount importance when sending a parcel. That’s why we offer an assorted and flexible range of economy and premium parcel services to cater for every conceivable delivery requirement. In addition to our nationwide service, we also deliver by road to Europe and OUR SERVICES Worldwide by air. Mail We offer a versatile range of service options for both domestic and international mail. Mail is collected, sorted, consolidated and tracked as it moves through our network until the point of handover to the local postman for final mile delivery with a Business Class, two day definite and Economy three day definite delivery option available UK-wide. Our unique Packet+ product provides a cheaper alternative to Royal Mail’s second class service for non-urgent items weighing up to 2kg. imail Our unique solution for creating, printing and posting mail online enables users to enhance direct mail response rates, cut postal costs, enjoy increased ease of use and simultaneously reduce carbon emissions by some 80%. Courier & Logistics We offer cost-effective, tailored and time-critical solutions for urgent same day distribution 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Pallets The palletised distribution division of the UK Mail Group, UK Pallets operates a comprehensive UK and pan-European network comprised of over 70 independent logistics specialists to ensure the seamless and swift collection and delivery of palletised goods. 1 SUPPORT Statement of continued support For the past 40 years, UK Mail has consistently been run in accordance with a set of guiding principles that have allowed us to become the UK’s leading independent integrated postal services operator. The principles that have guided us replicate those 10 principles that form the basis of the United Nations Global Compact a network of global businesses that adhere to the common principles of respect for and support of fundamental human and labour rights something we were both proud and privileged to join at the end of 2007. In support of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact we have implemented an overarching Human Rights policy that integrates our existing policies combating discrimination, corruption and wastage with those promoting equal opportunities, investment in employees and an employee voice in the direction of our business, as well as the opportunity to contribute to the ethical framework that influences our business decisions. These guiding principles still inform and influence our business decisions today and as a result we are continuing to grow and expand. Our principles have allowed us to steer a steady course through recent and turbulent times. We are confident that the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact will continue to prove invaluable and we are therefore proud to unequivocally state our continuing support of the UN Global Compact and its noble ideals. Guy Buswell Chief Executive UK Mail 2 Human Rights HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit In Human rights abuses. 3 2013 Communication on Progress Human Rights Our Current Practices UK Mail’s commitment to equality and fairness in all aspects of business and employment is not new and prior to signing the Compact, we already had in place a number of policies that reflected the principles enshrined in the Global Compact. To safeguard supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, we have a number of firmly entrenched policies to promote equality of opportunity regardless of race, colour, gender, religion or creed. To ensure we are not complicit in human rights abuses, we have in existence a robust disciplinary procedure which seeks in the first instance to resolve potentially disciplinary issues and upon the need for formal escalation, ensures that this process is conducted in a manner that is entirely fair, appropriate and proportionate. What’s Next Our purchasing policy has been developed in conjunction with our beliefs in how business should be conducted. This is in line with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. In particular: • UK Mail will have an open and honest approach to potential and existing suppliers, ensuring equality of treatment. • UK Mail will seek to develop trading relationships based on mutual trust. • UK Mail will not source from suppliers and/or manufacturers who either use or are aware of the use of child labour or forced labour in their supply chain. All of UK Mail’s suppliers, including consultants, agents and sub-contractors, are required to sign up to our Code of Conduct as a condition of trading. At UK Mail, our working practices embody and reflect the values of equality and fairness. We have zero tolerance for prejudice, harassment or discrimination on the basis of race, religion, gender, colour, creed, age, disability, sexual orientation, socio-economic background or status as a parent. Our equal opportunities policy is closely monitored and statistics compiled to ensure that any negative trends in terms of discriminating against a particular group of people can be identified quickly and remedial action taken. 4 Labour LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 5 2013 Communication on Progress Labour At UK Mail we feel that our people are our most valuable asset and we have constantly striven to invest in and protect our employees. We are firmly opposed to any form of discrimination and support its elimination in all aspects of business life. UK Mail allows its employees to join a trade union should they wish to and seek representation from them in any formal disciplinary or grievance procedure. As a UK based business, we rigidly adhere to the requirements of the EU Working Time Directive and do not coerce our employees into working above and beyond its stipulations. If employees actively wish to work longer hours they are asked to sign a declaration stating that it is their desire to do so. We do not support child labour in any form, not just from a legal obligation but from a firm ethical belief that such labour is immoral and exploitative. Such labour has no place anywhere within our business. The Employee Consultative Group UK Mail established the Employee Consultative Group (ECG) in 2004 to act as a representative body for the UK Mail workforce and an outlet for the articulation of employees’ voices. The committee of the ECG is drawn from the ranks of UK Mail staff by popular election and frequently meets with the directors in order to discuss the direction of the business and any prevailing issues at that time. These will have been passed on by ECG representatives, also elected by their peers, who are tasked with taking note of any concerns so that they can be passed onto the committee. This ensures that not only are the concerns of the workforce given the highest level of attention but also from a director’s perspective the ECG is able to provide all-important feedback on proposals from UK Mail’s most valuable asset – its people. OUR POLICIES We have implemented a number of formal policies to ensure that we consistently conduct ourselves in line with our commitments. Human Rights Policy UK Mail’s Dignity at Work policy states that any kind of harassment, bullying, victimisation or discrimination is unacceptable, and any such behaviour from employees or third parties, regardless of the seniority of those involved, will not be tolerated or condoned. Our policy defines bullying as an individual or group of people in a position of strength, authority or responsibility, abusing their power by using intimidating, insulting or malicious behaviour which may include persistent, unfounded criticism, humiliation, intimidation, ridicule and/ or personal abuse, social exclusion and the imposition of unfair punishments. There is zero tolerance towards discrimination in any form – whether it be directly or indirectly undertaken or discrimination by association or perception. We define harassment as intimidating or offensive behaviours, including language, and does not need to be intended in order to be present; it is not the intention but the impact of the unwanted conduct that results in harassment. This includes unwanted physical, verbal and non-verbal conduct. We regard victimisation as being where an individual is treated badly as a result of making or supporting a complaint or grievance relating to discriminatory behaviour. 6 2013 Communication on Progress Labour Under UK Mail policy guidelines all employees have a personal responsibility to create a working environment that is free from discrimination, harassment, bullying and victimisation and to not behave in a manner that could have a detrimental impact on another’s ability, well-being and confidence to carry out their work. Any employee or manager found to be breaching the company policy may be liable to disciplinary action. It is the duty of UK Mail line managers to ensure that this policy is implemented and observed unequivocally at all times and they are issued with additional training and instruction with regard to its content to facilitate this happening. Grievance Procedure UK Mail operates a procedure that allows any employee in complete confidence to raise a grievance safe in the knowledge that it will be both thoroughly and impartially investigated and resolved discreetly. Equal Opportunities Policy UK Mail is committed to the principle of equality and fairness of opportunity in employment as stated in the Equality Act 2010 and fully supports the rights of all individuals to seek, obtain and take up employment and to develop within their chosen career without fear of discrimination. Diversity is central to UK Mail’s vision, values and long-term business goals with our workforce being made up from a large number of employees from differing backgrounds, ages, gender, abilities and disabilities, cultures, beliefs, race and nationalities. For us, inclusion is about ensuring everyone has an equal opportunity to access UK Mail as an employer including those who may be, or feel, disadvantaged in the workplace. We aim to provide the opportunity for everyone to gain meaningful work and treat every member of our diverse workforce exactly the same. We recognise that diversity within our workforce will enhance the organisation and provide a broader spectrum of views, approach, opinions, experiences, ability, educational background and knowledge which will ultimately benefit our employees, the business and our customers. Catering for all our employees’ needs includes providing a range of flexible working practices for those caring for children or other dependants as well as the enlistment of on-site interpreters to deal with any communication or language issues that may arise amongst our nonEnglish speaking workforce. Our commitment to diversity means that we acknowledge people’s differences whether they are visible or nonvisible and attempt to promote the differences in a positive way. It means that our policies and practices are fair, flexible, engaged and responsive to cultural, physical or social difference. In fact we are proud of our personnel retention rate and actively encourage our employees to maximise their potential. We consistently promote from within with many of our senior employees and managers originally starting from the ground up. 7 2013 Communication on Progress Labour Maternity and Paternity benefits At UK Mail we respect the fundamental right of people to a private and family life and recognise the importance of a work-life balance to benefit both our employees and the business in terms of loyalty and retention. In view of this, UK Mail is committed to developing work practices and human resource policies that support this with the provision of alternative working patterns that enable our employees to strike a balance between paid work and personal life. We offer a comprehensive range of both maternity and paternity benefits for those employees who already have, or are about to start, a family including financial assistance with childcare costs and flexible working arrangements. Health & Safety Policy At UK Mail we fully embrace the legal and moral obligation to protect the health, safety and welfare of employees and others who may be affected by our operations. Robust policies have been developed and deployed to ensure training, risk assessment, safe systems of work and accident investigation procedures are carried out throughout the network. Health and Safety is discussed at Group Board meetings utilising the monthly Health and Safety report, which outlines proactive and reactive measures for discussion and debate. A full Health, Safety and Environment audit is carried out each year at all operating locations. We are pleased to report that the average score achieved in the last year has increased to 95.49%. This has been achieved through safety being integrated into the way we work, improved staff awareness and new working methods. A Health and Safety intranet site contains readily available information for managers on specific procedures and policies such as emergency response, safe systems, risk assessments, accident investigations, limited quantities of dangerous goods allowed and communications to promote health and safety and to prevent accidents from occurring in the workplace. The Group continues to ensure all the requirements of current and future employment and Health and Safety legislation are met and managers are kept up to date with changes in legislation through quarterly seminars. The introduction of a partial automatic driven Birmingham hub has been a major benefit in this area as it reduced on site vehicle movements which can be a major cause of health and safety risks. 8 Environment ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 9 2013 Communication on Progress Corporate Responsibility The Environment The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to reduce its impact on the environment and seeks to increase the environmental sustainability of its operations and those of its suppliers. Whilst we recognise that we have an important role to play in delivering goods and mail in the UK, we are acutely aware of the impact that transport operations have on the environment and the Group is committed to reducing this impact by the introduction of cost effective solutions and changes which result in real benefits to the environment as a whole. Our environmental policy is regularly reviewed and is available on our company website, www.ukmail.com. Our 2012/13 CR Targets We have driven our CR programme through, focused on the year 2013, three years from the base year 2010. Our performance against those targets was as follows: Baseline Target Actual Change Achievements 2009/10 2012/13 2012/13 against 2011/12 Against Target CO2 emissions (tonnes)* 62.3k 56.0k 57.9k -1.8% +3.3% Health & Safety compliance (%) 85% 95% 95% +1.7% 0% Workplace fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 ISO 14001 compliance (% corporate sites) 5% (2 sites) 100% (40 sites) 100% (39 sites) +5% 0 Land Fill Diversion (previously Waste Recycling) (%) 71% 90% 91% +0.3% -1% Waste to landfill (tonnes) 929t 464t 275.9t 0% -40% Total Waste (tonnes)* 5,488t 4,116t 3,099t +4.8% -24.7% Water Consumption (m3) 35,500m³ 33,500m³ 35,923 m³ +4.4% +7.2% Number of Training Days completed N/a 1,800 2,401 +27% N/a * Baseline on CO2 emissions was increased to 62.3k tonnes following improved data capture and reporting. ** Baseline Total Waste was increased to 5488k tonnes following improved data capture and reporting to include wood and hazardous waste. 10 2013 Communication on Progress Corporate Responsibility Targets and Achievements We have set our 2013/16 targets which are going to be equally as challenging as the previous 3 years. Again the main focus will be on health and safety, reducing our CO2 emissions, utilities and waste to landfill and waste generated and employee training. We will be using 2012/13 as the key baseline to ensure continuous improvement. Following the successful implementation of ISO14001 we are going to work toward certification of OHSAS18001 which is the British Standard for occupational health and safety management systems. CO2 Emissions > 2010 – 2013 Target – Reduce CO2 by 10% > Achievement – Reduced by 7.6% against baseline > 2016 Target – Reduce by 5% We have again set ourselves challenging emission reduction targets for the next 3 years which we aim to meet by a number of initiatives: Fuel UK Mail has two key objectives: Objective 1: To reduce the distance travelled by our vehicle fleet through effective route planning and optimisation of vehicle fill. We have fitted telematics devices to all of our vehicles which provide data on the drivers driving behaviour and fuel consumption per journey. This allows us to proactively manage the driver to ensure we maximise the MPG by vehicle and route. In 2013/14 we will introduce some software to our parcel scanners which will show the Owner Drivers the most effective route to take when undertaking deliveries therefore significantly reducing the miles driven. Objective 2: To reduce the fuel consumption of our vehicles through a review of the design of vehicles used and other effective means. 11 2013 Communication on Progress Corporate Responsibility Efficient vehicle design is key to reducing our CO2. Over the past 3 years we have reviewed our vehicle and trailer specifications and redesigned to maximise MPG through the use sloping trailers roofs. Our average CO2 across our company cars is 127g/km; cars delivered in 2012/13 had an average OC2 of 121g/km. Drivers are encouraged to make fewer business journeys by replacing them with conference calls and video conferencing. We set a target of maximum 125g/km for new company cars acquired in 2013/14. Energy We have deployed ‘smart’ meters in all of our sites. These meters provide regular ‘on line’ energy usage readings for both gas and electricity throughout the day, every day. The information provided is allowing us to identify and reduce unusual energy usage, particularly during the periods when our operations are closed down. In 2012/13 we replaced the lighting in our Birmingham, Manchester, Thames Valley, Leicester and Docklands sites to more energy efficient lighting with movement and light sensors. This has reduced our lighting energy consumption by around 50% at these sites, and reduced our CO2 emissions by 497 tonnes per annum. We are looking at extending the replacement lighting initiative a number of other sites in 2013/14. Health, Safety and Environment (SHE) Compliance > 2010 – 2013 Target 95% > Achievement – 95% against baseline > 2016 Target 95% The Group fully embraces and endorses the legal and moral obligation to protect the health, safety and welfare of employees and others who may be affected by our operations. Robust policies are deployed to ensure training, risk assessment, safe systems of work and accident investigation procedures are carried out throughout the Company. Policies are updated on an on-going basis to ensure they reflect the changing environment in which we operate. Health and safety is discussed at Group Board meetings utilising our monthly health and safety report, which outlines proactive and reactive measures for discussion and debate. A full Safety Health and Environment (SHE) audit is carried out on a regular basis each year at all operating locations. We are pleased to report that the average score achieved in the year has increased to 95%. This has been achieved through safety being integrated into the way we work, improved staff awareness and new working methods. 12 2013 Communication on Progress Corporate Responsibility A health and safety intranet site contains readily available information for managers on specific procedures and policies such as safety policies and procedures, emergency response, safe systems, risk assessments, accident investigations, limited quantities of dangerous goods allowed and communications to promote health and safety and to prevent accidents from occurring in the work place. ISO 14001 > 2010 – 2013 Target – Certification at all Corporate sites 100% > Achievement – Certification at all sites 100% against baseline > 2016 Target – Maintain Certification & rollout to Franchise sites and certification of OHSAS18001 at all Corporate sites ISO 14001 is the key standard for Environmental Management Systems. It sets rigorous demands for environmental management and is externally audited on a regular basis. We are pleased to report that we have achieved the ISO14001 Standard across all our corporate sites. By 2016 we are aiming for certification of ISO14001 at our franchise sites and OHSAS18001 across our Corporate sites. Waste Management: Landfill Diversion > 2010 – 2013 Target – Increase to 90% > Achievement – Increased to 91% against baseline > 2016 Target – Increase to 95% Waste To Landfill > 2010 – 2013 Target – Reduce by 50% > Achievement – Reduced by 70% against baseline > 2016 Target – Reduce by 5% Total Waste > 2010 – 2013 Target – Reduce by 25% > Achievement – Reduced by 43% against baseline > 2016 Target – Reduce by 5% 13 2013 Communication on Progress Corporate Responsibility We have been working hard to improve the management of our waste. For example we are now backhauling all of our cardboard and stretch-wrap waste at a regional site in order to make our recycling more efficient. Moreover we have reduced the number of internal waste streams from 5 to 2. This increased focus has boosted landfill diversion rates to 91% in 2012/13 (compared with just 5% in 2008). Water Consumption > 2010 – 2013 Target – Reduce by 15% > Achievement – Increased by 1% against baseline > 2016 Target – Reduce by 5% Despite an increase in business activity we were still able to reduce the growth of our water consumption across the business. We escalating the roll-out of water saving devices fitted in our washroom facilities across all of our sites aimed at reducing water consumption in washrooms and toilets. We have also removed vehicle wash facilities at a number of sites to further reduce our water usage and have installed smart metres at our high consumption sites. 14 Anti-Corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 15 2013 Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption OUR POLICIES Anti-Bribery UK Mail is committed to adherence to the highest legal and ethical standards, and values its reputation for ethical behaviour and financial integrity. This policy has been adopted by UK Mail’s Main Board and is available to all employees within the business to ensure commitment to it. The Board applies a zero tolerance to acts of bribery and corruption by any employee or third party representative. Any breach of this policy will be regarded as a serious matter and is likely to result in disciplinary action. Bribery is defined as the accepting of gifts, money, hospitality or other favours in return for providing something of value to the briber. The purpose of this policy is to set out the rules that must be followed within UK Mail to ensure that no bribery occurs. UK Mail prohibits the offering, the giving, the solicitation or the acceptance of any bribe, whether cash or other inducement to or from any person or company by any individual employee, agent or other person or body acting on UK Mail’s behalf, in order to gain any commercial, contractual or personal advantage. Bribery exposure is minimised through: • Training employees and instructing all third parties so that they can recognise and avoid exposure to bribery by themselves and others • Encouraging employees and third parties to be vigilant and to report any suspicion of bribery via easily accessible channels of communication and ensuring sensitive information is treated appropriately • Rigorously investigating instances of alleged bribery and assisting the police and other appropriate authorities in any resultant prosecution • Taking firm and vigorous action against any individual(s) involved in bribery. Ethics Policy UK Mail’s ethics are always dictated by open and fair dealings based on mutual trust. Decisions made are for the good of the business and should be free of any material personal interest that could affect impartiality or judgement. These ethical considerations pervade every aspect of UK Mail’s operations and have been incorporated into a coherent policy to guide the decisions of UK Mail. 16 2013 Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Whistle Blowing Policy It is UK Mail’s policy to support, protect and where possible preserve the anonymity of any of our employees that report apparently questionable activity, even if their fears subsequently prove to be unfounded. Therefore, we have in place an anonymous and confidential Crime Hotline that has been successfully utilised over the past six years. The features of the hotline are as follows: • It is totally confidential, independent and anonymous • Employees can phone anytime between 09:00hrs – 17:00hrs • The call is free anywhere in the UK and is not traceable • They are not asked their name, address or telephone number • They may get a cash reward if their information results in an arrest or charge • Rewards are paid without ever revealing an employee’s identity to anyone • An employee does not have to go to court should a prosecution arise. All calls made to the hotline are formally investigated and reported to the PLC Board on a monthly basis. Periodic Fraud Audit A formal review of fraud controls takes place every six months and is focused on areas of the business where people are exposed to the resources that may subsidise fraudulent activity. The results of this review are then reported to the PLC Board. The anti-bribery policy’s effective implementation is monitored via periodic audits involving questionnaires being sent to a random selection of customers asking them to confirm any gifts or hospitality that has been received. Any employee who has failed to comply with the policy will be subject to disciplinary action which could include dismissal for gross misconduct. 17
