Online COP template General information Period of your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 1.1.12 To: 31.12.12 Declaration of continued support by the CEO Please submit a declaration by your company's CEO that your company continues to support the Global Compact and reaffirms its lasting commitment to the initiative and its principles (please give the CEO's name and title at the end of the declaration). Weidmüller declares its support for the United Nations Global Compact and affirms its lasting commitment to the Global Compact and its ten principles. Detmold, 18.2.2013 Dr. Peter Köhler, Chief Executive Officer (Signature) Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2013 Weidmüller Group Assessment, principles, goals Implementation Measurement of results Human rights Weidmüller is committed to Enacted in full. Code of Conduct n/a promoting human rights and signed; global training programme observes those rights in conducted on multiple occasions; accordance with the UN Human Compliance Management incl. Rights Charter. global feedback programme and whistleblower hotline established. Labour standards Weidmüller complies with the core Enacted in full: Code of Conduct n/a labour standards of the ILO on signed; global training programme prohibiting child labour and forced conducted on multiple occasions; labour, ensuring legally compliant Compliance Management incl. remuneration, respecting global feedback programme and employees' rights and banning whistleblower hotline established. discrimination. Environmental protection Weidmüller complies with the DIN EN ISO 14001-certified Certification audits passed and all requirements and standards on environmental management requirements fulfilled. environmental protection that are system; DIN EN ISO 50001relevant to its operations and acts certified energy management in an environmentally friendly system; product-related manner at all of its locations. environmental compliance through RoHS and REACH Combating corruption Weidmüller is opposed to Enacted in full: Code of Conduct Independent anti-corruption corruption and bribery. Weidmüller signed; global training programme compliance audits conducted and promotes transparency, ethical conducted on multiple occasions; recommended measures practices and responsible Compliance Management incl. implemented. management and controls within global feedback programme and the company. whistleblower hotline established.
