Taking India to Rio: Lessons Learned; Solutions Found: Why ‘What’s Next’ is So Important Without a doubt, the highlight for PGI of the Rio event is the fact that world renown architect David Elliott Sands will be attending as PGI's official representative to the Global Compact Corporate Sustainability Forum from 15 through 19th in Rio, Brazil. We really could not be more thrilled because David is without doubt the 'genuine article' of pioneer and visionary. For all time he and his company can lay claim to the first certified timber grade bamboo pole; and the successful facilitation of a business model that makes and markets the worlds only ICC certified pole construction homes. Www.bambooliving.com . For over a decade his company has quietly walked the walk, selling hundreds of crafted prefab homes to eager and 3BL value oriented customers; and in more recent years has been talking the talk. What an exciting deliverable for PGI to take to Rio where the best and brightest will be discussing the creation of 'The Future We Want'. In lead up to Rio, PGI thought it would be helpful to provide a snap shot of our perspective and the key critical issues for which there is simply no more time for talk. Action is what is required. People like David Sands. The do'ers. Scribes should be no longer have time to write about what should be done, they should be too busy covering the news of what is being done. As many already know, PGI is of the position that presently there is no more at-risk geography in the world than India. No other place on Earth is moving faster, and at never before seen scale toward an economic, social and environmental precipice. S&P’s recent decision to reduce India’s rating based on policy paralysis is truly the razor’s slice of the actual root problems that India is facing and will face in the days to come. It is no over statement to say the scale of issues could create the largest humanitarian crisis the world has ever seen..ever. At any time, India is literally one failed monsoon away from complete natural capital service/ food & water security collapse. Riding on the fringe of the global media’s radar, and behind closed doors in Delhi, the grim reality is the nation’s water security is grave –driven to crisis by decades of single bottom line over-development by the private sector. Water and food security issues in India –and indeed elsewhereare the symptom of a far greater disease: The lack of a cohesive land ethic in both policy and business practice is laying waste to, and may well wrap up the last chapter of India Inc. Background: As many now know, the business consultancy firm of PGI was founded by two American lawyers. One with a commercial litigation background the other with a Capitol Hill legislative background. Before you stop reading further, just hear this out, because what these two lawyers accidentally determined may be the key to taking 3BL from a quaint notion to a real groundswell. The PGI approach was so compelling that the small network of 6 in 2007 has blossomed to a full time service network of over 50 professionals and hundreds of medium service providers. More importantly it has resulted in a cooperative agribusiness industrial model with global potential. Unlike conventional models that adjust processes in order to report triple bottom line returns, the entire model was designed from the ground up as a systemic triple bottom line delivery mechanism. What we learned: 1) The curious coalition1 of Business – Institutions /Stakeholders & NGOs and Government. The term coined in 2004 with reference to EITI has been replicated countless times and is proven to work very well. The coalition of major stakeholders has the potential of creating true sustainability and return on respective investment of time, energy and development. The key is the smoothing of historic distortions created by each operating in the conventional disassociated model. Like nature, organizations must work in association, and the historic walls that separate ‘profit and non-profit’ are artificial compartments that have led us all to believe that ‘economy’ and ‘profit’ are nonexclusive of social and environment. The ‘curious coalition’ creates a strong pyramid of interests that can mutually support and promote a new ‘land ethic.’ It is the opinion of PGI, based on its experiences in India and US that the UNGC and the CSR movement can be utilized as a mobilizing force to transform the business ethic toward adopting a standardized 3BL economic approach to business. 2) The land ethic is what PGI determined to be the single greatest ‘hole’ in the case for a green revolution’s success. When PGI’s founders decided to begin CSR/3BL business planning, they instinctively applied a forensic evidentiary approach. The mission assumption was that until business pursue a CSR/3BL agenda out of a pursuit of profit, the green revolution and sustainable development of the most populated parts of the world was doomed to fail. Therefore the first standard or review was the meaning of profit and return on investment. It was at this initial stage that it was determined that social economists were very much correct when they determined (essentially) that commerce has been working under the mistaken belief that humankind has ‘outgrown’ nature and that business has evolved to an extent that natural capital resources do not effect ‘the economy.’ The best world example of this is in India where economists are slashing interest rates to restart a slowing economy. A frank assessment of the ‘actual’ economy demonstrates that businesses in India are failing due to energy-poverty, foodinsecurity related inflation and social conflict in extractive natural resource zones. 3) In 2010 India Inc. was on a proverbial roll and news was as glowing as a Bay of Bengal sunrise. In November 2010, PGI issued a report that stated that by the middle of the following year the India economy would collide with the natural economy. Like clockwork the prediction unfortunately came true and media and experts quickly rushed to determine what crystal ball PGI used to make such an accurate prediction. The reality was that it was the same evidentiary approach that led PGI to groups like UNEP-TEEB, UNGC, Swaminathan Research Institute and other mission oriented to the integration of ‘economy’ to be inclusive of social and environmental profits and losses. Nature must literally be made a business partner to every future action in order for the true global economy to recover. Unlike prior financial economic recoveries, Nature can either be 1The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) was established as a global initiative in 2002. The EITI has since become the highest profile international standard for promoting transparency and accountability in countries dependent on oil, gas, minerals, and metals. As it is built around cooperation among governments, companies, and civil society organizations, the EITI was the organization that gave rise to the term curious coalition by The Economist (Sept 23, 2004) some. However, this coalition now helps drive transparency in revenues and payments in resource-rich countries across the world as part of their good governance programs. http://elibrary.worldbank.org/content/book/9780821375013 used as a strategic ally or will be a major force in assuring we never recover from the brink. 4) The need for a Curiously Ethical business code. The core of the model that departs from conventional models treats social and environmental inputs and outputs as a fundamental of business as opposed to an additional consideration of doing business. From a legal standpoint this is a major distinction. So much so that it will require something akin to a new business ethic that unlike the lateral nature of the B2B Uniform Commercial Code, would require a vertical ethic that connects human, nature and business together and inextricably linked. If the conventional model hadn’t committed such offenses to nature and society, the land ethic would be lightweight and built in efficiencies of the model would be apparent. However, we have to make up for the damage caused and ‘pay the piper’ to quote a cliché. There is no easy fix and therefore the new ethic will require widespread adoption just like a UCC. And like Dr. Huq states, the code will need to be an integration of decisions on behalf of business, human and trees inclusively. The illusion that PGI rectifies through its business model is the correction of the distortions we have lived by for as long as anyone on the planet has been alive. It was born out of a two hundred year old industrial revolution that convinced us we had transcended nature through our intellect. It disconnected us all from the cycle that requires us now to cover the cost of cleaning and packaging a glass of water . This disconnect has been built into our institutions, schools, stock exchanges and policies to such an extent that we are expending enormous resources fighting wars to continue the use of materials that will eventually make it so we are all waging war over the basics of food, water and air. It is literally part of our human evolution that we harmonize our inalienable list of individual human rights to those of Nature and Humankind. The PGI business plan was designed as the case in chief, demonstrative of an efficient economy that is as free from distortion and inclusive of the three rings of sustainability. The overarching key to its success and its proliferation will be the adoption of sweeping economic reforms that recognize the economy of nature and human and acknowledged as an ethical and moral imperative based on what is the undeniable truth that we are incapable of economy, or life for that matter, without the maintenance of sufficient natural resource capital. Rio will be a 'Call to Action' ; No Time Left for Lofty Platitudes Huq, a lead author of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s fourth assessment report, has urged civil society groups and environmentalists to approach the fight against climate change from an economic perspective, because that’s what decision makers are most concerned with. “We cannot be relegated to talking about trees and forests. Important as they are, that is not where decisions are made that are going to affect the rest of the planet,” he said. The danger, if those key elements are not in place, is “another watered-down agreement” with little teeth to tackle climate change and other environmental problems, Huq warned. Every Human Equal; Everyone Human Valuable Like many other developed and developing countries India has lulled itself to believe that only well degreed academics and MBA’s have the skills to develop the country. It is almost as if the 10% who have the ability to shape India are suffering from outsider bias in their own country. The true human resource power house of India (and might well be the technical expertise foundation that fuels the sustainable revolution) are the millions of grassroot activists and farmers that are aware of the value of a Land Ethic. This massive and widespread grassroot capacity is all but ignored in India. Rural second and third tier populations plummet as families send their youth off to the already over-stressed tier 1 urban infrastructures with the mandate they become an I.T.’er. Where in fact, India’s greatest potential as a world superpower is through building upon their deep technical sustainability wisdoms. Gandhi said India is 9 lahk villages, PGI says that India is ten million Bhanjis: THE WELLS of Kalawad village in Junagadh district, Gujarat brim with water. The reason — construction of check dams by farmer Bhanjibhai Mathukiya. Till a few years ago, the droughtprone village forced many of its farmers to abandon agriculture. “Today, most of the wells brim with water and farmers are able to grow their crops without any fear of water shortage, thanks to the three check dams constructed by Mr. Bhanjibhai,” says Mr. Mahesh Patel, Chief Innovation Manager, Gujarat Grassroots Innovations Augmentation Network, (GIAN). Bhanji, a local farmer, built the first dam across a small river running through his village. It consisted of a series of semicircular arches beneath to support the weight (similar to railway bridges to support the weight of a running train). The dam not only costs less than conventional ones, but was also more stable and easy to construct. It resisted maximum water pressure and force because of its design and structural strength. For constructing the dam the Bhanji used locally available stones and placed them in the flowing water maintaining a little distance between two stones. Later, he filled the gap with river sand, stones and cement. The total cost for building a dam worked to just Rs.10,000 including the labor cost. After completion of this, several villagers requested Mr. Bhanjibhai to build more check dams for them down stream. So, Bhanji built two more dams in the neighbouring villages with the support of a local community. Till date the farmer has built about 25 check dams in Gujarat and Rajasthan. “Barriers are constructed at the ends to arrest water overflow through the sides. Overflowing weakens the dam by constant erosion. The conventional dams made by the government in our region are gravity type, deriving their strength in their weight. They are massive and hence require a large quantity of concrete for their construction. said Mr. Bhanjibhai “To build a dam the expense could work out to anything between Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh or more. But I spent only Rs. 10,000 for constructing one dam. “As most of the rivers are not perennial, the check dam saves wastage of surplus water from running off. After the monsoon, water shortage makes it difficult to irrigate the crops. Water table “The next major source for irrigation is the well. However, with the end of rainfall the underground level of water falls drastically. The check dam prevents water from running off and also recharges the water table,” explains the farmer. Presently the conventional dams in Gujarat are being constructed by the government with the help of the local farmers under the 40-60 schemes — 60 per cent of the cost of construction is borne by the government, with the farmers meeting the remaining 40 per cent. Mr. Bhanjibhai’s check dam model can be constructed easily by individuals or co-operative work without waiting for the government’s help. Natural scientists “In devising simple, low cost effective solutions for everyday problems, our country’s rural innovators are simply backyard Edisons. “With a plethora of new ideas, technologies and innovations, these natural scientists are creating a strong impact in our villages which if properly recognized can play an important role in shaping the world’s economy. While the media treats sustainability as the ‘feel good’ relief from the ‘serious’ news of businessas-usual economics, a chilling crisis of awesome proportion is becoming too great to ignore. PGI in November 2010 took stock of the State of India based on its bandwidth that stretched from wing-tips in the board room to boots-in-the-field. Despite no media in support, we predicted that India’s development would collide with natural capital resource services shortages by middle of 2011. We were correct, and experts are now asking what we saw that they missed. PGI’s next statement is as follows: that water and energy poverty will become the priority humanitarian concern of unimaginable proportions whether this year’s monsoon is successful or not. Further, the solution lies partly in what S&P calls policy paralysis in the creation of a sustainable business platform for the economy to safely grow. Likely not part of S&P’s opinion is that this need for policy must usher in a sustainable business platform that will need to be based on a new ethic – the land ethicthat takes into consideration the gains and losses to ecology and society. Policy alone will not suffice. It will, like everywhere else in the world need to be driven from the collective efforts of the private public and institutional sectors, working in often uncomfortable and uncharted relationships… the ‘curious coalitions’ that will become the business norm in the decades to come. April 29, 2012 Times of India Tests show city water full of toxins, germs Drinking From The Tap Could Prove Lethal Christin Mathew Philip TNN Chennai: Tap water in most parts of the city is full of disease-causing germs, toxic sediments and human and animal faeces. In places like Tondiarpet, Basin Bridge, Nungambakkam and Pulianthope, the water is so contaminated that drinking it straight from the tap could be lethal. Replying to an RTI petition, the Corporation of Chennai said it had conducted repeat tests on water samples in 2010-2011. It found that Metrowater was supplying in every locality, barring Saidapet, drinking water that contained diarrhoea-causing bacteria and various toxins. Tondiarpet failed the corporation’s potability tests 47 times in 2010-11. While residents of Tondiarpet are most at risk of contracting diseases, people in Nungambakkam also face the peril of getting sick, with the locality receiving the most contaminated water in central Chennai. South Chennai neighbourhoods get relatively less polluted water. Yet, in areas such as Adyar, the water is contaminated, corporation officials said. The corporation has listed areas where the water is most contaminated although it did not specify the pollutants. But a senior health department official said the water contained bacteria like E. coli and coliform, passed on from human and animal faeces. Broken pipes, leaking sewer lines and inadequate maintenance of old pipe networks are the primary causes of contamination. “We will soon start regular monitoring of the quality of drinking water,” corporation commissioner D Karthikeyan said. Overview of the Formation and Financing of a Public-Private Partnership The 3 part Public Private Partnership 1) Private Company with a ready-for-market product deliverable and business plan. 2) A Co-Op or Community Forest Concession approved by the Host Government 3) An international NGO with local NGO connections to monitor and report project sustainability and intended output A three part PPP assures that the intended conservation and social benefits are effectively delivered and an optimum platform is maintained for the private company to make a healthy profit. The business plan “project” is a legal and social contract between the private company and the community that will be the material and labor pool (typically a Agroforestry community CoOp). The Government must either grant an NOC ( no objection certification) and/or designate the intended ag-forest sector a 'community forest concession.' Thereby the forest capital essentially belongs to the community for intended uses, and the land remains the property of the Government. [This has historically proved to be the best land use relationship for any forest product economic endeavor.] BT is particularly attractive because it does not require the harvesting of anything from the forest that won't be replaced by nature, and we will be adding biodiversity and natural resource improvements by harvesting versus bamboo left untended. The third critical leg to opening the channel to pro-development project financing is NGO oversight. The NGO is the independent third party responsible for monitoring and reporting the outputs to the financing entity. So for example, lets say World Bank Carbon Fund reviews the BT business plan and decides that is fits under the “Community Development Carbon Fund” (CDCF) which supports small-scale renewable energy, energy efficiency, and solid waste to energy conversion projects. The output of which must “provide significant and measurable development benefits to communities living in the immediate project vicinity or with a historical, cultural or economic affiliation to the project.” Let's assume that the BT project has been approved for a community forest concession with the CoOp of the District of Gaia, from the Government of Daisyland. In this case, WB will finance the project only if an international NGO (familiar with Daisyland and can network with local NGO's in the District of Gaia) monitors and reports whether the CDCF project is meeting its intended output objectives. This example is the type of replicable PPP relationship we can turnkey anywhere there are forests of unmanaged bamboo. Once we get the first PPP established, the same World Bank Fund and NGO could be used for every project worldwide. This would be highly efficient and relationship based. We hope to find and form these kind of coalition relationships at Rio. Regrettably, I was unable to attend the 8 th Forest Roundtable as planned due to circumstances outside my control. I cannot overemphasize the importance of the Roundtable's agenda. In my opinion there can be no discussion of sustainability unless it begins and ends with the conservation and management of our rapidly vanishing global forest resources. In particular, it was the one forum for which I humbly believed my voice carried weight, as I have the ability to say that I am the cofounder of a decade old global business that integrated the use of a historically handicraft raw material -bambooand engineered its natural properties into a high performance building material. Over the years, BT has found great value in the ability to market from the U.S. its developing-country Vietnam produced goods as ICC certified; and likewise agrees with CIFOR's position that similar indirect market mechanisms should be scaled up to support and promote demand side regulation for green commodities. My company -Bamboo Technologies, LLCis a significant example that 1) consumers will embrace new material buildings when they exude quality, perform and carry genuine green values; 2) that myriad three-bottom-line forest economies -based on non-timber forest product agroforestryare a viable development model delivering healthy ecosystems and sustainable communities. Add to this REDD+ and a synergistic driver of genuine 3BL economic models is achievable. Coupled with integrated reporting metrics and CSR, the private sector would likely look favorably on finance for REDD+ (which according to CIFOR is an industry with a potential to deliver an additional US $13 billion in resources per annum by 2020.) For BT, bamboo proved a high performance timber replacement material; a rapidly renewable; a carbon capture device, when caringly produced, can balance emission reduction goals with the well being of forest communities, including their participation, rights and knowledge. The principle of 'caring' production is very much an ethic that connects the raw material to forest to community to business to consumer. A new broadened stakeholder 'profit' paradigm. BT's experience has now led to the promotion of a hybrid cross cutting public private partnership model, that includes government concessional community forest cooperatives managed and monitored by regional and national NGO. This type of relationship building takes time, resources and insight, but it is the type of commitment required of transitional change, and is the check and balance security that private markets and REDD+ will and must require for transparency. Finally, BT's research and experience has demonstrated that the treatment of forests as 'museums' that remove humankind from the forest natural econ-ecosystem is as unnatural as over-exploitation. A decade of experience and deep investigation of the critical 3BL objectives favor -and arguably cannot realistically exist without market mechanisms and a view that forest economy and products are the clear source of economic growth and poverty reduction for developing countries. ‘Revaluation’ of A Nation’s Bamboo In October 2011, amidst an ailing global economy, our 7 billionth human resident was born. It was a thought-provoking moment regarding our common future on an increasingly crowded and rapidly developing planet. From 1980 to 2009, the global middle class grew by around 700 million people, to 1.8 billion, from roughly 1.1 billion. Over the next 20 years, it is likely to grow by an additional 3 billion, to nearly 5 billion people. McKinsey World Report, 2012 Demand will soar at a time when finding new sources of supply and extracting it is seemingly becoming more and more challenging and expensive, despite technological improvements in the main resource sectors. Compounding the challenge are stronger links among resources, which increase the risk that shortages and price changes in one resource can rapidly spread to others. McKinsey, The Coming Resource Revolution, 2011 It is well known that in order for developing nations to raise the standard of living of their poor and emerging middle class, a new resource paradigm must be created. There are simply not enough resources otherwise. Take land for example: the annual pace of supply additions over the next 20 years will have to be almost triple the rate at which it expanded over the past two decades. Water consumption by 2030 would be 30 percent higher than it is today. Up to 175 million hectares of additional deforestation would take place. Carbon dioxide emissions could reach 66 gigatons, a level that might, according to the estimates of many scientists, lead to a rise in global average temperatures of several degrees Celsius by the end of the century. UN-MDG Gap Task Force 2010 The solution for a rapidly developing nation is to recognize that there are readily available natural resource assets that can be strategically leveraged to assure resilience against shocks natural, economic and social. The use of these resources can avert the impending crisis though integrated linkages that enables a developing nation to access global technology and markets. One particular abundant natural resource has been shown to deliver Millennium Development Goals through promotion of sustainable clean agro-industry; as well as an economy connected to the global marketplace. What if that resource were in your country right now? What if there were a model that could be designed to deliver the promise of a better tomorrow for the environment, community and the economy? There is …..and it can be found in bamboo. Bamboo is so relevant a resource asset to a developing nation that the UN FAO in 2005 conducted a major ‘global thematic study’ on national inventories of bamboo worldwide. The results were astounding and demonstrated that tech-enhanced harvesting and engineering has transformed what was once a handicraft industry into a 5 billion USD industry in less than twenty years with a conservative predicted value of 11 billion USD by 2020. FAO Bamboo Thematic Report 2005 However, the report also found that the appreciation of this natural resource is mainly isolated to the few countries who have developed a broad-based platform of deliverables viz international grade products and value chains that act as an economic-social driver. FAO observed that countries that kept accurate record of their bamboo inventories where also those that held a larger part of the global market for bamboo products. In sum, countries that account for their bamboo inventories recognize it as a valuable and marketable national asset. Recently, there has been no shortage of information in the public domain about the virtues of bamboo, its use and benefits. However, no bright-line model has emerged for its tech-enhanced implementation as a commercial scale economic platform. That has all changed…Bamboo Living has over the past decade grown to be the leading brand and global leader for assessment, feasibility and facility of holistic field-to-market commercial scale bamboo industries. The Bamboo Living model is a commercial scale model geared toward public-privatepartnerships. It is the product of assembling some of the most experienced professionals from the world of business, marketing, policy, development, conservation and agriculture. The result is a proven and genuine foresttoglobal market model that begins with a three bottom line cooperative approach to Integrated Farming Systems to mimic natural feedback loops that provides synergy to all three bottom lines and strives to balance ethics, equity and gender equality. The result is an efficient and sustainable system of minimal inputs and management of all outputs including waste. It is naturally centered on bamboo as the driver, but is better described as a systemic and interdisciplinary approach taking the best of many proven models. The 6 fundamentals drivers of the Bamboo Living integrated bamboo-based economy: 1. Reforesting and Increased Resilience to Climate Change: Unlike trees, the harvesting of bamboo pole does not kill the plant. Bamboo is a ‘rapidly renewable resource’ in that it replaces its mass through new shoots that become quickly become new poles. Further, Bamboo Living’s strategic partnership with Whispering Winds Bamboo Cooperative means proprietary harvest techniques and biomimicking feedback loops that actually encourage the plant to increase replacement mass. In short, selective harvesting actually creates more green forest cover -carbon absorption, and thus greater climate resilience and forest space. 2. Natural Resource Service and Ag-Food Security The propagation of bamboo, as well as the introduction of biodiverse species of bamboo, creates dramatic and measurable improvement in soil quality for other farm endeavors, increased absorption and meter of watershed and drastic reduction of soil erosion particularly near waterways or seasonal alluvial plains. The result is the improvement of natural services to the people in the bamboo region as well as those downstream who rely on the natural release of seasonal water from the biosphere. 3. A Clean Industry with No Waste: The benefits bamboo offer to nature does not end once a pole is harvested. Bamboo is one of the cleanest and most efficient materials available in nature due to its properties as a waste biproduct. So much so that some industries grow bamboo just for its use as a energy biomass. The Bamboo Living proprietary waste management system creates broad spectrum benefits and converts part of the bamboo into electricity as a rural grid; and commercially valuable char that can be sold on the global market, used to filter water or added to paddy as the basis of a natural nutrient upcycle plan. Further, cuttings and ‘green’ waste is recombined in the soil to produce marketable high quality farm soil for the next generation of bamboo and collateral food crops. A further 'drawing down' of carbon eligible for monitor and finance for credits. 4. Deep Delivery of Jobs and Sustainable Rural Livelihoods A review of 1 through 3 illuminates the most compelling case for bamboo – as a socio-economic driver. Its use literally improves lives. Bamboo’s ability to support and enhance the quality of life of those who utilize it is the secondary success story of the inter-connected multi-billion dollar market bamboo supports. A well planned sustainable strategy for the harvest and use of bamboo has been shown to eliminate sustenance poverty and actually creates sustainable rural livelihoods and economies where before there was none. This is due to the integrated linkages that tie rural poor to the value chain bamboo and its bi-products demand on the global market. This simple plant -once considered a primitive craft materialis now a technologically advanced durable that provides perpetual employment right-sized to the rural condition and life-style, along with a host of related industry. This high tech global product is the fuel that drives the entire supply chain and linkages upstream all the way to the indigenous agro-foresters. This chain is the platform for which masses of rural populations can be cooperatively involved in transforming their communities into Bio-villages; engage in eco-forest-agriculture. This ethic-based cooperative approach is designed to offset the increased pressures of uncertainty and shocks that plague rural inhabitants in the face of development and climate change. 5. Indirect Services Toward MDG’s and Biodiversity : When one reviews the Millenium Development Goals and the accelerating shocks caused by climate change, it is clear we must utilize resources that are renewable and have the broadest positive impact toward a sustainable future. Bamboo is compelling in that it creates returns through the vast indirect opportunities to those in developing countries who can take advantage of the enterprises that spring forth when soil and water are improved. It can be argued that even those in our growing urban metropolises can benefit when bamboo is protecting their rural upland watershed. In essence, bamboo is a readily available material requiring relatively miniscule input on return. It is further a multi-line industry that benefits scores of communities. When bespoken designed, it lends itself as the foundation of a sustainable framework of industries, social programs, education, equality, community-vesting and harmonized pro-forest-farm programs. Further, the integrated field to market business plan is designed to act as the hub of the spokes to support worker/community self-governing cooperatives, education, conservation and gender-equality mainstreaming. In fact, research shows that for each direct job, 1.4 indirect jobs are created of which 70% are women. This also supports the premise that the bamboo economy strengthens social bonds of family and community who participate in the collateral enterprises bamboo promotes. 6. World Class Engineered Products Ready-for-Export: Proven proprietary leading edge technologies owned by Bamboo Living deliver hi-quality hiperformance structural and decorative building products, are as follows: A. Bamboard™. Exclusively licensed to Bamboo Living by Bamboo Engineered Products LLC, Bamboard is positioned to become the world’s first ICC-ES structurally certified “bamboo plywood”. An N/N grade premium quality solid panel, it is easily adaptable for use in SIPS like systems, sheathing, finish cladding, as well as high end uses such as flooring, furniture, countertops, and cabinetry. 1. Competitive Wholesale and Retail pricing. Bamboard™ will compete with all Chinese produced “bamboo plywoods”. Up to now, all panels have been produced using strand woven or cross lamination, which , while beautiful, are prohibitively expensive materials to use on a wide range of applications. At a target retail price of between $60-120 per sheet, depending on finish and species it will be distributed by both exotic wood importers, as well as professional building suppliers worldwide. 2. Species selection. Bamboard is an adaptable product that can be engineered for many timber grade bamboo species. A major plus for biodiversity and use of currently non-commercially appreciated species. 3. Value added downstream products. Numerous artisan workshops can be set up in each region to produce beautiful home goods: living and bedroom furniture, kitchen and bath cabinets. B. BIPS™ The Bamboo Insulated Panel System (BIPS™) was developed by Bamboo Living’s Chief Architect David Sands and includes an innovative use of Bamboard to create a new bamboo affordable home construction method similar to a conventional SIPS (Structural Insulated Panel System) . The product has the potential of a broad market bandwidth and can be design-adapted as a disaster relief and bottom of pyramid permanent shelter solution. BIPS™ is likewise exclusively for their global manufacturing and marketing as a value added Bamboard product. C. Bamboo Technologies™ dba Bamboo Living™. Co-founded by world renown architect David Sands AIA, and with over a decade experience in delivering the first and only International Building Code certified and bank financable bamboo homes for global applications, Bamboo Living ™ www.bambooliving.com is a world first leader in the code compliant resort style pre-fab construction of bamboo residential and commercial structures. These structures capture the imagination of eco-minded people world-wide seeking an organic home solution with beautiful architecture details, designed and built in harmony with nature.
