ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Make Your Trade Sure Korea Trade Insurance Corporation 14 Jong-Ro(St) Jongro-gu Seoul Korea 110-729 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Tel : 82-2-399-6800 Fax : 82-2-399-6598 http://www.ksure.or.kr KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Contents Introduction 02 K-sure Profile & History 06 Highlights in 2012 08 CEO’s Message 10 The Role of K-sure for Trade in 2012 11 2013 Outlook on Trade and Role of K-sure Major Business Achievements 14 2012 Business Performance and 2013 Business Plans 18 Overview on Underwriting 20 Short-Term Products 23 Medium and Long-Term Products 26 Export Credit Guarantee 28 Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance 30 Claims and Recoveries 32 Credit Rating Service 33 Country and Industry Risk Rating 34 Risk Management K-sure and the Community 38 International Cooperation 40 Corporate Social Responsibility 42 Ethical Management Financial Section 45 Auditor's Report 46 Statement of Financial Position 47 Income Statement 48 Statement on Changes in Capital Others 49 Organizational Structure 50 Management 52 Domestic and Overseas Network K-sure 20-year history Although many changes have occurred in Korea as well as around the world since K-sure was established in July 7, 1992 under the name of KEIC, one thing has never changed, ie., our commitment to become a pillar supporting the Korean economy. K-sure Profile Korea Trade Insurance Corporation(K-sure) was established in July 1992 under the Trade Insurance Act of Korea with the goal of promoting the country’s national competitiveness by boosting trade and overseas investment. As an export/ import and investment insurer under the supervisory guidance of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy we offer export, import, overseas investment, export bond and other insurance or guarantee programs and play the following roles: • E  xtend a wide range of export/import(trade) insurance and guarantee programs to cover risk from the export and import of commodities and capital goods; overseas construction works and overseas investments; management of foreign exchange and interest rate fluctuations; export of cultural and other services; and other external transactions • P  rovide credit information services including credit research and buyer/seller credit information management along with overseas debt collection services • S  trive to become a “public corporation trusted by the people of Korea” with emphasis on customer satisfaction based on ethical and innovative management aimed at integrity, transparency, sharing, and communication • D  uly offer trade insurance programs within an underwriting ceiling set and approved by the National Assembly each year using this amount in addition to contributions made by the government of Korea in the “Trade Insurance Fund” and responsibly manage the resulting reserve funds • B  oost the role of trade insurance aimed at leading stable trade and overseas investment activities, strengthening the national economy, and contributing to economic development for the people of Korea by promoting trade K-sure 20-year history Although many changes have occurred in Korea as well as around the world since K-sure was established in July 7, 1992 under the name of KEIC, one thing has never changed, ie., our commitment to become a pillar supporting the Korean economy. K-sure History 1968 ~ 1978 1979 ~ 1993 1994 ~ 1999 2000 ~ 2005 2006 ~ 2007 2008 2009 ~ 2011 2012 • 1968 • 1979 • 1994 • 2000 • 2006 • 2008 • 2009 • 2012 Dec. The Export Insurance Jan. The governing Nov. Short-Term Export Feb. Foreign Exchange Risk Nov. Overseas Resources Mar. Carbon Insurance Apr. Export Financing Jan. The Anti-Corruption Act is adopted and authority of the export Credit Insurance, AgroInsurance is launched. Development Fund Wrap is launched. Facility (EFF) is launched. & Civil Rights Commission proclaimed. credit insurance business Fisheries Export Insurance, Insurance is launched. May The Customer names K-sure to have one Apr. SME Plus+ Insurance transfers to the Ministry of and Market Development • 2003 Service Center opens. of the best transparency Dec. Overseas Business is launched. • 1969 Finance to the Ministry of Insurance are launched. Mar. Reliability Insurance is policy in Korea. Financing Insurance is May Commodity Price Feb. Korean Reinsurance Commerce and Industry. launched. launched. • 2010 Dec. The total business Fluctuation Risk Insurance Company(KOREAN RE) • 1996 is launched. July KEIC assumes the volume exceeds KRW 200 takes over the export credit • 1992 Dec. KEIC joins the OECD • 2004 • 2007 new name, Korea Trade trillion. insurance business from the July Korea Export ECG and GOP Committee. Jan. The overseas debt July Agro-Fisheries Insurance Corporation(KDec. Cultural Export Export Package Insurance government of Korea. Insurance Corporation(KEIC) collection services are started. Insurance is launched. sure), and NEW VISION is formed to take charge of is launched. 2020 is proclaimed. Dec. Overseas Marketing • 1977 the export credit insurance • 2005 Insurance is launched. Sept. The total business Jan. The Export-Import business. July Service Export Credit volume exceeds KRW 100 Bank of Korea takes over Nov. Export Credit Insurance is launched. trillion. the export credit insurance Guarantee is launched. Dec. Comprehensive Sept. The Resource business from KOREAN RE. Overseas Resource Development product under Overseas Investment Insurance Development Insurance is is launched. launched. ANNUAL REPORT 2012 06 • 07 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Highlights in 2012 Implementation of Special Increased the target business volume as part of the contingency plans to Strengthened Partnership Launched a joint support program in conjunction with commercial banks to Measures for Export better support trade (July~October) with Related Institutions to better support Korean enterprises to penetrate emerging markets (June) Expansion Realize Synergic Effects We increased our 2012 target business volume by KRW 10 trillion to KRW We constructed a seamless insurance-finance joint support system to boost 200 trillion from KRW 190 trillion set earlier in the year and set/ business presence of Korean companies that penetrate emerging markets implemented specific measures to realize the results at an early stage. where we would grant preferential support to these companies through our insurance to make sure they recover their export proceeds, and also give financial institutions preferential interest rates. Between August and October 2012, we focused our resources to better support small-sized enterprise via export expansion amid a difficult global economy by pursuing measures to help Korean exporters actively penetrate the global market by increasing our underwriting limits, extending premium discounts, operating local support centers, etc. Launching of a joint assistance program for those companies with advanced technologies (December) We operate a joint assistance program in conjunction with Korea Increased the number of “Trade Champs Club” members (June) Technology Finance Corporation (Kibo) to expand overseas business We organized the “Trade Champs Club” to extend our services tailored to presence of outstanding Korean small and medium-sized enterprises with the outstanding small and medium-sized enterprises chosen based on advanced technologies. By doing so, we were able to connect our covers their potential to become a “hidden champion”. We increased the on overseas risk with financing by Kibo to protect and facilitate Korea number of its members from 70 to 121 to help boost their competitiveness enterprises on their overseas business. through a systematic growth program. * The law of Korea distinguishes SMEs into small-sized and medium-sized enterprises Major Events and Awards Project Finance International Magazine chose K-sure “Global Multilateral of the Year 2012” Provided better local support through Mobile-K Office (November) Through our Mobile K-Office, we provided credit information of some 80 ChosunBiz recognized K-sure for its social contributions by “sharing love” importers in Africa and other emerging countries to our clients as it is with others (December) difficult to obtain buyer credit information in these regions, in addition to extending USD 390 million in cover for these countries. ANNUAL REPORT 2012 08 • 09 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION CEO’s Message Dear clients, composed of ASEAN and Middle East countries, which The year 2012 has been meaningful to us at K-sure as it are emerging as alternative to advanced markets. has been our 20th anniversary of the foundation when Particularly, we constructed the Mobile-K Office, the onwe let people know about our growth and role toward site system where exporters can obtain information on making Korea one of the trade powerhouses in the buyers from Africa locally and have their underwriting world. We had a humble beginning 20 years ago but are limits in real time. now recognized as a global ECA that leads trade policy of the world as a young public corporation representing Third 2012 has highlighted the role of K-sure with an Korea. increasing “pre-financing, post-contract award” trend, as more sponsors of large shipbuilding, plant and natural Since the 2008 global financial crisis, we at K-sure had resources projects look for from their EPC contractors. focused our efforts to better support Korean enterprises This was why we extended CEO-marketing to large to actively penetrate the global market by transforming sponsors in the major plant project market in Saudi this crisis into early recovery as if to buck the trend. We Arabia and other Middle Eastern countries for Korean mobilized our contingency management plans geared contractors to enjoy benefits from a “second Middle East toward export support also in 2012 to diversify export boom”. markets and pioneer new ones. By doing so, our total business volume increased 5.2% from the previous year’s Moreover our MLT financing support hit a record at KRW 192 trillion to KRW 202 trillion, which was the KRW 18 trillion by networking with global ECAs as well record high volume in our history. Our efforts were paid as financial institutions in the Middle East, China and off by helping Korea reach USD 1 trillion in trade and Japan to boost the MLT market that faltered amid the become the 8th largest trading nation in the world for global financial crisis. As such, Project Finance two consecutive years. International Magazine selected the Ichthys LNG Project in Australia and three other deals backed by K-sure as On top of the increased business volume, it was also in “ D e a l s o f t h e Ye a r ” a n d n a m e d K s u r e “ G l o b a l the same year when we set up a new paradigm to Multilateral Year 2012”. Build a base that enables support “sustainable growth of the trade sector” by focusing on the following three areas. Dear clients! trade to maintain sustainable K-sure is the only policy financing support institution in First we focused on strengthening the export Korea that covers overseas buyer risk with the mission to and quantitative growth competitiveness of Korea by actively fostering small and find and support difficult and risky deals. With this medium-sized enterprises, which stand at the center of mission in mind, we will lay the platform for Korea to the Korean economy to help the country take giant steps achieve USD 2 trillion in trade early by contributing to toward achieving USD 2 trillion in trade by moving strengthening the two pillars for economic growth of beyond the current USD 1 trillion mark. For example, we Korea, ie., export promotion and job creation, with a increased the number of the “Trade Champs Club” gleaner’s mindset who would not differentiate between members from 70 to 121 and introduced various joint small and large transactions. support programs by concluding MOUs with Shinhan Bank and other financial institutions to facilitate export We ask you for your continued support and interest. financing. Thank you very much. Second we shifted our gear to aid Korean exporters to enter emerging markets, ie., a new export engine, while not sparing our capacity to help Korean enterprises Cho, Kye-Ryoong capture emerging markets early on. We devised a new Chairman and President scheme for 86 strategically important niche markets Korea Trade Insurance Corporation ANNUAL REPORT 2012 10 • 11 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION The Role of K-sure for 2013 Outlook on Trade and Trade in 2012 Role of K-sure The year 2012 had been troublesome as the European In addition to the adverse external condition, ie., the Led by the US and China, the global economy is quantitative easing by different countries around the debt crisis spread to advanced countries in the region. global economic slump, the export platform of Korea expected to improve in 2013 compared to the previous world. Hence, export drop and negative performance by With Spain seeking bailout for the banking sector as faltered with a distressed business atmosphere and year. However, risk still exists as the European financial companies are unavoidable. Particularly, stalling exports well as for the entire nation, a majority of the Euro zone expanded overseas production base; however, Korea crisis continues and the US may tighten its fiscal policy. are expected, especially those products that are sensitive faced economic slump, credit deterioration, and other was able to come out a winner in trade as its Despite stronger policy measures by advanced countries, to price competition with exports are expected to grow difficulties. Moreover, most advanced countries faced petrochemical, semiconductor and automobile exports global economic recovery is expected to be weak with at a single-digit level, which is also expected with import the dilemma of having to choose between austerity fared well. Petrochemical products particularly became simultaneous implementation of tightening measures growth with increased domestic consumption, stable oil measures and stimuli for economic growth. On the other the number one exports of Korea for the first time in geared toward fiscal soundness and slow recovery in prices, etc. In short, it would be a smooth ride for Korea hand, emerging countries had their share of problem as history, thanks to increased supply and oil prices. employment. Nonetheless, China and other emerging achieving USD 1 trillion in trade volume. they faced export slump, consequent to economic countries are likely to recover slowly with increased downturn in advanced nations. With growth slowing The Korean government’s efforts to promote economic consumption and relatively decent policy measures. This is the time that Korea needs to leap forward toward down for two years in a row, the global economy grew cooperation with other countries also came into USD 2 trillion in trade from the current 1 trillion mark. only 3.5% in 2012. fruition. Its active exploration into emerging markets In 2013, a gradual recovery of the global economy with By marching along with the country and under the goal resulted in a 10% increase in exports to ASEAN and a rising demand of durable goods from advanced of creating value as a global ECA, we will strive to help As for advanced countries, the US showed a slower Middle Eastern countries, as well as significant increases countries, economic recovery in the US and China, and exporters in resolving their problems, actively aid recovery as the threat from the fiscal cliff highlighted. in trade with FTA partners, pulling total exports other favorable factors are expected to impact positively Korean businesses to pioneer emerging markets, and Despite large stimulus plans, Japan continued to show forward. on the global trade volume. However, the continuing take measures to help small and medium-sized slow growth. In the case of EU countries, their global financial crisis and a not much favorable trading enterprises transform into global companies. economies showed recession or were in stalemate as On the other hand, we at K-sure extended KRW 202 environment with the expansion of protectionism in they adopted tightening measures. trillion trade support through various insurance and each country would increase the global trade volume guarantee programs to assist those Korean enterprises only slightly, limited at the 4% level, which is a little Despite this difficult global environment, continuing seeking business routes, contributing to Korea achieving more than that of the previous year. from 2011, Korea was able to maintain its USD 1 USD 1 trillion in trade for two consecutive years. Our trillion in trade in 2012 as well as its recorded USD global competitiveness was recognized as we were Along with a slow global economic recovery, Korean 548.2 billion in exports and USD 519.5 billion in named “Global Multilateral of the Year 2012” by PFI exports would recover as well; however, a strong Korean imports. Particularly, the trade volume of Korea Magazine and “Best Asia-Pacific ECA 2012” by Trade won is expected to continue in 2013 as well with stepped up by a notch from the world’s 9th to the 8th, Finance Magazine. accumulated positive current account on top of setting a new record for Korea. KRW 206 Trillion 2013 Target Business Volume Of our total target volume of KRW 206 trillion, small and medium-sized enterprises are to receive KRW 35 trillion in support, a 21% YOY increase. We let Korean exporters spread the wings of hope Operating under contingency in 2012 to deal with the global financial crisis, our business volume exceeded KRW 202 trillion in the efforts to support diversifying export markets and pioneer new markets for Korean exporters. By doing so, we helped Korean exporters fully spread their wings of hope to advance into the global market. ANNUAL REPORT 2012 14 • 15 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION 2012 Business Performance and 2013 Business Plans Strengthened the Trade Insurance Business from Inside and Set Up a Stable Operation Platform With the need for systematic and scientific risk management as the size of trade insurance continued to grow, we adopted an advanced risk management system to boost its accuracy by revising our exposure calculation methods and devising risk measurement models and other processes. 2012 Business Performance Early detection of risk became possible through preand post-monitoring, and we sought appropriate risk countering measures by introducing risk KRW 202 Trillion in Cover (5.2% Year-on-Year Increase), a Safety Net for indices of other credit agencies to our internal risk management system. On Korea Achieving USD 1 Trillion in Trade the other hand, monitoring cycles were shortened and monitoring targets We set our target business volume at KRW 190 trillion in early 2012 but were revised. In short, we actively countered risk from the lingering global increased this target by KRW 10 trillion to KRW 200 trillion in July by switching financial crisis. Particularly, a task force team was formed to constantly our mode of operation from normal to contingency to better assist Korean monitor risk from Greece, Spain, and other high risk countries. companies as the global financial crisis lingered on and the Korean economy faltered with exports taking sharp drop. We placed various efforts to improve our recoveries. For instance, we formed a consultative group composed of debt collection experts internally and By end of 2012, we extended 101% of this new target with a total of KRW 202 externally who sought different strategies and adopted tailor-made tactics trillion in our insurance and guarantee covers to facilitate export finance for each debt. We also expanded our international network for overseas under deteriorated financing conditions and eliminate uncertainties from debt collection and addressed cases of insured events early on. recoveries from those overseas transactions on credit, on top of offering buyer information for small and medium-sized enterprises to help them with their emerging market penetration. Established a Customer-Friendly Support System to Listen to Their Voices We tried to solve export-related problems of our customers as soon as Thus, we were able to play a leading role in Korea achieving USD 1 trillion in possible through our customer center, and improved customer satisfaction trade by graduating from the financial crisis early on through expanding using the “monitoring by customer” system, through which we would exports and overseas market penetration in the EPC and other sectors, amid a listen to their problems, receive their proposals, and reflect issues raised to difficult trading environment. our programs. As a result, K-sure was rated by the government to be one of the best institutions with an excellent CS index. KRW 29 trillion was extended to support small and medium-sized enterprises to resolve their liquidity shortage, offered them premium discounts to reduce their financial burden, and operated a special unit to expeditely help them resolve trading-related issues arising during the course of exportation. In short, we were able to help them grow and transform into global companies. 2013 Business Plans KRW 100 trillion of cover was extended to those enterprises entering On the global economy in 2013, economic recession is expected to continue emerging markets so they can overcome limitations in existing markets and in advanced countries, whereas strong growth would not be maintained in pioneer future markets as new growth engines. emerging countries as previously. In short, a lagging global economy is expected to persist. Hence, the Korean economy is also projected to show a In addition, KRW 18 trillion of cover went into MLT financing to help Korean slow growth with deteriorated external conditions. exporters win overseas generation, construction, resource development and other mega-projects by facilitating their financing; thus, we help them A strong Korean won is expected to continue for the year, with a strongest successfully bid on these projects in various locations in the world despite won recorded in the beginning of the year. The role of our cover will be ever weak global financial markets. more important with not much prospect of improved global trade for Korean exporters in 2013 as well but more intense competition expected among major export nations in the world. ANNUAL REPORT 2012 16 • 17 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Our business goal for 2013 is “building a safety net for trade toward the era Third of USD 2 trillion in trade”, under which KRW 206 trillion is set aside for our for those exporters entering emerging markets, we will step up our market business. This volume is KRW 4 trillion more than that of 2012. Particularly, pioneering support to help them secure their presence via expanding their the volume for small and medium-sized enterprises is substantially increased market shares. In short, we will strengthen our local support via our Mobile to KRW 35 trillion to facilitate financing for their business as they have K-Office, through which they can obtain local buyer credit information and difficulties amid a weak global economy and decreased domestic credit limits. consumption. By doing so, we will contribute to their growth, working eventually toward economic recovery and creating decent jobs. Moreover, we intend to strengthen our support to expand participation by Korean EPC contractors for resource and infrastructure development projects in emerging resource-rich nations by cooperating with global and policy-based financial institutions. As for Specific Plans for the Trade Insurance Business : First Fourth we plan to seek specific measures tailored to small and medium-sized we aim to continue strengthening our risk management in line with our enterprises for each stage of their growth for them to advance into global increasing business volume. Monitoring cycles will be shortened for early companies. On the other hand, we will help to turn a company focusing on detection of risk signs, while the internal monitoring control system will be domestic consumption to an exporter through our all-around support improved for better compliance and the goal of strengthening risk program tailored to the characteristics of and demand by each company and monitoring. Furthermore, credit research and analysis by country and provide favorable terms of trade insurance for those beginner exporters and industry will be supplemented by cooperating with external research centers starting-over exporters. In short, we are pursuing various measures to for the goal of preparing for uncertainties in the global market and secure support small-sized enterprise. the basis for stable business operation. For medium-sized enterprises, we will help them turn into global companies using the export credit liquidation, the Trade Champs Club, and other Fifth programs specifically tailored for these companies. we formed the overseas recoveries unit that concentrates specifically on recovering debts from abroad so that the debt recovery efforts would start For small-sized enterprise that lag resources to obtain overseas buyer as soon as an insured event occurs, while trying to increase recovery rates by information, we will continue to expand our infrastructure to obtain more rating foreign recovery agencies and compensating them accordingly, based accurate and ready buyer information, anywhere in the world. On the other on their debt collection performance. hand, various measures are devised to counter loss by small and mediumsized enterprises from a strong Korean won by offering more FX fluctuation insurance cover, consultation for FX risk management, and training sessions Sixth on how to manage FX fluctuations. we will continue to donate our talents regularly to help the handicapped to gain independence, support the socially marginalized with such activities as helping them experience cultural events, and increase the sale of goods Second produced by socially responsible businesses. Moreover, we will form for a sluggish global project finance market, we will continue to support volunteer groups composed of K-sure employees and their families to Korean capital goods exporters and EPC contractors to win overseas project volunteer regularly with the goal of boosting the sentiment of sharing and bids by financing through bond issuance. We will also diversify the source of coexistence. finance by cooperating with international commercial banks, forming a joint financing system with policy-based financial institutions, and cooperating Despite the global as well as domestic difficulties last year, we faithfully with global ECAs via coinsurance and reinsurance. fulfilled our role as a policy-based financial institution supporting exports that helped Korea achieve the goal of USD 1 trillion in trade. Continuing In addition, moving on from the Middle East where our financial support our role in 2013 as well, we will fortify our safety net for trade under Korea’s was concentrated as it had been the major EPC export market for Korea, we goal of attaining USD 2 trillion in trade with our focus on globalizing small intend to focus also on Africa, Latin America and other regions to diversify and medium-sized enterprises, financing overseas EPC and other SOC export markets as well as to expand the market basis, while applying projects and penetrating emerging markets by Korean enterprises. appropriate risk spread. ANNUAL REPORT 2012 18 • 19 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Overview on Underwriting Outstanding Commitments by Region (end of 2012) Underwriting (Unit : %) In 2012 exports were sluggish in general with a record drop in July due to the European debt crisis and other factors. This drop was the worst drop since October 2009 33.0 when exports plummeted to their lowest in the aftermath 19.4 9.0 of the global financial crisis. Expecting poor export 18.4 performance to continue, we implemented a set of Asia North America Europe contingency measures for the first time at the end of October after opening up a window for intense support using our trade insurance programs in mid August as we 2.4 Middle East 11.3 Total of 100% saw attaining the USD 1 trillion mark in trade would not Africa Latin America and the be feasible with more difficulties expected for exporters. Caribbean 2.5 The government of Korea lauded K-sure for its role in Oceania 4.0 turning exports around to positive for the first time in 4 months as we covered a total of KRW 170 trillion by the Others end of October utilizing all our available resources. Continuing our all-out-support efforts until the end of the year, our business volume totalled KRW 202 trillion, a 5.3% year-on-year increase and the highest in the history of K-sure. Outstanding Commitments Business Volume (Unit : case, KRW billion, %) Outstanding commitments by end of 2012 stood at KRW Outstanding Commitments by Region (end of 2012) Year Number of cover Business volume YoY 97 trillion, a 3.9% year-on-year increase. (Unit : KRW billion) Region Amount Ratio out of total YoY 2008 439,921 129,802 41.7 Asia 32,045 33.0% 2.53% 2009 535,864 164,960 27.1 By region, the outstanding commitment volume was the Middle East 17,877 18.4% △11.80% 2010 657,707 187,352 13.6 highest for Asia, followed by Europe and the Middle East. Europe 18,863 19.4% 2.82% 2011 721,226 192,180 2.3 It increased the most for Africa, whereas the rate of North America 8,709 9.0% 19.63% 2012 767,732 202,300 5.3 increase was similar for most of the regions, except the Latin America 11,004 11.3% 29.82% Middle East where a 11.8% drop was seen. Africa 2,311 2.4% 7.67% Oceania 2,451 2.5% 62.2% Others 3,881 4.0% △7.91% Total 97,141 100.0% 3.90% ANNUAL REPORT 2012 20 • 21 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Short-Term or by a financial institution. Under this policyholder-based classification, ST Export Credit Insurance can function either as pure cover or cover on financing. Products Category Policyholder Pure cover (non-financing) Exporter Cover on financing Financial institutions Export receivables Covered target Export proceeds, etc purchasing costs, etc. ST Export Credit Insurance Export Financing Facility (EFF) Most used product (Post-Shipment) ST Export Credit Insurance (Forfeiting) Introduction Moving away from the past when we focused more on pure insurance, which covers the risk of importer’s non-payment, we are boosting our competitiveness by expanding insurance on financing through such Outline programs as forfeiting/factoring and other similar ST insurance products to Supporting those exporters or financial institutions meet an increasing demand by financial institutions that want to dodge risk involved in short-term transactions with a payment from direct exposure. period of two years or less, Short-Term (ST) Export Credit Insurance covers commercial and political risk. The former includes export contract termination by importer, Classification of Insurance by How a Program is Run importer’s default, importer’s delay or refusal to settle Based on how they are run, ST Export Insurance programs can be broadly export proceeds, etc. The latter includes a war or divided into either specific or blanket insurance. Blanket insurance can rebellion in the importing country, importing country further be divided into either semi-blanket or by-sector blanket cover. limiting forex transactions, etc. Specific insurance covers a specific transaction for which the policyholder believes to have high risk. On the other hand, under blanket insurance, the policyholder (one subscribing the insurance) and the insurer (K-sure) Short-Term Export Credit Insurance (Post-Shipment) conclude a blanket provision on all transactions for a certain scope, such as ① insurance specific goods, settlement terms, etc., prior to the occurrence of the subscription applicable transactions to be covered. Once this provision is in place, the ② set limit ③ export policyholder is automatically covered. In other words, all transactions by the policyholder that fall under a certain set of scope are covered automatically Exporter Importer under the blanket provision. ⑥ pay insurance ④ settlement proceeds ⑤ no settlement Comparison Between Blanket and Specific Insurance Category Blanket insurance Specific insurance This program protects exporters from risky credit-based ∙ All transactions that fall under a ∙ Insurance cover applied and transactions and enables them to penetrate new markets certain set of scope are covered extended per each transaction by finding new importers by indemnifying exporters/ Outline  (those transactions with settlement (those transactions with settlement policyholders in case of non-payment by importers. On period less than 180 days) period less than 2 years) the other hand, it helps financial institutions expand financing by facilitating them to finance export Policyholder ∙ Good for high risk transactions ∙ Selective cover on only those high (User company) ∙ Relatively low premia risk transactions possible transactions that pose risk by nature. Advantages Insurer ∙ K-sure can refuse cover on those ∙ Good for risk spread (K-sure) high risk transactions ∙ Difficulty in covering high risk Classification of ST Export Credit Insurance by Financing Policyholder ∙ Cover also required for low risk transactions Function (User company) transactions Disadvantages ∙ High premia than blanket policy Various factors are used to classify ST Export Credit Insurance with the most frequently used and meaningful Insurer ∙ Obligation to cover even those high ∙ Risk spread difficult (K-sure) risk transactions classification done by a policyholder, ie., by an exporter ANNUAL REPORT 2012 22 • 23 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Major Program Improvements Medium and Long-Term Expand Support for Emerging Markets After the global financial crisis in 2008, the center of global trade has shuffled, expanded, and became heavily on the import of the most needed resources. As such, K-sure adopted an import insurance scheme in July 2010 to cover the loss for Korean importers from Products universal as it is being led by the G20 with the rise of political or commercial risk abroad, ensuing those China, India and other emerging countries, in place of import transactions that are on an advance-payment the previous the G7 composed of the US and European basis where we indemnify loss when importers cannot and other advanced countries. As a result, the demand recover advance payments. for our insurance products has increased as exports continue to expand to emerging countries. For example, we saw soaring grain prices with more On the other hand, exporters have many difficulties as than 20% increases in wheat and soybean prices as grain production plummeted from severe weather last Introduction they face the prevalent presence of non-transparent year. We were able to curve the resulting inflation from MLT Export Credit Insurance accounting practices, lack of credit information food and feed price hikes by extending KRW 83.2 billion A majority being export transactions of capital goods infrastructure, lagging regulations on accounting and for grain imports in 2012, a 57% more than the volume that are needed in industrial facilities, MLT transactions related systems, and other challenges in many places in for the previous year. typically involve large contracts, long term payment Shipment the world, which resulted in the rising demand of periods, and complex transaction structures. Rather than importer risk coverage. On the other hand, we strengthened our risk management receiving their payments on a long-term basis, exporters through reducing the underwriting the ceiling per Exporter Buyer in MLT transactions want to receive payments on a Thus, we strengthened support to minimize those enterprise to grant stability to our portfolio that was progressive basis as soon as they manufacture and ship negative factors that would reduce exports to emerging lenient to certain enterprises and seeking importers markets starting in 2011, taking into account the needs with excellent credit ratings. their goods to reduce financial burden. Thus, buyers &importers usually obtain their own financing, at which n of exporters and the special nature of these markets. oa rL Buyer's payment Support for AP Non-Payment Risk for Importers (basic) ve On top of providing special support to the Middle East time, lending institutions prefer ECA-backed financing as made through the Co bank and the ASEAN region, we operate the “Mobile-K they want a safe recovery of their loans. en t ym Office” through which K-sure employees actually visit pa ① Advance payment Re the importer country to grant on-site support. As a Our MLT line products can be divided broadly into two result, the volume of emerging market support ② No export Korean Overseas categories, ie., one, those facilitating financing for the Bank increased to KRW 85.7 trillion in 2012, which was a 7% importer exporter ③ AP refund request export of capital goods or the pursuing of overseas increase compared to that of 2011. ④ AP non-payment business and two, those insurance products covering the Buyer Credit Cover risk of non-payment of export receivables and overseas Special Support for the Import of Important Strategic investment funds. The former includes MLT Export Credit Commodities and Strengthening of Risk Management ⑤ Insurance proceeds payment Insurance, Overseas Business Financing Insurance, Export for Import Insurance Bond Insurance, and Interest Rate Risk Insurance; and the Overseas Business Financing Insurance Amid the global economy where the competition to latter, Overseas Construction Works Insurance, Overseas secure resources has intensified, a stable supply of Investment Insurance, and Service Export Credit Insurance. major resources and commodities has become pivotal for the growth of the Korean economy, which depends MLT Export Credit Insurance and Overseas Business Financing Borrower Insurance are the two products that represent K-sure’s (Overseas goverment, Overview on Underwriting Amounts MLT insurance line. Covering those financial contracts financial institution) with their payment periods longer than two years, MLT Loan 2012 Underwriting by Major Industry 2012 Underwriting by Each Region Export Credit Insurance covers the non-payment of (Unit : KRW trillion) (Unit : KRW trillion) principle and interest. For Overseas Business Financing Other Asian region Insurance, K-sure covers the non-payment of principle North America and interest in those longer than two year MLT contracts Project 93 Central Asia Africa involving Korean investors overseas. Lender Borrower with Korean 19 29 Europe OBFI Interests Total of 176 Middle East 9 31 These two major products are used to complement India 10 international financing, by which they promote the (Overseas corporations) 176 Equity 28 Feedstock Total of 33 Latin America 12 export of plants, ships and other capital goods and Offtake EPC, etc. 21 13 actively support Korean companies’ investment and 13 12 27 4 Taiwan 25 China natural resource development activities abroad. Electronic/ Petrochemical Steel Automobile Fabric Others ASEAN electric ANNUAL REPORT 2012 24 • 25 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION International presence of Korean companies has soared proceeds from gas sale will be used to pay for the Outstanding MLT Commitment by Product Outstanding MLT Commitment by Region (end of 2012) since 2004 backed by their operational know-hows and project on a long-term basis. This mammoth LNG (Unit : KRW billion) (Unit : KRW billion) improved technological competitiveness. Their development project utilizing project financing costs international presence is expected to become stronger USD 41.9 billion to build its offshore, underwater and 2011 2012 Africa Oceania as various projects are won in the Middle East and Asia land facilities, where ECAs from Japan, Germany, and six 26,504 Asia Latin America 2,210 23,973 and more construction companies expand their other countries participated including K-sure and K-Exim 1,464 11,709 overseas markets as the domestic construction industry of Korea. North America 7,681 Total of lags. Thus, the demand for ECA-backed loans is likely to 13,147 52,718 12,793 2,106 grow continuously and K-sure’s MLT insurance programs The significance of the Surgil natural gas development 10,081 7,921 to become increasingly important. project in Uzbekistan priced at USD 4 billion lies with 5,663 3,340 12,018 15,530 the fact that it was the first project in Central Asia to be Middle East funded via project finance (PF). Using our experience Europe MLT Export Credit Overseas Business Export Bond Others from the project as the steppingstone, we plan to boost Major Program Improvement Insurance Financing Insurance Insurance our cover on MLT export financing in Central Asia. and Business Performance Korean EPC contractors are known for their quality The 2012 MLT financing market did not fully recover to work and the ability to meet deadline, however, they the pre-global financial crisis level as commercial banks lagged in the ability to secure financing. Thus, we As for the commitment by industry, the overseas EPC were still hesitant to offer long-term loans in the turned this weakness into an advantage by boosting industry took up KRW 25.4 trillion, which was 48% of aftermath of the European debt crisis. On the other their ability to secure financing through our PF cover so the total commitment at KRW 52.7 trillion. This 22.6% hand, the scale of financing needed became ever larger with the introduction of mega-sized petrochemical and they can win more overseas projects. year-on-year increase was the result of K-sure expanding its financial support as Korean companies continued to 2013 Business Plan other projects. Thus, the ability to secure financing has Moreover, we focused our attention on actively seeking enter the overseas EPC market. At KRW 16.4 trillion, the become the decisive factor for capital goods exporters investment and development opportunities related to outstanding commitment for the shipbuilding industry For 2013, we plan to expand our support to Latin to win overseas projects, increasing the need for ECA generation, road, port and other SOC projects abroad took up 31% of the total commitment, which was an America, Africa and other emerging regions to lead the participation in these projects. to help boost the national interest of Korea. Our 8.4% drop compared to that of 2011 due to a sluggish efforts in boosting Korea’s international trade and proactive support increased the opportunities for global shipping market in 2012. investment abroad. For the goal of assisting Korean On the other hand, European banks are hesitant to Korean EPC contractors to win overseas projects and companies to penetrate strategic markets early on, we participate in new projects, unlike in the past when boosted international cooperative activities, through Outstanding MLT Committment by Industry raised our target underwriting volume for overseas EPC, they had been in the frontline of project financing. This which we expect to ensue benefits such as securing (Unit : KRW billion) shipbuilding and resource development projects that is because they need to expand their capital adequacy production bases, promoting long-term export add value to overall industries and create decent jobs. and to dispose assets to meet a tougher international opportunities, and winning foreign dollars to continue On the other hand, we plan to concentrate on financing 2011 2012 regulatory environment on bank capital requirements in the future as well. for small and medium-sized enterprises so they can 25,449 with the implementation of the Third Basel Accord. As participate in more overseas projects and eventually a result, the demand for ECA-backed financing is on 20,760 grow to become global companies. the rise. 17,867 Despite a difficult financial situation, we tried to meet Overview on and Analysis 16,361 7,549 Furthermore, we will strengthen our global network with financial institutions and other ECAs to continue the demand for ECA-backed financing by expanding of MLT Volumes 4,528 4,364 6,544 expanding financing sources and to obtain stable our MLT cover so that Korean exporters can continue on financing so that we can channel our energy into Plant Ship Resource development Others with their business activities abroad. As a result, Trade The total MLT volume for 2012 increased 4% year on offering more trade insurance support for those large Finance Magazine named K-sure “Best Asia-Pacific ECA” year (based on outstanding commitment) with government-sponsored projects throughout the world. for two years in a row. Furthermore, Project Finance increased investments in generation, desalination and As for the outstanding commitment by region, the Magazine recognized four projects including the Ichthys other projects and an increased demand for industrial Middle East was offered the largest amount at KRW We at K-sure will actively meet the demand for trade gas field development project in Australia supported by development. As of the end of 2012, our total 15.5 trillion, followed by Europe and Asia. Although insurance using a “choice and focus” strategy and K-sure as Deal of the Year. In short, K-sure’s standing and outstanding commitment stood at KRW 52.7 trillion, these three regions were responsible for 74% of our continue to take part at the frontline of the Korean role rose in international financial markets. Along with a m o n g w h i c h M LT E x p o r t C r e d i t I n s u r a n c e w a s total commitment, the total shows a 6% point drop economy to help Korea take another giant step after the Ichthys Project, the Surgil natural gas development responsible for KRW 26.5 trillion and Overseas Business year-on-year as we continued to diversify our MLT the global financial crisis. Moreover, we will faithfully project in Uzbekistan represents our MLT cases in 2012. Financing Insurance, KRW 10 trillion, which were an regional portfolio by extending more support to Latin carry out our role as an ECA that leads global financial Once gas production starts from the Ichthys plants, the increase of 10.6% and 27.3% year-on-year, respectively. America and other emerging areas. markets. ANNUAL REPORT 2012 26 • 27 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Export Credit default on the payment of export proceeds, etc. This to importers abroad in export transactions based on Guarantee guarantee scheme is operated in conjunction with credit, by leveraging on bills of exchange and other Short-Term Export Insurance so that the exporter has no shipping documents. This ECG functions as securities recourse obligations, ie., the exporter is not required to since foreign banks typically ask for securities since they pay K-sure, as K-sure offsets the debt to be paid have to pay the export proceeds with their own funds through its guarantee using the insurance proceeds, first. In other words, K-sure indemnifies those foreign provided that the exporter conducted the applicable exchange banks that cannot collect their export export transaction accordingly with no fault of its own. proceeds from importers at the time of maturity after Introduction On the other hand, we also have the Export Credit Guarantee (Nego) program where the exporter can only they paid export proceeds in advance by purchasing the shipping documents covered under this guarantee. purchase the guarantee service without a linked Broadly, our Export Credit Guarantee is divided into and insurance product when the exporter does not want operated as the Export Credit Guarantee(Pre-Shipment) extra coverage when the non-payment risk from the and Export Credit Guarantee (Post-Shipment) programs. importer is low. Export Credit Guarantee (Pre-Shipment) This is a type of joint guarantee scheme that K-sure Benefits from Program Overview and Analysis of provides for debts/financing needed to manufacture and Operation Business Volumes process exports or procure materials for exports by an exporter who obtains financing from foreign exchange The business volume of ECG(Pre-shipment) continued to banks or financial institutions providing export financing Export Credit Guarantee (Pre-Shipment) decrease from KRW 4.420 trillion in 2010 to 3.320 trillion by extending loans or issuing payment guarantees based Upon the conclusion of an export contract, the exporter in 2011 and KRW 2.831 trillion in 2012. This continued on our guarantee. typically secure funds (trade finance) needed to procure drop was because we switched backed to a normal raw materials or manufacture products from commercial operation mode of underwriting policy starting in late The guarantee certificate is typically issued for a year and banks. At this time, banks usually ask for some type of 2010 after we expanded the ECG volumes on a when needed, can be extended upon maturity. Previously, securities or collateral when extending trade financing; contingency basis in 2009 and 2010 to help the Korean the renewal process was complex where an exporter was however, small-sized enterprise exporters lagging the economy recover from the global economic crisis. required to submit another set of documents meeting the collateral capacity have difficulties in obtaining funds. new guarantee criteria and underwriting review was On the other hand, the volume of ECG(Post-Shipment) made accordingly at K-sure. Starting 2012, however, we Thus, we issue this unsecuritized export credit continued to increase from KRW 1.803 trillion in 2010 to did away with document submission and underwriting guarantee(ECG) by taking into account the exporter’s KRW 2.598 trillion in 2011 and KRW 3.296 in 2012. These review. We only review whether the guaranteed amount financial status, export history, ability to carry out increases are in parallel to the increased export volumes would be needed to be reduced based on a checklist export, etc. for the goal of facilitating them with their of Korea from USD 466 billion in 2010 to USD 555 billion submitted by the exporter. With no need for issuing a new export activities. in 2011 and USD 548 billion in 2012. There are two guarantee, the applicable foreign exchange bank is factors behind these increases, ie., one, an increased notified on the new guarantee terms. In short, the process By obtaining export financing from a bank under K-sure’s demand for the purchase of shipping documents and was expedited so that exporters can renew our export credit guarantee coverage, the exporter can not two, the efforts of K-sure in extending less Pre-Shipment guarantees quickly and easily. only secure more funds than if it were to secure funds ECG but more Post-Shipment ECG. under its own credit but also at lower financing costs. Thus, the total ECG volume decreased slightly from KRW Export Credit Guarantee (Post-Shipment) The bank extending export financing also benefits 6.223 trillion in 2010 to KRW 5.918 trillion in 2011 but An exporter may receive his/her export proceeds through K-sure’s cover by minimizing the non-payment increased slightly to KRW 6.1276 trillion in 2012. immediately upon shipment from a foreign exchange risk and improving their BIS ratios, while being able to bank in advance using bill of exchange or other shipping actively expand its corporate lending capacity. documents after it ships goods on credit. We issue an Export Credit Guarantee Volumes by Year export credit guarantee, as securities since the foreign (Unit : KRW billion) exchange bank generally asks for securities as it is paying Guarantee products 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 the export proceeds with its own fund in the first place. Export Credit Guarantee (Post-Shipment) ECG(Pre-Shipment) 833 1,046 4,545 4,420 3,320 2,831 We indemnify the bank when it cannot collect payment Exporters can obtain export proceeds from foreign ECG(Post-Shipment) 326 516 1,419 1,803 2,598 3,296 from the exporter due to importer’s (or L/C bank’s) exchange banks as soon as they ship their export goods Total 1,159 1,562 5,964 6,223 5,918 6,127 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 28 • 29 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Product Improvement We made the following improvements in 2012 as we continue to enhance Overview our Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance to protect Korean enterprises from exchange rate risk. This product hedges foreign exchange risk by removing In addition to the typical FX risk insurance scheme where covered amounts loss from foreign exchange rate fluctuations during the are calculated based on policyholders’ export performances of the previous course of receiving or paying in foreign currencies. year, we also set the coverage ceilings on individual policies where ceilings are calculated for special transactions so that we can now better manage risk This product is run similar to forward FX transactions at by preventing speculative moves (over-hedging) beforehand. financial institutions, in which we compensate policyholders for their FX losses or clawback their FX Second, we no longer offer the FX Risk Insurance (forward-rollover type) gains, taking into account differences in FX rates between product that has not been demanded by exporters. By doing so, we a specific time (guaranteed rate) and at the time of export restructured our FX Risk Insurance portfolio to better meet the needs of proceeds settlement (settlement rate). Korean enterprises. Flow Chart on FX Risk Insurance Business Volume ① guaranteed rate ② export Compared to that of 2011, the amount covered under FX Risk Insurance Exporter Importer dropped slightly to KRW 1.147 trillion in 2012 with 368 businesses using this product line with stable foreign exchange rates and better FX risk ④ settlement rate ③ export proceeds management. settlement FX Risk Insurance Business Volume for the Past 5 Years (Unit : KRW billion) # of users Biz volume In other words, exporters and overseas investors can secure stable profits and remove currency risk by fixing 7,763 future cash flow in the Korean won in advance. Moreover, exporters may hedge FX risk for a maximum period of up to three years, and overseas investors, up to 2,623 10 years, considering the long-term nature of overseas 1,823 1,408 investments. 1,248 1,147 502 680 536 368 The four currencies covered under this program are the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 US dollar (USD), the European Euro (EUR), the Japanese * Excluding the business volumes and numbers of users of eliminated products Yen (JPY), and the Chinese Yuan (CNY). ANNUAL REPORT 2012 30 • 31 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Claims and Loss Rate and Claims Ratio Recoveries Excluding claims paid through FX Risk Insurance and Interest Rate Risk Insurance, the total loss ratio (total Recoveries Type 2011 2012 (Unit : KRW billion) YOY insurance proceeds paid/total premia collected) of 2012 Overseas receivables 49.6 52.1 5.0% was 46.3%, which was a 83.8%p improvement Domestic receivables 56.0 39.0 △30.4% compared to 130.1% of 2011. This lower total loss ratio Total 105.6 91.1 △13.7% was due to increased premia collected (28.0%) along Claims with decreased insurance proceeds paid out (54.5%). Recoveries by Product In 2012, the recoveries totalled KRW 91.1 billion, which Out of total recoveries in 2012, 75.8% was the At KRW 346.3 billion, the claims paid in 2012 decreased Claims Paid by Product was a 13.7% drop compared to KRW 105.6 billion from receivables recovered under the short-term product line by 54.5% compared to KRW 760.8 billion in 2011. The (Unit : KRW billion) 2011. However, the actual loss rate was 41.2% with a at KRW 69.0 billion. On the other hand, the rest, ie., 2012 volume excludes the amounts of claims paid Insurance proceeds paid Product 69%p improvement from 110.2% in 2011, due to 24.2%, was the receivables recovered under the MLT through FX Risk Insurance and Interest Rate Risk 2011 2012 YoY increased premia collected and decreased insurance product line at KRW 22.1 billion. Insurance that were not actual losses as they were ST Export Credit Insurance 83.3 104.2 25.1% proceeds paid out. hedged through financial institutions. Export Credit Guarantee 96.9 110.1 13.6% ST Others 7.8 10.3 32.5% On the other hand, the claims ratio (total indemnification Subtotal 188.0 224.6 19.5% Recoveries by Product /total underwriting) hit the record high in 2003 at 0.63% At KRW 224.6 billion, the total amount of claims paid MLT Export Credit Insurance 0.9 Increase only (Unit : KRW billion) but stabilized afterward with 0.40% in 2011 and 0.17% 2011 2012 through our short-term product line increased 19.5% Export Bond Insurance 571.1 118.5 △79.3% in 2012. Product Amount Ratio Amount Ratio compared to KRW 188.0 billion in 2011. At KRW 121.7 MLT Overseas Investment Insurance ST 74.4 70.5% 69.0 75.8% billion, the total amount of claims paid through our Overseas Business Financing Insurance 1.7 2.3 37.6% MLT 31.2 29.5% 22.1 24.2% mediumand long-term product line decreased 78.8% Subtotal 572.8 121.7 △78.8% Total 105.6 100.0% 91.1 100.0% compared to KRW 572.8 billion in 2012. Total 760.8 346.3 △54.5% Recoveries Overview Recoveries by Country The total amount of recoveries made in 2012 was KRW The highest amount of recoveries came from Pakistan at By country, the most amount of claims came from the 91.1 billion, which was a decrease of 13.7% from 2011 at KRW 18.3 billion, followed by the U.S. (KRW 10.3 billion) UAE, followed by Vietnam and Spain. By region, the KRW 105.6 billion. Out of this total collected, KRW 52.1 and Iraq (KRW 3.9 billion). By region, the most came Middle East (KRW 89.3 billion) took up the largest billion was collected from overseas, a 5.0% increase from Asia (KRW 23.2 billion), followed by North America amount of claims, followed by Europe (KRW 61.0 billion) from KRW 49.6 billion in 2011 whereas KRW 39.0 (KRW 10.9 billion), the Middle East (KRW 9.2 billion), and Asia (KRW 49.3 billion). billion, from Korea, a 30.4% drop from KRW 56.0 billion and Europe (KRW 7.7 billion). in 2011. 2012 Claims Paid by Country 2012 Recoveries by Country (Unit : %) (Unit : %) 5.8 2.4 3.0 Germany 2.6 17.8 Netherlands31.7 10.0 Canada 5.0 6.2 1.4 China 100% 100% 2.8 USA 4.3 6.7 USA 4.4 Spain Syria Spain Italy 13.2 3.5 Total of Lybia Iraq 31.7 Total of UAE Iran 2.6 18.2 18.2 Vietnam 4.2 Iran India 3.3 Others Brazil Liberia Pakistan Others Note) Excluding derivatives (FX Risk Insurance, Interest Rate Risk Insurance) and export credit guarantees (Pre-shipment, NEGO, etc.) Note) Excluding derivatives (FX Risk Insurance, Interest Rate Risk Insurance) and export credit guarantees (Pre-shipment, NEGO, etc.) ANNUAL REPORT 2012 32 • 33 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Credit Rating Country and Service Industry Risk Rating Credit Information Service on Overseas Enterprises The Country and Industry Risk Ratings Team analyzes We collect credit information of overseas buyers and through the construction of the process automatization country and industrial issues of various nations around offer this information to domestic sellers. This service of system by connecting to overseas credit ratings agencies’ the world quickly and accurately in order to manage risk providing “overseas buyer credit information to networks to effectively deal with a soaring demand for and show directions when underwriting. domestic sellers” is possible through K-sure’s overseas overseas buyer credit information. representative offices and 79 credit survey agencies in It is vital that we accurately understand political and 43 countries around the world that concluded MOUs economic situations and the country’s ability to pay with K-sure. Plans for the Future especially when we extend a large cover for a specific country. Thus, we prepare sociopolitical-trend and inAs of the end of 2012, we have credit information on over 355,000 overseas buyers, which is the largest set of data Conducting credit rating on overseas buyers and depth reports, covering a wide range of factors including collected by a Korean agency. The number of credit providing their credit information to our clients are various economic indices, sociopolitical stability, account survey cases increased steadily over the past years in expected to play a pivotal role in building the foundation settlement ability, evaluation from international which we completed 55,989 cases of credit survey in 2012, for the growth of K-sure as they are crucial for healthy markets, etc. which was an increase of 12% from 49,918 in 2011. economic growth through export growth and sound management of Trade Fund as a leading indicator for We also use in-depth data obtained from external As of the end of 2012, we have credit information from trade insurance. experts to provide helpful information to our clients as over 50,000 domestic sellers that use our insurance industry analysis became increasingly important with the services, in which the number of credit survey cases from To this end, we continue to discover outstanding and rise in large projects. domestic companies increased about 6% at 10,295 cases competitive overseas credit research agencies by region, in 2012 compared to 9,699 in 2011. In short, our credit in which we systematically evaluate and manage these information survey service on overseas buyers and agencies for the goal of providing faster and accurate In 2012 the Country and Industry Risk Ratings Team domestic sellers continues to grow. credit information, while further boosting the published a total of 63 political and economic trend competitiveness of our credit information services. reports, 13 in-depth reports, and 132 spot news. The By continent, the most number of credit survey came team also published and distributed the “Sovereign from Asia at 37.3%, followed by Europe (25.1%), Latin At the same time, improving the existing credit evaluation Credit Ratings Handbook” containing information on America (12.1%), and North America (12%). As for system on overseas buyers is planned to provide more 206 countries around the world, with this information increases in credit survey cases, the highest increase was accurate and practical credit information. The easily accessible on our improved website. in Africa (38.2%), followed by Europe (18.6%) and Asia introduction of a more accurate model for assessing (12%). As such, compared to 2011, credit survey service overseas buyers will be done through reflecting country On the other hand, we analyze various issues and was increased the most in Africa in 2012. By country, the and industry features. Using this model, we will improve changing circumstances of different countries through rate of credit survey was the highest from the U.S. the accuracy and practical nature of credit assessment on our spot news in order to strengthen our risk (10.7%), followed by China (10.3%), Japan (4.04%), and overseas buyers and better assist Korean companies on Brazil (4%). their export activities. management so that we can monitor countries around the world regularly to take quick measures when a risk We proactively conduct credit survey on those overseas Furthermore, the automatic rating system assessing arises. Furthermore, regular monitoring is conducted buyers that are heavily covered by K-sure to promptly overseas buyers’ credits would be expanded to expeditely and a checklist is prepared every quarter on those deal with increased volatility from these companies in the meet increased needs for credit information in the countries with significantly high political risk for the goal aftermath of the global financial crisis. To boost the aftermath of the global economic crisis, in addition to of mitigating and preventing political risk beforehand. quality of our credit information offered and improve improving the contents of our credit reports toward customer satisfaction, we supplemented the contents of improving the level of customer satisfaction. The team participates in the OECD’s Country Risk Expert credit survey information and more frequently report the (CRE) Meeting held four times a year in order to progress of credit research to our clients. We also Beyond its primary goal of better supporting exports, the accurately evaluate country ratings. As of December introduced the on-line customer satisfaction survey credit rating and provision services are forms of the where our clients assess the quality of our services. knowledge industry that will lead the future. Thus, we 2012, a total of 163 countries were evaluated based on strive to assist Korean businesses to penetrate overseas the OECD criteria. We assessed the remaining 95 In short, we improved our credit survey services that markets seamlessly as we strengthen our internal growth countries, which had not been rated by the CRE, based reflect the clients’ needs as much and as soon as possible. capacity, improve work process, and boost our business on our own criteria. Thus, we have a total of 258 In addition, we built the platform for quick research competitiveness. country ratings. ANNUAL REPORT 2012 34 • 35 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Risk Management We are operating the “integrated risk management system” that manages credit, market, and the operational, and other types of risks using an integrated risk measurement engine and electronic data system. For integrated risk, the limit of the permitted risk is set in the beginning of each year based on the business plan We have set up the Risk Management Division and We classify the risk that occurs during the normal course and size of the available fund, while setting the limit for appointed Chief Risk Officer (CRO) to effectively of our daily operation into three types, ie., underwriting, each risk. The integrated risk including each type of risk manage risk that ensues underwriting. Under this financial and operational risk. Underwriting risk is is measured every day to calculate the size of the limit division, the Risk Management Department and Risk defined as the risk related to the operation of the trade left and other factors. Analysis Department were set up to manage the affairs insurance business. Financial risk occurs during the course related to RM in various programs and product lines, the of managing the Trade Fund and our assets. Operational Being responsible for more than 80% of integrated risk, trade insurance business, and the “Trade Fund”. risk is defined as the risk due to mishandling of work, credit risk is measured using each of its risk factor, ie., system errors, etc. each exporter, importer, and importing country to Our Risk Management Committee was formed with the calculate the potential for its occurrence. Based on the goal of promoting objectivity and expertise in risk Underwriting risk can be further divided into credit risk calculated outcomes, the expected loss, unexpected loss, management by appointing a majority of the committee and foreign exchange risk: The former is the risk of loss and level of risk concentration are measured and members from outside our organization. The from defaults of exporters, importers, importing reported regularly. In short, risk is managed in a Committee’s work scope has been expanded recently to countries, etc., and the latter, the risk of loss due to systematic manner. include review on large covers, on top of its existing foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Financial risk can be functions, ie., the establishment of basic policy for risk further divided into credit, market, and liquidity risk. Market risk is monitored every day to manage the risk management, measurement and evaluation of risk, set Credit risk is the risk from defaults of fund deposited of loss coming from foreign exchange and stock price up of underwriting ceilings for each sector, and review and bond issuing institutions, etc. Market risk is the risk fluctuations. Liquidity risk is managed by calculating on asset management policy. coming from fluctuations in the prices of assets invested. an optimum level of liquidity within a set confidence Liquidity risk is the risk of loss from not being able to interval determined using errors between the planned counter unexpected fund loss. and actual amounts of earnings and expenses from the past. K-sure’s Risk Management Scheme The operational risk management system, which is part of the integrated risk management system, is used as the platform composed of Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) and Key Risk Indicators (KRI), which are used to Management Auditor Committee prevent operational risk beforehand. Aside from these methods, various techniques and programs are used for systematic risk management. For Risk Risk Underwriting Review large instance, preliminary review and post-underwriting management, Management Review transactions policy review, etc. Committee monitoring are conducted on a regular basis for large Committee transactions, a credit ceiling is set for each importer and Audit and exporter; and risk spread is achieved using reinsurance. Inspection Audit operation Department A credit limit is set for each cover in each insurance Working Support risk Committee Expert Review those product. If a cover were to be extended beyond this management on Risk Review cases approved by limit, the Underwriting Review Committee and the committee Management Committee Management Committee Management Committee must review and decide whether to extend the cover. Monitoring is conducted for each country, industry, seller, and buyer on a regular Risk Underwriting Review basis (monthly, quarterly, semi-annually) using such Management Review underwriting cases factors as the expected default rate to detect any out of Division Department (Underwriting risk) the ordinary signs early on. Thus, risk is managed proactively via decreasing credit limits, seeking risk mitigating factors, etc. Risk Management Risk Analysis Department Department In an effort to better manage risk, we concluded a treaty Management & Treasury operation of Trade reinsurance agreement with Korean Reinsurance Department Insurance Fund Company (KOREAN RE) for Short-Term Export Insurance Manage integrated risk(underwriting, Rate country risk (financial risk) for a stable operation of our business through risk financial, and operational risk) (Set country risk classification) diversification. Furthermore, the Expert Review Audit underwriting cases, set premia Rate buyer/seller credits Committee composed of experts in their own fields has Monitor underwriting cases Rate and analyze industry risk been set up to review when covering large risky transactions. We strive to establish a sustainable operational system to meet our social responsibilities as a public corporation and grow with the people of Korea under the vision for ethical management. K-sure solidified the framework for international cooperation through bilateral meetings K-sure promoted strategic partnerships with global ECAs by sharing information on trade insurance policy and other issues by successfully hosting bilateral meetings with China, Japan, and France. Also, we have built a strategic business partnership network with major international financial institutions and other ECAs in order to expand the global platform for our trade insurance covers. ANNUAL REPORT 2012 38 • 39 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION International Cooperation We are preparing for the second meeting in China in May 2013 for the discussion on SSU as Korea has one of the strongest shipbuilding industries in the world. Solidified the Framework for We promoted strategic partnerships with global ECAs by sharing International Cooperation information on trade insurance policy and other issues by successfully Strengthen Cooperation With As a member of the Berne Union (the International Union of Credit & Through Bilateral Meetings hosting bilateral meetings with China, Japan, and France. Global Ecas Through Active Investment Insurers), we played a leading role in its activities also in 2012 by Participation in the Berne Union actively voicing our opinions in the selection of agendas for various BU These bilateral meetings were held in March (in Seoul with China’s meetings, participating in the decision-making process, initiating various Sinosure), June (in Yeosu with Japan’s NEXI), and November (in Seoul with topics, etc. France’s Coface), where we exchanged views on expanding bilateral trade and the role of ECAs to recover the nations’ economies after the global We contributed in exchanges among the Berne Union members through financial crisis. active participation in the spring meeting in Belgium, annual meeting in Sweden, and other regular meetings. I n addition to Coface, we expanded regular and practical cooperative opportunities with ECAs from advanced European nations by planning Particularly, we played a significant role in actively countering negative annual bilateral meetings with Euler Hermes of Germany to be held starting impacts on ECA financing from the introduction and implementation of the in 2013. Basel III starting in 2012, a global regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy, under cooperation with NEXI and other ECAs. As part of regional activities within the Berne Union, we shared our Secured the Platform of We have built a strategic business partnership network with major knowledge with regional members by introducing how we operate our Cooperation Through Concluding international financial institutions and other ECAs in order to expand the total credit ceiling of short-term insurance, automatic credit setting system, Mous and Holding Bilateral global platform for our trade insurance covers. and sample cases during the RCG training program in Singapore. Meetings with International * RCG (Regional Cooperation Group) : The meeting of 11 ECAs from the Asia-Pacific region. Financial Institutions We concluded MOUs with four international institutions including Reconstruction and Development Fund of Uzbekistan (May), EKN of Sweden (reinsurance agreement, May), ABN AMRO of the Netherlands (August) and Nord LB Bank of Germany (September). Active Participation in We have been fully engaged in the OECD-related activities being part of Discussions on the Revision of the Korean delegations as the Participants to the Arrangement on Officially OECD Export Credit Guidelines Supported Export Credits, Working Party on Export Credits and Credit Guarantees, Working Group of Experts on Premium and Related Conditions, and Country Risk Experts Meeting. In short, we are actively involved in discussions and setting up of various export credit-related guidelines in the OECD. Along with Japan, Norway and other participants, we asserted our view More Trade Insurance-Related We partook in the government’s Knowledge Sharing Program by sharing that the revision would not be effective without participation by China and Experience Sharing Activities our experiences with Vietnam to help the country introduce the export pushed for the existing discussions in the talks of the total overhaul of with Other Nations insurance scheme. We conducted training sessions to Vietnamese Sector Understanding on Export Credits for Ship (SSU) of OECD Council government officials, locally in Vietnam as well as in Korea. Working Party on shipbuilding (WP6). Government officials from Indonesia and Namibia came to our head office to receive training on our trade insurance schemes. Furthermore, we Despite being the largest export nation in the world, China does not abide exchanged various views and opinions on major topics with visitors from US Rise of the International by the OECD Arrangement on Guidelines for Officially Supported Export Exim, Turkey’s Deniz Bank and other similar institutions. Working Group on Export Credits Credits as it is not a member of the OECD. Thus, the US-China Initiative, a working level meeting, was held in Washington D.C. in November 2012 in an effort to include China in the wake of introducing a new international guidelines on export credits. ANNUAL REPORT 2012 40 • 41 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Corporate Social Responsibility Social Contribution Activities We pursue best CSR practices based on our vision of becoming a public corporation that sets the ‘sharing and service culture’, through social contribution activities befitting our business. For this goal, we perform various social contribution activities globally and extend practical and various support programs on a continued basis for the socially marginalized, those outside the social welfare network, and those Operation Geared Toward As part of the efforts to adopt the CS management system and CS culture in rural areas. Customer Satisfaction for the goal of meeting diversifying demands of our clients amid global recession and growing with them at the same time, K-sure received an excellent “Public Customer Service Index” in the survey conducted by the Boosted global social contribution activities Ministry of Strategy and Finance in 2012, for the first time since its As a global ECA, K-sure employees volunteered to provide free medical establishment. services to foreign workers in Korea and local residents in Vietnam through “Doctors Without Borders”. Furthermore, 15 employees volunteered to build and donated two houses in Indonesia through “Habitat for Humanity Improved customer services by expanding the scope of the Customer International” for the goal of providing everyone a place for decent living. Service Center We improved the level of our customer services by expanding the scope of services through the Customer Service Center opened in May 2009 such as Volunteering for the socially marginalized providing consultation to customers on new insurance products and making We volunteer at “Rafael’s House”, a shelter for severely handicapped calls to customers on those expiring policies. children, on the first Thursday in each month to feed them, clean the place, and provide any other needed services. We also visit ‘Theresa’s House”, an orphanage, on the third Thursday in each month to tend to children. Set-up of K-sure-wide CS culture We published ‘K-sure Customer Satisfaction White Paper’, which contained We regularly volunteer to make Kimchi for the homeless, deliver coals for the results of comprehensive analysis on voice of customers (VOC), ie., those living alone in poor neighborhoods, paint frescoes to make Seoul a customer complaints, praises, and suggestions, on each insurance product, better place to live. each work process, and other applicable areas. The book is part of our efforts to set up K-sure-wide CS culture. F urthermore, we support movie-viewing and various other cultural events for children of the North Korean Defectors’ Center and from multicultural families. Customer ombudsman We reflected our customers’ opinions on our programs based on those suggestions registered through the Customer Ombudsman Committee Volunteer in rural areas composed of five clients. Through this constant monitoring of our services, We formed a sisterhood relation with a rural area in Paju (Geakhyun-2-ri) we came up with ways to improve our services and reflected the outcomes where we helped local people sow and reap ginsengs and beans. to our work processes and systems. Tending to the surroundings Year-round CS campaign K-sure employees volunteered to clean and tend to the surroundings of We have the 1.1.1 and other year-round CS campaigns to settle CS management cultural sites near the head office including the Cheonggyecheon, culture. Confucian shrine, and Bukchon-Insadong. * The 1.1.1 campaign : Call one customer once a day K-sure News Letter service For better communication with our customers, we send K-sure News Letter and other information to let our customers know about changes in major programs, cover by country, etc. ANNUAL REPORT 2012 42 • 43 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Ethical Management As part of meeting international standards on ethical m a n a g e m e n t , w e p l a c e e ff o r t s t o o b s e r v e t h e 1 0 universally accepted principles under the UN Global Compact after becoming a participant in August 2010. We strive to establish a sustainable operational system to meet our social responsibilities as a public corporation and We operate a “counseling center” to address difficult grow with the people of Korea under the vision for ethical issues that challenge our people. To protect the human management, ie., “clean K-sure trusted by the people of rights of everyone, all of us at K-sure need to take sexual Korea and its customers”. harrassment preventive education each year. Led by the Ethical Management Committee chaired by We run the “open employment program” where we do the president of K-sure, we pursue ethical management. not discriminate candidates based on their gender, The Integrity Ombudsman Committee composed of two education, place of birth, or other factors. Furthermore, external members was established to strengthen external we practice the ‘equal society policy’ where we employ monitoring and check for ethical management. We assess those socially marginalized including the handicapped, the level of ethical management of all the executives. To children of those who made distinguished services to the lead others by example in conducting their daily work, all nation, high school graduates, and others. Moreover, of our management and employees signed the “executive qualified employees have the freedom to join the labor integrity contract”. union, through which various issues are resolved based on the win-win labor-management relationship. To get rid of the factors leading to internal corruption, we conduct the “identifying one ethical management We continue to offer trade insurance support for new task for one department” campaign to determine those and renewable energy and other environmentally tasks that are prone to corruption and improve how we friendly projects while observing the OECD guidelines on operate. We also introduced the “solicitation registration the environment. We seek our own ways to save energy system” where employees and executives can register through an increased use of LED lights and keeping electronically those solicitation cases on a voluntary basis. optimum indoor temperatures during winter and Moreover, we operate the whistle-blower protection and summer. Through such efforts as adopting electronic compensation program to detect and prevent corruption document-based reporting to save papers, we tried to internally. reduce burden to the environment. All of us at K-sure pledged for ethical management by We also ardently abide by the OECD Convention on taking the “integrity oath” in June 2012, in addition to C o m b a t i n g B r i b e r y o f F o r e i g n P u b l i c O ff i c i a l s i n letting new employees, those promoted, and executives International Business Transactions. It is indeed a progress take a mandatory five-hour training session on ethical that the October 2011 Phase 3 Report on Implementing management and integrity for the goal of making sure to the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention in Korea mentioned settle the ethical management culture within the K-sure imposing the “mandatory debarment of contractors organization. Moreover, the “integrity club” is voluntarily found to have committed foreign bribery”. formed by the employees and executives of K-sure who share their views through workshop on a regular basis, where they study the trends related to ethical management and discuss related issues. KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Auditor’s Report Report of Independent Auditors To the Board of Directors of Korea Trade Insurance Corporation: We at Samil PWC have audited the accompanying consolidated statement of financial position of Korea Trade Insurance Corporation in the management of its Trade Insurance Fund (hereinafter referred to as 'the Fund') as of December 31, 2012 and the related statements of comprehensive income, changes in capital, and cash flows in the fiscal year that ended as of December 31, 2012. Those who manage the Fund have the responsibility to prepare these financial statements, while our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audit in accordance with the auditing standards for specific purposes by the Korea Institute of Certified Public Accountants. These standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance on whether the financial statements are free of any material misstatement. The audit examined, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. It also evaluated the overall financial statement presentation as well as assessed the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by the management. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, these consolidated financial statements for 2012 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Korea Trade Insurance Corporation, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the period ended December 31, 2012 in conformity with the accounting regulations of the Fund and accounting principles generally accepted in Korea. Ahn, Kyung-Tae Chairman, Territory Senior Partner, CEO Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers ANNUAL REPORT 2012 46 • 47 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Statement of Financial Position Income Statement The 44th term as of December 31, 2012 / The 43rd term as of December 31, 2011 The 44th term: January 1, 2012 ~ December 31, 2012 / The 43rd term: January 1, 2011 ~ December 31, 2011 Trade Insurance Fund Trade Insurance Fund (Unit : KRW million) (Unit : KRW million) The 44th (current) term The 43rd (previous) term The 44th (current) term The 43rd (previous) term Account Account Amount Amount Amount Amount Assets I. Operating income 2,794,724 2,473,435 I. Cash & due from banks 829,848 821,848 1. Premium income 751,297 585,989 II. Securities 1,049,599 734,175 2. Claims recovered 280,285 191,654 3. Reinsurance income 16,891 14,173 1. Available-for-sale securities 1,049,599 734,175 4. Other operating income 1,746,251 1,681,618 Ⅲ. Tangible assets 59,768 60,418 1) Interest income 42,884 64,917 Ⅳ. Investment properties 33,976 33,832 2) Gain on valuation and sale of securities 12,728 467 Ⅴ. Intangible assets 13,876 16,232 3) Commissions 1,165 1,053 Ⅵ. Other assets 997,221 948,238 4) Compensation income 916 1. Premium receivables 530,447 392,158 5) Reversal of unearned premium reserves 856,491 682,053 Allowance for bad debts (12) (12) 6) Reversal of reserves for outstanding claims 604,856 666,563 2. Account receivables 85 107 7) Gain on derivatives transaction 119,257 190,976 3. Accrued incomes 341,796 294,674 8) Gain on valuation of derivatives 49,080 26,658 Allowance for bad debts (257,525) (273,885) 9) Gain on Foreign exchange risk insurance transactions 5,075 4. Income tax refund receivables 1,739 1,801 10) Gain on valuation of Foreign exchange risk insurance 18,547 28,100 5. Indemnity receivables 277,156 311,818 11) Gain on valuation of interest rate risk insurance 437 6. Leasehold deposits 20,227 20,097 12) Gain on foreign currency transactions 9,793 17,349 7. Phone subscription deposit 33 33 13) Recovery of Allowance for bad debts 16,360 14) Others 10,015 2,131 8. Guarantee deposits 1,157 894 II. Operating expenses 2,828,845 2,713,619 9. Long-term loans to employees 2,214 2,686 1. Claims Paid expenses 382,036 839,112 10. Derivatives 70,728 191,502 2. Returns of premium income expenses 170,057 53,106 11. Others 9,176 6,365 3. Reinsurance expenses 21,064 19,068 Total assets 2,984,289 2,614,743 4. Other operating expenses 2,167,946 1,722,922 Liabilities 1) Loss on valuation and sale of securities 6,508 428 Ⅰ. Reserves for contingencies 1,830,828 1,461,347 2) Fees 3,919 1,030 1. Premium reserves for unexpired Insurance 1,055,493 856,491 3) Contribution to unearned premium reserve 1,055,493 857,030 2. Payment reserves 775,335 604,856 4) Contribution to reserve for outstanding claims 775,335 604,317 Ⅱ. Other liabilities 102,013 131,467 5) Loss on derivative transactions 71,545 181,767 1. Accounts Payables 7,774 3,812 6) Loss on valuation of derivatives 6,293 43,866 2. Accrued expenses 399 444 7) Loss on Foreign exchange risk insurance transactions 157,998 3. Provision for severance benefits 13,915 14,386 8) Loss on valuation of Foreign exchange risk insurance 31,570 18,233 4. Prepaid premium 2,419 10,498 9) Loss on interest rate risk insurance 5,443 10) Loss on foreign currency transactions 42,774 4,317 5. Deposits 316 369 11) Debt recovery expense 9,147 8,088 6. Derivatives 59,985 90,200 12) Bad debts expense 267 7. Lease deposits 1,015 1,015 13) Other operating expenses 1,921 3,581 8. Trust 15,939 8,417 5. Administrative expenses 87,741 79,411 9. Others 252 2,327 1) Personnel expenses 40,995 35,661 Total liabilities 1,932,841 1,592,814 2) Overhead expenses 36,213 33,363 Capital 3) Severance benefit 3,955 4,445 Ⅰ. Contributions 2,129,824 2,069,824 4) Depreciation expenses 4,222 3,586 1. Government contributions 2,064,824 2,034,824 5) Depreciation of intangible assets 2,356 2,356 2. Other contributions 65,000 35,000 Ⅲ. Operating loss (34,121) (240,184) Ⅱ. Accumulated other comprehensive income (2,800) (1,361) Ⅳ. Non-operating income 5,082 5,664 1. Gain/loss on valuation of available-for-sale Securities (2,800) (1,361) 1. Gain on disposition of tangible assets 6 62 Ⅲ. Deficit (1,075,576) (1,046,533) 2. Rental revenue 4,028 3,947 1. Retained earnings before appropriations (undisposed deficit) (1,075,576) (1,046,533) 3. Others 1,048 1,655 Ⅴ. Non-operating expenses 4 161 Total capital 1,051,448 1,021,930 1. Loss on disposition of tangible assets 0.4 1 Total liabilities and capital 2,984,289 2,614,743 2. Others 3 160 Ⅵ. Net loss before income taxes (29,043) (234,681) Ⅶ. Income tax expenses Ⅷ. Net income/loss (29,043) (234,681) ANNUAL REPORT 2012 48 • 49 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Statement on Changes in Capital Organizational Structure The 44th term: January 1, 2012 ~ December 31, 2012 / The 43rd term: January 1, 2011 ~ December 31, 2011 Trade Insurance Fund Strategic Management Division (Unit : KRW million) Retained earnings Strategic Planning Department Account Contributions Comprehensive income Total (deficits) Administrative Department January 1, 2011 (beginning of the previous year) 2,039,824 26,123 (911,852) 1,154,095 Treasury Department Government contributions 130,000 130,000 Public & International Relations Department Management Deficits carried forward (100,000) 100,000 Committee Gain on valuation of available-for-sale securities (27,484) (27,484) Net income/loss (234,681) (234,681) SMEs Business Division December 31, 2011 (end of the previous year) 2,069,824 (1,361) (1,046,533) 1,021,930 January 1, 2012 (beginning of the current year) 2,069,824 (1,361) (1,046,533) 1,021,930 Business Coordination Department Government contributions 60,000 60,000 Small & Medium Enterprise Department Loss on valuation of available-for-sale securities (1,439) (1,439) High Potential Enterprise Department Net income/loss (29,043) (29,043) The Ombudsman of K-sure December 31, 2012 (end of the current year) 2,129,824 (2,800) (1,075,576) 1,051,448 Auditor Chairman & Investment & Finance Division President Green Growth Finance Department Project Finance Department Ship Finance Department Overseas Investment Finance Department Claims & Recoveries Division Audit and Secretarial Claims and Recoveries Department Inspection Team Domestic Claims and Recoveries Department Department Corporate Restructuring Department Legal Department Risk Management Division Risk Management Department Board of Risk Analysis Department Short-Term Underwriting & Screening Directors Department Informatization Department Management Evaluation Department ANNUAL REPORT 2012 50 • 51 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Management K-sure management is dedicated to support trade. Anchoring on expertise and knowhow built in 20 years, each member of the management at K-sure gives the best to extend solid support to Korean enterprises striving for success. ⑩ ⑥ ⑪ ⑫ ④ ⑤ ⑦ ⑧ ⑨ ⑬ ① ② ③ ① Chairman and President _ Cho, Kye-Ryoong ② Auditor _ Son, Tae-Ho ③ Deputy President _ Kwon, Moon-Hong ④ Executive Director _ Kim, Sun-Ki ⑤ Executive Director _ Choo, Byung-Yang ⑥ Executive Director _ Lee, Kyu-Cheul ⑦ Executive Director _ Park, Sang-Hee ⑧ Senior Non-Executive Director _ Lee, Gae-Min ⑨ Non-Executive Director _ Lee, Jae-Kook ⑩ Non-Executive Director _ Kim, Dong-Sun ⑪ Non-Executive Director _ Kim, Dong-Soo ⑫ Non-Executive Director _ Oh, Mi-Young ⑬ Non-Executive Director _ Kwon, Oh-Nam Moscow Domestic and Overseas Network Paris New York Almaty Beijing Los Angeles Tokyo Shanghai New Delhi Hochiminh Panama Northern Gyeonggi Branch Head Office Incheon Branch Seoul Branch Gyeonggi Branch Gangwon Branch Chungbuk Branch Jakarta Daejeon-Chungnam Branch Daegu-Gyeongbuk Branch Jeonbuk Branch Ulsan Branch Gyeongnam Branch Gwangju-Jeonnam Branch Busan Branch Sao Paulo Johannesburg Jeju Representative Head Office Daejeon-Chungnam Branch Jeonbuk Branch Sao Paulo Representative Office Jakarta Representative Office Secondees 8F, Daejeon Trade Center, 136 Cheongsa-ro(St), Seo5F, Korean Teachers Credit Union Bldg. 1 OngoeulAlameda Santos, 880, 5°Andar Conj. 52/53 Wisma GKBI 21F, Suite 2104, Jl. Jendral Sudirman Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Bldg. 14 Jonggu Daejeon 302-847 ro(St), Wansan-gu Jeonju Jeonbuk 560-821 CEP:01418-100-Cerqueira Cesar, Sao Paulo SP, Kav.28, Jakarta 10210 Indonesia Johannesburg, South Africa (Secondee to KOTRA Ro(St), Jongro-gu Seoul 110-729 Tel: (82-42)526-3291~4, 0141~3 Tel: (82-63)276-2360~3 Brazil Tel: (62-21)570-5565, 5790-1060 Korea Business Center) Tel: (82-2)399-6800 Fax: (82-42)526-3295 Fax: (82-63)276-2364 Tel: (55-11)3284-1105, 3285-1951 Fax: (62-21)574-1470 18F, Sandton City Office Tower, Cnr. Rivonia Road & Fax: (82-2)399-6598 Fax: (55-11)3284-4081 Internet phone: 070-8611-1707 5th Street, Sandton, PO Box 786703, Sandton City Ulsan Branch Gyeongnam Branch Internet phone: 070-8611-1702 2146, South Africa 10F, Tong Yang Investment Bank Bldg. 197 Samsan5F, Gyeongnam Trade Center, 257 JungangNew Delhi Representative Office Tel: (27-11)-784-0607 Domestic Branches ro(St), Nam-gu Ulsan 680-805 daero(Blvd), Uichang-gu Changwon, Gyeongnam Paris Representative Office Unit No. 306, Rectangle-1, D-4, Saket New Fax: (27-495)-784-0623 Tel: (82-52)261-1833~6 641-740 13 Rue Camille Desmoulins, 92441, Issy Les Delhi-110017, India Internet phone: 070-8611-1704 Seoul Branch Fax: (82-52)261-1837 Tel: (82-55)286-9394~6 Moulineaux Cedex, France Tel: (91-11)4057-5045,5047 Suite 1304, Trade Tower, 511 Yeongdong-daero(Blvd), Fax: (82-55)286-9399 Tel: (33-1)5804-2674 Fax: (91-11)4057-5046 Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan (Secondee to Gangnam-gu Seoul 135-729 Gyeonggi Branch Fax: (33-1)5804-2673 Internet phone: 070-8611-1708 KOTRA Korea Business Center) Tel: (82-2)551-0481~5 8F, Gyeonggi SMEs Support Center Bldg. 107, Internet phone: 070-8611-1724 3F, Pavilion 15, 42 Timiryazev Street, Almaty, Fax: (82-2)551-0487 Gwanggyo-ro(St), Yeongtong-gu Suwon Gyeonggi Domestic Representative Panama Representative Office Kazakhstan 443-766 Shanghai Representative Office K-sure Panama Corp. Calle 50, Torre Global Bank, Tel: (7-727)-311-0285 Busan Branch Tel: (82-31)259-7600, 7602~7610 Jeju Representative Room 2210, Maxdo Center, No 8, Xingyi Rd., Piso 33, Officina 3304, Panama City, Panama Fax: (7-727)-311-0637 9F, Korea Development Bank Bldg. 136 DaecheongFax: (82-31)259-7607 4F, Jeju SMEs Support Center, 473 Yeonsam-ro(St), Shanghai, 200336 China Tel: (507)394-9170~1 Internet phone: 070-8246-253 ro(St), Jung-gu Busan 600-012 Jeju City, Jeju Special Self-Governing Province, Tel: (86-21)5208-1181~2 Fax: (507)394-9173 Tel: (82-51)245-3981~3 Northern Gyeonggi Branch 690-732 Fax: (86-21)5208-1186 Internet phone: 070-8611-1709 Fax: (82-51)246-9833 8F, Kyobo Life Insurance Bldg. 1181 Jungang-ro(St), Tel: (82-64)751-6601~2 Internet phone: 070-8611-1739 Ilsan Dong Gu, Goyang Gyeonggi 410-837 Fax: (82-64)751-6603 Moscow Representative Office Daegu-Gyeongbuk Branch Tel: (82-31)932-3501~6 Hochiminh Representative Office Office 948, 12 Mezhdunarodnaya-2, 10F Daegu Trade Center Bldg. 489 DongdaeguFax: (82-31)932-3507 Diamond Plaza(#1207), 34 Le Duan Street, Dist.1, Krasnopresnenskaya nab., 123610, Moscow, Russia ro(St), Dong-gu, Daegu, 701-824 Overseas Representative Offices Hochiminh City, Vietnam Tel: (7-495)258-1539~41 Tel: (82-53)252-4930~4 Gangwon Branch Tel: (84-8)3824-6844~5 Fax: (7-495)258-1542 Fax: (82-53)256-2684 6F, Samsung Life Insurance Bldg, 2 Wonil-ro(St) Los Angeles Representative Office Fax: (84-8)3824-6846 Internet phone: 070-8611-1710 ,Wonju Gangwon 220-070 915 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 1640, Los Angeles, CA Internet phone: 070-8611-1705 Incheon Branch Tel: (82-33)765-1060~4 90017, USA Tokyo Representative Office 6F, Daewoo Securities Bldg. 407 Gyeongin-ro(St), Fax: (82-33)765-1065 Tel: (1-213)622-4314~5/4330 New York Representative Office Room 1056, South Tower 10F, Yurakucho Denki Bldg. Nam-gu Inchon Fax: (1-213)622-5316 460 Park Avenue, 21F, New York, NY 10022, USA 7-1, Yurakucho 1-chome, Chiyoda-Ku, Tokyo, Japan Tel: (82-32)422-2713~7 Chungbuk Branch Internet phone: 070-8611-1700 Tel: (1-212)355-2505 Tel: (81-3)3216-0601, 0677 Fax: (82-32)422-2718 4F, Chungbuk SMEs Support Center, 50 PungsanFax: (1-212)355-6231 Fax: (81-3)3216-0602 ro(St), Heungdeok-gu Cheongju Chungbuk 361-802 Beijing Representative Office Internet phone: 070-8611-1706 Internet phone: 070-8611-1711 Gwangju-Jeonnam Branch Room 915, Silver Tower Bldg. 2 North Dongsanhuan Tel: (82-43)236-1301~4 11F, Kwangju Bank Bldg. 225 Jebong-ro(St), DongRd., Chaoyang Dist., Beijing 100027, China Fax: (82-43)236-1305 gu Gwangju 501-730 Tel: (86-10)6410-6437~9 Fax: (86-10)6410-6440 Tel: (82-62)226-4820~6 Internet phone: 070-8611-1701 Fax: (82-62)226-4824
