United Nation Global Compact Communication on Progress Report Copyright 2012, IT Synergy Revision, August 2013 IT Synergy Information Technology Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B 115, Alexandria Desert Rd., 12577 Giza, Egypt. Tel.: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-3537 1030 Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 About IT Synergy In the mid1990's, the United nations Development Program was involved in providing technological solutions for state modernization in several Latin American companies. After the project completion, this initiative resulted in the formation of IT Synergy, a company dedicated to technology research and technology to market matching. Our core business EvolvE’s around the concept of partnership; we are active participants in the business of open source, and we firmly believe in the marriage of the enterprise and the FOSS paradigm. We have unique insight into both worlds and our vision is, as our company name, SYNERGY. IT Synergy currently operates out of the Smart Village in Cairo, Egypt. We are a registered Egyptian company under investment law number 8; we are proud to be based in the very markets to which we cater. IT Synergy S.A. was incorporated in Peru in 1999, then in the United States in 2001 and, more recently, as an Egyptian company in 2004. Since 2005 all our operations are managed from our Cairo HQ. IT Synergy has provided consulting services in the field of ICT for development to governments, private companies and international organizations in Latin America, Africa and the Middle East. In Egypt we have worked on several projects with the International Organization for Migration with the United Nations Development Program and with the Italian Cooperation. IT Synergy has provided strategic consultancy and project formulation and implementation for several Egyptian ministries as well as conducting numerous FOSS implementations at the public and private sector level. Outside Egypt, the IT Synergy team of experts has developed and implemented a number of unique solutions such as the Paper Chip Secure Code, a security solution for printed document based on Digital Certificate technology, or IT Sentinel, a sophisticated package for remote network monitoring and administration and many other based in the open source concept. It has also implemented a regional Voice Over IP network for the United Nations Development Program. IT Synergy has provided IP Telephony solutions to large international organizations such as The United Nations Development Programme, Governmental organizations, multinationals and call centers of all size. Always providing an unmatched level of customization to meet the specific needs of its stakeholders. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Statement of continued support for the global compact IT Synergy company supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. IT Synergy will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. Sincerely yours, Mr. Vincenzo Puliatti CEO and Chairman Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 IT Synergy Company started its effort to implement the ten principles of United Nation Global Compact as the following Human Rights Principle no. 1: • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Human rights policies are an integral part of our policy Principle no. 2: • Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • We never ever had from any human rights abuses claim and strict monitoring and enforcement of this principle is taken into account at all company level to prevent it from happening. Assessment, Policy and Goals ITSynergy has specific rules and policies in which we make sure our business puts people first and that's the reason we are truly proud of our business. In Our Company we are committed to support Human rights and this starts from our top management and we publicly commit this to empower employees and relevant clients with clear guidance on the desired way of doing business. Our Human resources departments is responsible for this implementation and following it up, it also publishes to each new employee that joins our family ; guides and procedures, providing them with all information on working conditions, benefits, rights and duties, recruitment policy. The department keeps following up with the managers and supervisors the needs of the employees by constantly interacting with them. Our Location in Smart Village where the local environment is healthy, safe, comfortable also supports the employees well being. Our Commitment Policy IT Synergy support and respect the protection of international human rights within our sphere of reference. We make sure our daily work happens within the Human rights starting from the recruitment of a new employee, through his/her evaluation, appraisals, and annual raises until his/her Exit. IT Synergy is an (EEO) Equal employment opportunity company and implements the Equity theory in everything related to the employees regardless their religion, color and sex. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Implementation 1. A Sunday Meeting between the company's CEO and its employees to check the suggestions of its employees and discuss them and put them in consideration 2. Company rules and policies and employees rights and responsibilities guide is handed to each new employee joins IT Synergy. 3. Employee of the Month competition is done monthly to motivate employees and make them feel their efforts are appreciated and noticed by their supervisors and co-workers. 4. IT Synergy determine the needs of its employees and supporting them after the performance appraisal and based on this they take soft skills and motivational courses through our membership in NGOs and other organizations. 5. In Our recruitment process we follow the concept of There are no good candidate, there is a candidate who is good in doing a certain thing which make us choose our employees with a different perspective than other companies. Measurement of Outcomes Employees are 100% willing to work with high motivation after training courses. The same positive evaluation affects their supervisors, they felt appreciated and notice when the competition of the Employee of the moth started, they began to compete and this is definitely for the benefit of the company and theirs. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Labour Principles Principle No. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of theright to collective bargaining Principle No. 4 Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle No. 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle No. 6 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Commitment or Policy IT Synergy believes in labour rights as it is an integral part of our internal policy of its business. The continuous growth has made it possible to create job opportunities and increase year over year employment rate respecting employees working rights and believing in their valued contributions to the company. Implementation The Company policies and procedures for recruitment based on qualifications, experience with a full consideration of the Labour law such as working hours, performance appraisal. All employees receive proper social and medical insurance and have no restriction for joining trade unions or organize themselves for supporting collective bargaining. During their first 3 months of employment that are considered a probation period according to the Egyptian Labour Law; they are subjected to two evaluations and a final one to determine whether they will continue in the Company or not. The evaluation is on their attitude, attendance, progress to the goal set to them, this evaluation happens based on observations of HR, supervisors and colleagues, then a one to one meeting is held with the employee to set new goals and informing him/her with the evaluation results. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Environment Principle No. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle No. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle No. 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Commitment or Policy IT Synergy company policy is ensuring workplace health and safety and preventing any of unsuitable environment such as noise in workplace, because most of the technical employees needs a safe and comfortable environment to be able to work and concentrate well in all its activities and projects. Adequate space and privacy is offered at all levels. The choice of Smart Village as IT synergy's workplace was also due to the quite place of Smart village with its green area and prestigious services. Implementation Employees are requested to consider saving the environment while performing their daily tasks, each within his/her work area, i.e., paper recycling, economical printing, energy saving...etc. Company offices are a 100% smoke free area. Measurable Results or Outcomes 100% paper recycling has been achieved. 20% energy saving has been achieved after the implementation of proper measures. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Anti-Corruption Principle No. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Implementation IT Synergy has a high level of interaction with government officials. As per our Company policy, we do not allow any kind of corruption and any type of bribery. IT Synergy has actively collaborated with UNODC Vienna– the United Nations Office against Drug and Corruption – to develop a Global Anticorruption Portal. We have also supported the UNDP Anti-Corruption unit in Bangkok for the development of a Web based system for the exchange of anticorruption information. Measurable Results or Outcomes IT Synergy is modifying its work policies and strategies to adapt with the ten principles of the Global Compact and it remains monitoring and evaluating the process of all applied policies and actions in human rights, Labor, environment and anti corruptions areas like taxes, customs and ITSynergy succeeded this year to achieve 0 tolerance anti-corruption. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030
