October 2013 Managing Director Statement The Performance Coach is a leadership development and coaching consultancy operating across the UK and globally within many large organisations. We offer a wide range of leadership and executive coaching solutions. Our key competencies are consulting and advising, executive coaching, team development, leadership development, coaching skills development and sustainable learning. We work creatively with individuals and their organisations to effectively and systemically use leadership and coaching in service of enabling sustainable and profound performance improvement. We are known and respected for building great customer relationships and adding outstanding value. Our style of working is consistent with our philosophy and values and our approach provides a platform for meeting the requirements of a number of external standards and commitments, including the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations Global Compact. Being a signatory to the UN Global Compact enables us to demonstrate to all our stakeholders our commitment to being a sustainable business so that we continue to be a trusted and respected company in the eyes of our employees, clients and other stakeholders. We do this in part by ensuring that the Global Compact’s 10 principles are embedded in all that we do in the way that we operate our business and treat our people, the way we manage our impact on the environment and the way in which we give back to communities we work in. 2013 is the first year of reporting on all of our Corporate Responsibility activities and achievements and the following report provides a summary of our activities and progress in relation to the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. Charles Brook Managing Director October 2013 Registered in England No: 04332637 Registered Office: The Performance Coach Ltd, Trafalgar House, Fullbridge, Maldon, Essex CM9 4LE www.theperformancecoach.com Communication on Progress October 2013 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses The Performance Coach aspires to be a leader in social accountability within the coaching and leadership development industry by promoting a positive culture with respect to human rights and the continuous improvement of working conditions. We believe that all companies have a responsibility to respect human rights in their operations, regardless of the sector, country or context in which they operate. We are fully committed to supporting the protection of human rights and promote and support it’s principles contained within the legislative policies in accordance with the country’s we work in. The Performance Coach seeks to identify, assess and manage human rights impacts within our spheres of influence and activities in line with legislation and indeed with our own policies, values and beliefs. We are fully committed and respectful to the preservation of the human rights of all our employees, clients and supply chain and serve as a positive influence in communities in which we operate. We aim to challenge those whom do not uphold or display any such commitment. An example of how we manage and promote our commitment to the protection of human rights is by the use of our regular monitoring and promotion of our policies. All employees are provided with a copy of our Human Rights Policy which is reviewed and communicated on an annual basis, in addition to this we offer an ‘open forum’ for our employees and those we work with to report anything that they believe may be in an infringement of their rights and as necessary we work to provide a solution. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining The Performance Coach supports the International Labour Organisation on the fundamental principles and rights at work. We reject unlawful discrimination and are committed to engage directly with people through our working ethics and policies to ensure we reflect and uphold the right to collective bargaining. Registered in England No: 04332637 Registered Office: The Performance Coach Ltd, Trafalgar House, Fullbridge, Maldon, Essex CM9 4LE www.theperformancecoach.com We are committed to removing barriers and attempting to redress imbalances and respect the rights of our staff to join a trade union or collective bargaining arrangements which can be evidenced in our policies and promote open communication around this. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour The Performance Coach complies fully with all aspects of UK labour law and the countries we work in, which includes provisions for a minimum working age, minimum wage, maximum working week and paid time off. The Performance Coach does not utilise forced or compulsory labour. All our employees and associates are provided with excellent working conditions, including payment of wages and benefits that comply with applicable laws and regulations. We are committed to ensuring that our operations do not contribute directly or indirectly to human rights abuses and will not engage with any organisation that does not uphold their social responsibility to basic human rights which includes any form of forced labour, physical punishment or other abuse. We value diversity and it takes into account the fact that people differ from one another in many ways: gender, age, race/ethnicity, sexual identity, physical ability, mental capacity, religion, education, economic status, personality, communication style and approaches to work, for example. We believe that by understanding, valuing and managing these differences, we are more likely to reflect different contributions, needs and interests resulting in greater participation which benefits The Performance Coach and its clients. Our commitment to support the elimination of any such infringements within the work place and our community is made clear through our policies and our open forum policy is made available for any such violation or breach. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies At The Performance Coach we recognise our responsibility towards environmental issues and the community. All our employees have a general duty of care and are required to take all reasonable steps to comply with our environmental policy and agreed procedures, and to demonstrate a personal commitment to a safe environment at all times. • We ensure all necessary actions are taken to use energy wisely and minimise waste and recycle whenever it is sensible to do so. Registered in England No: 04332637 Registered Office: The Performance Coach Ltd, Trafalgar House, Fullbridge, Maldon, Essex CM9 4LE www.theperformancecoach.com • Take appropriate steps to encourage our suppliers to adopt sound environmental principles. • Ensure that all employees are fully aware of the relevant environmental issues and of their own responsibilities within their daily duties. • Ensure that consumables are recycled following instructions from manufacturers wherever possible. • We will reduce the need to travel, restricting to necessity trips only. • Switching to electronic payslips to reduce both the paper consumption and the carbon footprint of posting payslips to employees each month. • We promote and support the use of alternative communication technologies such as e-mail or video/phone conferencing and remote working opportunities so that the need for business travel is eliminated or reduced. • We will promote the use of travel alternatives and car share wherever appropriate. • Where business travel is required then the use of low environmental impact travel means is encouraged and supported. • Engaging local suppliers of goods and services wherever possible, reducing the need for travel. Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. We must conduct all our dealings with integrity. Bribery and corruption harms the societies in which these acts are committed and prevents economic growth and development. This is not just a cultural commitment on the part of the organisation; it is a moral issue and a legal requirement. Our code of conduct states that bribery and the making of facilitation payments are unequivocally unacceptable. The Performance Coach gives the utmost importance to this policy and apply a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption by any of our employees or associates. Our workforce and external parties are encouraged to raise any genuine concern about suspected misconduct or malpractice, including bribery, facilitation payments, extortion and money laundering provisions, ethical misconduct or any perceived infringement of their rights through our open forum policy. Any concerns are properly investigated in a fair, effective and confidential manner as per our policy guidelines, ensuring that no form of retaliation or reprisal for reporting suspected infringements takes place as a result of a raised concern. Registered in England No: 04332637 Registered Office: The Performance Coach Ltd, Trafalgar House, Fullbridge, Maldon, Essex CM9 4LE www.theperformancecoach.com How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? Our COP is integrated into our overall communication and policies strategy and awareness is generated through our annual communication report and newsletter as well as via our website. Supporting our Global Community At The Performance Coach, every year we commit a significant proportion of our time to pro-bono work within several charities, whose invaluable projects we believe in. We also donate a minimum of 15% of our profits to various charities, including the ones listed below. Our plan for the future is to continue our support for existing and new charity projects, reaffirming our commitment to the principles of global learning, development and enjoyment. All of our Directors and Partners take an active role in supporting our nominated charities: WYSE International www.wyse-ngo.org WYSE International specialises in values and leadership education for people from all over the world who care about making a positive contribution in their communities. Charles Brook says of his experience working with WYSE: “It was one of the most moving things I’ve ever done in my life. All these different people from completely different cultures, from many countries – Kuwait, Egypt, US, Uzbekistan, Australia, Nepal – talking about their differences, but also, above all, their similarities; and how leadership fits into that. They all come together and have amazing conversations about how they can all really make a difference in their own countries.” Cherish Uganda www.cherishuganda.org cherishing children with HIV/AIDS: embracing with them a future of promise. Cherish Uganda is a faith-based, child-focused NGO. It was established to help orphaned children living with HIV/AIDS. We all act as mentors within these charities as well as giving our personal time to support initiatives in service of them. Kakunyu School www.kakunyuchildren.org Registered in England No: 04332637 Registered Office: The Performance Coach Ltd, Trafalgar House, Fullbridge, Maldon, Essex CM9 4LE www.theperformancecoach.com Kakunyu School, near Masaka in SW Uganda, is one of the first schools in Uganda to be built specifically for the education and support of children with a wide range of special educational needs. Mary Kabiito, Headteacher, started the school in 2005 in 2 small rooms in her house. Jan Lowe from the UK visited in 2008, and offered to fund the building of a proper school, complete with latrines. The school opened in April 2010 with some 30 pupils: this year, as news of the school has spread, there are 71 children attending daily. With the support of The Performance Coach, a new dormitory will be built for the 30 children who Mary currently looks after in her own small home; and the children will be able to have chairs, desks and books to help them with their education. Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research www.leukaemialymphomaresearch.org.uk Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research's vision is to beat blood cancer. They are dedicated to helping every person with blood cancer survive and to go on to live a full life. Through investing in research, making expert information available to patients when they need it most, offering online supportive communities, and working with other organisations to maximise impact, they are changing the way blood cancer affects people's lives. Registered in England No: 04332637 Registered Office: The Performance Coach Ltd, Trafalgar House, Fullbridge, Maldon, Essex CM9 4LE www.theperformancecoach.com
