SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Healthcare & Earthcare SK chemicals Profile SK chemicals Profile 01 About This Report Contents This is the second report on sustainable management that Report Framework SK chemicals Profile Environmental Performance SK chemicals is publishing, following the first 2011 SK chemicals This report has been written by applying the GRI 3.1 Guideline from the 2 CEOs’ Message 46 Environmental Performance Sustainability Report it published in June 2012. This report specifies Global Reporting Initiative. The financial information this report lays 4 Company Overview 47 Climate Change & Energy the efforts and activities of SK chemicals to ensure sustainability down conforms to the Korean International Financial Reporting Stan8 2012 Highlights 50 Resource Cycle across all areas of its management and operations and to fulfill its dards (K-IFRS). This report also discusses how the information it pro11 Governance Structure 54 Green Process economic, environmental, and social responsibilities. SK chemicals vides relates to the seven core subjects and issues of ISO 26000, as well 12 Communication with Stakeholders publishes sustainability reports annually to communicate, in great as to the principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). 14 Materiality Evaluation detail and with transparency, its efforts and achievements in sustainable management to all stakeholders. It is our hope that this Report Period report would demonstrate SK chemicals’ commitment to the cause The indicators of performance listed in this report are based on the data Sustainability Overview Social Commitment of sustainability. pertaining to SK chemicals’ operations and activities that took place 18 Sustainable Management 58 Members from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. Data from the years 2010 21 Human Rights Management 64 Business Partners and 2011 have been added wherever necessary to facilitate the reader’s 22 Ethical Management and Fair Trade 65 Local Communities understanding based on comparisons of yearly trends. Data from other 24 Risk Management 68 Green Culture years in which the Company’s major activities or programs were initially 25 Environmental Management introduced are also provided to assist the reader’s recognition of trends. Report Scope Business Domain Appendix In principle, this report discusses the activities of the domestic sites of SK 32 Green Chemicals 71 Data Sheets chemicals’ operations (the Company headquarters, R&D center, and its four 36 Life Science 78 Third-party Verification Report plants in Korea) with respect to sustainable management. The report indi40 Product Liability 80 Index cates otherwise where this is not the case. The basic currency used in this 42 Green Products 86 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Verification Report report is the Korean won. This report also follows the metric system. 87 Report TF Cover Design Report Verification The 2012 SK chemicals Sustainability Report employs a series of intuiThis report has been verified by an independent third party, i.e., Lloyd’s tively designed icons to help and guide the reader’s understanding. Register Quality Assurance (LRQA), in April 2013. The verification report, The icons on the cover represent the major areas of, strategies for, and affirming the validity and reliability of this report, can be found on page 78. achievements in SK chemicals’ operations. Contact Information All reports that SK chemicals publishes on its sustainable and environmental management efforts can be viewed on SK chemicals’ official website (www.skchemicals.com) and the environmental management website (www.skecoweb.com). Should you have any queries or comments regarding the 2012 SK chemicals Sustainability Report, please feel free to contact us. Sustainability Division, SKMS Implementation Team SK chemicals | 686 Sampyeong-dong, Bundang-gu, Seongnam, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea | Tel.: +82-(0)2-2008-2061 | Fax: +82-(0)2-2008-2109 | E-mail: dbkim@sk.com SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare SK chemicals Profile SK chemicals Profile 02 03 SK chemicals Profile CEOs’ Message 02 04 08 11 12 14 inequality that are the byproducts of the advancement of civilizations. CEOs’ Message Company Overview 2012 Highlights Governance Structure Communication with Materiality Evaluation Stakeholders SK chemicals seeks to create an ecosystem of coexistence, which heals nature and people’s minds while ensuring continued benefits for civilizaPursuing the mission of promoting the health of humankind and protecting the environment of the Earth, tions. The Company thus ensures and manages operations in ways that SK chemicals continues to practice sustainable management that increases the happiness of all, minimize the burden on the natural environment, generate new values generates increasing values, and ensures continued growth. for the future, and narrow the socioeconomic gaps among people. The efforts SK chemicals has made, setting examples for environmental management worldwide, include its campaigns to maximize the energy efficiency of its operations and to minimize the environmental burdens from its business activities. Various business sites of SK chemicals are following the Company’s Carbon Neutrality Roadmap, using biofuels, solar energy, and geothermal generation to support their operations. The Company also produces an increasing range and number Dear readers, of eco-friendly products, including the heat-resistant plastic ECOZEN® and biodiesel. The Company building, EcoLab, earned the Platinum Notwithstanding the economic stagnation at the local and rating from the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). international level, or the increasing governmental regulations that The Company also plans to complete the construction of Korea’s largest are transforming the business environment, SK chemicals managed to vaccine plant in Andong, thereby enhancing the synergy in the research produce visible achievements in a number of strategic areas in 2012, and development of chemicals and biotechnology. successfully completing its restructuring, identification of sources for its As part of its efforts to bridge growing socioeconomic gaps, SK future growth, and enhancement of the competitiveness of its existing chemicals supports children around the world through its sponsorship businesses. of Compassion, while employees continue to participate in an increasThroughout 2012, all the members of SK chemicals remained ing range of volunteer works that support children and youth financially unified in pursuing the common goal of sustainable growth, by pressand otherwise. The Company also seeks to narrow the urban-rural gap Lee Moon-Suk, CEO ing for the investment in the PPS project, which is expected to lead the Lee In-Serk, CEO by promoting the purchase of organic agricultural produce from rural SK chemicals Company’s future, and by facilitating the successful completion of the SK chemicals communities. In addition to the Silver Theater it provides for the entervaccine R&D milestones. The Company also sought to strengthen the tainment of seniors, the Company also patronizes artists and humanities sustainability of its existing operations by expanding the copolyester organizations, enabling beneficiaries to apply their talents as widely as plant and by adding a new unit to the plant at Cheongju. possible. The Green Culture, Green Process, and Green Products campaign It is our hope that this report on our sustainable management that had sustained SK chemicals’ environmental management has been activities, the second of its kind to be published, will properly inform extended in scope to apply to all areas of the Company’s sustainable all stakeholders of the economic, social, and environmental efforts we management efforts. Thanks to these and its other accomplishments, are making. We hope that this report will advertise our commitment to, SK chemicals managed to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability and practice of, sustainable management both inwardly and outwardly, Index (DJSI) Korea for three years in a row, and also went on to win the while also helping all the members of the Company to become “warm Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Award. professionals” with big hearts and great capabilities. The Green Culture, Green Process, and Green Products campaign We humbly ask you to continue to support us in our journey toat SK chemicals seeks to enhance the sustainability of the Company, ward comprehensive sustainable management with your attention and society, and individuals, in the belief that doing so affects the happiness encouragement. of stakeholders. More specifically, the campaign seeks to help solve the problems of environmental degradation and the growing income Thank you. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare SK chemicals Profile SK chemicals Profile 04 05 SK chemicals Profile Company Overview 02 04 08 11 12 14 CEOs’ Message Company Overview 2012 Highlights Governance Structure Communication with Materiality Evaluation Company History Management Performance Stakeholders SK chemicals earned 1.48 trillion won in total revenue in 2012, 1969. Chemicals for nature, pharmaceutical science for humans, and innovation for the future Founded as Sunkyong Fibers Ltd. thanks to the significantly improved profitability of the existing businesses as well as the new businesses successfully launched by both the 1989. Green Chemical Business Division and the Life Science Business Division. Since its foundation as Sunkyong Fibers Ltd. in 1969, SK chemicals has been shaping the chemical and pharmaceutical industries of Korea Launched the Life Science Research Center. by setting examples of transformation and innovation. In 2011, the Company announced a new vision: promoting the health of humankind and Despite the numerous setbacks that confront the Company, including protecting the environment of the Earth. It has since restructured itself, centered on two chief divisions: the Green Chemicals Business Division market stagnation and changing government policies locally and inter1999. and the Life Science Business Division. A leading provider of world-class, topnotch, chemical and pharmaceutical solutions, SK chemicals is now Developed Korea’s first new drug, SUNPLA®, which is the third-generation nationally, the Company has set its eyes upon a target revenue of 1.66 platinum complex anticancer agent. trillion won to be earned in 2013, 12 percent up from the previous year’s transforming itself into an international leader of comprehensive healthcare solutions. revenue. 2001. Established SK chemicals Qingdao Co., Ltd. in China Successfully developed SKYGREEN®, an eco-friendly and highly functional Revenue billion won Vision and Mission synthetic resin. 2012 1,476.2 2002. 2011 1,546.1 Launched Joins® for arthritis treatment, Korea’s first natural drug. Slogan 2010 1,334.5 2006. Successfully developed the technology for producing biodiesel. Net Term Profit billion won 2007. 2012 39.3 Healthcare Successfully developed Mvix®, a drug for treating erectile dysfunction. Mission and Vision 2011 30.8 Acquired In2Gen, a biopharmaceutical venture enterprise. Earthcare 2010 39.9 Healthcare and Earthcare: We promote the health of To become an international leader of eco-friendly humankind and protect the environment of the Earth. materials and comprehensive healthcare solutions. 2008. Acquired UBcare, a healthcare venture enterprise. Revenue Distribution by Division % Core Values 2009. Life Science 29.8 Launched ECOZEN®, a bio-based polyester. Others 6.4 2010. Green Chemicals 63.8 Eco Prime®, SK chemicals’ biodiesel brand, won the Ministerial Award at the Green Technology Awards. ECOZEN® became one of the Ten New Technologies of Korea and won the Silver Healing Preventive Management Environmental Protection Energy Efficiency Award at the Korea Technology Awards. Safeguarding life from threats of Making the world a safer and Protecting nature. Preventing the depletion of Decided the site for the construction of a new cell-culture vaccine plant (Andong). diseases and injuries. healthier place. fossil fuel reserves. We provide effective and important Our vaccines and “new healthcare” Our eco-friendly materials provide Our compound materials and energy 2011. pharmaceutical solutions that protect the products provide innovative solutions attractive alternatives to petrochemical storage devices are compact and these Became the first in the world to launch a film-type erectile dysfunction treatment, lives and health of humankind. for disease prevention and health varieties and protect the natural materials facilitate the effective use of Mvix®-S. management. environment. new and renewable energy. EcoLab earned the Platinum rating from the LEED and won the Grand Prize at the Korea Architectural Culture Awards. Goals ECOZEN® gained approval from the U.S. FDA. For Customers For Shareholders For Society For Members 2012. Providing comprehensive Generating profits through Ensuring eco-friendly management Providing enjoyable and Began construction of the new vaccine plant (to be completed in 2013). healthcare solutions. endless innovation. and operations. exciting workplaces. NBP601, a hemophilia treatment, is named one of the Ten New Technologies of Korea and won the Minister of Knowledge Economy Award. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare SK chemicals Profile SK chemicals Profile 06 07 Pharmaceutical Science for Happiness: Areas of Business Global Network Subsidiaries and Investments Life Science Business Division Chemicals for Nature: The Life Science Business Division, overseeing the production and SK chemicals operates its headquarters and four plants in Korea Green Chemical Business Division distribution of all SK chemicals’ pharmaceutical and healthcare prod(at Ulsan, Osan, Cheongju, and Ansan). The Ulsan plant produces the SK E&C The Green Chemical Business Division, overseeing the producucts, seeks to become a provider of a comprehensive range of healthcare products of the Green Chemical Business Division. The Osan, Cheongju, Engineering and tion and distribution of all the Company’s chemical products, has been solutions, encompassing the diagnoses, prevention, and treatments of and Ansan plants provide the products of the Life Science Business Diviconstruction producing for the international market a series of eco-friendly chemicals diseases. The Division has helped SK chemicals become the sole leader sion. The Company also operates a number of plants and offices in other Ownership ratio 25.4% of topnotch quality since 1978, when it first introduced polyethylene of the Korean pharmaceutical industry since 1999 by launching three countries, including China (Qingdao and Suzhou), Germany, Singapore, terephthalate in Korea for making bottles. Seeking to become a provider original formulae: SUNPLA®, Korea’s first cancer treatment drug; Joins®, and the United States. SK Gas of eco-friendly solutions, the Division has identified four core areas of Korea’s first natural drug for the treatment of arthritis; and Mvix®, Kooffice plant HQ / Korean plant LPG importation, research and development: compound materials, highly functional rea’s own erectile dysfunction treatment. With its accumulated research storage, distribution, etc. Irvine, California Eschborn Beijing Qingdao Tokyo HQ, Ansan, Ulsan, Osan, and Cheongju plants Shanghai Suzhou New York Guangzhou Singapore materials, bio materials, and energy storage materials. The Division’s and development experience in synthetic and biomedicines, the Division Ownership ratio 45.5% advanced technology has been proven with the successful developis now spearheading research on cell-culture vaccines. The innovative ment of ECOTRAN®, a highly functional polyphenylene sulfide (PPS), products and the expanding global network of the Life Science Business TSK Water and SKYGREEN®, a polyethylene terephthalate-glycol resin. SK PLA, a Division are strengthening SK chemicals’ position in the international marBasic environmental bio-plastic, and ECOZEN®, a polyester containing biomass, are already ket. The Division now seeks to ensure its continued growth by pioneering facility operation, etc. leading the eco-friendly material market. Eco Prime®, the No. 1 biodiesel ubiquitous healthcare, applying the latest information technology. Ownership ratio 25.0% brand in Korea, is also poised to enter and sweep the international marThe progress in technology has dramatically extended the averket with its superior performance. age human lifespan and also raised the expectations of quality of life, The Green Chemical Business Division seeks to provide solutions thus brightening the future prospects of the healthcare industry worldGreen Chemicals Life Science for some of the most urgent environmental problems facing everyone wide. The Life Science Business Division will continue to research and today by providing products that enable the sustainable management develop solutions that satisfy the changing needs of our times and that Subsidiaries / Investments in Korea Subsidiaries / Investments in Korea of natural resources. The Division will help make SK chemicals become strengthen the health of humankind. SK CYTEC UB care UV-curable resins EMR solutions, distribution of median international leader of sustainable solutions with its advanced sciPolyester resins for powder coating cal devices, pharmaceutical marketence and records of success. Ownership ratio 50.0% ing solutions, e-commerce. Ownership ratio 44.0% SK Syntec Management consulting, etc. Subsidiaries / Investments Abroad Ownership ratio 100.0% SK Pharma Beijing Green Chemical Business Division Life Science Business Division SKCA Trast®, Albumin, etc. SKYGREEN®, ECOZEN® Ownership ratio 100.0% Four Core Areas Three Core Areas Ownership ratio 100.0% SK chemicals GmBH Pharmaceuticals, etc. Subsidiaries / Investments Abroad Ownership ratio 100.0% HighEnergy SK chemicals Qingdao Composite Bio Prepreg. performance storage Pharmaceuticals Vaccines New Healthcare materials materials Ownership ratio 100.0% materials materials SK chemicals Suzhou Polyester glues, small PETG packagMain Products Main Products ing materials • Highly functional PETG resin • Carbon fiber Prepreg. • Synthetic drugs Ownership ratio 100.0% • Polyester resins for adhesives. • PET resins • Natural drugs • Materials and chemicals for automobiles. • Biodiesel. • Drug delivery systems ST Green Energy • High-purity solvents, Display materials, and electrolytic solutions • Vaccines and biomedicines Trading raw material for biodiesel, etc. Ownership ratio 50.0% for supercapacity capacitors. • New healthcare solutions SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare SK chemicals Profile SK chemicals Profile 08 09 SK chemicals Profile 2012 Highlights 02 04 08 11 12 14 Business Domain CEOs’ Message Company Overview 2012 Highlights Governance Structure Communication with Materiality Evaluation Stakeholders countries have 50 % 3 SK chemicals continues to practice sustainable management in order to not only increase its profits, but also to enhance the welfare of society, protect the environment, and benefit humankind. The successful development of harm-free ECOZEN® and the cell-culture influenza vaccine, which is free of defects associated with other similar vaccines, shows how a company, in trying to excel at what it does, also contributes to approved the environmental protection and the welfare of humankind. SK chemicals has also established plans to return part of its gains to society, by disThe new cell-culture influenza vaccine is expected to halve the The eco-friendliness of ECOZEN® is certified by authoritative tributing its vaccines in developing countries and vice versa. SK chemicals recognizes the social responsibilities it bears as a corporate citizen, and production cycle (from six to three months). agencies in Korea, the U.S., and Japan. engages in activities that attest to its commitment to sustainability. The Company’s efforts to practice responsible and sustainable management has allowed it to be included in the DJSI Korea for three years in a row and also named a CDP Leader company in 2012. Korea’s First Cell-Culture Influenza Vaccine ECOZEN® Becomes First Korean Resin to Be Certified by JHOSPA This section highlights some of the major accomplishments and efforts of SK chemicals in sustainable management in 2012. These records The Government-wide New Influenza Vaccine Project Group and SK SK chemicals’ original eco-friendly resin, ECOZEN®, has been certified for its of success are what strengthen SK chemicals’ resolve to fulfill its responsibilities and make progress in 2013 and beyond. chemicals have collaborated successfully over developing Korea’s first safety and hygiene by the Japan Hygienic Olefin and Styrene Plastic Assocell-culture influenza vaccine, whose clinical trial plan has recently been ciation (JHOSPA). The certification makes ECOZEN® the first Korean resin approved by the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. When the of its kind to be certified not only in Japan, but also in the United States (by technology is completed, large quantities of the cell-culture influenza the FDA) and Korea (Bio-plastic No. 1, certified by the Korea Bio Material vaccine will be produced in much shorter periods of time, even without Packaging Association). ECOZEN® is the first biomass-based, highly heatthe use of fertilized chicken eggs. The vaccine, once manufactured on a resistant transparent plastic that SK chemicals has commercialized for the mass scale, will thus better protect the public against sudden and acute first time in world history. The material not only withstands corrosion by epidemics, such as avian influenza, and can also be administered to various chemicals, but is also free of harmful substances like bisphenolSustainability Overview people with egg allergies. The new vaccine provides a groundbreaking A. Thus, it boasts of a wide range of applications across almost all areas of and much better alternative to the currently available vaccines. industrial and household activities. 94 % Chairman Kim Wins Forbes CEO Award SK chemicals scored 94 out of 100 on the 2012 CDP Korea 250 Survey. 2x+ The margin by which CSL627, a new biomedicine for treating 16.7% The margin by which Mvix®-S has increased the rate of Chairman Kim Wins Forbes CEO Award Included in DJSI Korea for 3 Consecutive Years and hemophilia, has increased safety. absorbency compared to the previous format. Named CDP Leader Chairman Kim Chang-geun of the Association for the Pursuit of Clinical Tests of New Bio Drug, CSL627, Begin in the U.S. and the EU Mvix®-S Sells 1 Billion won in Just 15 Days Following Its Launch SUPEX(former Vice-Chairman of SK chemicals) won the 2012 Forbes SK chemicals was named the Raw Material Leader on the 2012 Carbon CEO Award for Communication. In his address at the awards ceremony, Disclosure Project (CDP) Korea 250 Survey, conducted by the Carbon The clinical trials of CSL627, an original biomedicine formula that SK Mvix®-S, an erectile dysfunction treatment in a new format, sold Chairman Kim emphasized: “The first priority is to communicate with Disclosure Project Korea Committee. The CDP Korea 250 Survey requires chemicals developed on its own and exported to CSL Limited of Australia over 1 billion won in just 15 days following its launching on the market. all the members of the company in order for our new attempts to gain 250 companies listed on stock exchanges to disclose information on in June 2009, began in the United States and the European Union. NonMvix®-S 50 mg, the world’s first orally dissolved film-type (ODF-type) acceptability. I share today’s honor with my colleagues at SK chemicals, their carbon activities, and awards companies with exemplary records on clinical tests of the formula revealed that it was a much safer choice than erectile dysfunction treatment, is so thin and light that it can be easwho have taught me that what matters to communication are not the reducing carbon emissions. SK chemicals was also included in the Dow the existing hemophilia treatments and it has also radically increased the ily inserted in a wallet. It is garnering praises for how easy it is to carry programs, but the CEO’s will to communicate and the trust he earns Jones Survey Index (DJSI) Korea for three years in a row. The DJSI Korea half-life of the human body. At present, both the first and third phases around and consume. from employees.” SK chemicals also celebrated 42 years of experiencing reflects the evaluation by Dow Jones and SAM of the sustainability of the of clinical trials are being performed to demonstrate, respectively, the no labor-management disputes. 200 largest companies in Korea. These recognitions prove the strength of formula’s safety and efficacy on patients with Type-A hemophilia. •C hairman Kim served as Vice-Chairman of SK chemicals from 2004 to the Company-wide systems for sustainable management that SK chemi•N ame of SK chemicals’ new hemophilia treatment formula, NBP601, December 2012. cals has developed over the years. after it was exported to CSL. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare SK chemicals Profile SK chemicals Profile 10 11 SK chemicals Profile Governance Structure Environmental Performance Social Commitment 02 04 08 11 12 14 CEOs’ Message Company Overview 2012 Highlights Governance Structure Communication with Materiality Evaluation Stakeholders 100,000 tons 10,000,000 SK chemicals is working hard to establish a management system that is centered on the Board of Directors. Such a system will be necessary to ensure the protection of stakeholders’ rights and interests as well as the Company’s continued growth in the long run. The Board of Directors presides over the Management Committee, the Auditing Committee, and the Nonexecutive Director Nomination Committee, that enhance The margin by which the plant at Ulsan reduces greenhouse gas The number of people in developing countries who can benefit the efficiency of the Board’s operations. The Auditing and Nonexecutive Director Nomination Committees, in particular, are led by independent emissions by using the Eco Green Boiler. from SK chemicals’ vaccine nonexecutive members of the Board. Ulsan Plant Wins Minister Award for Reducing MOU for Distributing Vaccine to 10 Million People in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Developing Countries SK chemicals’ plant at Ulsan, now emerging as one of the most ecoIn November 2012, SK chemicals signed a memorandum of understandleast one meeting each month to hear and discuss opinions from sharefriendly industrial sites in Korea, won the Minister of Environment Award. ing with the International Vaccine Institute for collaboration over the Board Structure and Decision-making System holders and employees. The Board Secretariat informs all the directors The award recognizes the plant’s efforts to form a resource-recycling development of a typhoid vaccine. Typhoid infects 27 million people and The Board at SK chemicals consists of four independent, nonexof each meeting, and its location, date, and agenda, at least five days community and minimize greenhouse gas emissions by running the Eco leads to the death of 200,000 worldwide each year. The two organizaecutive directors, and three internal directors. The nonexecutive direcbefore the scheduled meeting. Green Boiler system that converts scrap wood into fuels for energy, and tions will share the basic technology for developing a vaccine, which tors are persons who have been nominated to the General Shareholders’ another industrial boiler system that uses the biogas from a local food aims to put a stop to this tragedy. Their collaboration will also encomAssembly by the Nonexecutive Director Nomination Committee who Board Structure as of May 31, 2013 waste processing plant to fuel its operations. pass worldwide clinical trials of the vaccine and obtain preapproval from have reviewed their qualifications. The General Shareholders’ Assembly, the World Health Organization. The two organizations will then distribType Member in turn, decides whether to appoint the nominated candidates as nonute 10 million doses of vaccines to developing countries via UNICEF. Board of Internal Choi Chang-won (President and Vice-Chairman) executive directors to the Board, and also whether to elect the candiDirectors Lee Moon-Suk (CEO, Green Chemicals) dates for internal directorship to the Board. Lee In-Serk (CEO, Life Scinece) SK chemicals compiles the agenda for the Board to deliberate and 1,100 Nonexecutive Kang Bo-hyeon, Kwon Tae-shin, Heo Gi-ho, Ahn Deok-geun Green Triple 40! notifies each director of the agenda for an upcoming meeting at least five days before the meeting takes place. Once a meeting is convened, Auditing Committee Kang Bo-hyeon, Kwon Tae-shin, Ahn Deok-geun (all nonexecutive) the Company keeps the minutes of the deliberations and records of the Nonexecutive Director Lee Moon-Suk (internal), Kang Bo-hyeon, Kwon Tae-shin, SK chemicals’ Green Management Policy: 40 hours of volunteer resolutions passed. The Company also informs the directors of imporNomination Committee Ahn Deok-geun (all nonexecutive) work per employee, 40-percent reduction in CO2 emissions, and The number of employees who work at SK chemicals in Korea and tant matters immediately after each Board meeting ends. In 2012, the Management Committee Lee Moon-Suk, Lee In-Serk (both internal) 40-percent increase in the revenue from eco-friendly businesses. participate in the campaign. Board held 12 meetings in total, and thoroughly discussed and decided Topping Green Rankings for Two Years in a Row Hope Maker CSR Campaign Launched major issues. They also heard reports on economic trends locally and Major Shareholders as of December 31, 2012 internationally, and deliberated counterplans. The average rate of atSK chemicals topped the Green Rankings Survey for two years in a row, SK chemicals signed agreements with the city of Seongnam in Gyeonggitendance in Board meetings was 88.8 percent, and 85.4 percent among Shareholder No. of shares owned Ownership ratio (%) co-organized by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, the Joong-ang do and social service organizations in the region to extend support and aid nonexecutive directors, in 2012. Choi Chang-won 2,122,761 10.18 Ilbo, Sustinvest (a corporate evaluation agency) and FnGuide. The Green to the underprivileged via the Company’s CSR campaign, Hope Maker. National Pension 1,966,100 9.43 In order to ensure the transparency of the Board’s decisions, Rankings Survey ranks leading companies of Korea in terms of their deHope Maker involves SK chemicals employees donating part of their Mirae Asset Management 1,561,316 7.49 SK chemicals ensures that more than a majority of its members are termination for eco-friendly management, the amounts of pollutants monthly wages to the local social service centers for youth, and also sharEmployee Stock Holders Assoc. nonexecutive directors. The Auditing Committee, entirely comprised of they emit, and the extents to which they disclose environmental inforing their time and talents. SK chemicals, which has been supporting 300 nonexecutive directors, also actively checks and prevents the Company mation. SK chemicals was highly praised for launching an organization or more children in developing countries via Compassion, thus now supor the Board from engaging in any illegal activities. As a result, no violaspecializing in environmental management in 2010, and seriously proports and helps poor children and teenagers in Korea as well. The Comtions of laws applicable to the production and distribution of products moting its Green Triple 40 Campaign. The campaign seeks to encourage pany plans to form partnerships with social service centers in Bundang or services were reported in 2012. SK chemicals also operates the Board each employee to perform 40 hours of volunteer work a year, to reduce and other cities in the vicinity to provide donations for over 150 children Secretariat, whose reports facilitate the Board’s timely identification and carbon dioxide emissions by 40 percent, and to increase the Companyand teenagers. It also encourages employees to share their time, talents, discussion of the Company’s achievements in economic, environmental, wide revenue from eco-friendly businesses by 40 percent by 2020. and knowledge by visiting the centers they support on a weekly basis. and social aspects of management. The Board is required to convene at SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare SK chemicals Profile SK chemicals Profile 12 13 SK chemicals Profile Communication with Stakeholders 02 04 08 11 12 14 CEOs’ Message Company Overview 2012 Highlights Governance Structure Communication with Materiality Evaluation Government Subsidies Sharing with Stakeholders Stakeholders million won million won 2010 2011 2012 Stakeholder group Item 2010 2011 2012 The business activities of a company affect stakeholders and the society at large in diverse ways. SK chemicals recognizes that maintaining Tax exemptions/deductions 10,939 10,411 12,533 Shareholders Dividends 10,353 8,310 8,310 continued communications with diverse groups of stakeholders affected by its products, services, and activities, is crucial to its goal of sustainable Investments and R&D subsidies 2,249 4,716 1,387 Creditors Interest charges 22,116 30,187 35,494 growth. SK chemicals continues to cooperate closely with various groups of stakeholders in order to gain a better understanding of social expecRewards Business Partners Payments for goods 694,368 906,967 783,789 tations of its activities and to handle the tasks of sustainable management better. and services provided Members Wages and rewards 86,541 92,072 80,815 Severance benefits 7,504 8,444 7,581 Fringe benefits 15,307 17,245 17,518 Local Communities Donations 10,366 1,082 283 Government Income tax (2,215) 992 (8,984) Total 844,340 1,065,299 924,806 1.48 trillion won 783.8 billion won Customers SK chemicals provides eco-friendly plastics for Business Partners 105.9 billion won 43.8 billion won industrial clients and pharmaceutical solutions for the SK chemicals paid 783.8 billion won in total to its Members treatment and prevention of diseases for the general pubBusiness Partners that supplied raw materials, energy, and All products and services of SK chemicals are made Shareholders and Creditors lic. These customers help SK chemicals earn revenue by services for SK chemicals’ production. Ensuring reliable possible because of the focus and dedication from MemShareholders are actual owners of SK chemicals. purchasing its products. SK chemicals intends to grow by supplies of safe raw materials and energy is one of the key bers. SK chemicals continues to make efforts to recruit The Company seeks investments from these shareholdproviding, with its continued research and development, factors of SK chemicals’ competitiveness. The Company and retain “warm professionals” with big hearts and big ers throughout the year to generate even greater values, products with improved performance, more reasonable continues to strengthen relations with these Business talents. The Company also invests significantly in ensuring returns part of the proceeds to shareholders, and also pays prices, and less harm to one’s health and the environment. Partners on the basis of mutual trust, and provides them sustainable career development and forming enjoyable the promised interests to creditors. Fulfilling its obligations In 2012, these efforts resulted in the total yearly revenue with a wide range of support to help them enhance their workplaces for all Members. The Company spent 105.9 to shareholders and creditors, SK chemicals spent 43.8 bilof 1.48 trillion won. capabilities. billion won in 2012 on the wages and fringe benefits for lion won in 2012. Members. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare SK chemicals Profile SK chemicals Profile 14 15 SK chemicals Profile Materiality Evaluation 02 04 08 11 12 14 Developing eco-friendly products (p. 42) CEOs’ Message Company Overview 2012 Highlights Governance Structure Communication with Materiality Evaluation Findings Customer service / managing complaints (p. 41) Stakeholders Developing alternative energy (p. 49) In order for the Sustainability Reports to serve their intended purposes of communicating with stakeholders, they need to provide sufHigh Sustainability strategy (p. 18) Priority I ficient and adequate information on SK chemicals’ efforts for sustainability by disclosing the Company’s records on sustainable management Energy efficiency (p. 47) with transparency. In order to decide which types of information and issues had to be reported, SK chemicals performed a materiality evaluation, Hazardous substance control (p. 51) Materiality from stakeholders’ perspective analyzing what issues were perceived by stakeholders as important, how pertinent those issues were to the Company’s management, and what Human resources development (p. 59) discrepancies were there between stakeholders’ perceptions and the management’s perceptions regarding these issues. Anticorruption (p. 22) Priority II Fair trade (p. 22) Industrial safety and health (p. 40) Reducing the use of resources (e.g., raw/subsidMethod Process Priority III iary materials, water, etc.) Employment security SK chemicals conducted surveys on different groups of stakeGuiding SK chemicals’ materiality evaluation was the section Equal opportunities / nondiscrimination holders to derive quantitative data that could be used in materiality in the GRI 3.1 on “Technical Protocol: applying the Report Content Low evaluation. How well or poorly stakeholders understood the concept Principles.” The GRI 3.1 provides principles for evaluating the materialBan on lobbying or applying external pressures Low Materiality from the management’s perspective High of sustainability also affected how reliable or unreliable their answers ity of issues of sustainable management, including the completeness, Reducing pollution at and around business sites were. In order to give greater weight to the more reliable answers from the background factors and the materiality of related issues, as well as Reducing greenhouse gas emissions stakeholders, the surveys asked respondents to evaluate their own unstakeholder participation. The materiality evaluation process it outlines Reducing and controlling waste material derstanding of each category of sustainability-related issues. consists of issue identification, prioritization, and relevance evaluation. Sustainability awareness and education Interpretation The survey sought to identify material issues for sustainable Sustainability organization management from the perspectives of both the management and Process The materiality evaluation led to the identification of 34 issues Ban on child labor and forced labor stakeholders, while also determining how well the internal stakeholdof sustainable management. Particularly substantial among these were Communication with stakeholders ers understood the concept. The opinions from the management and • External guidelines product liability, developing eco-friendly materials, customer services Surveying and analyzing Child care and maternity protection stakeholders surveyed will help to shape the future strategies and plans • The media (or managing complaints), developing alternative energy, sustainable Issue the following types of Ethical research practices for sustainable management. The internal stakeholder survey concerned • Management strategies management strategies, energy efficiency, hazardous substance control, identification information to derive • Internal guidelines eight top executive members of the management and 205 employees pertinent issues. • Benchmarking sources human resources development, anticorruption, fair trade, industrial of the Company. The external stakeholder survey concerned customers, safety and health, and reducing the use of resources. See the diagram Fair marketing and advertising practices Business Partners, shareholders and investors, governmental organizaabove for more detail. Mutual growth with Business Partners tions, nongovernmental organizations of the Local Communities, indusPrioritizing the issues and While all these issues are pertinent to the management of SK • Stakeholders’ perspective Prioritization deciding the material ones Consumer education trial associations and societies, and the academia. The answers from 34 • The management’s perspective chemicals, they have been divided into three groups of priority levels so from the two perspectives. Strategic social contributions external stakeholders were used in the final materiality evaluation. as to help the Company focus strategically on the relatively more urgent or important issues to a greater extent. The opinions of diverse stakeProtecting ecological and biological diversity holders were comprehensively taken into account in determining the Labor-management harmony and the freedom Effect materiality of the identified issues. This report attempts to discuss the to form labor unions evaluation and Deciding and planning the issues to be materiality of these issues in the most detailed way possible. SK chemiHandling employee complaints and grievances report discussed in the report. planning cals recognizes that certain issues considered especially important by Animal testing ethics certain stakeholders may not be perceived as such by other stakeholdFostering Business Partners’ CSR ers, but may play crucial roles in sustainable management. These issues Voluntary social contributions were considered not only in the Sustainability Reports, but in the overall strategy of SK chemicals for sustainable management as well. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Sustainability Overview Sustainability Overview 16 17 Sustainability Overview Sustainable Management SK c he m n dix ica pe ls Ap Pr of i le S ntal Manag us tai me nt em na Human Rights on eme en En ag t m Management ble yste Ma vir Sus l Com mitment n S Socia taina bility Overview ement anag nR Huma Manage ig ht me s sk M nt Ethical Ri Management and Managemen Fair Trade ical t Eth nd Fair Trad e a ce an m fo Bu r n ta sin lP es er sD nme om Enviro ain Risk Management How can we ensure a virtuous circle of corporate activities that promote the sustainability of the company, the society, and the environment? Environmental Management The mission of SK chemicals is to add to the happiness of all humankind by providing chemical and bio-pharmaceutical solutions that protect health and the Earth. Our slogan, “Healthcare and Earthcare,” effectively captures our management philosophy based on respect for life and love of nature. At SK chemicals, we think of sustainable management as the indispensable basis for realizing our management philosophy and achieving our mission. We have developed various systems, along with practical strategies and goals, across all areas of our management and activities. By continually improving these systems and carrying out our strategies, we are working hard to achieve a virtuous circle of corporate activities that maximize the sustainability of, and harmony among, the Company’s employees, Business Partners, local communities, and the natural environment. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Sustainability Overview Sustainability Overview 18 19 Sustainability Overview Sustainable Management System 18 21 22 24 25 Our Sustainable Management Sustainable Human Rights Ethical Management Risk Management Environmental Management System Management and Fair Trade Management Economic Environmental Social The SK Management System (SKMS) is a unique system of management that the SK Group launched in 1979, which is based on building Systematizing and Enhancing the carbon neutrality strategy Creating shared values consensus among all Company members. The SKMS embodies a management philosophy that a company is to achieve stability and growth on advancing risk management and supply chain management (CSV) a permanent basis, generating values for customers, employees, and shareholders, playing a core role in social and economic development, and thereby contributing to the happiness of all humankind. Coupled with SK chemicals’ mission of promoting the health of humankind and protecting the environment of the Earth, the SKMS forms a core backbone of the sustainable management system at SK chemicals. SK chemicals seeks to become a leader of sustainable environmental, social, and economic management by doing the right things and by generating profits. Sustainable Management Roadmap Establishing human rights Expanding the scope of environmental Establishing management system information disclosure CSR strategy Principle Ideal Internalizing human rights. Chemical management system Leading to financial/economic effects Becoming an international leader of sustainable environmental, social, and economic management System for disclosing environmental A midto long-term CSR master plan. Doing the Right impact of products Things Reinforcing greenhouse gas emission control Risk management system Until 2009 2010-2011 2012 2015 2020 (Scope 3, “Optional Info”). Customer relations development tools Launched environmental Developed an environCompleted the Korean leader of International leader Monitoring Generating campaigns. mental management sustainable management sustainable management. of sustainable Advancement Supply chain environmental Profits system and a basis for system. management. management system sustainable management. Human rights Monitoring governance structure and monopolistic practices Environmental accounting/auditing Labor index / system for human resources development and monitoring activities. In 2012, SK chemicals succeeded in constructing an integrated Sustainable Management Strategy and Implementation company-wide risk management system, while also increasing the Board evaluation process Environmental impact assessment system Driving SK chemicals’ sustainable management is the Comscope of information disclosure. Mutual growth pany’s commitment to the SK Group’s management philosophy of For the environmental sustainability unit, the core tasks include respect for humanity. We believe that a sustainable society is realized controlling greenhouse gas emissions control, establishing the Green Green Point System Tools for identifying risks in when individuals can raise happy families and are happy with their Point System, introducing an environmental accounting and auditing supply chain management work at good companies. In order to convert the individual’s hapsystem, and ensuring an eco-friendly management of the supply chain. piness into the sustainable economic growth, we must overcome The Green Point System was expanded in 2012 to encourage greater two major problems: namely, environmental destruction and income eco-friendly activities and consciousness among employees. The ComWith these efforts, the sustainable management system at SK to ensure the monitoring and implementation of sustainable manageinequality. This recognition shapes SK chemicals’ sustainable practices pany has also expanded its portfolio of alternative energy facilities to chemicals is capable of adapting to changes in the management enviment. There are assistant administrators assigned at the four plants of and strategy. achieve its goal of complete carbon neutrality by 2020. ronment and also satisfying the changing demands of different groups the Company in Korea who administer and implement efforts for susThe three keywords to SK chemicals’ sustainable management For the social sustainability unit, the core tasks include enhancof stakeholders. tainability at their respective locations. The Sustainable Management strategy are: Green Culture, Green Processes, and Green Products. SK ing the synergy among different actors, developing a corporate social Department oversees Green Culture-related activities, while the plants chemicals has organized units specializing in ensuring the sustainable responsibility (CSR) strategy, developing a labor index and a system for enforce their respective Green Processand Green Product-related management, and monitors each unit’s progress on a continued basis in human resources development, and identifying risks in the supply chain. activities. The Sustainable Management Department also analyzes exSustainable Management Organization light of the core tasks it achieves. In 2012, SK chemicals established its CSR strategy and strengthened ternal trends in sustainable management. It supports interdepartmental For the economic sustainability unit, the core tasks include comties to local communities by increasing its participation in policy and soSK chemicals operates the Sustainable Management Committee, cooperation, while also serving as a channel for internal and public completing the human rights and risk management systems, and monitoring cial issues, thereby preparing the ground for creating shared values with which has launched an action group in January 2012 named the Sustainmunications. The Sustainable Management Committee meets quarterly the governance structure and monopolistic practices. with systematic stakeholders. able Management Department within the SKMS Implementation team, to review progress and make the necessary improvements. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Sustainability Overview Sustainability Overview 20 21 Sustainability Overview Human Rights Management 18 21 22 24 25 Sustainable Management Committee Organization Sustainable Human Rights Ethical Management Risk Management Environmental Management System Management and Fair Trade Management Sustainable Management Committee The mission of “promoting the health of humankind and protecting the environment of the Earth” forms the basic ground and guiding light Chair: CEO Lee Moon-Suk Vice Chair: Administration & Mgmt. Group for all decision making at SK chemicals. The mission reflects our belief in the respect for human rights. Respect for human rights forms a crucial premise of any company’s management, and is a value that must be pursued not only at the public and governmental level, but also by individuOffice of Corporate Culture als and the private sector. As a corporate citizen of society, SK chemicals clearly recognizes its responsibility for respecting and protecting human rights, and will spearhead the efforts for protecting the health and happiness of humankind by fulfilling it. Leader of Sust. Mgmt. Dept., SKMS Implementation Team and plans to provide its own policy, practical guidelines, and educational Human Rights Management System Env. Subcommittee (GCBD) Env. Subcommittee (LSBD) Eco. Subcommittee Soc. Subcommittee programs for business partners lacking the needed resources. While huDirector (Office of Green Chemicals Planning) Director (Life Science Biz. Administration & Director (Office of Corporate Strategy) Director (Office of Corporate Culture) SK chemicals has developed and implemented its policy of human rights have not been used as a prerequisite for the Company’s inMgmt. Group) Legal Affairs Team Purchase Team / Support Team Strategy Team HR Team / PR Team man rights management based on the Self-Assessment Index for Corvestment in these business partners, the Company plans to require these Process Accounting Team porate Human Rights Development, provided by the National Human businesses to undergo review in terms of human rights management in Culture Process Product Culture Process Product Rights Commission of Korea. Based again on the Self-Assessment Index, the future cases of investments and supply contracts. • R  esponsible departments at the plants: Safety and Env. Team at Ulsan / Tech. Innovation Group at the Ulsan Manager’s Office / Management Team at Ansan / Management Team at Osan / Management the Company also plans to integrate the separate policies governing Team at Cheongju / SKMS Implementation Team at the HQ human resources development, labor-management relations, and emHuman Rights Management Policy • Sustainable Management Secretariat: Sustainable Management Department (part of the SKMS Implementation Team) ployee welfare and fringe benefits. SK chemicals’ policy for human rights Category Subcategory management forbids child and forced labor, exploitation of aboriginal General 1. Support for human rights protection mon courses are provided to build Company-wide consensus on special rights, and discrimination against sex and employment status (whether Nondiscrimination 2. Nondiscrimination against employment status Education on Sustainable Management issues of sustainable and environmental management, and encourage full-time or contract-based). SK chemicals has also clarified the division Employee 3. Individual right to safety In an effort to improve employees’ and board members’ concommunication and participation. Level-up courses deliver the latest of roles among the related departments. It also continues to monitor safety and health 4. Safety devices sciousness of sustainable and environmental management as well as information on sustainable management worldwide to employees and and improve the status of the policy’s implementation on all sites of its 5. Safety practices capability for practice, SK chemicals provides training and education board members of certain ranks to help them become internal specialoperations. In order to ensure that all employees correctly understand Labor 6. Freedom of collective bargaining programs. These programs are mainly divided into three levels: introducists of sustainable management. These systematic courses help SK the purpose of human rights management, the company plans to dis7. Forced labor tory, common, and level-up (advanced). Introductory courses enlighten chemicals’ members internalize the green culture and improve their tribute practical guidelines and educate all employees and the three 8. Child/minor labor new employees of the basic concepts of sustainable and environmental capability for making efforts for green processes and products. These are dozen security guards on the importance of human rights at least once 9. Industrial health and safety management, help them understand its importance, and inform them the keys to inducing voluntary participation in sustainable and environa year. The practical guidelines and the educational courses will reflect 10. Employment retention of the major achievements SK chemicals has achieved in this field. Commental management. employees’ feedback. The human rights monitoring system will also be 11. Fair remuneration assessed and improved when necessary. While the Company does not 12. Working hours and breaks keep track of the number of complaints filed by employees, it plans to 13. Fringe benefits Education Progress, 2012 complete a complaint-handling process by 2014. 14. Education and training Level Course Duration Description As part of human rights management, SK chemicals also provides Business Partners 15. Human rights at Business Partners Introductory Sustainable Management Course for New Employees 6 hours Provided as part of the biannual group education for new employees and the education on sexual harassment and treatments, and respect for the disLocal communities 16. Human rights in local communities education for new employees with experience. abled. 99 percent of all employees completed these education programs Anticorruption 17. Obligation of anti-corruption Common Company-wide Special Lecture on Sustainable Management N/A N/A in 2010. These courses were provided for employees who did not take Government 18. Respect for governance Customers 19. Obligation of customer protection Level-up In-depth Courses for Assistant Administrators and Managers 4 hours Environmental information disclosure system them in 2011 as well as new employees in 2011. Company-wide educa4 hours Corporate social responsibility (CSR) Environmental protection 20. Obligation of environmental protection tion against sexual harassment was again provided in 2012. 3 hours Carbon emission rights trade Internal management 21. Management rules With the goal of establishing human rights management 4 hours Greenhouse gas and energy target management Monitoring 22. Monitoring and reporting throughout the Company’s network, SK chemicals encourages all of its Advanced Courses 8 hours Workshops for assistant administrators and managers. Regulation 23. Regulation, evaluation, and rewards business partners to adopt human rights policies in their management, SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Sustainability Overview Sustainability Overview 22 23 Sustainability Overview Ethical Management and Fair Trade 18 21 22 24 25 Sustainable Management System Human Rights Management Ethical Management and Fair Trade Risk Management Environmental Management 2006 60 2012 SK chemicals operates an ethical management system to ward off all forms of unethical practices and behavior throughout the Company’s The year in which the Compliance Program The number of business partners that signed the The year in which the Compliance Control operations, including unfair handling of tasks, unfair demands, giving and receiving bribery, engaging in various forms of corruption, and political was introduced to strengthen the culture Agreement on Fair Trade and Mutual Growth Standard was established and the Compliance lobbying. In order to promote fair competition that conforms to the market order, the Company has also been operating the Compliance Program of ethical management. between Large and Smaller Companies in July 2012. Assistant System was introduced. (CP) since 2006. In addition, the Company has developed its own Compliance Guide and self-correction system to enforce ethical management, while regularly educating and training employees on the importance of workplace ethics regularly. To establish ethical management as part of the Company’s culture, SK chemicals also encourages employees to sign the Pledge of Practicing Ethical Management, which all employees signed in 2012. Thanks to these and other efforts for ethical management and compliance with rules of fair trade, SK chemicals won an “A” grade on the Compliance Program Survey conducted by the Fair Trade Commission in 2009. No cases of unfair competition or monopoly involving SK chemicals were reported in 2012. Self-Correction Committee Compliance Program Fair Trade Education Programs Compliance Assistant System In order to meet society’s expectations of ethical demand and In order to ensure compliance with the rules and laws on fair Since adopting the Compliance Program in 2006, SK chemicals SK chemicals introduced the Compliance Assistant System in establish ethical management as part of the Company’s culture, SK trade, SK chemicals introduced the Compliance Program in 2006, has been providing education and training so as to help employees in2012. The board appointed the Head of the Legal Affairs Team as the chemicals has been running the Self-Correction Committee since 2009. opening up a bulletin board for fair trade on the Company’s intranet ternalize the importance of fair trade. Employees working in purchase, Compliance Assistant in June 2012, and began the implementation of The Committee, working directly under the CEO, is chaired by the Diand launching a separate section on fair trade as part of the Compasales, and marketing departments, who are exposed to greater risks the system in July 2012 after adopting the Compliance Control Stanrector of the Corporate Culture Office and consists of the heads of the ny’s website in 2009. The officer enforcing the Compliance Program is of violating the law, are given fair-trade education biannually, for two dard (CCS) with a resolution. The CCS is SK chemicals’ highest system Human Resources, Accounting, Purchase, Legal, and Strategy and Planappointed by the board’s resolution. Managers of fair trade compliance hours each. New employees as well as fair trade managers are also given of rules that provides the basic framework for enforcing compliance ning Offices of both divisions as permanent members. The Committee at various departments monitor the practice of fair trade using checkeducation and updates frequently. The Company began to develop an and defines the scope of authority for the Compliance Assistant. The conducts semiyearly assessments of the Company’s ethical practices lists. The internal monitoring system also requires consulting specialist online education system in partnership with SK Telink in 2009. Since Compliance Assistant implements education and training programs on across five areas: human resources management, accounting, purchases, departments regarding the Company’s activities with implications of October 2011, all employees have been taking online courses on fair compliance according to the CCS, and reports its results to the board execution of budgets, and business management. No violations of the violating the law. Copies of The Handbook on Fair Trade are distribtrade, reflecting the latest amendment to the Fair Trade Act. once a year. Company’s Code of Ethics were found in the assessments in 2012. uted to all departments and displayed on the online fair trade bulletin Since its introduction, the new system has helped SK chemicals board. The fair trade bulletin board is also used to inform everyone of Programs to monitor the status of compliance with fair trade laws regarding subthe latest amendments to laws, court decisions, and internal and excontracts (especially in terms of unfair decreases in the contract values ternal events at the Fair Trade Commission. Since 2007, the Company and whether written contracts have been signed), and to educate the Counseling and Reporting Systems Internal transmission courses For all employees and board members (as needed) has also been e-mailing the Legal Affairs Newsletters each month to heads of respective departments on the legal prohibitions and obligaDepartmental visit courses For certain departments that are exposed to greater SK chemicals allows internal and external stakeholders to seek share updates on the latest fair trade events or scandals. Copies of the risks (biannually). tions regarding fair trade with subcontractors. In connection to the consultation on, or report, the Company’s or employees’ ethical or Compliance Guidebook have also been distributed throughout the Workshops For fair trade managers of different departments Compliance Program, the Compliance Assistant System will provide an unethical activities to the SK Group’s ethical management website at Company. (biannually) increasing range of education courses and monitoring efforts, while enhttps://ethics.sk.co.kr. The Company also displays the principles of reSince signing the Fair Trade Agreement with Subcontractors New employee courses For new employees (when necessary) abling employees and board members to comply with laws not only on porter protection and provides programs to protect the anonymity of in 2008, SK chemicals has also been monitoring whether the rules fair trade, but also on other key areas of the Company’s operations. reporters so that reports could be filed without worries of possible dison fair trade with subcontractors are complied with. Having signed advantages. A total of six reports were received at the website in 2012. the Agreement on Fair Trade and Mutual Growth between Large and Two of these reports were found as fabricated. The required changes and Smaller Companies in July 2012, SK chemicals continues to provide corrections were immediately made regarding the other four reports. diverse forms of support to benefit its suppliers. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Sustainability Overview Sustainability Overview 24 25 Sustainability Overview Sustainability Overview Risk Management Environmental Management 18 21 22 24 25 18 21 22 24 25 Sustainable Human Rights Ethical Management Risk Management Environmental Sustainable Human Rights Ethical Management Risk Management Environmental Management System Management and Fair Trade Management Management System Management and Fair Trade Management With the business environment growing increasingly unpredictable and competition worldwide growing fiercer, it has become mandatory In order to usher in a more sustainable future, we need to constantly find new solutions to protect natural environments and resources for companies to predict and prepare for the future. SK chemicals operates a strong risk management system in order to predict and identify posbetter. SK chemicals continues to implement quantitative and scientific environmental management, seeking to achieve its Green Triple 40 goals sible risks so as to control them better. The risk management system, led by the SKMS Implementation System, requires close interdepartmental by 2020. The Company has also been operating the Environmental Management Committee since 2010. cooperation among the finance, strategy, legal affairs, public relations, safety and environment departments. It is designed to render comprehenIn order to solve environmental problems, cooperation with the business community is necessary. SK chemicals has thus launched the sive analyses of possible risks so that the Company can manage and prepare for them. Integrated Environmental Information Management System in order to ensure a better management and organization of information on the Company’s environment-affecting activities. The Company operates all its plants and offices according to international standards. The Company is also working on completing its Supply Chain Environmental Management (SCEM) system. In addition, the Company has acquired Environmental Product Declaration certificates as part of its efforts to reduce the environmental impact of its products. The Company is also working hard to meet the demands of international environmental regulations, including the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) and the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS). Organization and Roles Risk Management System SK chemicals has appointed the SKMS Implementation Team, the Identifies risk factors overseer of sustainable management in general, as the leader of the risk Analyzes effects of each factor management system to ensure its effective operation. The SKMS ImpleStrategy and Goals EM Strategy and Goals mentation Team thus develops practical policies for risk management Risk analysis SK chemicals implements environmental management in order and implements programs to heighten employees’ consciousness of Goals to achieve its Green Triple 40 goals by 2020. The Green Triple 40 goals, risks. Taskforces are organized upon reports of crises in order to prevent in turn, have been linked with the three major aims of the sustainable their amplification or deterioration. These crisis-managing taskforces are management system, i.e., “Green Culture,” “Green Process,” and “Green comprised of members of the core groups who are capable of managing Green Products,” for better monitoring and management of progress. The goals the given crises with expertise. The system manager oversees the develEducation Triple and training planning of “Green Culture” include establishing a Company-wide consensus opment and execution of plans, evaluates and monitors implementa40! on environmental management and green culture. The goals of “Green tion, and reports on the outcomes of such plans. Process” include forming green plants by improving the processes of Officer training Prevention plans Company-wide environmental management. The goals of “Green Prodand education Aftermath plans ucts” include developing new eco-friendly products and strategies. Strategic Aims Monitoring Cost estimations Operating the Risk Management System and updates Green Triple 40 sums up the strategy of SK chemicals’ environmental management system. The Company intends to increase each In order to ensure an integrated and effective management of Green Culture Green Process Green Product employee’s contribution to volunteer works to 40 hours a year, reduce diverse risk factors and analysis techniques, the SKMS Implementation Periodical analysis of effects Updates reflecting improvements and greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent, and increase the proportion of Team defines the scope of issues each department is required to monichanging conditions eco-friendly products in the revenue structure to 40 percent by 2020. tor and report on, and distributes the required document forms and These specific figures help SK chemicals focus better on minimizing the guidelines. Risk-managing officers at different departments then develenvironmental impact of its products and business activities, and creating op risk management plans, analyzing risk factors using these documents. Risk Factor Classification System Tactics new values by promoting diverse efforts for environmental protection. The SKMS Implementation Team then compiles and reviews the records on risk management at different departments on a regular basis so as Economic Environmental Social Establishing EM Integrating env. info. Proactive response to minimize possible risks. The team also regularly invites risk-managing system management to regulations officers to briefings and shares the required materials and data on the Environmental Management Organization Building consensus Developing SCEM More eco-friendly Exchange rates, interest Regulations, Safety accidents, safety Company’s intranet. rates, raw material costs, physical factors, and regulations, security, on EM system products business structures, and stakeholders and stakeholders SK chemicals has been operating the Environmental ManageGreater env. Forming eco-friendly Enhancing ecomarket conditions ment Committee since 2010. The SKMS Implementation Team serves communications plants friendly capability as a project management officer enforcing the environmental manSK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Sustainability Overview Sustainability Overview 26 27 Green Triple 40: Progress and Plan Roles and Responsibilities hour Key Role Culture Process Product No. of hours of voluntary work per employee: 40 hours a year. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2017 2020 Goal 2.5 6 10 13 20 30 40 Dept. Head Dept. Head Dept. Head Dept. Head Progress 2.5 2 2 Setting examples with attention, Internal and external spokesperson. Reviews environmental regulations and Defines strategic environmental aims of Tactics Defining social isDeveloping CSR Consolidating Revitalizing CSR Encouraging Encouraging Establishing a encouragement, and practice. systems on processes. new businesses. sues to be tackled programs. CSR programs. programs team-unit CSR families’ culture of Encourages environmental management and contribCompany-wide. activities. participation monthly CSR among board members. Develops inventory and certification Handles internal communications on utions thereto. in CSR. activities. Oversees CSR activities. processes. regulations applying to products. Asst. Administrator Takes responsibility for reducing the • The goal of 40 hours began to be met in 2013, after the completion of the system in 2012. environmental impact of processes Serves as project management officer at (managing greenhouse gas and energyAsst. Administrator Asst. Administrator each location. related targets). tCO2e, % Ensures environmental management at Compiles on-site data on carbon Reducing carbon dioxide emissions (BAU) each location (in close partnership with emission rights. SKMS Implementation Team). Asst. Administrator Manages compliance with product Serves as a channel for communication regulations. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2017 2020 with local community. Manages compliance with laws on lowSearches and shares environmental carbon and sustainable growth. Ensures education and training of information on new products. Develops and verifies greenhouse gas BAU emissions 500,000 520,000 545,000 780,000 800,000 830,000 employees at each location. inventory. Manages environmental performance at Target decrease 4.4 7.2 12.6 22.5 24.2 40.0 each location. Actual emissions 490,265 495,204 467,163 Actual reductions 0.8 11.9 agement committee at the Company headquarters, while assistant Ecoweb Strategy EGB running on Additional use Increasing use of Increasing use of Continuing to find new sources of administrators and managers at different plants and offices also serve wood wastes of liquefied and liquefied, gasified, wood wastes biomass and energy as project management officers for their respective locations. These In 2012, SK chemicals launched a new website, Ecoweb. Ecoweb provides a gasified biomass and solidified officers are brought into quarterly meetings to share updates on the glimpse into the environmental goals, strategies, and achievements of the biomass Company headquarters and its plants. • M  easuring business-as-usual (BAU) emissions: combining the expected amounts by which CO2 emissions increase annually since 2010, and the expected amounts of CO2 emissions after all the planned environment-related issues and progresses of their respective locaThe menu on “Green Culture” introduces the Green Point System, which improvements are made (the amounts of CO2 emissions are expected to increase significantly beginning in 2015 due to the expansion of the energy business). tions. In 2012, the Company also created the Sustainable Manageconverts the eco-friendly activities of the Company and employees into ment Committee, which now oversees the Environmental Managecertain amounts of money, which are then used to form the Green Fund that % ment Committee and its activities. supports environmental and social causes. The section also provides a carbon meter for calculating the amounts of greenhouse gas emissions from various Proportion of eco-friendly products in overall revenue: 40 percent daily activities, as well as information on SK chemicals’ eco-friendly CSR and management programs. The “Green Process” menu introduces the efforts at 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2017 2020 Integrated Environmental Information Management System the Company for reducing pollutants and minimizing energy consumption. It also explains how the Company manages compliance with increasing enviGoal 14.6 16.0 17.0 19.0 25.0 30.0 40.0 ronmental regulations, by building green plants and managing the greenhouse SK chemicals has developed an integrated environmental ingas and energy consumption targets. The “Green Products” menu introduces formation management system to ensure a better management of Progress 14.6 16.6 17.6 SK chemicals’ eco-friendly products and its product evaluation system and the environmental information of different plants and offices, while progress with the carbon neutrality plan. coordinating more effective responses to external evaluations and regu• Increasing the output of eco-friendly products each year: the production of PPS (a super plastic) and vaccines is to begin in 2015, and the production of the premium vaccine in 2017. lations. The system provides information on the amounts of output; SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Sustainability Overview Sustainability Overview 28 29 the amounts of raw materials, energy, and water consumed; and the defined the scope of businesses to be brought into its reach as well as Managing the GHS lifecycle. SK chemicals intends to increase the range of products certiamounts of waste and pollutants generated by each location and across its features, and produced a draft design of the system. Copies of The The Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of fied accordingly in order to let clients and consumers make more ecothe entire Company. The Web-based system is easy to access and operSCEM Guideline for Business Partners will be distributed to businesses Chemicals (GHS) classifies chemicals according to the extents of risks and friendly decisions based on the accurate information they receive. ate, enabling operators to obtain tables and graphs by year or business that are in the upper 50th percentile of the list of SK chemicals’ suppliers harms they present, and inform the public of their hazards using standardlocation, just by entering certain primary data. The Company plans to in terms of trade value. The recipients will be required to submit records ized warning labels and material safety data sheets (MSDSs). Each country Lifecycle Assessment link this system to other IT systems so as to obtain not only the quantion compliance and future plans. Based on these submitted materials, SK operates its own system for enforcing the GHS. SK chemicals has met all In an effort to improve the eco-friendliness of its major products, tative data on the input and output, but also the analyses of implications chemicals will divide Business Partners between exemplary and nonexthe requirements of the Korean GHS and the European Union’s ClassificaSK chemicals performs life cycle assessments (LCAs) of such products. for finance, safety and health, and greenhouse gas inventories. emplary groups. Exemplary businesses will be provided with incentives tion, Labeling, and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures (CLP). An LCA is a technique that estimates the environmental impact of a to keep up with their good work. The Company is still working on decid• M aterial Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs): introduced on July 1, 1996, for the purpose of product from its production to its consumption and its disposal. It ining specific incentives. SK chemicals intends to implement the SCEM protecting workers’ safety and health against chemicals. volves assessing a product across seven areas of environmental impact, system phase by phase, year to year, gradually expanding the scope of including resource depletion, eutrophication, global warming, ozone Building Environmental Management Systems at Plants its application simultaneously. The system is expected to strengthen SK GHS Deadlines layer depletion, acidification, creation of photochemical oxides, and huThe SK chemicals plant at Ulsan, responsible for over 90 percent chemicals’ ties to its business partners, while also improving the ecoRegion Type Deadline No. of subject man toxicity. In 2010, the Company performed life cycle assessments of the Company’s total output (measured in weight), acquired the ISO friendliness of the Company’s products. SK chemicals products of two of its SKYBON toner resins: ET2000, and ET704, which has been 14001 certificate for its environmental management system in 2005. South Single compounds July 1, 2010 143 created by replacing the bisphenol-A (BPA) of ET2000 with cyclohexane The plants at Osan, Ansan, and Cheongju, responsible for the products Korea Mixtures mixing two or July 1, 2014 N/A dimethanol (CHDM). A comparison of the two products revealed that more single compounds of the Life Science Business Division, also comply with all the requireET704 generated far less environmental impact than ET2000, in the area Managing Environmental Regulations EU Single compounds December 1, 2010 4 ments of the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. SK chemicals of eutrophication and others. It was about 40 percent more eco-friendly Mixtures mixing two or June 1, 2015. N/A ensures that the environmental management policies at its plant satisfy Hazardous chemicals pose significant threats and harms to the than its predecessor overall. SK chemicals plans to perform life cycle asmore single compounds the international standard, with systematic programs for preventing human body, as well as to the environment, and thus need to be consessments to its increasing range of products in the future, and make the environmental problems, analyzing risks, and training and educating trolled with thorough care. Since 2007, the European Union and other needed improvements accordingly. The Company is currently performemployees. The Company also regularly assesses its achievements in encountries have adopted the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization ing a life cycle assessment of its bio-plastics. vironmental management, and conducts on-site environmental reviews and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), a regulatory regime seeking to Improving the Eco-friendliness of Products to ensure the updates and improvements of the systems in place. minimize the impact of chemicals and clarify the responsibility for conLifecycle Assessments of Toner Resins In 2009, Sony certified SK chemicals for possessing products and trolling them. The Korean government is also strictly enforcing its Toxic SK chemicals produces a wide range of intermediate and conET2000 ET704 % systems that meet the requirements of its Green Partner Program. SoChemicals Control Act. SK chemicals is working hard to act as a responsumer goods with many applications. The sheer breadth of the scope of 100 -35 -27 -100 -58 +5 -52 -16 100 ny’s Green Partner Program monitors the entire range of manufacturing sible corporate citizen, minimizing the use of environmentally harmful applications for SK chemicals’ products indicates that the Company has 84 80 73 processes at its Business Partners, including the supplies of raw materials raw materials. a big responsibility for reducing the environmental impact of not only its 65 60 and the release of finished products from warehouses. The GPP certifimanufacturing processes, but also of the consumption of its products. 48 42 cate indicates that the environmental system of SK chemicals’ meets Managing the REACH The more we reduce environmental impact, the more environmentally 40 the high standards of leading multinational companies. The REACH is the latest regulatory regime set up by the Eurocompetitive our industries have become, and the healthier people can 20 pean Union to ensure the control of chemicals. CHDM, a product of be. Recognizing this responsibility, SK chemicals continues to research 0 0 Resource Global Ozone layer Acidification EutrophPhotoSK chemicals, is subjected to the scope of the REACH, and had to be and develop better products containing less harm, and thoroughly asdepletion warming destruction ication chemical Human toxicity registered as of October 2010. The Company manages the information sesses its environmental impact on a constant basis. oxides Supply Chain Environmental Management (SCEM) on the chemicals involved in its production, using the Safety, Health, SK chemicals recognizes that its achievements in environmental Environment, and Quality (SHEQ) system for managing chemicals. Environmental Product Declaration Certificates Environmental Product Declaration Certificate management crucially depend on similar efforts at business partners. SK chemicals earned an Environmental Product Declaration The environmental management of its business partners exerts signifiREACH-Controlled Products Certificate in 2010 with its SKYBON toner resins (ET2000 and ET704). cant influence on the environmental impact and quality of SK chemicals’ Quantity of output in or Registration No. of subject Toner resins are intermediate materials. The Company has documented products. Supporting the environmental management of these busiexported to EU deadline SK chemicals products the amounts of carbon emissions associated with these resins before nesses is thus crucial for the advancement of the overall corporate com1,000 t or greater Nov. 30, 2010 1(CHDM) and during their manufacturing, and consequently gained the certificate. munity. SK chemicals thus began to develop the Supply Chain Environ100 – 1,000 t May 31, 2013 The Ministry of Environment administers these certificates, which inmental Management (SCEM) system. From 2011 to 2012, the Company 1 – 100 t May 31, 2018 7 dicate the amount of greenhouse gases a product emits throughout its SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Business Domain Business Domain 30 31 Business Domain SK c he m n dix ic a pe ls Ap P ro fi le Green Life Gre Chemicals Science s uct en ro d C Business Business Su s t P he Division Division l Commitment en Gre cals mi aina bility Overview So c ia bili ty Life Li a S e ct nc du Pro cie Composite Pharmaceutimaterials cals (drugs) ce an m fo Bu r en t sin al es Pe sD r om nm Enviro ain HighVaccines and performance biomedicines materials Can we produce competitive products that also promote social and environmental sustainability? From toys, televisions, stand lamps lighting nights, to building materials, automobiles, and computers: our daily lives are filled with plastics, which are products of advanced chemical engineering. No one can deny the urgent need for New healthcare Biomaterials solutions eco-friendly chemicals, given the breadth of the scope of their applications and their close involvements in our lives. The more the population grows and the longer the human life span becomes, the more important drugs become. All these developments require an unprecedented level of innovation and ingenuity from companies. SK chemicals has restructured itself, mainly dividing itself between Green Chemicals Businesses and Life Science Businesses. The outcome of this restructuring is a series of innovative products newly researched and developed. SK Energy storage materials chemicals is working hard to provide harm-free and better-performing intermediate materials, alternative sources of energy, and a comprehensive range of healthcare solutions and drugs. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Business Domain Business Domain 32 33 Business Domain Green Chemicals 32 36 40 42 Green Chemicals Life Science Product Liability Green Products Composite Materials Applications of ECOZEN® A composite material refers to the product of combining two or more substances, often for the purpose of producing a much better and Household goods Daily essentials The Green Chemical Business Division at SK chemicals seeks to become a provider of all eco-friendly materials and solutions, reinforcing its (electronics and (incl. goods for infants capability to produce eco-friendly and innovative products. An eco-friendly material is something whose impact on the environment throughout more durable product than would otherwise have been available by usautomobiles) and children) its life cycle is minimal, which is made with as little fossil fuel as possible, and/or made with nature-derived ingredients. In order to concentrate ing a single substance. SK chemicals began in 2004 to produce Prepreg, a better on eco-friendly materials, SK chemicals has boldly closed its polyester textile and petrochemical businesses, shifting its focus to the develcomposite material mixing reinforced fiber and carbon fiber. Carbon fiber Industrial materials opment of polyester resins and precision chemicals. is lighter than aluminum, but stronger than reinforced steel. It is 10 times Cooking utensils and (building and kitchenware as strong as reinforced steel, with only 20 percent of the reinforced photochemical) The Company is now hard at work developing new composite and high-performance biomaterials for polyester resins and precision chemisteel’s weight. Carbon fiber is thus widely used as a key material for cals. In the future, the Company will combine its focus on polyester resins with the focus on developing high-performance materials, while also building space shuttles and aircrafts. It is now emerging as an effective researching and developing energy storage materials. With these new initiatives, SK chemicals intends to increase its revenue and operating inalternative material for making automobiles, as automakers are seeking •A bio-copolyester that SK chemicals was the first in the world to develop, ECOZEN® come by twofold by 2015, and become an international leader of its field by 2020. is an eco-friendly material containing biomass. It boasts of a high level of transparency ways to lighten the weights of their products in response to the increasand durability. Withstanding heat up to 110°C, the material boasts of a wide range ing regulations on gas emissions. Carbon fiber is also increasingly used of applications, including for household goods, daily essentials, kitchenware, and to create lighter and more effective blades for wind energy generators. even industrial uses. The performance and eco-friendliness of ECOZEN® have been In 2012, SK chemicals signed an agreement on a strategic partnership recognized and certified by authoritative institutions in Korea, the United States, and with Mitsubishi Rayon for the development and supply of Prepreg to be Japan. The material was also named Korea’s Highest Brand of 2012. Evolution of SK chemicals’ Chemical Businesses used as material for wind energy generator blades. Mitsubishi Rayon, together with Toray and Teijin, occupies 70 percent of the international carbon fiber market. The recent agreement thus gives SK chemicals a Present (2012) Future: competitive partner providing reliable supplies of carbon fiber. Past (Before 2000) Led by Green Chemicals Providing Eco-friendly Solutions High-Performance Materials HighComposite Polyester resins performance SK chemicals produces a wide range of high-performance maclassified as a harmful chemical. In order to ensure an efficient promaterials materials terials, including high-purity solvents, display materials, electrolytic duction of PPS, whose market is expected to grow at an annual rate of solutions for super-capacity capacitors, sound-absorbing insulators, seven percent until 2020, SK chemicals has signed an agreement with ECOZEN®, PETG resins, PET resins, and attachable polyester resins. Teijin to launch a joint venture. The construction of the new plant, to HighThe high-purity solvent, developed in alliance with Honeywell be capable of producing 12,000 tons of PPS, is scheduled for complePolyester fibers Polyester resins performance of the United States, is now seeing a rapid expansion of its market tion in 2015. materials bases to include not only China, but also other countries of Asia. The ECOZEN®, a bio-copolyester, which SK chemicals was first in markets for SK chemicals’ display pixel materials for LCD or PDP panthe world to develop, is an eco-friendly material containing biomass. els based on organic synthesis and super-capacity electrolytic capaciSKYGREEN®, a high-performance PETG sheet, is another eco-friendly tors are similarly expanding worldwide as well. alternative containing no bisphenol-A, and is now rapidly replacing Petrochemicals Biomaterials Biomaterials Polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) resins, which SK chemicals has sucsuch conventional materials, such as PC, PMM, and PVC. ceeded in developing without the use of harmful substances, such as The PET resin SK chemicals began to produce for making plastic chlorine, form a super-engineering plastic that is light yet durable in bottles in 1978 received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Adminshock and heat. The demand for this material is increasing, especially istration, and is still widely recognized around the world for its quality. Precision Composite Energy storage for manufacturing electronics and automobiles. Chlorine is used as The attachable polyester resin SK chemicals produces emits no envichemicals materials materials a chemical ingredient for plastics, such as PVC, or as a bleacher and ronmentally harmful substances and is increasingly used as an imaging disinfectant for other plastics. Manufacturers in the United States and material used with laser printers and toner binders of high-speed phoEurope are increasingly required to find alternatives, since chlorine is tocopiers. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Business Domain Business Domain 34 35 ECOZEN®: A Bio-Copolyester Bio-plastics Biodiesel Energy Storage Materials SK chemicals launched ECOZEN®, a bio-based plastic, in 2009. Climate change and the depletion of natural resources caused by Biodiesel is a methyl ester composite obtained by reacting natuECOZEN® not only lacks the shortcomings of petrochemical-derived the uncontrolled consumption of fossil fuels cast serious risks for both ral animal or botanical fat with methanol. This eco-friendlier option can The growing demand for new and renewable energy, as well as plastics, but also significantly reduces dependency on petrochemical inthe whole planet as well as the sustainability of plastic manufacturing. be used in cars without modifying the existing diesel engines. The fuel smart grid technology, will translate into the dramatic growth of the gredients and thereby helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Acrylic In search for solutions, SK chemicals has decided to promote biomasshas been marketed in Europe, the United States, and Southeast Asia, energy storage material and system industry. In response to this trend, is a transparent material that is often too brittle. Polycarbonate may be based plastic manufacturing as the next-generation impetus for the since the late 1990s. Starting with the trial distribution project in 2002, SK chemicals is now actively researching, developing, and commercialstronger, but it contains bisphenol-A, a harmful substance. Polyethylene Company’s growth in the future. SK chemicals now supplies diesel containing 2 percent biodiesel (BD2). izing the organic light-emitting diode (OLED) technology and lithium terephthalate glycol may be transparent and strong, but it cannot withPolylactic acid reduces greenhouse gas emissions, and helps to 77 percent of biodiesel dissolves in its natural state in just 28 ion batteries. stand much heat. ECOZEN® is transparent, durable, and can withstand achieve continuous resource recycling as it is biologically dissolved. Bedays. It thus provides a great fuel for ships, which can be discharged The OLED is what makes the next-generation flat-screen display heat up to 110°C. It thus boasts a much wider range of applications, incause of its great mechanical and thermoplastic properties, it is a star into the surrounding waters and yet does not cause any pollution. The technology possible, using organic composites that emit light on their cluding as washers, microwavable containers, building materials, and so among similar bio-plastics and an effective alternative to petrochemicalcarbon dioxide that biodiesel emits is absorbed again by oil plants. An own. The OLED works almost 1,000 times faster than the liquid crystal on. ECOZEN® has thus been certified as a safe food contact substance derived plastics. The material’s limited durability and manufacturability, article published in a well-known chemistry journal in June 2010 argues display (LCD) technology, consumes much less energy, and produces (FCS) by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; as “Bio-plastic No.1” by however, confine its application to the manufacturing of products with that each ton of biodiesel reduces carbon dioxide emissions by 2.2 tons much brighter lights. It is now mainly applied to small electronics. the Korea Bio Material Packaging Association; and as a safe and hygienic relatively short life cycles, such as disposable packing materials and biothroughout the entire plant life cycle from the plant’s growth to its conLithium ion batteries (LIBs) are rechargeable second batteries. plastic by the Japan Hygienic Olefin and Styrene Plastics Association. It logically dissolvable plastic bags. sumption as a fuel. Lighter and more energy-efficient than the nickel-hydrogen battery, LIBs was also named one of Korea’s “Highest Brands” in 2012. In order to overcome these shortcomings, SK chemicals has been SK chemicals has also developed an original manufacturing proare applied to laptop computers, mobile phones, and other such mobile researching technology that will help improve the durability and manucess that uses palm fatty acid distillates, a by-product of palm oil manuelectronic devices, as well as hybrid or electric vehicles. facturability of PLA. SK chemicals’ PLA, perfected with its technology, facturing, as an ingredient for the biodiesel, Eco Prime®. This new diesel is rapidly increasing the scope of its applications to include functional has been in circulation on the Korean market since 2008. Thanks to the Biomaterials films, high-end packing sheets, household parts, household decor reliable supplies of the raw material from ST Green Energy Ltd., a SingaBiomaterials are made with ingredients derived from biological objects, cosmetic containers, and school supplies and stationeries. SK pore-based subsidiary of SK chemicals, the Company has been able to sources. Biomaterials provide effective alternatives for petrochemical chemicals continues to diversify its portfolio of products, while also remaintain Eco Prime®’s competitive price and made it the No. 1 biodiesel counterparts, and can thus help delay the depletion of fossil fuels. SK ducing their prices with innovative technology. brand in Korea. The Company is now considering a plan to penetrate the chemicals launched its leading bio polylactic acid (PLA) in 2010, and has palm plantation industry in the future. so far been distributing it to textile, automobile, and electronics industries. SK chemicals also manufactures Eco Prime®, a biodiesel derived from palm oil. 150 PLA Life cycle Qs and As: SK chemicals’ PLA ℃ Q. How does PLA differ from other polymers? A. PLA derives from an origin fundamentally different from the petrochemicals of other polymers. PLA Consumer good Waste Fertilizer This is the ignition point of biodiesel, which is is obtained by fermenting, with microbes, sugars from corns, sugarcanes, and other such plants. The higher than that of ordinary diesel (64℃), polymer turns into a fertilizer in its disposal phase, and becomes reabsorbed by plants for their growth. making biodiesel a safer choice. Life Cycle Q. What distinguishes SK chemicals’ PLA from other PLAs? 77 % A. SK chemicals’ PLA, unlike other PLAs, is based on sugars derived from non-genetically modified organisms (GMO), more specifically, plant sources. The fact that the ingredients for SK chemicals’ PLA come from non-GMO and nongrain plant sources, makes it a much safer choice in the interest of food PLA Lactic acid Sugar Plant security. SK chemicals’ advanced polymer processing technology preserves PLA’s superior flexibility and 77 percent of biodiesel is dissolves in its natural state in durability even when its content of biomass is increased to 100 percent. just 28 days. Biodiesel thus reduces pollution. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Business Domain Business Domain 36 37 Business Domain Life Science 32 36 40 42 burgeoning industry. Joins® makes possible the fundamental treatment Green Chemicals Life Science Product Liability Green Products Tactics for the Three Core Areas of Business of arthritis with its mechanism of inhibiting cartilage destruction. Not only is it the best-selling treatment of its kind in Korea, but it is also rapSeeking to become a global provider of total healthcare solutions, the Life Science Business Division at SK chemicals concentrates its R&D idly expanding its markets abroad. Pharmaceuticals capabilities and resources on the three core areas of business: namely, pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and new healthcare solutions. Since develop· Investing 10 percent or more of revenue in R&D. Ginexin®, an agent that promoted blood circulation has been ing Korea’s first original synthetic drug in 1999, SK chemicals has gone on to add two more, becoming the Korean pharmaceutical company with · Increasing global licenses. leading the Korean market since 1991, has now made its way even to · Securing production capacity that meets the the Middle East, advertising the advanced state of Korea’s pharmaceutithe greatest number of original drug formulae. The Company entered the vaccine market in 2006, and has since became the leading vaccine international standard. provider in Korea. It is now diversifying its portfolio to include biomedicines and new healthcare solutions. cal technology. SK chemicals also launched Renexin® in 2010, which is an enhanced Ginexin® formula with the improved function of expanding SK chemicals produces Trast®, Ginexin®, and other such popular and effective treatments whose efficacy and safety have been widely Vaccines blood vessels. Ginexin® came in fourth among Korean pharmaceutical recognized. Based on its success in Korea, the Company is also rapidly expanding the markets for its pharmaceutical treatments abroad. The · R&D for developing original vaccine formulae. products on the Brand Stock Top Index (BSTI) survey in February 2013, Company is now building a cell-culture vaccine plant, to be completed in 2013, while also preparing for the clinical trials of the cell-culture · Completing new cell-culture vaccine plant (Andong). scoring 791.39 points out of 1,000. influenza vaccine it was the first in Korea to develop. In addition to increasing the product portfolio to include bio vaccines, the Company is also · Expanding vaccine-based biomedicine portfolio. SK chemicals continues to conduct clinical trials of natural forresearching and investing new healthcare solutions, including the technology and devices needed to analyze genetic information, blood fingermulae for treating some of the most intractable diseases that synthetprints, and so on. ic drugs have failed to treat so far, including dementia and asthma. SK New Healthcare chemicals intends to develop natural drugs with minimal risks of side · Acquiring UBcare, a leading provider of medical IT solutions. · Launching individual genetic analysis business (DNA GPS). effects. · Improving quality of life with new healthcare services. Drug Delivery System Technology Drug delivery system (DDS) technology refers to a way of minimizing the side effects of existing drugs, while maximizing their efficacy and effectiveness at the same time. Trast®, a beloved patchEvolution of SK chemicals’ Life Science Businesses type treatment for arthritic pain in the knees in Korea, is the world’s first Pharmaceuticals patch-type arthritis treatment incorporating SK chemicals’ advanced Synthetic Drugs DDS technology. Each patch comes with a penetration enhancer that Present (2012) Future: SK chemicals opened a new chapter in the history of the Koincreases the effective delivery of the active ingredients from the patch Past (Before 2000) Led by Green Chemicals Providing Eco-friendly Solutions rean pharmaceutical industry in 1999, when it registered and launched into the skin, as well as a releasing rate control mechanism that helps platinum-built SUNPLA®, Korea’s and the world’s first third-generation to even the rate at which the active ingredients are discharged. Trast® cancer treatment of its kind. In 2007, the Company went on to launch came in third on the recent Brand Stock Top Index (BSTI) survey rankMvix®, the most effective erectile dysfunction treatment in Korea. In ing the brand values of Korean pharmaceutical products, earning 807.22 Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals 2011, the Company also succeeded in developing the world’s first orally points out of 1,000 in total. SK chemicals thus became the only phardissolvable film-type (ODF) erectile dysfunction treatment, Mvix®-S. maceutical company in Korea that has managed to include two of its With its advanced research workforce and continued investments in products in the top five on the pharmaceutical brand survey. Omed®, an R&D, the Company now boasts of the most advanced state of pharmainnovative gastric ulcer treatment, has been the first Korean complete Healthcare Vaccines Vaccines ceutical technology in Korea, and continues to develop new and better drug formula exported to the European Union since 1999. drugs for a variety of diseases, including fibrous tumors, prostates, enIn 2008, SK chemicals also succeeded in launching a new syndometriosis, diabetes, and so on. thetic treatment for cancer on overseas markets, improved with the Company’s advanced DDS technology. In 2012, the Company also Natural Drugs gained approval from the Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical DeNew healthcare New healthcare Natural drugs refer to the pharmaceutical composites derived vices in Germany (BfArM) for distributing, across Europe, a patch-type from medicinal herbs and standardized for manufacturing and mass dementia treatment and a digestive ulcer treatment, both of which consumption. Since developing Korea’s first-ever natural drug formula, incorporate innovative DDSs that stabilize their operations and enhance Joins®, in 2002, SK chemicals continues to widen the horizon of this their efficacy. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Business Domain Business Domain 38 39 Vaccines New Healthcare Product Lineup SK chemicals is developing market infrastructure and reinforcing Convergence among diverse areas of science and technology, its R&D efforts and resources to develop new vaccines and biomedisuch as nanotechnology (NT), biotechnology (BT), and information For the musculoskeletal system For the circulatory system cines. Medicine in the past used to focus almost exclusively on eliminattechnology (IT), will only become more prominent in the future. In preing diseases, without much regard for the physical pain, complications, paring for the future, SK chemicals acquired UBcare, a leading provider and side effects that resulted from it in consequence. Outgrowing this of medical IT solutions at the time, thereby preparing the basis for the paradigm on medicine, SK chemicals decided to develop and distribute Company’s U-healthcare projects. In 2012, the Company also signed an Trast® Ginexin®-F (tab.) Renexin® Cosca® (tab.) vaccines that are the easiest and most economical way of preventing agreement of partnership with DNA Link, a provider of genetic analyses Piroxicam patches/ Gingko biloba extract/ Cilostazol and gingko biloba extracts/ Losartan tablets/ diseases. In partnership with multinational pharmaceutical giants, SK and diagnoses, thus launching a research project on the commercializaFor arthritis, peritonitis, and muscle pain/ Improves blood circulation Treats myocardial infarctions Treats hypertension Effect lasts for up to 48 hours chemicals has developed and launched 11 basic vaccines that are indistion of genetic analysis (“DNA GPS”). The Company is now developing pensable to public health. These include the mandatory vaccines for infrastructure that will allow people to access medical institutions and For the digestive system Others hepatitis B, chickenpox, diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (DTP), polio, services with greater ease. measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR), tetanus and diphtheria (Td), and Genetic analysis services include analyzing individuals’ genetic so forth, as well as the basic vaccines against meningitis and influenza. information, predicting diseases that are genetically likely to occur, idenThe ceaseless R&D efforts culminated in the clinical trials of the tifying genetic factors relevant to the dissolution of drugs, and informaJoins® (tab.) Levopride® (tab.) Omed® (tab.) Mvix®-S Available in tablets/ major vaccines SK chemicals developed in 2012. The next-generation, tion on other physical characteristics. When completed, these services For arthritis and rheumatoid arthritis/ Improves the movements of the Treats ulcers of the stomach and the Mirodenafil ODF/ gastrointestinal tract duodenum Treats erectile dysfunction/ cell-culture influenza vaccine, in particular, became the first of its kind to will help us predict the likelihood of the 22 major types of diseases First-ever natural drug in Korea Developed and produced in Korea obtain the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety’s clinical approval. that affect Koreans, and also prevent them by making the necessary The Company is accordingly building a new vaccine plant, which will be environmental improvements. DNA Link currently possesses genetic inBlood Products Korea’s largest of its kind and capable of producing 140 million doses of formation on more than 40,000 Koreans, and continues to gather more vaccines a year when it is completed in 2013. SK chemicals continues to information and data to make its analyses more accurate. promote the advancement of the Korean medical industry, and is beSK chemicals has also transferred the blood fingerprint analysis coming an international leader of vaccine development and distribution. technology from the National Cancer Center to improve the Company’s SK Albumin (5, 20, and 25%) Liv-Gamma® Antithrombin III Futhan In 2008, the Company acquired In2Gen, a leading biotechnology resources for diagnostic services. These and other new healthcare soluMade of human serums Globulin for the human immune system Made of human antithrombin Futhan for injection/ venture enterprise. This acquisition has helped the Company to expand tions will make the prevention of diseases easier, lead to the developAnticoagulation agent its biotechnology portfolio to include genetic research, protein engineerment of more advanced medical infrastructure, and thereby, improve ing, and so on. In 2009, SK chemicals became the first in Korea to license the quality of life for all humankind. Healthcare solutions Vaccines out its original genetic-reengineering treatment for hemophilia. The first •U -Healthcare: standing for “ubiquitous healthcare,” these services combining phase of this drug’s clinical trials has been successfully completed. The information technology and medical care will enable people to predict, prevent, drug is now undergoing third-phase clinical trials, readying to become a diagnose, treat, and follow up with their diseases anywhere at any time in the world. new star on the international biomedicine scene. DNA GPS Influenza vaccine Rotatec Gardasil Individual genetic information Against influenza Against rotavirus infection Against HPV infection analysis service 3 47 % 1999 2013 The number of synthetic and natural The market share of Ginexin®, which The year in which SK chemicals The year in which the new celldrugs SK chemicals has developed, has been leading the market for agents began to export Omed®, a safe culture vaccine plant will be CPAP Prodiax 23 Td First Hib Sleep diagnosis device Against pneumococcus Against tetanus and diphtheria Against hib infection becoming the most advanced promoting blood circulation for over gastric ulcer treatment, to the EU. completed. pharmaceutical company in Korea. two decades since its launching in 1991. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Business Domain Business Domain 40 41 Business Domain Product Liability 32 36 40 42 complaints and questions, which are first answered by the Customer Green Chemicals Life Science Product Liability Green Products Drug-Related Environmental Responsibilities Service Center before they are relayed to other departments where necMinimizing the Environmental Impact of Drug Development essary. To handle these complaints more efficiently and satisfactorily, SK chemicals recognizes that its products intimately affect the environment as well as health. In recognition of the responsibilities and liaBefore a drug is launched on the market for the general public’s customers are asked to pick into which category their complaints fall bilities it bears for its products, SK chemicals ensures thoroughgoing monitoring of the R&D processes, and attentively listens to customers’ comconsumption, it undergoes almost innumerable tests, many of which (i.e., product defects, packaging defects, side effects, or “others” that plaints. In order to ensure effective and safe clinical trials, the Company works with numerous leading research and testing agencies worldwide. generate by-products and waste. SK chemicals recognizes the responsiinclude objections over pricing and other policies, requests for exchange The Company is also developing internal and external systems that accord greater safety to the human test subjects and that conform to animal bility it has for minimizing the amounts of by-products and waste generor refund of products past their best-before dates, etc.). Complaints retesting ethics. The Company is also working hard to minimize the amounts of by-products and waste it generates and ensures the safe disposal of ated by pharmaceutical trials and for their safe disposal. ceived by the Customer Service Center are then relayed to other departFrom the very first days of testing, the Company requires its ments for resolution. unused or obsolete drugs. The Company has established a systematic customer complaint handling process, and it strictly adheres to principles researchers to follow a standard design of experiment (DOE) format to protecting the confidentiality of customers’ information. design, plan, and optimize testing while minimizing the period of time it Handling and Resolving Customers’ Complaints takes. This helps to minimize the amounts of chemicals used and of by2010 2011 2012 products or waste generated. The by-products and waste are recycled No. of complaints handled 604 405 437 European Union’s approval for distribution in January 2013. The clinical whenever possible, or processed by the Company’s own wastewater Resolution rate (%) 100 100 100 Clinical Ethics trials on SID820, a new candidate for gastric ulcer treatment, were suctreatment facility and are rid of legally prohibited substances before Clinical Trials cessfully concluded in the United States and Europe in 2011. they are discharged or otherwise disposed of in a legal manner. RecyClinical trials are by far the most important processes in which • IND system: a procedure in which a pharmaceutical producer compiles and submits clable organic solvents are gathered in separate containers for reuse and Protecting Customer Privacy and Confidentiality the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical substances are tested and verpreclinical trial data and clinical trial plans for approval to proceed with clinical trials. recycling. Toxic chemicals are thoroughly recollected and discarded only In order to protect customers’ rights against the unauthorized ified. SK chemicals is one of the most active companies in Korea when on designated spots. collection, disclosure, or abuse of the personal information they provide it comes to clinical trials. In close partnerships with such leading testEthical Clinical Trials for the Company, SK chemicals strictly enforces the principles regarding agencies as Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul Asan Medical In all clinical trials it conducts, SK chemicals complies with the Managing the Environmental Impact and Risks of Unused Drugs ing the collection of personal information.. These six principles not only Center, and Samsung Medical Center, the Company performs thorough international law ICH-GCP (Good Clinical Practices) and the Ministry of In an effort to minimize the environmental impact of drugs durprotect customers’ information against unauthorized disclosure, but clinical tests of candidate substances. Its partnerships with contract Food and Drug Safety in order to ensure human test subjects’ safety. In ing their disposal as much as possible, SK chemicals entrusts the disposal also provide the basis for making decisions that may involve the use of research organizations (CROs) abroad also allow the clinical trials of addition to giving the clinical trial workforce, the most competent and of these drugs with a government-approved or certified disposal agency. such information. These principles are: minimal collection, safe storage, its products to take place in North America and Europe. From 2009 to qualified in Korea, regular training updates. SK chemicals has also upUnused or obsolete stocks of drugs, collected and stored at a designated purpose-defined use, thorough external protection, disposal upon the March 2013, the Company registered 1,312 human test subjects for 13 dated its standard operating procedures (SOPs), improving the quality location, are picked up and transported by the disposal agency to the site achievement of the original purpose, and process control. clinical trials, six of which are now done. Since the introduction of the of clinical trials and the safety of human test subjects. The Company has of disposal. The representatives of both SK chemicals and the disposal SK chemicals asks customers providing personal information to Investigational New Drug (IND) Application System in Korea, the Comalso established a rigorous pharmacovigilance system that traces the agency check the quantities of these drugs before they are completely sign forms that ask for their consent on the collection and use of their pany has registered 52 clinical trials so far. Visit http://ezdrug.kfda.go.kr effect and safety of market-launched drugs. These and other measures incinerated. The atmospheric pollutants and emissions from incineration information. Exceptions to this rule include information demanded by to view these clinical trials in greater detail. are employed to eliminate risks and provide better safety information are also managed according to the government instruction. The ashes legal or contractual requirements. Customers are informed of the purHaving successfully developed and launched three original pharfor medical practitioners and general consumers at large. from incineration are collected and buried when certain amounts gather. poses for which sensitive and/or ID information is collected, the items of maceutical formulae, including synthetic and natural drugs, SK chemiSK chemicals also ensures ethical animal testing. The Company In 2012, SK chemicals safely disposed of 46.5 tons of unused and obsoinformation required, and the period for which such information is to be cals has been conducting clinical trials on natural composites for treating regularly educates researchers on the need to minimize the use and pain lete drugs with Korea Environmental Development Corporation. used, and are then asked to give their consent in addition to the consent dementia, asthma, and the irritable bowel syndrome since 2006. These of animals. Complying with the requirements of the Ministry of Food and they have given to the handling of other types of personal information. natural drugs are expected to work more efficaciously compared to their Drug Safety and the National Veterinary Research and Quarantine SerIn 2012, SK chemicals received no reports of complaints from customers synthetic counterparts. Later in 2012, the Company also succeeded in vice, SK chemicals’ Life Science Research Center has organized an InstituCustomer Satisfaction or clients regarding its handling of sensitive or personal information. developing Korea’s first cell-culture vaccines against influenza, herpes tional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), comprised of five spe• S ensitive information: information on individuals’ ideological backgrounds, current or zoster, and pneumococcus infections and obtaining the Ministry of Food cialists. The Committee meets twice a year for discussions and researcher Customer Complaint Handling and Resolving Process former membership in labor unions or parties, political views, health conditions, sexual and Drug Safety’s approval to proceed with clinical trials. education. It receives and reviews animal test applications, ensuring that SK chemicals runs the Customer Service Center as part of the Life life, genetic information, and criminal records. Science Business Division, which is the division that produces consumer • ID information: resident registration numbers, passport numbers, driving license The Company is also undertaking clinical trials of diverse new such tests be conducted in the most scientific and ethical manner posnumbers, foreigner registration numbers. candidates for pharmaceutical products abroad. SID710, an improvesible. Once a year the Committee also files to the Ministry of Food and materials. The Customer Service Center thus receives and handles cusment upon the patch-type dementia treatment Exelon, is now underDrug Safety and the National Veterinary Research and Quarantine Sertomers’ complaints. In addition to this center, the Company has also going a biological equivalence clinical trial in Europe. It obtained the vice online reports on the animal tests conducted at SK chemicals. opened up a section on its website where customers can register their SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Business Domain Business Domain 42 43 Green Products Life Science Business Division The eco-friendliness of SK chemicals’ green chemical products are based on four principles. These include: minimizing the use of resources; minimizing the amounts of waste; reducing dependency on petrochemicals; and avoiding the use of hazardous substances. SK chemicals also researches and develops natural drugs that are more efficacious than synthetic counterparts, with fewer side effects. “Green Products” refer to these products with 98 % Eco Green Boiler (EGB) 140 million doses Vaccines (NBP606–608; NBP613–615) improved performance and eco-friendly materials or manufacturing processes. The Company intends to increase The EGB generates steam from scrap wood to provide heat and energy necesSK chemicals has succeeded in developing a new cell-culture influenza vaccine their share of its overall revenue in the coming years. sary for SK chemicals’ manufacturing activities. It generates 98 percent less that is free of the shortcomings of the fertilized egg-based vaccine that has Companies like SK chemicals best contribute to social and environmental sustainability by producing better greenhouse gas emissions than the soft coal boiler. SK chemicals continues to been used worldwide for the last five decades. The Company is now building increase the use of the EGB at its plants to increase productivity and minimize Korea’s largest cell-culture vaccine plant, capable of producing 140 million dosand eco-friendlier products. Products exert lasting influence on users and the environment throughout their life greenhouse gas emissions at the same time. es once it is completed. The new vaccine can be easily manufactured in large cycles. SK chemicals intends to provide a comprehensive range of green chemical and healthcare solutions that quantities in short stretches of time, and can be administered even to people promote the sustainability of the environment, society, and the Company. • T he greenhouse gas emission reducing effect of the EGB was measured according to with egg allergies, and will thus help fight the epidemic better. The Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Guide, updated in 2012. Green Chemical Business Division -2.2 tons 100 % 15 Propandiol (PDO) %+ 1 st Natural drugs [Joins® (tab.); Ginexin®-F (tab.); HMP301–305] Made with corn extracts, PDO forms the ingredient for PTT and has replaced 15 Joins®, the first natural drug formula to have been developed in Korea, marks Biodiesel Polylactic acid (PLA) percent of SK chemicals’ previous chemical ingredients and processes, thereby SK chemicals the leader of the market. Ginexin®, the gingko-based natural Biodiesel is an alternative fuel derived from plant sources. Every ton of biodiesel PLA is a bio-plastic that is made with sugars from plants. Made of plant ingrehelping save energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. drug, has also sustained SK chemicals’ leading position since 1992. reduces carbon dioxide emissions by 2.2 tons in comparison to every ton of dients, PLA reduces greenhouse gas emissions. It is also 100 percent bio-disordinary diesel. Having begun to produce its biodiesel, Eco Prime®, no longer solvable and returns to nature after its use. SK chemicals’ SK PLA, in particular, from edible oil, but from the by-products of refining palm oil, SK chemicals is made with non-genetically modified plant sources, and boasts of its greater 1,000 x+ 2 x+ now promotes environmental sustainability not only with the consumption of durability and productivity than other PLAs. Eco Prime®, but also with its production. 0 50 Organic Light-Emitting Diode (OLED) Genetically Reengineered Proteins (NBP601, 604, 611) % %+ The OLED works almost 1,000 times faster than the liquid crystal display (LCD) NBP601, SK chemicals’ own genetically reengineered treatment for Type-A technology, consumes less energy, and produces brighter lights. It is now mainhemophilia, is 10 times more productive and twice safer in the human body ly applied to small electronics, including laptop computers and mobile phones. than existing treatments. It was also named one of the Ten New Technologies BPA-Free, Gel-type Toner Resin Bio Toner Resins of Korea at the 2012 Korea Technology Awards. SK chemicals’ gel-type toner resins that are used with laser printers and phoFree of BPA and made of biomass for more than 50 percent. 0 % tocopiers do not contain bisphenol-A (BPA), which is known to disrupt the endocrine system. Total Share of Green Products in SK chemicals’ Revenue 30 %+ 110 Polyphenylene Sulfide (PPS) ℃ Highly heat-retardant, anti-corrosive, and smoke-proof, PPS is a super2012 2020 engineering plastic for which demand is growing, especially in electronics and automobile manufacturing. SK chemicals has distinguished itself from comPolytrimethylene Terephthalate (PPT) Bio-Copolyester petitors with the successful development of ECOTRAN®, its own brand of PPS. A green fiber that is made of 30 percent or more biomass, PTT has all the adECOZEN®, a plastic material made of biomass, provides an effective alternaECOTRAN® reduces the amounts of by-products generated because it uses no vantages of polyester, nylon, and spandex. This highly flexible, form-retaining tive to petrochemical plastics and significantly reduces greenhouse gas emistoxic solvent. Nor does it require water to rinse off solvents. The material is also material boasts of its soft texture, vivid colors, and form stability. It is rapidly sions. Transparent, highly durable, withstanding heat up to 110℃, and free free of chlorine, which causes electronic parts to break down and poses harm to emerging as a next-generation material, as it can be freely mixed with a wide of harmful substances like BPA, ECOZEN® has a wide range of applications, the human body and ecosystems. variety of other textiles. including for microwaveable containers, baby bottles and toys, exterior building materials, electronics, and so forth. 17.6% 40.0% SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Environmental Performance Environmental Performance 44 45 Environmental Performance SK c he m n dix ic a pe ls Ap P ro fi le Reliance on Alternative Energy Environ +485% ess me oc nt Pr a Su s t ance Climate Gre l Commitment en aina bility Overview So c ia orm Ch erf The margin by which the reliance a lP on alternative energy has increased ycl e between 2009 and 2012. eC Res e& ou ng rc rgy Ene 2020 100% ce an m Bu 2012 27% fo r en t sin al es Pe sD r om 2009 6% nm Enviro ain How can we ensure carbon neutrality and efficient resource recycling? Decreasing Environmental Impact of EcoLab (as of 2012) Chemical manufacturing consumes large quantities of energy and hazardous chemical substances. Energy consumption generates carbon dioxide, and the use of hazardous chemicals generates other pollutants. SK chemicals seeks to minimize the involvement of energy and chemicals in its manufacturing activities, while also reducing the reliance on fossil fuels by improving resource recycling. Our search goes beyond making partial improvements, and extends to shifting the overall paradigm of management. Seeking to establish a resource-recycling and carbon-neutral organization, we have increased the use of alternative Greenhouse -28% energy at our plants. EcoLab, housing the Company headquarters and R&D center, has also decreased the amounts of gas emissions energy and water it consumes in comparison to other similar buildings of its size. Pursuing clear goals and targets, SK Water resource -39% consumption chemicals will continue to work hard to usher in a sustainable future for all. Energy -47% consumption SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Environmental Performance Environmental Performance 46 47 Environmental Performance Environmental Performance Environmental Performance Climate Change & Energy 46 47 50 54 46 47 50 54 Environmental Performance Climate Change & Energy Resource Cycle Green Process Environmental Performance Climate Change & Energy Resource Cycle Green Process In 2009, SK chemicals set out to achieve “green plants” that reduce carbon emissions and ensure resource recycling, and integrated into a SK chemicals, as a chemical manufacturer, consumes large quantities of energy. The Company, however, is also a supplier of energy, proCompany-wide, coherent system the activities for improving the efficiency of resource and energy consumption, organized separately by respecviding steam for the five plants making up the SK chemicals Ulsan Complex. This explains the relatively large proportions of energy the Company tive plants until then. The carbon neutrality roadmap thus established envisions reducing greenhouse gases by replacing fossil fuels with nonfossil consumes and greenhouse gases it emits to its revenue and output. The way SK chemicals generates steam decisively affects the energy confuels, as well as enhancing the control over all input (resources) and output (products and by-products). In an effort to identify the progress of the sumption structures of the companies making up the SK chemicals Ulsan Complex. In recognition of the great responsibility it bears, SK chemicals plan and make the needed improvements, the Company compiles data on the total input, output, and outcomes each year. The input, output, and works hard to replace increasing amounts of nonrenewable fossil fuels it uses with renewable fuels. outcomes of 2012 are shown below. Managing the Carbon Neutrality Roadmap Environmental Flow Establishing the Carbon Neutrality Roadmap To facilitate the implementation of its Carbon Neutrality RoadIn 2009, SK chemicals established its Carbon Neutrality Roadmap, SK chemicals also developed an action-oriented management map, announcing its plan to replace fossil fuel-based boiler systems plan that controls the carbon neutralization ratios of the SK chemicals with alternative ones that do not use fossil fuels. The carbon neutrality Ulsan Complex and SK chemicals separately. The plan first promotes Energy (consumed) Raw/subsidiary materials Water Hazardous chemicals rate that began at 20 percent in 2010 steadily grew to 27 percent in reduction in the amounts of energy SK chemicals itself consumes, as Input 2012, while the use of alternative energy also grew by 5 percent from well as an increase in the amounts of alternative energy it uses. In the Fossil fuels: 4,530 TJ 371,028 t 7,753,774 t 30,238 t 2011 to 2012. SK chemicals intends to increase the amounts of renewnext phase, the plan purports to promote similar eco-friendlier energy Biomass: 2,025 TJ able energy used each year to run the Ulsan plant, which is responsible consumption patterns across the entire Complex. The plan also allows Electricity and heat: 1,532 TJ for manufacturing 90 percent of the Company’s products (in terms of the Company to decide and adjust yearly targets for the Carbon Neuweight), with alternative energy only by 2020. trality Roadmap each year in the light of the previous year’s perforThe types of alternative energy that SK chemicals uses include mance and circumstances. the Eco Green Boiler System running on wood waste; the recycled In 2013, SK chemicals began to invest in expanding facilities biogases from the sewage and wastewater treatment facilities; and the for using both wood wastes and coals to run its boiler systems, with a recycled by-products and waste heat from manufacturing processes. plan to expand the Eco Green Boiler system and discover more sources Quantity of products produced Energy (sold) Outcomes Green Chemicals: 3,272 TJ PET, PETG, BON, Biodiesel: 266,892 t Target Carbon Neutrality Rates by Year Life Science SK chemicals Ulsan Complex % Carbon Amount of greenhouse gas emissions from biomass neutrality = Blood products: 945,125 bottles 100 100 rate Total amount of greenhouse gas emissions Vaccines: 7,058,231 doses Tablets: 738,803,555 tablets 82 •C  arbon neutrality: a state in which an economic activity 80 81 Patches: 17,907,672 patches 72 73 produces zero carbon in effect. Carbon emissions can 67 66 67 be neutralized or completely eliminated either by not 60 59 60 53 using fossil fuels at all, or by offsetting the amount of 51 50 52 Greenhouse gas emissions Waste material Wastewater 44 carbon emissions generated with the carbon-saving effect 40 43 35 36 of forests and other such green spaces and features. SK Output 25 27 chemicals uses nonfossil fuels to achieve carbon neutrality. 20 20 467,163 tCO2e 57,667 t 794,639 t • S K chemicals Ulsan Complex: comprised of five companies receiving steam and electricity from SK 0 chemicals, i.e., SK chemicals, Huvis, SK Petrochemical, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 SK CYTEC, and Eastman Fiber Korea Limited (EFKL). SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Environmental Performance Environmental Performance 48 49 of biogas by 2015. The Company’s output will naturally increase as it Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions tCO2e EGB Process Flow and Effect seeks sustainable growth. In order to offset the increasing amounts of Scope 2 2010 2011 2012 greenhouse gas emissions expected from increasing output, SK chemiElectricity 69,055 71,491 73,005 cals will also increase the amounts of renewable energy it uses, and Heat 302 480 848 EGB Input · Recycles waste heat. 1 Output extend its effects to the five companies making up the SK chemicals Total 69,357 71,971 73,853 · Uses 250 tons of wood · Reduces greenhouse gas · Generates 18 to 20 tons of Ulsan Complex. wastes per day emissions. 2 ashes per day. The Company also encourages employees to participate in ef· Reduces air pollution. 3 forts for saving energy on a daily basis. The Company has installed Greenhouse Gas Emissions bicycle racks and user ID systems to encourage more and more emScope 1 Scope 2 Basic unit Scopes 1 and 2: tCO2e, Monetary value: tCO2e/ 100 million won ployees to commute to and from work by walking or bicycling. The 40 36.7 Company also plans to replace most of the vehicles belonging to the Combustible waste (from Building materials 32.0 35 Recycling daily living and construction) · Aggregates, covering soil, Company headquarters and R&D center with hybrid cars by 2014. 31.6 · Under review. 4 30 · Wood wastes boundary stones, etc. Total Total 490,265 495,204 Total 500,000 467,163 25 Energy Consumption TJ 69,357 71,971 73,853 400,000 20 2010 2011 2012 1. 40 t of steam/hr. 2. Replacing 55,000 t of fossil fuels/year. 3. Less than 0.1 ng of dioxin (which is the level that requires the installation of preventive facilities for processing waste). 300,000 15 Amounts consumed (A) Coals 3,888 4,017 3,924 4. Incineration test, ash analysis, and recycling test (strength). 200,000 420,912 423,236 10 B-A 6 393,313 B-C 749 413 200 100,000 5 LNG 85 149 386 0 0 LPG 1 1 2 2010 2011 2012 Diesel 11 20 8 • T he amounts of greenhouse gases emitted and energy consumed were rounded up to Gasoline 3 3 4 integers. Thus, the sum of these figures may differ from the total value reported. Wood wastes 917 1,310 1,341 •A  change in the method for calculating greenhouse gas emissions from the wood has also given the Company 30 percent more reserve power. Improving waste boiler system at the Ulsan plant in 2011 accounts for the differences between Greenhouse Gas Emission Control System Biodiesel 113 162 74 the steam line has decreased steam leakage, thereby improving the the figures reported here and the figures reported in last year’s sustainability report. Refined oil 126 54 46 efficiency of the steam process. Waste heat from chemical reactions is In order to ensure a thorough control of greenhouse gas emisBiogas 242 403 564 also recycled to save steam energy. Thus, pipes have been installed to sions from its plants, SK chemicals has completed the development of Electricity (purchased) 1,327 1,375 1,503 Recycling Biogas collect waste heat. a greenhouse gas inventory system on the latest information technolSolar energy 0.1 0.1 Recycling biogas helps reduce the use of fossil fuels and also In 2003, the Company stopped operating its bunker C oil boiler. ogy, thus providing for efficient energy management in line with the Heat (purchased) 6 18 28 handle methane from processing animal waste. This helped to save heat by 27 percent and costs by 4 billion won (as Framework Act on Low-carbon Green Growth. The system has been in Ground heat 0.0 0.1 In 2012, SK chemicals used the methane (150 Nm3/hr) obtained of 2003) each year. place at the Ulsan plant since 2009, and was extended to the plants at Subtotal 7,468 7,925 8,086 from its recently expanded anaerobic wastewater treatment facility, as Cheongju, Ansan, and Osan, which together produce the products of Amounts sold (B) Steam 4,685 4,699 3,271 fuel to run the boiler system at Ulsan for producing biodiesel. This not Eco Green Boiler the Life Science Business Division. Total energy consumption (A–B) 2,783 3,226 4,815 only helps to replace 720,713 Nm3 of liquefied natural gas (LNG), but SK chemicals operates, at the Ulsan plant, the Eco Green Boiler In response to the carbon emission rights trade that is to come • T he amounts of energy consumed, indicated for the years 2010 and 2011, were also reduces the amount of greenhouse gas emissions by 1,618 tons a (EGB), which runs on combustions of wood wastes to generate steam. into effect in 2015, SK chemicals has also established the emission confirmed as of March 2011. The amounts of energy consumed, indicated for the year. The methane obtained from the sewage treatment facility in Ulsan This boiler system helps to reduce the annual amounts of air pollutants rights trade trial project plan, seeking to develop an effective response year 2012, were measured according to The Guide on Greenhouse Gas and Energy is also now used to run the bunker C oil boiler. SK chemicals registered and greenhouse gas emissions by 440 tons and 55,000 tons, respecstrategy by accumulating relevant experience over the next three Management, updated in November 2012. its biogas system as a Korea Certified Emission Reduction (KCER) projtively. By replacing the soft coal boiler with the EGB and the diesel, trayears. The year 2012 marks the first year of the trial project, leading • T he amounts of energy consumed (A), electricity purchased, and heat purchased all form indirect energy. ect, getting recognition for slighting greenhouse gas emissions by over ditionally used to resume operations after a halt with refined biomassSK chemicals to participate in a trial project over emission rights trade 20,000 tons between 2007 and 2011. based oil, SK chemicals uses 259 tons less diesel and emits 682 tons less in industries and power generation that was organized by the Ministry greenhouse gases each year. The Company plans to recycle ashes from of Knowledge Economy. The Company has developed a more detailed Improving Facilities and Process Efficiency these combustions into building materials, and process waste material strategy and enhanced the practical capabilities of the involved perSK chemicals has reduced the amount of steam required for its into wood wastes to fuel the EGB as part of its efforts to achieve comsonnel based on an analysis of the trade activities and the production distillation process from 6.0 kg/cm2 to 3.0 kg/cm2. This, in addition, prehensive resource recycling. costs thus generated. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Environmental Performance Environmental Performance 50 51 Environmental Performance Resource Cycle 46 47 50 54 Environmental Performance Climate Change & Energy Resource Cycle Green Process Managing Waste Material Controlling Hazardous Chemicals SK chemicals disposes of all wastes generated at its plants in a The Ulsan plant uses a wide range of hazardous chemicals to SK chemicals works hard to establish a system of comprehensive resource recycling in order to make its plants eco-friendlier. Resource legal and hygienic manner according to the Wastes Control Act, seeking manufacture products. Methyl alcohol, sodium hydroxide, acetic acid recycling refers to recycling and reusing resources throughout the production and life cycle of a given product. Recycling resources throughout fundamentally to eradicate any possibility of secondary contaminaethyl, toluene, chloroform, xylene, and other such chemicals are used products’ life cycles is crucial to ensure a better use of available natural resources and minimize impact on the natural environment. To this end, tion. The Company, in observing the Basel Convention that restricts the either as ingredients for products or for other activities, such as product SK chemicals reduces the amounts of raw materials it uses for production, and improves its facilities and processes to minimize the amounts of international transportation of hazardous waste materials, also strictly testing and pH balance adjustment. raw materials being wasted. Waste raw materials, in turn, are recycled or reused, while final waste, wastewater, and by-products, are discarded forbids the transfer of waste materials abroad. In 2012, the Company SK chemicals implements a policy for managing and controlling completed its preparation to recycle the entire amount of the fly ashes the use of these hazardous chemicals. It also uses the Safety, Health, in a legal and safe manner. No reports have been made in 2012 concerning the Company’s violation of any law on environmental protection. from incineration, while also reducing the amount of wastewater sludge Environment, and Quality (SHEQ) system to manage the relevant inforgenerated by installing a filter press in the Water Quality Control Office. mation. Completed in 2005, the SHEQ system allows for the integrated The Company intends to increase the proportion of waste materials remanagement of disasters, environmental impact, and training and educycled further by recycling bottoms from incinerators. cation on safety, health, environment, and quality. There are officers at Usage of Raw and Subsidiary Materials Managing Raw and Subsidiary Materials ton each department to manage and control hazardous chemicals according 2012 371,028 Amounts of Wastes Generated to the Company’s rules on storage and handling. There are also multiple The raw and subsidiary materials involved in manufacturing the 2011 435,697 General Designated ton hazardous chemical managers ensuring thorough control, inspecting the products of the Green Chemical Business Division include terephthalic 50,000 related facilities and equipment once a week, and instructing and superacid (TPA) dimethyltryptamine (DMT), ethylene glycol (EG), cyclohex2010 371,961 39,559 41,366 vising the personnel on site. The Company has makes efforts to prevent anedimethanol (CHDM), and catalysts of many kinds. Manufacturing 40,000 31,909 environmental destruction and ensure researchers’ safety. Testing the products of the Life Science Business Division also involves the use Usage of Recycled Materials 30,000 ton, at Ulsan agents are disposed of immediately, while wastewater is processed and of amorphous celluloses, albumin fractions (E), and various chemicals. 2012 2,245 20,000 recycled through the R&D Center’s own wastewater treatment facility. 16,301 SK chemicals strives to improve the efficiency of using these raw and 13,236 14,089 2011 1,311 In 2012, SK chemicals used slightly more (30,238 tons) hazardsubsidiary materials by ensuring a thorough control of their delivery, 10,000 ous chemicals than it did the previous year, mainly due to the greater inventories, storage, and release out of the warehouse. Making efficient 2010 1,000 0 use of methyl alcohol in increasing the output. In 2012, there were no use of these limited resources is vital to saving natural resources and • T he measurements of the amounts of recycled materials used began in 2011. The 2010 2011 2012 reports of accidents related to hazardous chemicals at any of the plants minimizing impact on the environment. figure reported for 2010 is an estimate based on the contracted amounts of materials. • Wastes from the Company headquarters were not included. or offices. The automobile material division of the Ulsan plant uses recycled materials from affiliates of SK chemicals to produce SKY-VIVA®, an Different Methods for Handling Wastes ton, % Usage of Hazardous Chemicals ton eco-friendly soundproofing material used in automobiles and building. 2010 2011 2012 2012 30,238 SKY-VIVA® (www.skyviva.com), made with recycled materials from Recycling 27,785 31,826 34,448 SK chemicals, Huvis, and SKC, generates approximately 30 billion won 2011 27,279 Discharge into seas 9,923 10,096 8,765 in revenue each year. SK chemicals continues to look for and develop 2010 15,027 Burying underground 5,643 11,371 11,389 similar profit sources based on recycling waste materials. In 2012, SK Incineration 1,739 307 517 • The figures include only the amounts of hazardous chemicals used at the Ulsan plant. chemicals used 371,028 tons of raw and subsidiary materials in total. Recycling ratio 61.5 59.4 60.9 30 billion won -14.8 % +71.2 % 60.9 % SHEQ System 0 The yearly revenue from SKY-VIVA®, a soundproofing The margin by which the use of raw and subsidiary The margin by which the use of recycled materials The waste recycling ratio. Introduced in 2005 to integrate the information on The number of accidents involving the leakage of material made with recycled ingredients. materials has decreased between 2011 and 2012. has increased between 2011 and 2012. safety, health, environment, and quality. hazardous chemicals. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Environmental Performance Environmental Performance 52 53 Using Water and Managing Wastewater Controlling Air Pollutants Soil Contamination Control Controlling Noises and Odors SK chemicals draws the water it needs for its operations from Using automatic detectors, SK chemicals always keeps track of SK chemicals has reinforced its monitoring system designed to SK chemicals has established and implemented its own noise and local water supply systems. SK chemicals’ plants exert little impact on the air pollutants its plants emit. Its tele-monitoring system (TMS) also prevent the contamination of soil around its plants. The plant at Osan odor control standard at its plants. It also employs services of specialthe sources of water in their respective regions. The Ulsan plant and the keeps watch over these facilities around the clock. The Company has has shut down the boiler fuel storage system in an effort to eradicate ized agencies to share the relevant information with local communities. Company headquarters use groundwater. The Company headquarters also installed antipollution facilities and replaced conventional fuels with risks of future soil contamination. The plant has also replaced bunker C The Osan plant installed new facilities for the prevention of noises and also makes use of rainwater. Wastewater from the plants is processed alternative ones. oil with liquefied natural gas. A survey of the chemical facilities at the odors in response to the complaints local residents raised regarding the at either the plants’ own wastewater treatment facilities or the local • S ee the “Summary of Achievements” in the Appendix section for the types and Cheongju plant by the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency noises and odors the plant’s freezer containers and research units generwastewater treatment facilities. concentrations of air pollutants that each plant emits. also revealed that the plant was free from any possibility of soil conated. The plant surveyed whether the level of noise around the plant’s EcoLab, which houses the SK chemicals’ headquarters and R&D centamination. The Ulsan plant also passed the soil contamination test by boundary exceeded the legal maximum, and installed a noise meter, a ter, gathers rainwater and groundwater in a reservoir tank capable of carryVolatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) the Korea Testing Laboratory. soundproof room, and an active carbon tower (capable of processing 80 ing 48.9 tons of liquid and uses them for watering plants and other general None of the plants or offices of SK chemicals are subjected to Am3/minute) as a result. purposes. The system helps the building save water resources by 39% in the special regulation on the monitoring and control of volatile organic comparison to other similar buildings, while also reducing risks of floods. compounds (VOCs). Yet the plant at Osan gathers and recycles some of Investments in Environmental Facilities the VOCs from its manufacturing activities. The Ulsan plant established Usage of Water the Five-Year Plan for the Management of VOCs in 2012, and included In an effort to maximize the efficiency of investments in environTotal use Use per won ton, 100 million won/ton it in its Report on the Voluntary Implementation of Environment Convenmental protection efforts and improve environmental performance, SK 525 600 tions on the Reduction of Air Pollutants. Of the VOCs defined by the Minchemicals divides its environmental facilities into multiple categories by 450 462 500 istry of Environment in July 2012, the Ulsan plant generates methanol, purpose, including: preventing air pollution; controlling water quality; 8,000,000 7,138,084 7,753,774 400 chloroform, toluene, normal hexane, and xylene. controlling odors (and VOCs); controlling noises and oscillations; man6,005,322 6,000,000 300 aging wastes; preventing soil contamination; controlling toxic chemicals; 4,000,000 200 Amounts of VOCs Generated at the Ulsan Plant ton forming green spaces; and developing environmental technologies. The 2,000,000 100 Company systematically manages investments using these categories. 2012 9.0 0 0 It invested 6.87 billion won in these facilities in 2012, and plans to invest 2010 2011 2012 2011 10.0 another 6.5 billion won in 2013. • The figures include the amounts of groundwater used as well. 2010 6.3 • T he figure for the year 2012 is the target amount and does not reflect an accurate Investments in Environmental Facilities, 2012 million won Amounts of Wastewater Generated measurement. The accurate amount will be included in the next year’s report. Category Description Effects Amount Total amount Amount per won ton, 100 million won/ton Preventing air pollution Improving facilities and replacing wearable parts. Ensuring proper management of preventive facilities 912.7 54 60 Ozone Layer-Depleting Substances and control of pollutants. 48 45 50 SK chemicals uses R-123, R-12, and R-22 as coolants for its air Controlling water quality Installing and expanding facilities. Improving efficiency, enhancing processing capacities, 4,111.7 800,000 695,806 794,639 40 conditioning and refrigerating systems. The fire extinguisher fillers also and reducing sludge. 644,171 600,000 30 include halon 1301 and halon 1211. These substances contribute to the Controlling odors (VOCs) Purchasing, replacing, and installing meters. N/A 110.0 400,000 20 depletion of the ozone layer. Small amounts of these substances are natControlling noises and oscillations Installing new facilities and repairing/replacing old ones. Preventing dust that fly off. 584.0 200,000 10 urally discharged into the air. SK chemicals employs no manufacturing Managing wastes Installing facilities. Reducing wastes. 910.0 0 0 process that directly uses or generates ozone layer-depleting substances, Preventing soil contamination N/A N/A N/A 2010 2011 2012 and has no independent plan to reduce the amounts of these substances Controlling toxic substances N/A N/A N/A • The amounts of wastewater from EcoLab include the amounts of recycled water as well. that are naturally leaked in tiny quantities. Nevertheless, the Company, Forming green spaces N/A Improving local environments. 242.0 •W astewater at the Ulsan plant is processed at the wastewater treatment facility on according to its greenhouse gas inventory system that was introduced Developing environmental technologies N/A N/A N/A the plant’s site before being discharged into the East Sea. Wastewater at the Ansan in 2009, keeps records of the amounts of ozone layer-depleting subTotal N/A N/A 6,870.4 and Osan plants is sent to the local wastewater treatment facilities. Wastewater at the Cheongju plant is sent to the sewage disposal plant within the industrial cluster stances, such as HCFC and CFC, used or leaked at each of its plants. • T he table reflects the state of conditions at the Ulsan plant. Investments in the plants at Osan, Ansan, and Cheongju were mostly confined to small-cost items, such as purchasing where the plant is located. Wastewater at EcoLab is sent to the Pangyo Water Quality • All the plants together generate approximately 1,500 tCO2e in total. processing agents and replacing wearable parts, and thus, were not included. and Health Center. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Environmental Performance Environmental Performance 54 55 Green Process EcoLab EcoLab is the new office building in Pangyo completed in on EcoLab and Other Buildings: Environmental Impact Energy consumption (MWh) Other buildings EcoLab -47 November 2010. It became the first office building in Korea to receive the Energy Efficiency Certificate Level 1 from KEMCO, in addition to % receiving the highest score on the Korea Green Building Council’ GBCC Companies cannot survive by pursuing profits only at every turn. Today’s society demands serious consurvey. EcoLab also became Korea’s first office building to win the siderations of human welfare and environmental sustainability in all corporate decisions. SK chemicals recog13,266 9,017 highest level of recognition on the LEED evaluation by the USGBC. It nizes the growing social emphasis on the need for sustainable management, and strives to achieve the ideal of even went on to win the Grand Prize at the Korea Architecture Award. EcoLab tours, organized to improve the public’s understanding of ecoWater consumption (m3) Other buildings EcoLab sustainability in all its products, operations, and even organizational culture. -39 friendly architecture, have so far attracted over 2,500 visitors from Our name for the strategy for ensuring sustainability in products, operations, and culture is “Green Korea and abroad. % Products, Green Process, and Green Culture.” “Green process” refers to ensuring greater eco-friendliness in the EcoLab was designed to significantly cut down energy and waways and manners in which SK chemicals conducts its activities and projects. Seeking to achieve “green plants,” ter consumption and greenhouse gas emissions in comparison to other SK chemicals follows its Carbon Neutrality Roadmap. The Company has also built an innovative office building 91,776 66,128 office buildings of similar sizes. SK chemicals monitors the building’s that exerts radically less environmental impact than other office buildings of similar sizes. performance throughout the year, and confirmed that the building cut Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e) Other buildings EcoLab down water consumption by 39 percent, greenhouse gas emissions by -28 % 28 percent, and energy consumption by 47 percent in 2012. The building generates part of the energy it needs from its own solar and geothermal energy systems, generating 7.54 MWh and 34.29 Gcal from these sources, respectively, in 2012. 7,177 5,613 Increasing Use of Alternative Energy, 2009 – 2012(TJ) Eco-friendly Systems of EcoLab Carbon Neutrality Carbon neutrality refers to the state in which an economic 2009 2012 The rooftop park reduces the heat island effect, The solar cell module installed on an outer 4.9 activity generates zero carbon emissions. There are two ways to while also saving the amount of energy used on wall of the building generates energy for the achieve this: namely, either fundamentally eliminating the use of x air-conditioning by more than 10 percent. building’s activities. all fossil fuels internally, or offsetting, externally, the amounts of carbon emissions already generated with carbon-absorbing, oxygenThe roll screens on the windows that 346 2,025 automatically adjust themselves depending producing forests, green spaces, and so on. Seeking to achieve perfect on the movements of the sun help to keep the carbon neutrality by 2020, SK chemicals has opted for the former lighting in the office spaces optimal. method and is now replacing fossil fuels at its plants with alternative sources of energy. Decreasing Greenhouse Gas Emissions, 2009 – 2012(tCO2e) The luminosity detectors Eco-friendly interior finishes have been used automatically adjust the brightness of The plants at Ulsan and elsewhere make use of the biogas, and CO2 meters were installed to improve the the energy-efficient LED lights wood wastes, and biomass that arise as by-products of manufactur2009 2012 quality of indoor air. -11.3% ing and waste-processing activities. EcoLab, housing the Company headquarters and R&D center, also increasingly generates electricity Air-conditioning and fire-extinguishing systems from solar and geothermal energy systems. The Ulsan plant, which inside the building are free of such ozoneproduces over 90 percent of all SK chemicals’ products and delivers The streams of water flowing down depleting substances like halon and Freon. 526,757 467,163 a wall in the lobby provide a cooling steam to the companies making up the SK chemicals Ulsan Complex, effect during the summer and a plans to increase its carbon neutrality rate to 67 percent by 2015, and humidifier effect during the winter The water-gathering system collects rainwater to 100 percent by 2020, eliminating all carbon emissions from the SK and groundwater, while the middle-water processing system recycles used tap water for chemicals Ulsan Complex. As of 2012, the carbon neutrality level of flushing toilets and watering plants outdoors. the SK chemicals Ulsan Complex hovered around 27 percent. The use of alternative energy, measured in terms of calories (TJ), increased by 485 percent from 2009 and 5 percent from 2011. Greenhouse gas The heat pump system ensures energy efficiency by utilizing ground heat (approximately 15℃) to emissions are also on a steady decline., run the air-conditioning system. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Social Commitment Social Commitment 56 57 Number of jobs created Social +42% Commitment 2012 249 2010 175 SK c ix he m e nd ic a ls A pp P ro fi le SK Mutual Growth Cooperation Fund (million won) +13% re Me lt u m Cu en be Su s t l Commitment G re rs aina bility Overview So c ia it ie s Bus un in e m ss om Pa lC r tn Loca ers ce an m Bu 2012 7,100 fo r en t sin al es Pe sD r om 2010 6,300 nm Enviro ain How can we realize growth and prosperity for all in today’s competitive society, while sharing our Investment in social commitments (million won) gains with the society at large? SK chemicals seeks to achieve both economic gains and mutual growth with all stakeholders involved. We can define “mutual growth” as ensuring survival and success for all concerned by helping one another. Our principles of action +650% are based on this vision, which is, in turn, reflected in all our strategies and policies. It is through the process of searching for, and implementing the ways to help one another that the Company and all stakeholders build trust in one another. The scope of mutual growth naturally extends down the supply chain, and involves sharing the Company’s gains with the whole Local Communities at large. Mutual growth reaches its peak when the society becomes healthy, suppliers and business partners gain greater financial autonomy, and employees 2012 1,500 and Board members enhance their capabilities. 2010 200 SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Social Commitment Social Commitment 58 59 Social Commitment Members 58 64 65 68 Number of Retired Employees and Turnover Rate Employee Training System Members Business Partners Local Communities Green Culture Turnover rate Retired employees number of persons, % 10.0 9.1 10.0 Developing “Warm Professionals” 8.8 Seeking to invite and encourage “warm professionals,” SK chemicals works hard to develop an exciting and passionate organizational 200 8.0 158 culture that makes it a genuinely enjoyable workplace for all. To this end, the Company ensures that no discrimination would get in the way of 150 136 147 6.0 recruitment and employment, while also providing all-round education and training for those hired to help them enhance their capabilities. The 100 4.0 SelfDevelopment Education developand Company also motivates employees with fair evaluations and rewards, and seeks to improve the welfare and quality of life for all by providing 50 2.0 through work ment training equal benefits without distinguishing between full-time and contract-based employees. SK chemicals is especially proud of having spent four 0 0 2010 2011 2012 One’s own Acquiring experience on the job and Intensive training decades without any labor-management disputes. The Company understands and fully supports labor activities, and ensures rapport with conceaseless work throughout the process of pursuing and education, tinued and effective communication. The Company also provides systematic training and education necessary for health and safety. and efforts super-excellence (“supex”) as the in both short and Male-Female Ratio by Location number of persons, as of Dec. 31, 2012 basis for developing greater skills. long terms. EcoLab Ulsan Cheongju Ansan Osan Andong Total Employee Makeup by Age Male 769 373 61 40 73 41 1,357 Organization Makeup Mentoring Program Female 211 25 36 33 37 22 364 Under 30 years old 30 to 50 years old Over 50 years old number of persons Diversity is a key factor for the success of an organization. SK 2012 445 1,110 166 • SUPEX (“Super Excellent”): “SUPEX” is the state which SK chemicals wants its employees chemicals employs systematic and scientific methods of selection at 2011 495 1,029 154 Employment Types by Location number of persons, as of Dec. 31, 2012 to attain. It is impossible to reach this level by relying merely on conventional thinking or each stage of the recruitment process, ensuring that no candidate is disactivities. SUPEX employees are masters at thinking outside the box, making diverse new 2010 445 1,013 135 EcoLab Ulsan Cheongju Ansan Osan Andong Total criminated against on the basis of sex, religion, ethnicity, and so on. attempts, and handling their jobs with a perfectionist’s dedication. The most pressing diversity-related issue is the need to encourMale 962 387 80 62 91 33 1,615 Female 18 11 17 11 19 30 106 age the development of women workers. In order to eliminate the glass Male-Female Ratio on the Board ceiling that many qualified and talented women experience, especially in Male Female number of persons the box. The Company also uses refined and multilevel selection tools to male-oriented corporate hierarchies, SK chemicals observes all Korean 2012 29(97%) 1(3%) verify the potentials of candidates as specifically as possible. The Comlaws on the employment equality of men and women, and supports 2011 32(97%) 1(3%) pany also continually updates and trains essay review and interview spework-family balance. In addition, SK chemicals also provides employees, Attracting and Retaining Talents 2010 32(97%) 1(3%) cialists. In addition to advancing the recruitment and hiring process, SK whether mothers or fathers, to take leaves for maternity and child care, SK chemicals’ Ideal Employee chemicals provides various internship opportunities, allowing job candiIn 2012, 19 women benefitted from this policy, while no male benefiSK chemicals actively seeks and encourages “warm professiondates to explore a greater range of work and to discover their aptitudes ciary was reported. Employment of People with Disabilities als.” The warmth in this ideal refers to such noble traits as a sense of and potentials. These internships also give the Company opportunities Persons employed Proportion number of persons, % attachment to one’s community and sincere respect for all its members. to observe job candidates and their performance better, thereby enNumber of Employees and Gender Ratio 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 Professionalism refers to having a good command of one’s work, followabling the Company to attract and hire as many “right people” as posMale Female number of persons 20 17 0.8 ing through one’s plans, meeting one’s goals with joy, and actively sharsible. The Company’s hiring policy also gives preferences to the locals in 16 16 2012 1,304 311 15 0.6 ing one’s knowledge with others. Such a warm professional shares the the communities in which the Company’s plants and offices are located. 2011 1,313 288 10 0.4 Company’s mission to promote the health of humankind and protect 2010 1,251 303 5 0.2 the environment. Employee Training Program 0 0 To attract and motivate such warm professionals, SK chemicals Finding its competitiveness in the people making it up, SK chemi2010 2011 2012 fosters enjoyable workplaces. An “enjoyable workplace” is where memcals has always been improving the capabilities of all its employees and Types of Employment bers enjoy a good work-life balance, and pursue both success and happiBoard members since its inception. The Company’s commitment to Full-time Part-time (contract) number of persons Number of Jobs Created ness by fully realizing their capabilities. human resources development allowed it to continue investing in em2012 1,615 106 For men For women number of persons ployee training and education even during the restructuring process and 2011 1,587 91 2012 174 75 Talent Recruiting Strategy economic recessions. SK chemicals provides equal education and train2010 1,554 39 2011 199 63 In order to attract and hire people with diverse talents, SK chemiing programs for all employees, regardless of their employment types. 2010 115 60 cals keeps a talent-sourcing portfolio. The portfolio helps the Company The Company also operates its curriculum so that at least 10 percent of to meet and assess candidates with diverse talents that think outside all its employees receive training and education at any given time. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Social Commitment Social Commitment 60 61 employee is brought into a closed meeting with his/her coach, who then UBcare Fortune Service Evaluation and Rewards System explains the employee’s strengths and weaknesses and coaches him/ This systematic health management program, aiming at both HR Mission her on developing a sustainable plan for improving his/her capacities. prevention and healing, delivers customized healthcare support for all Through continued training of evaluators, SK chemicals also keeps them employees. The program subjects employees to a comprehensive health up-to-date, improves their capacities for evaluation, and involves other evaluation, based on their medical checkup results and behavioral selfemployees into part of the evaluation process to spread a better underdiagnoses, helping them therefore maintain their health-related habits Sustainable standing of the process throughout the Company. and conditions at their best. SK chemicals also organizes health educaSustainable Performance Performance Orientation tion classes and special events for employees at all its plants and offices. Orientation Fair Rewards Creating an enjoyable workplace for mutual growth Performance-oriented HR policy for the growth New employees at SK chemicals receive equal wages regardless G.rium with employees of the organization Growth of both the individual and the organization Pursuing challenging, yet achievable goals of gender. As employees advance in seniority and experience, they SK chemicals is proud to present its G.rium (“Green Auditorium”) Motivating employees and enhancing their capabilities Evaluation according to progress in achieving goals become subjected to a rational, yet strictly differentiated scheme, Hall, a jewel of EcoLab in Pangyo that seats 209 people for special huLeveling up of all employees through positive Rewards and promotions based on performance providing greater goals and rewards for more productive employees, manities lectures and classical music concerts. The humanities lectures, competition and challenge and health stimuli and motivations for less productive employees to inviting renowned scholars and lecturers twice a month, provide inenhance their potential and capacities. The Company strives to keep depth discussions on a variety of subjects, including literature, history, • Fostering employees’ sense of attachment to the organization and motivating them to become voluntary high-achievers. its reward system competitive, depending on how well it fares on the philosophy, and the arts. The monthly classical concerts also invite not market. These rewards include not only financial or monetary forms (e.g. increases in wages, bonuses, etc.), but also non-monetary forms Support for life-work balance Career development at SK chemicals begins when a new em(e.g. pride, a sense of fulfillment, recognition from others, a clarified Fair Evaluation and Rewards ployee first enters the Company. Depending on the job description, an vision, etc.) that enable employees to enjoy their work better and employee is given one to four months of introductory training. During Fair Evaluation naturally pursue the Company’s vision of sustainable performanceorientation. The Company also provides legally mandatory insurances, Leaving Work on Time on Wednesdays this period, new employees learn not only job-related skills, but also The performance evaluation and reward systems at SK chemicals the skills of communication and exchange with other employees, leadaim to motivate employees into setting up challenge goals for themrefresh breaks, support for personal congratulations or condolences, ership and cooperation, and the importance of trust. Employees also selves with a vision of “sustainable performance-orientation,” and motihealth examinations, and the like for all employees regardless of their benefit from diverse opportunities for volunteering and self-reflection. vating employees with appropriate rewards and opportunities to develemployment types. EcoLab Tours for Families The perfection of the “warm professional” ideal begins with diverse op their capacities. The first and foremost step to achieving the vision shortand long-term programs centered on on-the-job training (OJT). of “sustainable performance-orientation” is developing a rational, fair Mentors are senior employees with exemplary records who guide and evaluation system. SK chemicals has thus established the Performance Work and Life Balance help younger and less experienced employees to maximize their trainEvaluation & Coaching System (PECS), which provides a comprehensive Family Retreats ing. Training programs are largely divided between specialized courses performance management tool that helps to enhance the performance SK chemicals helps employees maintain a proper balance beand general (common) courses, and include a wide range of subjects, of both individuals and the whole organization. tween work and life, enjoying a healthy and happy family life. The including languages, job skills, global capability development, and The evaluation process consists of (1) setting up goals and diverse programs and corporate culture innovation activities geared to courses supporting academic degrees. Employees chosen as benefitargets, (2) midterm evaluation, and (3) final evaluation. Throughout this end improve the employees’ quality of life by giving them chances UBcare Fortune Service (customized health checkup) ciaries of long-term education can study full time at graduate and all these stages, the evaluators and the evaluated remain in ongoing to recharge and develop themselves, which, in turn, helps to improve professional schools in Korea or abroad, receiving full salaries and excommunications to ensure fair and objective evaluation results. Such their productivity and the competitiveness of the Company. penses from the Company during their education period so that they an evaluation process takes into account both the potential and actual can focus solely on their studies. performance of each employee. These scores and rankings are used to Support for Leisure and Family Life G.rium programs (humanities lectures + concerts) determine whether or not to promote the employee, to raise his/her Each Wednesday is the day on which all employees leave right on Training Hours and Investment salary, or to qualify him/her for training opportunities at the Company’s time so that they can invest more time and efforts into their family lives number of hours, 100 million won expenses. The evaluation system at SK chemicals thus includes various and self-development. Employees’ children are also invited on tours 2010 2011 2012 Tour around Rome and Florence tools and tips that ensure the most objective and fairest results posaround EcoLab on holidays. The family retreat program invites not only Avg. no. of training hours per employee 157 192 185 sible, including the calibration session and evaluation test held at the employees, but also their family members into natural surroundings, Investment 38 36 34 end of each stage. Once the final results are decided, each evaluated helping them rest and recharge amid the beauty of nature. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Social Commitment Social Commitment 62 63 on Promoting Workers’ Participation and Cooperation, and so forth. SK line by the Korea Occupational Safety Association. The plant also trains Labor-Management History Safety and Health Management System chemicals added further guarantees by specifying and stating the rights new and transferred employees in matters of safety, fire extinguishing, Feb. 2006 of the labor union and employees in “Title 1: General Provisions” and “Tiand managing hazardous substances. In addition to organizing health KEF Labor-Management Cooperation Awards, Grand Prize. Plan tle 2: Labor Union Activities” in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The education for each department eight times a year, the plant also invites Company notifies the labor union of any major change that may affect members of the Ulsan Fire Headquarters to provide updates related to Sep. 2006 employment prospects at least three months in advance. 33.4 percent of environment and safety three times a year. The Company also conductForbes Quality Assurance Awards for Labor-Management Reconciliation, Grand Prize. employees were eligible for collective bargaining as of the end of 2012. ed risk analysis and education on its visits to business partners. SHEQ SK chemicals’ health and safety training also extends to new visiAction Do 2007 – 2012 System tors from business partners and contractors. Complete safety of each Labor-Management Peace Declaration. plant or office requires that all visitors comply with the Company’s rules Employee Safety and Health and policy on safety and health. This training for visitors from business Apr. 2009 One Heart, One Will Declaration Safety and Health System partners takes place daily. In 2012, the Company also adopted the Check SK chemicals enforces a safety and health system for employees Safety and Health Cooperation Program, a trial project of the Ministry Oct. 2009 throughout its organization. The Ulsan plant, in particular, has received of Labor, and held an inauguration ceremony attended by the Director Labor union relegates authority over wages and Plan Do Check Action a publicly recognized certificate, OHSAS 18001, for its safety and health of the Ministry of Labor’s Branch in Ulsan and the representatives of 66 collective bargaining to the Company. Management policies Campaigns Medical examinations Corrective measures Strategies and goals Training and education Internal/external reviews Executives’ review management system. The company identifies, examines, and improves business partners. The Company went on to win an award from the KoApr. 2012 Programs Implementation Work environment check Safety & Health risk factors all year round, and ensures employees’ safety and health rea Occupational Safety and Health Corporation after giving a presentaHealth management Frequent/periodical Committee Chairman Kim Chang-geun of the Association for the Pursuit of SUPEX at each plant by mandating that it performs top patrol rounds (twice tion on occupational health practices, and earned Grade A on a survey Workplace safety and checks Risk evaluation Forbes Best CEO Award – Communication Management health management a month) and OK patrol rounds on a regular basis. The company also conducted by the Ministry of Labor in 2012, thus being exempted from submits itself to inspection conducted by the Korea Occupational Safety the inspection requirement in 2013. and Health Agency every year in order to ensure the effectiveness and SK chemicals also actively promotes healthier lifestyles among only employees, but also their families. 72 humanities lectures and 41 business portfolio and structure. The Company has now established a transparency of its safety and health system. employees, encouraging them to quit smoking and drinking, and to go classical music concerts were held until 2012. performance-oriented framework for labor-management cooperation. on healthier diets with less sodium. The weight clinic received 68 appliAs part of the Company’s efforts to create a genuinely enjoyable Thanks to these and other efforts, SK chemicals won the Grand Safety and Health Committee cants in 2012, 45 of whom succeeded in achieving their desired weights. workplace, audience members with good participation records in the Prize at the Korea Labor-Management Relations Awards, hosted by the The company also thinks it absolutely crucial to let employees, There were no reports of occupational hazards or related diseases in humanities lectures are also given a chance to go on a grand tour around Korea Employers’ Federation, in February 2006, as well as the Grand Prize the direct stakeholders of the Company’s safety and health manage2012. The Company inspects the working environments each year and Italy with Professor Kim Sang-geun of Theology at Yonsei University. at the Forbes Quality Assurance Awards for Labor-Management Reconment, to participate in the system themselves through the Safety and orders immediate improvements where necessary. Furthermore, the The Italian Arete Tour organized in 2012 took members of SK chemicals ciliation in September 2009. Since 2007, the Company has been renewHealth Committee. SK chemicals therefore uses the committee to proCompany also compiles statistics on working environments in order to on a tour around the vestiges of the Renaissance and the masterpieces ing the Labor-Management Peace Declaration every year. In April 2009, it mote employees’ safety and health in a more effective manner, while identify and prevent various foreseeable types of accidents. of the era’s geniuses, encouraging them to find implications applicable also announced the One Heart, One Will Declaration, stating that all the providing annual medical examinations to promote employees’ safety to the culture of SK chemicals. employees and the management of the Company will stand united to and health. Comprised of four employee representatives and four user Number of Accidents at SK chemicals ensure the Company’s continued growth despite the worldwide financial representatives, the committee serves to ensure and improve employ2010 2011 2012 crisis. In October 2009, the labor union also decided to relegate the enees’ safety and health at the workplace. The committee meets to review Minor accidents 1 1 2 tire authority to the Company on deciding wages and collective bargainand decide on important matters pertaining to occupational safety and Major accidents 1 Labor-Management Cooperation ing activities. In April 2012, Chairman Kim Chang-geun of the Association health every quarter. Number of work days lost 7,505 300 217 Since its inception in 1969, SK chemicals has had no instance of vifor the Pursuit of SUPEX won the Best CEO Award in the communication olent labor-management struggle in its four decades of history thanks to management category at the 2012 CEO Awards. SK chemicals continues Safety and Health Education Emergency System the strong rapport and mutual trust between the management and labor. to engage the labor union in sustained and honest communications, not SK chemicals provides diverse programs and courses on the subEach plant of SK chemicals provides a fire-fighting organization The SK chemicals Labor Union plays a central role in the Company’s cononly through formal channels such as the Labor-Management Council, ject, differing from plant to plant and from office to office to reflect their and procedure in order to enable occupants to flee fire-related emertinued and stable growth. Good rapport with the labor union helped the but also through retreats, trekking trips, roundtables, practical meetings, needs better. The Ulsan plant gathers its employees for general safety gency situations as quickly and effectively as possible. These plants also Company overcome the difficulties of structural readjustment in 1996, online bulletin boards, e-mail newsletters, and the like. and health training each month, in addition to providing internal courses operate emergency contact networks in order to minimize environthe separation of the textile division and its re-creation as a new company, Labor union activities are protected under numerous legislations, intended to enhance supervisors’ and managers’ job-related capacities mental impact and damages to lives and properties that may occur as a Huvis, in 2000, and other decisions seeking to advance the Company’s including the Labor Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act, the Act and leadership skills, as well as four external PSM courses, provided onresult of emergency situations. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Social Commitment Social Commitment 64 65 Social Commitment Social Commitment Business Partners Local Communities 58 64 65 68 58 64 65 68 Members Business Partners Local Communities Green Culture Members Business Partners Local Communities Green Culture The fundamental aim of SK chemicals is to deliver happiness to all stakeholders. It is this vision and conviction that continues to shape SK All members of SK chemicals share great interests in solving some of the most pressing social issues, including environmental protection chemicals’ efforts in ensuring mutual benefits and growth with its business partners. In 2012, SK chemicals signed an agreement with its business and bridging the growing gap between the rich and the poor. At SK chemicals, we prioritize what causes and issues are to receive our help and partners on enhancing fair trade and mutual growth. The Mutual Growth Agreement will help establish a self-enforcing fair-trade order encomattention in discussions with local communities, and carry out our initiatives with willingness and enthusiasm. In 2012, SK chemicals spent 1.5 passing subcontractors, suppliers of raw materials and intermediate goods, and providers of manpower in their relations with SK chemicals, with billion won on making a change, which is 6.5 times greater than the 200 million won spent in 2012 and is also almost 50 percent greater than the the aim of solidifying the ground and structure for mutual growth between small businesses and large companies. In addition, SK chemicals proamount of money spent in 2011. The number of employees volunteering for various activities has also significantly increased. SK chemicals comvides diverse forms of support and benefits for business partners, including financial assistance, adjustments of payment conditions, and training pleted its corporate social responsibility (CSR) system in 2012, selecting environmental protection, social welfare, and knowledge sharing as the and education for business partners’ employees. three core areas of its attention and support. Enhancing Business Partners’ Competitiveness Supporting Business Partners’ Stability Social Contribution System Environmental Protection Acknowledging that the competitiveness of business partners SK chemicals maintains the SK Mutual Growth Fund, which is A.cure: Protecting and Restoring Local Rivers bears directly on that of SK chemicals, the Company has regarded trainused to provide loans and financial resources that business partners can Protecting and restoring local river systems forms a major part of Main ing support for those businesses as a central part of its mutual growth take out at favorable interest rates. The SK Mutual Growth Fund proSK chemicals’ drive for environmental protection. Employees regularly Theme strategy. SK chemicals thus operates the SK Mutual Growth Academy, vided loans to business partners amounting to 7.1 billion won in total as volunteer to clean up the environments surrounding the Unjung River and organized CEO seminars for 68 companies, and held two Manageof the end of 2012. The Company diversified the forms and modes of finear EcoLab, as well as the Mipyeong River in Cheongju, and the Cheoyment Development Program (MDP) courses, each lasting for eight nancial assistance it provides in 2012. SK chemicals is also reviewing the ong Park, the Ganjeol Cape, and the Solmaru Path in Ulsan. In turn, SK chemicals’ goal weeks on end, inviting members of seven companies in 2012. The CEO plan for linking business partners to other financial institutes for loans employees also receive extra Green Points, which form one of the key Realizing a more sustainable society through seminars seek to enhance the leadership skills and capacities of business and financing. It is also considering making direct loans to some busienvironmental protection, greater social welfare, performance indicators used to assess their work and career. and greater sharing of knowledge. partner leaders, updating them on the latest in business administration, nesses. In addition, the Company began in 2012 to pay subcontractors •A .cure: Combining “aqua” with “cure,” the name expresses SK chemicals’ economy, organizational change and management, and domestic and all in cash within 10 days of issuing bills so as to improve the cash flows determination to preserve water resources. international market conditions. The MDP aims to enhance job-related of small business partners. Environmental Social welfare protection capacities and skills of specialists, targeting experts on planning, finance, Structure Greater sharing and Green Class: Learning about the Importance of Environment classes and volunteering from marketing, personnel, management, and so forth. SK Mutual Growth Fund million won charity works promoting employees. Environmental Protection eco-friendliness. In 2012, SK chemicals also invited members of business partners In an effort to advertise the importance of environmental protec2012 7,100 to concerts and events at the G.rium Hall at EcoLab in Pangyo, promottion, SK chemicals’ employees regularly visit local elementary schools 2011 6,700 ing interactions and exchange. and provide Green Classes for students. These fun and interactive Sharing knowledge 2010 6,300 Sharing SK chemicals’ classes involve active use of audiovisual and other learning materials core values and 2009 3,000 knowledge. to help students enjoy learning about nature. Late in 2012, employees visited four elementary schools in Seongnam and Bundang to provide Green Classes for a total of 240 students enrolled in eight classes. The Company plans to increase the number of schools and classes eligible Core projects Core projects Core projects for the program in the future. 7.1 billion won 100 % 72 Green Class Sponsorship for Son Hope Maker (environmental Yeol-eum education) (volunteer works) G.rium concerts Social Welfare The total amount of financial assistance that the The rate at which subcontractors of The number of SK chemicals’ business partners A.cure (restoring river SK Mutual Growth Fund provided for its business SK chemicals are paid in cash that received training and education in 2012. Silver theater SK Probono Hope Maker systems) partners in 2012 “Hope Maker” is the name of a representative CSR program of SK chemicals, through which employees become supporters, mentors, SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Social Commitment Social Commitment 66 67 Social Commitments in 2012 A.cure (protecting rivers) Protects and restores rivers and streams near SK chemicals’ sites of operation. Environmental protection Green Class (environmental education) Provided for 240 students at four elementary schools in Seongnam and Bundang. and friends of local children and youth who need attention and aid, in Silver Theater Sharing Knowledge the forms of financial assistance as well as continued visits and friendSince 2009, SK chemicals has been funding and supporting the ship. Almost 1,100 employees are participating in the program today, Silver Theater, a social enterprise accredited by the Ministry of Labor, Supporting Talents supporting 128 children and youth enrolled at 14 orphanages and youth providing 480 million won in total (or 120 million a year) for the theSK chemicals makes great efforts to equally share the benefits welfare centers near the Company plants and offices. The program will ater’s operation and additional support for its various events. Korea’s of culture and the arts to all. The Company plans to open its classical Hope Maker extend its benefits to over 150 students in 2013. Each team of employfirst theater for seniors, the Silver Theater attracted 200,000 viewers in music concerts, held 41 times in 2012 for employees and their families, Supports 128 children and youth in Korea and over 300 children and ees is given at least one child or teenager to support and mentor. SK 2012, and 530,000 viewers so far, becoming a leading venue for culture to the Local Communities so that the disadvantaged youth can also youth abroad. chemicals supports the dreams and hopes of not only the Korean youth, and entertainment for the elderly. SK chemicals plans to diversify the enjoy them. The Company also intends to provide continued support for but also the youth abroad. Employees regularly donate to Compassion, programs and events organized at this venue in the future. young people with artistic talents. The first recipient was the young piaSocial Silver Theater an international child aid organization, to support over 300 children in nist Son Yeol-eum, who received 90 million won in 2012 for her trainwelfare Provides 120 million won for the theater’s poor countries. Happiness Wells ing. The Company also provided another 20 million won for her piano administration and additional support for various events providing entertainment and The Company also keeps funds matching the amounts of doSK chemicals digs wells in Kenya to bring clean water closer to quartet concert at the G.rium Hall. enjoyment for over 200,000 seniors a year. nations from employees to provide emergency medical relief where home for people who are always thirsty. In 2012, the Company allotted needed. In addition, the Company runs a wide range of interactive social 28 million won to dig three wells in the Kenyan towns of Tarasa, WaVolunteer Works SK Happiness Wells Created wells that provide 7,300 tons service programs in partnership with local social and charity organizachuoda, and Selieh. The wells thus provide over 7,300 tons of drinkable SK chemicals’ employees volunteer for various and ongoing activof drinkable water for 4,000 people in tions. SK chemicals is currently in the process of measuring the economwater for over 4,000 people, thereby significantly improving the locals’ ities, mainly engaging in the local communities in which they work. Each Kenya a year. ic impact of Hope Maker and other activities that support local societies, health and quality of life. The Company intends to dig more wells in Keplant or office organizes volunteer groups to help with distributing free and will include the results in future reports. nya in the future. meals at local charity organizations or delivering meals to the needy. Team-by-team workshops also involve cleaning up the surroundings and other efforts for environmental protection. SK chemicals is also an active participant in CSR campaigns orSupporting talents Supporting pianist Son Yeol-eum ganized by the whole SK Group. Employees volunteered in making and and her piano quartet concert at the sharing winter kimchi, organized by the SK Group, in 2012, delivering G.rium hall. Sharing 2,000 sauced and pickled heads of cabbages to a charity organization in knowledge Seongnam. The Group-wide bazaar held to raise funds for free meals for 1.5 billion won 7,300 tons 530,000 poor children also saw large quantities of goods donated by employees as well as by the company. SK Probono is a program that shares the Employee volunteerism SK Group’s expertise on marketing, human resource development, acProviding and delivering free meals The amount of money invested in social contributions The total amount of drinkable water that the SK The cumulative total number of viewers who have and other forms of support for the in 2012, 6.5 times greater than the 200 million won of chemicals Happiness Wells will give Kenyans visited the Silver Theater so far counting, and legal affairs with smaller companies. needy and the underprivileged in local communities. 2010 and 50% greater than the 1 billion won of 2011 • S K Probono: employees with expertise or professional backgrounds volunteer to share their experience and knowledge with social enterprises and organizations. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Social Commitment Social Commitment 68 69 Green Culture Green Point System SK chemicals has been implementing the Green Point System since 2010 to encourage employees to become more environmentconscious and establish environmental management as its core pillar. How to Multiply Green Points The system converts employees’ various environmental achievements— Purchase organic and including saving energy and purchasing eco-friendly goods—into green eco-friendly goods. “Green Culture” is the slogan and the vision that organizes SK chemicals’ efforts for sharing its commitpoints. The accumulated points carry monetary values, which the Comment to social and environmental sustainability with stakeholders. The concept of green culture is not confined pany matches to support environmental and social causes. to activities and campaigns for increasing eco-friendliness. Rather, it is a high-minded and broad vision of a Employees can easily multiply their Green Points by taking part Take part in Attend screenings of environmental movies and documentaries sustainable society that benefits the Company, employees, and the whole society all at once. A representative in environmental protection activities, by purchasing eco-friendly goods, protection activities. on the environment. by visiting environment-themed exhibits and classes with families, by of SK chemicals’ green culture efforts is the point mileage systems. The Green Point Systemrewards employees attending the quarterly screenings of movies and documentaries on for their eco-friendly behavior. The Character Point System rewards employees for complimenting one another. climate change and environmental responsibilities of companies, and SK chemicals uses these points to motivate all members to participate in the Company-wide efforts to create by suggesting new solutions for environmental management. Thanks a more eco-friendly and encouraging organization. The Green Points thus accumulated are then converted into to the active participation and enthusiasm of employees, SK chemicals actual money and resources for the Company’s CSR programs. Calculate the amount Suggest new ideas and reached its target of 1.6 million Green Points in July 2012 much ahead of carbon one and one’s solutions for environmental of the schedule, and ended up collecting 2,398,615 points in total by family emit each day. and sustainable management. the end of the year. Employees’ Green Points now serve as a key performance indicator of the Company’s performance, and will be used as key Visit concerts, exhibits, classes, performance indicators for individual assessment beginning in 2013. etc. related to the environment with family members. Accumulated Character Points Green Points: Target and Outcome Character Point System Introduced in March 2012, the Character Point System proOutcome Target number of points motes certain virtues and qualities in employees that are characterisCompliments 3,664 Increase rate (2011 to 2012) tic of “warm professionals.” The system motivates employees to deCharacter points 2,122 2,398,615 63.9% velop a habit of complimenting or encouraging one another, which is necessary to make the workplace genuinely enjoyable. The Company produces a list of behavior and actions deserving of compliments based on the SKMS, and distributes copies to the Board members and managers. The points are accrued to people who compliment others 1,600,000 and whose compliments are accepted. Employees may also thank and praise their superiors and win the Character Points in turn, so that 1,463,216 encouragement and compliments are shared not only top-down, but also bottom-up. Recipients of compliments are immediately notified by online notices of the exact comments they have received. Over 5,800 compliments were received in just nine months from March 1,049,519 900,000 Average Number of Comments Received a Day 2012, which indicates that there are, on average, 30 or so compli30 ments shared across the Company. 600,000 2010 2011 2012 SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Appendix Appendix 70 71 Appendix Key Indicators of Sustainable Management Economic Performance Output Division Unit 2010 2011 2012 PET Green Chemical Business tons 147,796 150,402 79,164 PETG Green Chemical Business tons 52,547 59,368 80,156 BON Green Chemical Business tons 8,021 8,473 7,506 Biodiesel Green Chemical Business tons 85,425 115,210 100,066 Blood products Life Science Business bottles 667,391 888,529 945,125 Vaccines Life Science Business doses 6,684,722 4,837,267 7,058,231 Tablets Life Science Business tablets 676,599,508 625,005,351 738,803,555 Patches Life Science Business patches 12,207,357 14,992,312 17,907,672 Social Performance SK c Check-up Scope Unit Eligible Examined Unexamined ix he m e nd ic a ls A pp P ro General Company-wide Persons 1,354 1,344 10 fi le Basic EcoLab and Ulsan plant Persons 319 319 Special Company-wide Persons 428 428 F Dat rt T aS po he Local contributions Scope Unit 2010 2011 2012 Su s t Re ets l Commitment Cost of social contributions Company-wide 100 milion won 2 10 15 aina bility Overview So c ia s Emissions e Ga Employees volunteering Company-wide Persons 1,650 1,650 1,710 pa ous eport Verification rty nh cation R ThirdAvg. no. of hours of volunteering per employee Company-wide Hours 2.5 2.0 2.0 e Rep e rifi or e V t Gr Index ce an m fo Bu r lP sin er es nta sD nme om Enviro ain SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Appendix Appendix 72 73 Key Indicators of Sustainable Management Key Indicators of Sustainable Management Wastes Scope Unit 2010 2011 2012 Environmental Performance General wastes Ansan plant tons 64 95 124 Materials Scope Unit 2010 2011 2012 Osan plant tons 738 916 1,028 Raw and subsidiary materials consumed Ulsan plant tons 371,367 433,038 370,189 Ulsan plant tons 31,033 38,449 40,164 Ansan plant tons 155 84 121 Cheongju plant tons 74 99 50 Osan plant tons 279 293 380 Designated wastes Ansan plant tons 6 6 8 Cheongju plant tons 160 2,282 338 Osan plant tons 12 21 40 Ulsan plant tons 13,212 14,062 16,251 Water and wastewater Scope Unit 2010 2011 2012 Cheongju plant tons 6.0 0.5 2.0 Water used Ansan plant tons 10,960 11,155 12,013 Incinerated wastes Ansan plant tons 50 81 120 Osan plant tons 28,894 29,091 34,783 Osan plant tons 673 127 115 Ulsan plant tons 5,927,740 6,995,230 7,580,928 Ulsan plant tons 982 72 230 Cheongju plant tons 26,886 46,304 59,922 Cheongju plant tons 34 27 52 EcoLab tons 10,842 56,304 66,128 Buried wastes Ansan plant tons 1 Self-developed groundwater Ansan plant tons Osan plant tons 18 762 22 Osan plant tons 47,920 65,861 60,010 Ulsan plant tons 5,624 10,578 11,282 Ulsan plant tons Cheongju plant tons 31 85 Cheongju plant tons Recycled wastes Ansan plant tons 19 20 12 EcoLab tons 425 867 2,181 Osan plant tons 59 48 51 Recycled water Ansan plant tons Ulsan plant tons 27,661 31,717 34,336 Osan plant tons Cheongju plant tons 46 41 49 Ulsan plant tons 4,832,689 4,658,395 4,167,642 Sea-discharged wastes Ansan plant tons Cheongju plant tons Osan plant tons EcoLab tons Ulsan plant tons 9,923 10,096 8,765 Wastewater• Ansan plant tons 2,880 2,790 2,930 Cheongju plant tons Osan plant tons 51,810 52,097 49,680 Recycled goods Ansan plant % Ulsan plant tons 569,400 590,570 673,010 Osan plant % Cheongju plant tons 16,378 27,734 31,831 Ulsan plant % 62 59 61 EcoLab tons 3,703 22,615 37,188 Cheongju plant % • F inal locations of discharge: Ansan Municipal Sewage Treatment Facility (for the Ansan plant); Osan Sewage Treatment Facility (for the Osan plant); the East Sea (for the Ulsan plant); Industrial Cluster Wastewater Treatment Facility (for the Cheongju Plant); Pangyo Water Quality and Health Center (for EcoLab). (The figures indicated here combine both the amount of wastewater processed and the amount of recycled water.) SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Appendix Appendix 74 75 Key Indicators of Sustainable Management Key Indicators of Sustainable Management Air pollution Legal Max. Scope Unit 2010 2011 2012 Energy Source / fuel Scope Unit 2010 2011 2012 Dust concentration at discharge 50 Ansan plant mg/Sm3 11 10 12 Energy consumed Coals Company-wide tons 156,158 161,338 152,086 100 Osan plant mg/Sm 3 10 7 B-A Company-wide kliter 130 136 159 100 Ulsan plant mg/Sm3 7 5 4 B-C Company-wide kliter 14,001 10,423 4,809 50 Cheongju plant mg/Sm3 8 9 8 Wood wastes Company-wide tons 58,760 84,003 85,954 Sulfur oxide (SOx) 180 Ansan plant ppm 17 17 17 Gasoline Company-wide kliter 98 103 110 concentration at discharge 180 Osan plant ppm 2 Diesel Company-wide kliter 304 566 212 200 Ulsan plant ppm 73 50 64 Biodiesel Company-wide tons 4,229 5,999 2,742 Cheongju plant ppm Refined oil Company-wide tons 523 1,958 1,678 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 200 Ansan plant ppm 166 169 167 LNG Company-wide 1,000m3 2,130 3,721 8,851 concentration at discharge 200 Osan plant ppm 30 LPG Company-wide tons 19 20 39 180 Ulsan plant ppm 98 79 48 Biogas (methane) Company-wide 1,000m3 4,553 8,433 11,188 Cheongju plant ppm Electricity Company-wide MW 148,106 153,331 156,579 Water pollutant (BOD) 120 Ansan plant ppm 10 21 25 Heat Company-wide Gcal 1,511 18,434 28,359 concentration at discharge 120 Osan plant ppm 10 5 10 Energy supplied Electricity• Ulsan plant TJ 1,970 1,951 2,218 10 Ulsan plant ppm 4 4 5 Heat Ulsan plant TJ 4,686 4,700 3,272 250 Cheongju plant ppm 180 132 17 Employee transportation Gasoline Company-wide kliter 63.13 102.73 109.83 Water pollutant (COD) 130 Ansan plant ppm 11 30 21 Company-wide GJ 2,114.92 3,441.35 3,580.36 concentration at discharge 130 Osan plant ppm 10 10 15 Company-wide tCO2e 137.33 230.26 240.02 40 Ulsan plant ppm 28 20 20 Diesel Company-wide kliter 90.66 40.95 30.11 250 Cheongju plant ppm 205 114 23 Company-wide GJ 3,435.98 1,551.97 1,135.07 Water pollutant (SS) 120 Ansan plant ppm 17 21 35 Company-wide tCO2e 238.61 109.29 80.07 concentration at discharge 120 Osan plant ppm 6 9 15 Alternative energy generated Solar energy EcoLab MWh 8.26 7.54 10 Ulsan plant ppm 6 4 4 Ground heat EcoLab Gcal 11.16 34.29 50 Cheongju plant ppm 41 135 24 • “ 9.6TJ/GWh” is the amount of electricity consumed that is applied to the year 2012 due to the change of the method for calculation. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Appendix Appendix 76 77 Financial Performance (Abridged) Affiliations Financial Statements won SK chemicals 2010 2011 2012 Affiliated Organizations Assets Korea Employer Federation; Federation of Korean Industries; Korea Economic Research Institute; Korea International Trade Association; Korea Fair Competition Federation; Current assets 535,216,041,567 631,159,236,354 642,506,626,344 Korea Industrial Technology Association; Korea Management Association; Seongnam Chamber of Commerce; Korea Industrial Safety Association (Seongnam Chapter); Korea 1) Quick assets 343,417,307,580 406,186,961,732 402,651,480,639 Industrial Technology Association (CTOs Club); Korea Fire Safety Association; Gyeonggi Province Conference of Environmental Engineers; Korea Industrial Safety Association; 2) Inventories 191,798,733,987 224,972,274,622 239,855,145,705 Environmental Managers Association; Korea Chemicals Management Association (Yeongnam Chapter); Korea Environmental Preservation Association; Korea Environmental Fixed assets 1,276,447,881,372 1,402,592,304,383 1,551,759,080,995 Engineers Federation; Korea Responsible Care Council; United Nations Global Compact. 1) Investment assets 782,933,144,411 819,268,208,854 810,507,232,785 2) Tangible assets 454,272,210,809 547,945,079,731 690,136,182,542 Green Chemical Business Division 3) Intangible assets 32,532,901,342 27,850,538,457 41,845,834,327 Affiliated Organizations 4) Other fixed assets 6,709,624,810 7,528,477,341 9,269,831,341 Polymer Society of Korea; Korean Institute of Chemical Engineers; Korea Specialty Chemical Industry Association; Korea Society for Composite Materials; Society of Plastic Total assets 1,811,663,922,939 2,033,751,540,737 2,194,265,707,339 Engineers (Korean Chapter); Korea Industrial Safety Association (Ulsan Chapter); Yeocheon Industrial Cluster Safety Association; Korea Radioisotope Association. Liabilities Current liabilities 707,999,275,486 480,244,409,216 476,538,657,736 Life Science Business Division Fixed liabilities 195,561,400,334 631,381,127,130 769,469,070,324 Total liabilities 903,560,675,820 1,111,625,536,346 1,246,007,728,060 Affiliated Organizations Capital Korea Drug Research Association; Korean Nurse Association (Gyeonggi Nurse Association); Korean Association of Occupational Health Nurses; Korean Medical Library Association; Capital 118,300,860,000 118,300,860,000 118,300,860,000 Korea Pharmaceutical Manufacturers’ Association; Korea Biomedicine Industry Association; Korea Pharmaceutical Traders Association; Korean Society for Clinical Development; Capital surplus 145,530,430,546 145,530,430,546 145,530,430,546 Korea Pharmaceutical Reporting Cooperative; Korea Pharmaceutical; Korea Academy of Social and Managed Pharmacy; Ministry of Labor Emergency Planning Council; Korea Capital adjustment (98,068,499,377) (98,068,499,377) (98,068,499,377) Pharmaceutical Wholesalers Association; Management Corporation for Cheongju Industrial Complex; Red Cross Korea; Ansan Chamber of Commerce; Osan Chamber of Other accum. comp. income 957,329,746 1,632,274,167 1,369,992,555 Commerce; Korean Pharmaceutical Association; Developing Country Vaccine Manufacturers’ Network; Korea Electric Engineers Association; Korea Energy Engineers Association. Earned surplus 741,383,126,204 754,730,939,055 781,125,195,555 Total capital 908,103,247,119 922,126,004,391 948,257,979,279 Total liabilities and capital 1,811,663,922,939 2,033,751,540,737 2,194,265,707,339 Income and Loss Statement won 2010 2011 2012 Sales 1,334,514,621,732 1,546,107,694,525 1,476,191,492,605 Awards and Recognitions Cost of sales 1,037,383,909,381 1,245,669,454,486 1,188,949,912,636 Gross income 297,130,712,351 300,438,240,039 287,241,579,969 Selling and admin. expenses 228,216,839,151 235,789,777,579 238,851,298,084 Operating profit 68,913,873,200 64,648,462,460 48,390,281,885 Date Award / Recognition Date Award / Recognition Non-operating profit 38,003,657,048 34,691,310,985 42,359,047,793 Feb. No. 1 chemical manufacturer on the 2012 Green Rankings survey. Oct. Included in the DJSI KOREA for three consecutive years. Non-operating expenses 69,212,034,181 67,511,524,754 60,408,580,714 May Trial project on emission rights trade. Named CDP Leader of Raw Materials. Net income b/f income tax 37,705,496,067 31,828,248,691 30,340,748,964 Forbes CEO Award (Grand Prize for Chairman Kim Chang-geun) No. 1 chemical and pharmaceutical manufacturer on the Joong-ang Income tax expenses (2,215,068,415) 992,431,188 (8,983,813,070) Jun. 2011 Sustainability Report published. Ilbo’s Green Rankings survey for two consecutive years. Net term profit 39,920,564,482 30,835,817,503 39,324,562,034 Nov. Grade A on KoBEX’s Fact-finding on Sustainable Management. Dec. Ecoweb launched. •A ll the financial data have been amassed according to the K-IFRS. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Appendix Appendix 78 79 Third-party Verification Report Third-party Verification Report Assurance Statement related to SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012, for the calendar year ending 31st December 2012 Terms of Engagement To form our conclusions the assurance was undertaken as a sampling Level of Assurance & Materiality This document is subject to the provision below: This Assurance Statement has been prepared for SK chemicals. exercise and covered the following activities: The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. SK chemicals to assure its Sustainability Report 2012 for the calendar •Reviewing SK chemicals’ stakeholder engagement process, material ‘the professional judgement of the Verifier’. year ending 31st December 2012 (“the Report”). The Report relates to issues and related information Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and the sustainability performance data and information for SK chemicals’ •Benchmarking SK chemicals’ material issues against our own LRQA’s Opinion subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents activities only in Korea for which it has operational control over. independent analysis of stakeholder issues and reviewing other Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the sustainability reports written by SK chemicals’ peers in comparable would cause us to believe that SK chemicals’ Report does not meet 'Lloyd’s Register Group'. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no Management Responsibility industries GRI G3.1’s application level A. responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice SK chemicals’ management was responsible for preparing the Report •Understanding how SK chemicals’ determine, respond and report It is also our opinion that SK chemicals has not excluded any material in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person and for maintaining effective internal controls over the data and on their material issues issues nor that their reporting processes does not provide reliable has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity information disclosed. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an •Interviewing senior management to understand SK chemicals’ sustainability performance data and information. for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any assurance engagement on the Report in accordance with our contract reporting processes and use of sustainability performance data responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions with SK chemicals. within their business decision-making processes LRQA’s Recommendations set out in that contract. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the •Interviewing key personnel to understand SK chemicals’ processes SK chemicals should consider: responsibility of SK chemicals. for setting performance indicators and for monitoring progress Due to inherent limitations in any internal control it is possible that made during the reporting period • Introducing a systematic approach for customer satisfaction. This fraud, error, or non-compliance with laws and regulations may occur LRQA’s Approach •Verifying SK chemicals’ data and information management systems approach should include how to: and not be detected. Further, the verification was not designed to Our verification has been conducted against the Global Reporting and reviewing supporting evidence made available by SK chemicals measure customer satisfaction detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G3.1). at their head office at 310 Pangyo-ro, Bunang-gu, Seongnamdisclose the results from surveys to the requirements set out above as the verification has not been performed continuously throughout the period and the verification si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea in accordance with our contract for the set targets to maintain and improve customer satisfaction. carried out on the relevant internal controls were on a test basis. The objectives of the assurance engagement were to: verification of data and information disclosed in the Report • Disclosing complete human rights performance data and information. Any projection of the evaluation of control to future periods is Note 1: Economic performance data was taken direct from the Future reports should disclose details for human rights review and/ subject to the risk that the processes may become inadequate •C  onfirm that the Report meets the requirements of GRI G3.1’s audited financial accounts or impact assessment for suppliers and business partners. because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance application level A Note 2: No source data was sampled for its accuracy and • Establishing formal mechanisms for setting sustainability with them may deteriorate. •Validate SK chemicals’ self-declaration for GRI G3.1’s application completeness. performance targets to ensure that SK chemicals’ key performance level A+ •Checking that the GRI G3.1 index allows stakeholders to access indicators include social and environmental metrics as part of their The English version of this statement is the only valid version. •Evaluate the reliability and accuracy of specified sustainability data sustainability performance indicators. routine operational controls. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions and information. • Establishing and implementing an effective system for data and translated into other languages. information management, including an internal verification process. Lead Verifier Hack-Ryang Kim Dated: 30th April 2013 On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance 17th Floor, Sinsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea LRQA Reference: SEO 6016767 SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Appendix Appendix 80 81 GRI (G3.1) Index GRI (G3.1) Index Reported fully Reported partially Not reported Not Applicable Reported fully Reported partially Not reported Not Applicable G3.1 Profile Report Status Pages G3.1 Profile Report Status Pages Profile Economic 5, 7, 57 Strategy & Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 2-3 Economic (EC) EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other 5, 13 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 6, 32, 42, 43, 58 community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. about this report EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. 32-35, 47-49 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 6, 33-35, 39 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 12-13 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 7 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 12-13 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 7 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 61 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically 7 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 28, 64 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. 59 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 11 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in65-67 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 7 kind, or pro bono engagement. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 5, 7, 58 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 66 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership.• Environmental 25-29, 32-39, 46, 48-49, 50-52, 72-74 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 76 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. about this report Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 50 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). about this report EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 50 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) about this report Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 48 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. about this report EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 48 3.5 Process for defining report content. 14, 15 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 48-49, 54-55 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol about this report EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a 48-49 for further guidance. result of these initiatives. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). about this report EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 48-49, 54-55 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly about this report Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 52 affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 52 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to about this report EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 72 the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside N/A 3.10 Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any reabout this report protected areas. statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity N/A base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). value outside protected areas. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. about this report EN13 Habitats protected or restored. N/A 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 80-82 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. N/A 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. about this report EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of N/A Governance, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, 11, 22, 20, 27 extinction risk. Commitments, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Emissions, EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 48 and Engagement 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 11 effluents and waste EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 48 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that 11 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 26 are independent and/or non-executive members. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 52 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 11, 62 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 52, 74 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure 11 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 52, 72 arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 51, 73 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 11 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 51 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its 11 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, 51 committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and 4-5, 21-23 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting 52 social performance and the status of their implementation. organization's discharges of water and runoff. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, 11 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 33-35 environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. N/A agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and 50 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and 11 regulations. social performance. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and 29, 74 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 41, 46 transporting members of the workforce. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 76 Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 53 subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the 76 organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 13 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 13 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 14-15 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those 14-15 key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. •N  o major change has occurred during the report period. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Appendix Appendix 82 83 GRI (G3.1) Index GRI (G3.1) Index Reported fully Reported partially Not reported Not Applicable Reported fully Reported partially Not reported Not Applicable G3.1 Profile Report Status Pages G3.1 Profile Report Status Pages Social Labor Practices and Decent Work 58-60, 62 Society 22-23, 29, 49, 64-67 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 58-59 Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 40, 64, 65-66 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 59 Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 22 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 61 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 23 Labor/ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 62 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 23 management relations LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 62 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 23, 29, 49, 64 Occupational health LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and 63 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. 22 and safety advise on occupational health and safety programs. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 22 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. 63 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 22 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or 61, 63 Local communities SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 40, 52, 63, 65-67 community members regarding serious diseases. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local 40, 52, 63, 65-67 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 62 communities. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 60 Product Responsibility 22, 29, 40-41 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in 59-60 managing career endings. Customer health PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of 29, 40 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 60-61 and safety significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Diversity and LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority 58 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products 28 equal opportunity group membership, and other indicators of diversity. and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. 61 Product and PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such 28-29, 42-43 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 58 service labelling information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and 28 Human Rights 21, 62 labeling, by type of outcomes. Investment and HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights 21 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction.• 37 procurement practices concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Marketing PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, 23 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and 21 communications promotion, and sponsorship. actions taken. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including 22 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, 21 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. including the percentage of employees trained. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 41 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 21 Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and 22 Freedom of association HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be 62 services. and collective bargaining violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute 21 to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced and HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to 21 compulsory labor contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are 21 relevant to operations. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. N/A Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. 21 Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 22 •C  onducted for only certain products by an independent evaluation agency. SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Appendix Appendix 84 85 ISO 26000 Index UN Global Compact (UNGC) Index The following table has been created in order to help you better understand and conceptualize how the seven core subjects of the ISO 26000 (i.e. governance, SK chemicals endorses the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. This report also provides human rights, labor practices, environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development) are related to the information on the efforts and practices of SK chemicals that seek to pursue and embody these 10 principles. content of this report. Core Subjects Issues Pages Category Principles Pages Governance Decision-making processes and structures 11, 18, 20, 22 Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 21 Human rights Due diligence 21, 22, 40 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 21 Human rights risk situations 21 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 21, 62 Avoidance of complicity 21 collective bargaining; Resolving grievances 21 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 21 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 21, 58, 65 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 21 Civil and political rights 21 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 21, 58-61 Economic, social and cultural rights 21, 61 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 25-28, 41, 46-53 Fundamental principles and rights at work 21, 59-61 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 26, 40-41, 47-49, 54-55 Labor practices Employment and employment relationships 21, 58 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 32-35, 42-43 Conditions of work and social protection 21, 59-61 Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 40-41 Social dialogue 21, 62 Health and safety at work 21, 62 Human development and training in the workplace 59-60 The environment Prevention of pollution 25-28, 41, 51-53 Sustainable resource use 25-28, 47-50 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 25-28, 47-50, 54-55 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats 25-28, 41 Fair operating practices Anti-corruption 22-23 Responsible political involvement 22 Fair competition 21 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 22 Respect for property rights 65-67 Consumer issues Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 22-23 Protecting consumers' health and safety 40-41 Sustainable consumption 42-43 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 41 Consumer data protection and privacy 41 Access to essential services 41 Education and awareness 29, 82 Community involvement Community involvement 65-67 and development Education and culture 65-67 Employment creation and skills development 58-59 Technology development and access 65-67 Wealth and income creation 5 Health 65-67 Social investment 65-67 SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare Appendix Appendix 86 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Verification Report Sustainability Report TF Supervision Business Domain Environmental Performance Office of Corporate Culture Green Chemicals Climate Change & Energy Bae Jae-ho Bio-based Materials Team 1 Ulsan plant) Foreman’s Office SKMS Implementation Team Lee Jong-eun Kim Ik-hwan Kim Dong-beom Bio Energy Team SKMS Implementation Team Choi In-chang Resource Cycle Nam Kyung-soo Specialty Polymers Development Team Ansan plant) Management Team Lee Yong-gu Kim Dae-cheol Auto & Construction Materials Team Osan plant) Management Team SK chemicals Profile Kim Jae-woo Jeong Jae-ha Green Chemicals Planning Team Ulsan plant) Safety and Environment Team Company Overview Ryu Hyeon-sang Park Gyu-shik Corporate Relations Team Ulsan plant) Safety and Environment Team Jeong Jun-ho Life Science Park Jong-ryeol Life Science Strategy Planning Team Ulsan plant) Safety and Environment Team Financial Performance Kim Seon-ho Lim Gi-seung Accounting Team LS R&D Planning Team Cheongju plant) Administration Team Jo Gyeong-hun Jeong So-jin Park Seong-hun Governance Structure Product Liability Legal Affairs Team Marketing Supporting Team Social Commitment Kim Jeong-min Hwang Seon-gyo Drug Evaluation & Analysis Team Members Kim Taek-su Business Supporting Team Sustainability Overview Medical Information & Communication Team Kim Beom-gu Lee Dong-wook HR Team Human Rights Management Clinical Research Team Ryu Jin-su HR Team Park Ho-geun SKMS Implementation Team Ryu Jin-su Kang Ji-hun Ethical Management Business Partners SKMS Implementation Team Purchasing Team Lee Seong-wook Lee Jeong-won Fair Trade Local Communities Legal Affairs Team Corporate Relations Team Han Gyeong-hee Kim Gwang-hun Publication Information Publication date May, 2013. | Publisher SK chemicals +82-(0)2-2008-2008 | Publication director Sustainability Division, SKMS Implementation Team | Planning & Design Intonation +82-(0)2-3144-0133 SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2012 Healthcare & Earthcare The report is printed in soy ink on FSC-certified paper.
