Communication Implementing UN global compact principles in MRAI International DBA Grupo SEICI 2012 Grupo SEITSA-EH&S Consulting MRAI INTERNATIONAL LLC. S.A. DE C.V. Ingeniería, Consultoría y Dictamen en protección de incendios. 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that M R A I I n t e r n a t i o n a l D B A G r u p o S E I C I / S E I T S A reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Dante Noel Talavera Coriorilés Director Grupo SEITSA-EH&S Consulting MRAI INTERNATIONAL LLC. S.A. DE C.V. Ingeniería, Consultoría y Dictamen en protección de incendios. 2. MRAI International DBA Grupo SEICI MRAI International DBA Grupo SEICI/SEITSA was founded in September 1999, in order to further the interests of MRAI International, their owners and employees perform different services for the industry related to Environmental Health and Safety as well Fire Protection. The main objective it is to make sure their costumers comply with the Mexican Regulations regards Environmental, Safety and Health. 3 MRAI International DBA Grupo SEICI/SEITSA performs audits for compliance and potential opportunity areas for improvement, not only in its operations but also with all their customers and associates. MRAI International DBA Grupo SEICI/SEITSA has two main tasks as a business: • To assure Environment, Safety and Health customer compliance. • To assist any employee and company in order to improve their performance regards compliance, regarding environment, health and safety issues. Grupo SEITSA-EH&S Consulting MRAI INTERNATIONAL LLC. S.A. DE C.V. Ingeniería, Consultoría y Dictamen en protección de incendios. 3.0 Our approach to the 10 principles In 2011, MRAI International D B A G r u p o SEICI/SEITSA signed up for the UN Global Compact program. At that point, we could define three major stakeholders, which could guide the direction of our policy where we wanted to make a difference within the natural context of our business. These are: • People (employees and Associates) • Society (locally) • Customers (locally) In this connection, we decided to implement our initiatives in two stages. The first stage would thus concentrate on implementing initiatives within the organization to ensure that all members of staff understood UNs basic principles and ensure the willingness to implement sustainable solutions throughout the organization. The second stage would hereafter be directed at initiatives utside the secretariat, first towards our members, and later toward society, Associates and customers locally. To make sure that all initiatives were employee borne, we developed procedures and approach to our customer to let them know we implemented our procedures taking as a core of our commitment the following elements: Human Righs, Labour, Environment and Anti -Corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTICORRUPTION Grupo SEITSA-EH&S Consulting MRAI INTERNATIONAL LLC. S.A. DE C.V. Ingeniería, Consultoría y Dictamen en protección de incendios. 4.0 Contents of MRAI International DBA Grupo SEICI/SEITSA policy – year one The first set of CSR initiatives, which made sense in the context of our organization, has been initiatives concerning labor (employee rights) and environment. 4.1 The environment The environmental impact of a small business like ours and our scope to protect the environment we decided to develop internally an Environmental Management System based up on the International Standard ISO 14001. We evaluate our most relevant Aspects and Impacts to the environment, and set the following Targets, once they are achieved, we will continue to improve following the continuous improvement process. The Evaluation result in to main objectives: 1. To reduce the hazardous waste disposal resulting in the services we provide such Preventive Maintenance and Services from the Fire Protection division by 20% for 2013. 2. To acquire equipment to repair water tanks with out disposing the water by 2014. 3. To use only recycled paper for our internal printing, this will reduce the negative impact to the environment for the use of new printing paper. Goals We will continue to improve our better performance to assure “green” Operation How do we monitor and evaluate performances A team of employees performs and environmental periodic audits in order to evaluate our performance and commitment regards the environment, Health and Safety. Grupo SEITSA-EH&S Consulting MRAI INTERNATIONAL LLC. S.A. DE C.V. Ingeniería, Consultoría y Dictamen en protección de incendios. 4.2 Human Rights and health of the employees MRAI International DBA Grupo SEICI/SEITSA believes that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion. We have conducted a work place assessment, which showed a few areas of employee discontent. The findings were acted upon immediately to improve the satisfaction of the employees. In having a good working environment, lies also having good health. A bad working environment affects the health of the individual and vice versa – and both have an impact on employee well being and motivation. Some of the initiatives we have implemented thus aim at promoting and protecting our employees’ physical well being. The employee rights therefore include, ergonomic work place assessment, exposure, noise and chemical assessment as an employer we subsidized healthy lunch , fresh fruit and support to our employees with additional benefits such assistance and performance bonus. Goals It is our goal to have a high rate of employee satisfaction and low sickness absence and to respect and protect their rights. Monitoring and evaluating performances We recently hired one person that dialogues with the employees is deemed the best way of securing a good working environment and preventing stress. The management therefore has a responsibility of monitoring the employees well being, both on a regular basis and through the weekly meetings. Grupo SEITSA-EH&S Consulting MRAI INTERNATIONAL LLC. S.A. DE C.V. Ingeniería, Consultoría y Dictamen en protección de incendios. 4.3 Anticorruption MRAI International DBA Grupo SEICI/SEITSA makes sure that all employees follow our anticorruption policy , we evaluate our performance and ask directly to our customers by sending a survey if any of our employees has ever fall in any corruption act. • We assure that this policy is always followed. • We conducted on a regular basis person to person talk regards this policy. Grupo SEITSA-EH&S Consulting MRAI INTERNATIONAL LLC. S.A. DE C.V. Ingeniería, Consultoría y Dictamen en protección de incendios. 5.0 Future initiatives In 2013 and 2014 our main target will be directed towards our customers and associates. We are planning to: • Develop a presentation to encourage them to register within the global compact framework. • Set the agenda for diversity and encouraging equal opportunities in recruitment, training and promotion, especially for female employees. • Participate in the community with Non Profit organizations to promote in the society the UN Global Compact Program and their mainly principles. Grupo SEITSA-EH&S Consulting MRAI INTERNATIONAL LLC. S.A. DE C.V. Ingeniería, Consultoría y Dictamen en protección de incendios. CAMPAIGN TOWARDS CUSTOMERS and ASSOCIATES EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 7 Grupo SEITSA-EH&S Consulting MRAI INTERNATIONAL LLC. S.A. DE C.V. Ingeniería, Consultoría y Dictamen en protección de incendios. Paseo Gladiolas 96B Nogales, Sonora C.P. 84096 6313190720,6313190814 P.O. Box 581 Nogales Az, 85628 danskeadvokater.dk Grupo SEITSA-EH&S Consulting MRAI INTERNATIONAL LLC. S.A. DE C.V. Ingeniería, Consultoría y Dictamen en protección de incendios.
