SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 2 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Contents LETTER BY THE PRESIDENT 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT 6 0.1 OUR COMPANY 10 0.2 TAKING CARE OF OUR IMPACT IN THE ENVIRONMENT 26 0.3 CUSTOMER RELATIONS 44 0.4 OUR EMPLOYEES 58 0.5 COMMUNITY RELATION IN OUR REGION 70 0.6 2011 PERFORMANCE AND 2012 CHALLENGES 76 0.7 GRI INDEX AND GLOBAL IMPACT 78 INDEPENDENT VERIFICATION LETTER 92 Nowadays the investments are mainly aimed at renewing But we are at a turning point now. We decided to start Jorge 4 Lesser García-Huidobro and extending the drinking water and sewer networks, implementing the Strategic Plan for 2012-2017, which 5 President of the Board of Directors and we have invested more than 60 billion Chilean pesos means generating value for the community and the since 1999. It is important to highlight that in 2011, the shareholders in order to reach a sustainable growth. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT company made investments for 17,288 billion Chilean We think that it is essential to grow, adding value for pesos in the Region of Valparaíso, from which 12,081 residential customers and increase non-residential billion Chilean pesos were aimed at producing and customers by delivering customized solutions. All of this, distributing drinking water, which reflects what was certainly, being cost competitive. mentioned above. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In the medium term, our concern is to define and Another important point is that alongside the major implement the strategic priorities for the company, infrastructures, a community network was built, which including, among others, the continuous quality allowed direct communication not only with the improvement of the service we provide. Another aspect of authorities and customers, but also with all community utmost importance is continuing having and developing members, such as children, young, adults and elderly a regional leadership regarding environmental care. people and their intermediate organizations. In order to extend this network, in 2011 we decentralized some Our concern is also at working to become a company of our activities, and we started our campaign Agua that is valued for its ethics and consistency with its Sana Vida Sana in Las Cruces (El Tabo), San Antonio values and principles; and to be perceived as close and and Algarrobo. We also performed training seminars empathetic. for community leaders in Valparaíso, Viña del Mar and Quilpué, for the province of Marga Marga; while the We have been fulfilling a number of goals that we have Sustainability Report was submitted to the authorities set, but providing a service like ours is an effortful task and leaders of San Felipe and Los Andes. that requires daily accomplishments, and we renew this commitment in this time. In 2011, a great challenge was posed the regional drought for the third consecutive year. This situation Finally, I would like to reiterate our commitment with the led to a decreased water source levels, in some cases ten principles of the UN Global Compact, an initiative that dramatically. For example, Peñuelas reservoir, main gathers the institutions interested in advancing topics supplier for Curauma, Placilla and the upper areas of Playa of social responsibility and which Esval has undertaken Ancha, at the beginning of 2011, had 3.5 million liters, of since 2010. a total capacity of 95 million cubic meters; therefore, we had to double our human and material resources in order Join us in our commitment of striving for further to supply these communities. For this reason, we had to improvement and contribution for the regional and carry out works and deliver water from the production national development, by reading this document and LETTER BY THE PRESIDENT plants in Las Vegas, more than 100 kilometers away, or from Concón, around 50 kilometers away. sending us your comments. Therefore, one of the tasks for 2012 is ensuring enough Dear authorities, customers and neighbors: water supply for the communities we serve. Similarly, we will continue managing the impact of the different I am pleased to present our 4th Sustainability Report, which reveals the company processes of our productive activities. We also hope to management and actions and shows our progress in continuously improving the continue being valued for improving quality of life in the activities we perform. communities we serve and collaborate with the national and local authorities. As you already know, since the private administration took over in 1999, the company has focused specially on developing a series of essential works in order Jorge Lesser García-Huidobro to support the regional development and growth. More than 500 million dollars President of the Board of Directors were invested and 15 drinking water treatment systems were built, which enabled the total decontamination of rivers, streams and coastline. Similarly, 60 tanks were built to increase water accumulation capacity. 1. Sustainability reports benchmark: National sanitary companies were included to identify the main topics and aspects reported by the industry, as well as the better reporting practices. Each group of interest had the opportunity to put forward relevant topics other than those reported in 2010. 6 ABOUT THIS REPORT 2. Press media reviews: The objective was to know the relevant topics for the company and the industry, from the perspective of The results of the three previous processes were included in 7 a matrix which establishes the material topics and prioritize the public opinion related to sustainable the level of importance. For this, the relevancy given by This is the Fourth Sustainability Report by Esval, containing its economical, social List of Material Topics development. Press releases between SUSTAINABILITY REPORT the industry (considering press review and benchmarking) and environmental performance, according to the criteria and requirements January 1st and December 31st, 2011 were established by the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Report Guideline, to be Included in reviewed and analyzed. was contrasted with the level of importance given by the surveyed groups of interests. The results suggested the version G3.1. Similarly, this document is the first Communication on Progress (COP) under the commitment undertaken by Esval when signing the Global Agreement 2011 ESVAL 3. Consultation process of interest structure for this report and how thoroughly each topic is dealt with. in late 2010. Sustainability Report groups: Between September and October 2010, a structured process of consultation SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The contents of this document are only about Esval operations in the Region to groups of interests was carried out in order to receive feedback about 2010 report. of Valparaíso, and the period from January 1st and December 31st, 2011, unless otherwise is stated. For a better understanding, figures and data are for years 2009 In this opportunity the leaders of regional MATRIX FOR TOPIC PRIORITIZATION community unions and company workers and 2010, whenever it is possible to provide comparable data. were consulted through a face-to-face workshop. In addition, personal interviews There have been no significant changes in Esval’s size, structure and were carried out to seven opinion makers. property compared to the information provided last year. Similarly, the basis, preparation criteria and calculation methods have remained unchanged. If any indicator has been modified, it will be expressly indicated. Aspects PRINCIPLE FULFILLMENT Aspects suggested Identified through Odors and noise 1 IN THE CONTENT DEFINITION by the Interest Press Review Products / Services 2 High GI Groups Investment and 3 Dumping and overflow events 4 and Industry Relevance The content of this report was defined according to economical value GRI’s standard principles about relevance or materiality, (Community leaders, Contractors 9 context of sustainability and involvement of interest Workers and Opinion Customers 5 groups. Makers) Community 10 Environmental Investment 6 Occupational Health and Safety 7 In order to ensure the relevance of the information, the performance indicators were selected from a structured Energy 8 financial year, which was developed in three main phases. Solid waste 11 Legislation and Rates 12 Aspects Identified by Benchmark AVERAGE RELEVANCE FOR THE INDUSTRY Customer Information 13 Supplies 17 Atmospheric emissions 14 Suppliers 18 Biodiversity 15 Unions 19 Relation with workers 16 Charges in bills 21 Commitments and challenges 20 High GI Relevance and Low Industry Relevance PROMEDIO NIVEL DE RELEVANCIA PARA LOS GRUPOS DE INTERÉS FULFILLMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES Detailed information about how Esval responds to the additional expectations for ABOUT INFORMATION QUALITY information requested by the groups of interest which participated in the process for defining contents is included below. In order to take care of quality, accuracy, comparability and verifiability of the information included in this report, Esval was supported by an external consultant specialized in the GRI model. This support allowed accurate measurements, and 8 9 goals could be documented for the next year. RESPONSE LEVEL TOPICS / QUESTIONS PÁGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT IN THIS Each indicator referring to the economic, social and environmental performance REPORT of the company was prepared from data and technical calculations based on procedures confirmed by the national regulation and in line with internationally accepted standards. • Shortage of water / drought: what has been done and what is the Esval submitted this report to an independent external review, by consultant Environmental strategy for the future. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT company Gestión Social, who performed a structured process of verification performance • Provide more and better information which ratified fulfillment level B of the GRI’s standard. (see letter by verification about water as a resource shared with officers in pages 92 to 97). other industries. The document will be supplied in digital format, through 500 USB flash drives containing the complete version in Spanish. In addition, in order to guarantee access and wide communication a PDF version can be found in the company Social • Water quality: specify whether website www.esval.cl. performance variables such as color, odor and flavor and product 54-56 are beyond the norm. responsibility COMPANY CONTACT For Esval, this report is a tool to share the achievements and challenges with their main groups of interests, thus establishing a greater interaction with them. Social • Contractors: Detail criteria for To request more information or to make comments about to the contents of this performance assessing, selecting and monitoring 57 y 59 contractors. report, the interested people or institutions can contact: and labor practices Management: General Management Address: Cochrane 751, Valparaíso Telephone: (56-32) 2209341 Email: rsostenibilidad@esval.cl Economic • APR: Improve information about the drinking water systems in rural areas. 53 performance GRI STANDARD APPLICATION LEVEL Achieved C C+ B B+ A A+ Partly achieved OBLIGATORY Self declared Not Achieved Externally Externally Checked by third parties verified verified OPTIONAL Checked by GRI 10 0.1.1 11 WHO WE ARE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AND WHAT WE DO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ESVAL is company that produces and distributes drinking water. It was created in 1989 by the Chilean Economic Development Agency (Corfo) and the Chilean treasury. Private capitals entered in 1998. Other functions of Esval are sewage collection, treatment and disposal, in addition to services related to these activities. It has a system of publicly traded company and the quality of its work is supervised by the Superintendent of Sanitary Services (SISS, in Spanish.) Its operations cover almost all the Region of Valparaíso, where it has 536,420 customers for its water services, and 484,951 customers for sewage services. That is, 99.3% and 92.3% of the population within its concession area. Between the sanitary companies qualified as medium companies, it is the company with the greatest number of customers. SISS Report 2011 determined that the urban sanitary sector is made up by 57 firms which serve concession areas in the 15 Chilean regions. And they are divided in three categories, according to the number of customers: in large, medium and small companies. Esval is the first between medium companies and the third one within the total industry. To fulfill its mission, the company has a network of 4,504 kilometers of drinking water pipelines and 3,344 kilometers of sewers. In addition, 30 sewage treatment plants are operated. In 2011, Esval purified 100% of collected sewage. In total, its operation reached 170,315,000 m3 of drinking water to supply an urban population of 1,512,570 people. This process was done through its 50 drinking water plants, which are distributed in four sub management areas. MISSION Provide our customers with the best service, contribute with health, quality of life, preservation of the environment and regional development, also generating value for our investors. VISION 0.1 Fulfilling the mission will bring about that the company is valued and appreciated by its customers, workers, shareholders and society in general. The proposed objective is a constant harmony OUR among all these parties. COMPANY 1 CONCESSION 12 13 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AREA (1) The concession area of Esval includes urban areas of almost all communes of the 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Region of Valparaiso, except those from Panquehue, Olmué and Santo Domingo, in addition to the island territories of the region (that is, Easter Island and Juan Fernández). Outside its concession area, Esval fulfills interconnection and 3 administration contracts to supply drinking water to Algarrobo Norte, Mirasol and Brisas de Mirasol, in the commune of Algarrobo; and with an interconnection contract with Inmobiliaria Norte Mar, concessionaire of the Rodelillo area in the upper areas of Viña del Mar. * Area Outside the Concession 5 6 11. Petorca 3. 3 Los Andes 5. 5 Marga Marga 7. 7 San Antonio La Ligua San Esteban Limache Algarrobo Cabildo Rinconada Villa Alemana Casablanca Papudo Calle Larga Quilpué El Quisco Zapallar El Tabo Cartagena 22. San Felipe 4 Quillota 6. 6 Valparaíso San Antonio (1) According to article 53 of the General Act on Sanitary Services, “the concession area is the geographic area delimited in territorial Putaendo Nogales Puchuncaví extension and coast, where it is obligatory to provide service for Santa María La Cruz Quintero the concessionaries to distribute drinking water and collect waste Catemu La Calera Concón water”. Llay Llay Hijuelas Viña del Mar 7 * Area Outside the Concession REGULATED AREA The sanitary firms have status of “natural monopolies”, since they are the only QUALITY, ENVIRONMENT, 14 companies of their kind in their concession areas. The rates are fixed by the Superintendence of Sanitary Services, through the Law of Rates of Sanitary Services (Law Force Decree No. 70, of Ministry of Public Works, 1988) and OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY 15 AND HEALTH POLICY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Regulation (Supreme Decree No. 453 of the Ministry of Economy, 1989). The rates are established every five years, through a procedure in which the Superintendence and the Sanitary Companies are involved. The calculation is made based on a model company, considering the costs and required expenses, Esval S.A. incorporates process quality, environmental protection and preservation and rejecting inefficient data that the real company may have. The current rates and occupational safety and health management, by adopting the following SUSTAINABILITY REPORT fixed in 2010 will be kept until 2015. commitments. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS In 2011, Esval obtained the re-certification of its Integrated Management System: ISO 9001: 2008 (Quality Management System); OHSAS 18: 2007 (Occupational Safety and Health Management System); and ISO 14.001: 2004 (Environmental Management System). These certificates are for three years, although subject to quarterly approval and revision by independent and certified institutions. Deliver Contribute the best service for all customers, providing to the integrated watershed management and the community health, life quality and regional coastline, and to the sustainable development of the development. region of Valparaíso, through active participation in related instances that are generated, thus improving Fulfill its inhabitants’ life quality. the law, regulations and voluntary commitments subscribed by the organization. Prefer the use of better environmental and safety practices Adopt with the available technologies, associated to the a continuous improvement strategy in the processes services provided by the organization. developed by the company. The successful fulfillment of this policy entails the Prevent contribution of all company’s departments. The administration is responsible for promoting and making contamination, reduce waste generation, recycle and it known. dispose of it adequately. Prevent work-related injuries and diseases that may affect our workers and interested parties. (1) Según el artículo 53 de la Ley General de Servicios Sanitarios, “el área de concesión es el área geográfica delimitada en extensión territorial y costa, donde existe obligatoriedad de servicio para las concesionarias de distribución de agua potable y de recolección de aguas servidas”. 16 0.1.2 In order to revise how the business is running and ensure the achievement of the company’s objectives, Esval has two executive committees as internal administration: 17 CORPORATE The Integrated Management System Committee, led by the general manager and integrated by the managers of each area, the internal auditor and those responsible SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOVERNMENT for the Environmental, Quality and Occupational Health and Safety areas. It meets every six months to ensure the continuous efficiency in the subjects mentioned. AND ETHICS Similarly, there is an Economic Committee, which must approve within certain limits the award of public and private tenders that given their amount do not require ETHICAL CODE approval by the Board of Directors and payments in the different areas, and safeguard SUSTAINABILITY REPORT that said values agree with the budget approved by the Company. They meet on a AND ITS MANAGEMENT weekly basis, and the Operations, Administration and Finance, Human Resources and Esval is controlled by a group integrated by Sociedad Inversiones OTPPB Chile Trade and Development managers are present as members. Since 2008, Esval has a Code of Ethical LImitada and Mareco Holdings Corp., holder of 94.21% of shares. The Chilean Conduct, which has been published in the Economic Development Agency owns 5% of the company. This situation goes intranet and internal bulletins. Its purpose is back to July 15th, 2011, when Corfo transferred 24.43% of Esval shares to OTPPB to guide the employee’s behavior according Chile Ltda., retaining only 5%. At that time, the shares were sold at a value of to the corporate philosophy. The code CLP0.029 Chilean pesos per Esval share The State received a total amount of 564 defines the channels of enquiry and report, million dollars after selling its participation in Esval and Essbio. such as the Integrity Help Line or intranet section “Integral Esval”. Esval S.A. has a well defined internal structure. The higher authority is the Board of Directors (see chart with members), which, in order to cover its main functions, is All reports are reserved and private; divided in two committees: information and statement are confidential. In 2011, three enquiries and two reports A) Internal Committee of Regulation and Related Operations, integrated were received through the different by at least three directors. It follows the guidelines announced by the Board of Directors and is not regulated by article 50 bis of Act No. 18,046, of Limited channels. BOARD MEMBERS Liability Companies. Its functions are: Jorge Lesser García-Huidobro, 1. Analyze the modifications proposed by the sector norms. Chairman 2. Examine and report to the Board of Directors the background information about the operations referred to by Title XVI of the law of José Ignacio Parot Becker, Public Companies. Vice-President 3. Analyze the report of external auditors, balance and other financial statements presented by the administrators to the shareholders and report all of this to the Board of Directors. VALUES DIRECTORS 4. Propose external auditors and private risk classifiers. 5. Study and report about remunerations and compensation plans of Olivia Penélope Steedman managers and main executives. • Cordiality, kindness, closeness Stacey Leanne Purcell 6. Analysis of any other matter proposed by the Board of Directors. and respect. Juan Pablo Armas MacDonald • Technical and service excellence. Alejandro Ferreiro Yazigi B) Committee of Tender Award and Contracts, also formed by three members Nicolás Navarrete Hederra • Proactivity, creativity and of the Board of Directors, whose function is to revise and propose the tender award and other contracts entrusted by the same Board, together with the General innovation. Management and other departments related with that tender. The members • Coherence, accuracy and MAIN EXECUTIVES of the Tender Award Committee and remuneration are freely designated by transparency. the Board of Directors. Similarly, the internal regulation committee and related General Manager • Modesty and austerity. Rodrigo Azócar Hidalgo, operations are established annually at an Ordinary Meeting of Shareholders. George Seal Comte, Operations Manager • Commitment with the Sergio Pinto Fernández, Human Resources Manager community. Domingo Tapia Navarro, Legal Manager Leonel Fuentes Espinoza, Engineering Manager Agustín Benavente Font de la Vall, Administration and Finance Manager Francisco Ottone Vigorena, Planning and Studies Manager Mauricio Coll Olivares, Trade and Development Manager ORGANIZATIONAL CHART 18 Board of directors 0.1.3 19 CHALLENGES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT General Management FOR INDUSTRY SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Use and human consumption of fresh water is a finite resource and its renewal depends on a joint effort between human beings and the environment. Therefore, Public Corporate Internal several international organizations related to the United Nations Organization, such Relationships Management Audit as Unicef (2), FAO (3), PNUD (4), PNUMA (5), OMS (6), ONUDI (7), among others, consider water as the main topic of concern. The fact that two out of the eight Millennium Objectives (2000)(8), incorporate implicitly and explicitly the importance of water shows water management is a Trade and Planning challenge for human development. Objective No. 1 Eradicate Extreme Poverty and Hunger; and Objective No. 7 Guarantee Environment Sustainability(9). Development Operations and Studies Management Management Management Additionally, in 2003, the first report of the United Nations on the Development of World Water Resources(10) was prepared and posed 11 challenges to ensure access to water for most of the world population, a key matter when realizing that humanity reached seven billion people and the climate change effects are threatening the water resource. Human R Administration Engineering esources and Finance Legal Later, the United Nation Environment Program (UNEP) in report GEO-4, 2007 stated Management Management Management Management that water was one of the seven fundamental environmental problems faced by the planet. And more recently, in July 2010, the UN General Assembly recognized access to drinking water as a basic human right. The global context of water management and availability has direct implications, both challenges and opportunities, for the world sanitary industry. According to recent studies, 18% of the world population does not have access to safe drinking (2) http://www.unicef.org/spanish/ (3) http://www.fao.org/index_es.htm water sources. In developing countries, between 90% and 95% of waste water and (4) http://www.undp.org/content/ 70% of industrial waste are dumped without being treated, thus contaminating undp/es/home.html usable water reserves(11). (5) http://www.pnuma.org/ (6) http://www.who.int/es/ In view of the Chilean situation of water, particularly in the Region of Valparaíso, Esval (7) http://www.unido.org/index. php?id=1001968 has provided further consideration, projection and proposals about the contribution (8) The millennium objectives that a responsible sanitary company can perform. are eight proposals of human development established in 2000, After identifying the main economic, social and environmental challenges, strategic that 193 member countries of the United Nations agreed action plans have been proposed for each of them. The following can be mentioned, to achieve by 2015. among others: generate an innovation culture for sustainable water management (9) www.beta.undp.org/content/ together with universities and technological centers; permanently seek the efficiency undp/es/home.html in the system operation and reduce water loss throughout the process; mitigate and (10) http://unesdoc.unesco.org/ adapt the consequences of global warming; ensure access to drinking water and its images/0012/001295/129556s.pdf (11) www.cinu.org.mx/eventos/ treatment for rural and low income population, among other initiatives. conferencias/johannesburgo/medios/ carpeta/agua.htm 0.1.4 PARTICIPATION OF ESVAL IN THE PREPARATION ESVAL AND GROUPS 20 OF AN INTERNATIONAL STANDARD FOR SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST 21 AND IMPACT OF WATER RESOURCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Esval has defined its essential groups of interest and the communication channels The Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) (12), is a global platform to develop an with them. International Certification Program for Water Sustainable Management. It is voluntary and directed to those users and operators pursuing efforts to reduce the impact on water resources. For that effect, AWS has established the World Water Communication, Dialogue and/or Groups of Interest SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Round Table (WRT), an open and multisector process, inclusive and transparent, Involvement Mechanism that will facilitate the preparation of the International Water Stewardship Standard, as a previous step to reach certification. Collective Negotiation Processes (every two years) The Alliance for Water Stewardship in Latin America and the Caribbean (WASPerformance Assessment ALC) is the regional AWS initiative and is made up by FEMSA Foundation; Water Workers Intranet Periodic Publications Center for Latin America and the Caribbean (CAALCA), The Nature Conservancy, Website www.esval.cl WWF and Fundación Chile. In 2011, a series of workshops took place in the region for input generation based on the analysis of elements and concepts of water “Agua Sana, Vida Sana” Campaign sustainability(13). In the second meeting of the Regional Forum, carried out in the Presentations in schools city of Monterrey, Mexico, a professional from Esval participated together with Educational workshops representatives from Costa Rica, Colombia, Ecuador, Brazil and Mexico. Activities at centers of seasonal workers' children Community Door-to-door activities Public Events (12) www.allianceforwaterstewardship.org Health Program (13) International Water Stewardship Standard (IWSS). Website www.esval.cl Satisfaction Surveys Call Center for Customers Customers Commercial offices Website www.esval.cl Shareholders Annual Financial Statement and financial Periodic Financial Statements market Website www.esval.cl Procedure for selection and assessment Suppliers of critical suppliers Website www.esval.cl Internships for students, technical visits Students to premises, professional certification projects, and academy research projects Website www.esval.cl Annual financial Statement, Periodic Publications. Authorities Active participation with governors, mayors, council members, UNCOs, etc. Regulators Periodic Management Reports and supervisors Active participation in trade Politics and Trade and regional organizations. Organizations Periodic Publications Website www.esval.cl 0.1.5 AWARDS During the period, Esval was recognized by the following organizations: • Regional Chamber of Commerce Valparaíso, for its • The Municipality of Villa Alemana, for its distinguished 0.1.6 22 25 years as member of the institution and for its renown entrepreneurial trajectory in benefit of the participation in the city’s First Employment Fair. “Generation of employment opportunities, our ECONOMIC 23 PERFORMANCE economic and social development of the region commitment”. and the nation. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MEMBERSHIP All the management offices are responsible for fulfilling the economic Esval, since the end of 2010, participates in the Global Compact platform, with performance objectives of Esval. The Management of Administration more than 6,200 members around the world. It is one of the main forums and Finance is in charge of measuring the degree of fulfillment by SUSTAINABILITY REPORT about social responsibility. The company committed to support the Global each area and providing regular information about its work. Compact’s ten principles, which consider the respect for human and work rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption measures, in addition to report on In 2011, the net income of the company totaled CLP89,478 million, 7.3% a yearly basis about its activities on social responsibility. more than CLP83,384 million in 2010. The net profits were CLP15,354 million, 11.2% less than CLP17,293 million from the previous year. Esval also participates as member in the following social institutions: (14) www.untechoparachile.cl • Consulting Council for Techo para Chile(14). (15) www.crcpvalpo.cl (16) www.cchc.cl The result was mainly influenced by the non-operational component, which • Regional Chamber of Commerce (CRCP)(15). (17) www.andess.cl decreased in 35.1%, from CLP9,467 million in 2010 to CLP12,789 million in 2011, • Chilean Chamber of Construction, Valparaiso Region(16). (18) www.aidis.cl which responds to an increased revaluation of the financial debt in comparison to the • National Association of Companies of Sanitary Services (Andess)(17). (19) www.aepa.cl previous year. In December 2011, the UF increased in 3.9% versus the 2.4% increase in • Inter-American Association of Sanitary and Environmental Engineering (AIDIS)(18). (20) www.alhsudchile.cl 2010. This was partially counteracted by a better operational performance, increasing • Association of Companies and Professionals (21) www.asiva.cl the EBITDA (22) of the company in CLP907 million (2.0% more than the previous year). for the Environment (AEPA)(19). • Latin American Association of Subterranean Hydrology for Development (ALHSUD)(20). • Industrial Association of the Region of Valparaíso 2011 INVESTMENT (ASIVA)(21). During this year, the company continued extending the production and • Chamber of Commerce and Tourism of Valparaiso. distribution services of drinking water, sewage collection and treatment, as well • Chamber of Tourism of the as maintaining assets. For this, investments for CLP17,288 million were made in Region of Valparaiso. the Region of Valparaiso. 2009-2011 INVESTMENT Investments 2009 2010 2011 (in million Chilean pesos each year) Drinking water production and distribution 9,866 12,347 12,081 Sewage Collection 3,152 4,291 3,546 Sewage Treatment 1,337 972 282 Other investments 2,099 1,030 1,379 Total investments 16,454 18,640 17,288 (22) EBITDA is calculated as Income from ordinary activities minus Expenses in raw materials and consumables used, Expenses for benefits for employees and other Expenses, by type, included in the Financial Statements. PROJECTS ADDED VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED 2009-2011 (24) The drinking water main duct in Alemania avenue was renewed, between Las Cañas hill and Mariposas hill, which is 2,678 meters long. The tasks required an investment for 1,741 million Chilean pesos. Value creation (1) 2009 2010 2011 24 With an investment higher than 754 million Chilean pesos, the San Antonio25 Algarrobo drinking water conducting system was also reinforced. The work Income (2) 87.806 87.620 93.365 consisted of renewing and extending a concrete duct segment, 700 millimeters, SUSTAINABILITY REPORT which was replaced with a steel pipeline, 900 and 800 mm, with a total length of 1,247 lineal meters. These works respond to the need of extending the drinking Minus distributed economic value: water transportation capacity from San Antonio to Algarrobo to support the Operational costs -46,299 -45,619 -50,463 urban growth and respond to the higher demand for drinking water in summer. With this work, availability of drinking water increased in 15% for South Shoreline. Purchase of goods -11,185 -10,715 -11,993 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Payment of contracted services -19,068 -18,768 -22,294 It should be noted that an agreement was signed with the Program for Recovering Other operational costs -16,047 -16,136 -16.175 and Developing the city of Valparaiso(23) (PRDUV), the Municipality of Valparaiso, Serviu and Esval to develop the Project for Improving Public Spaces in Alegre Payment for workers -7,579 -7,698 -7,952 hill and Concepción hill. As requested by the authorities, Esval advanced in six Payments to capital providers -34,096 -34,656 -35,460 (1) Constructed based on accrued value. years investments for more than 500 million Chilean pesos, in order to replace (2) It includes Operational income, Financial Dividends -20,153 -22,488 -22,364 the drinking water main ducts and sewers of this heritage hills. During this year, income and other non-operational income. several paving works were financed, improving rain water sewers, lighting and (3) Includes 1st Category Income Tax. Category, Debt interests -13,942 -12,168 -13,096 landscape, with contributions from the Inter-American Development Bank (BID) Tax over disallowed Expenses, Trade Patents, Payment to Treasury (3) -1,355 -625 -934 Contributions, Seals and stamps, and others. The decision to join the urban renovation with a modern sanitary infrastructure It does not include: Deferred taxes. Investments in the community (4) -212 -218 -215 will promote tourism and service sector in these historical Valparaiso city quarters. (4) It includes donation and Agua Sana campaign expenses , registered under the concept Retained economic value -1,734 -1,195 -1,659 Similarly, the drinking water conduction system La Viuda-Villa Italia was carried Corporate Image. out in a segment between the La Viuda Bajo tank and bypass Los Romos in Llo(24) Figures for years 2009, 2010 and 2011 under IFR standars, in million Chilean pesos each year. Lleo sector. The structure is 1,247 meters long. This work was performed in 180 days and costed 666 million Chilean pesos. Increase of drinking water production capacity in South Shoreline. DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE 2009-2011 VALUE CREATION The design and construction of the project to increase the drinking water production capacity in the South Coastline was performed in 150 days and In this period, the economic value generated 110% cost 675 million Chilean pesos. The drinking water production plant of San Juan by Esval was 93,365 million Chilean pesos OPERATIONAL Llo-Lleo is located in the north bank of Maipo river, approximately 6 kilometers and the distributed value was 94,186 million 100% COSTS Chilean pesos, which meant a loss in the 2009 2010 2011 from the outlet. The work consisted of extending the drinking water treatment capacity of the plant from its current design capacity of 750 liters per second to added value creation of 1,659 million Chilean 90% PAYMENT 930 liters per second. This large-scale project considered the construction of three pesos, mainly due to increased operational TO TREASURY costs, because of the drought. 80% new filtering units, the improvement of 11 existing filtering units, extending the filtering systems for production of drinking water, extending the pre and post 70% 52.7% 52.1% 54% In terms of the distributed value, it can be DEBT chlorination systems of the interconnection ducts with existing filters and the INTERESTS electrical works associated. ascertained that the company operation 60% generates value for its suppliers of goods and services, contractors, workers, shareholders 50% COMMUNITY and financial creditors, community and 1.5% 0.7% 1.0% Chilean Treasury. 40% 15.9% 13.9% 14.0% (23) www.prduv.cl 0.2% PAYMENT 30% 0.2% 8.8% 0.2% TO WORKERS 8.6% 8.5% 20% 23.0% 25.7% 24.0% DIVIDEND 10% 0% RETAINED -2.0% -1.4% -1.8% ECONOMIC -10% VALUE 0.2.1 26 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT IMPACT MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Esval activities begin with ground water extraction and surface water catchment in order to purify it and produce high quality drinking water. Then it is distributed to the customer households. Similarly it collects and treats waste water. To preserve water, an essential natural resource, Esval has a quality, environmental, occupational health and safety policy, especially concerned on protecting and preserving the environment. This vision is materialized by preventing contamination, reducing waste, contributing to the integrated watershed management and applying better environmental practices. In order to be responsible for its impacts, Esval classified them according to the different productive activities of its process. 0.2 TAKING CARE OF OUR IMPACT IN THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 The follow-up and control of all environmental programs of Esval depend directly MAIN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS on the Environmental representative of the Integrated Management System OF ESVAL PROCESS (SIG). At the operative level, the management offices of Operations, Engineering, 30 Administration and Finance, Trade and Development, Human Resources and 31 Corporate Management Area work every day and together with the General DRINKING WATER • Management to fulfill the norms and quality, environment and occupational SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Poor water quality due to shortage of chemical products. PRODUCTION PROCESS • Damage to community due to service interruption. health and safety policies. • Damage to community due to delivery of water outside the standard. • Atmospheric contamination due to chlorine gas leakage. Each management office performs the environmental policy and supervises its • Damage to the community due to chlorine gas leakage. fulfillment according to its responsibility area. The results are presented every six • Poor air quality due to fuel inflammation. months to the Committee of Quality, Environment and Occupational Health and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Ecosystem alteration due to use of natural resource. Safety. The Environmental Management System (EMS) is part of the Integrated System DRINKING WATER • Drinking water contamination due to sewage infiltration in network repair. of the Environmental, Quality and Occupational Health and Safety, implemented DISTRIBUTION PROCESS • Damage to the community due to sewage infiltration in network repair. in 2008(25). It covers the production and distribution of drinking water, as well as • Community disruptions due to drinking water spill after tank overflow the collection and treatment of sewage, including its commercialization and due to system failure. supporting processes for service provision. • Loss of drinking water due to spill after tank overflow due to system failure. • Community disruptions due to drinking water service interruption. The principles of the Environmental Management System are included in the • Damage to the community caused by gas leakage due to interference Integrated Management System Policy (IMS). This IMS was recertified this year with pipelines from other services. under standards ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001, with validity until July • Damage to the community due to drinking water service interruption 4th, 2014. due to operational failure. The milestones of 2011 for Esval were the end of the regularization process before the Superintendence of Electricity and Fuels (SEC, in Spanish) of the fuel SEWAGE COLLECTION • Water contamination due to sewage spill after unblocking storage tanks and the beginning of the regularization process of environmental PROCESS housing units and sewers. liabilities(26). • Damage to property due to sewage spill after unblocking housing units and sewers. For 2012, the main challenges for the company are preparing a waste managing • Community disruptions due to sewage spill after unblocking sewers. program, in order to be implemented between 2013 and 2015, and the calculation • Community disruptions due to service interruption due of the carbon footprint, in order to prepare plans to reduce it. to interference with other services. • Damage to the community caused by gas leakage due to interference with pipelines from other services. • Road obstruction due to usage of public ways. (25) The policy for quality, environmental, and Occupational Health and Safety is on page 19 in this report. • Poor air quality due to fuel inflammation in hydrocarbon storage. (26) Environmental liability: Geographical area contaminated by the release of materials, unknown or random waste, which were not opportunely treated and continue causing negative effects to the • Beach contamination due to sewage spills. environment. SEWAGE TREATMENT • Water contamination due to sewage spills. PROCESS • Poor soil quality due to sewage spill. • Soil contamination due to fuel spill. • Poor air quality due to fuel inflammation. • Community disruptions due to attraction of disease vectors. • Atmospheric contamination due to chlorine gas leakage. • Damage to the community due to chlorine gas leakage. • Community disruptions due to odor generation. 0.2.2 0.2.3 ENVIRONMENTAL EMISSIONS INVESTMENT 32 33 The operational processes at Esval release some emissions to the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT atmosphere, which are registered to then be treated adequately. The main emissions from Esval process are detailed below: In 2011, Esval pursued to adequate its practices against the environmental regulation and prepare for the IMS recertification process. Within this line, the Odors: main investments for the environment this year were: Emissions produced mainly at sewage and drainage treatment plants. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Noise: ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS From plants and pumping stations for drinking water and sewage. PER TYPE 2010-2011 (MCLP) Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2, methane and others): They are emitted at drinking water and sewage plants and stations Investments 2010 2011 having diesel generators. After the company has correctly identified these emissions, it uses the existing Improved alarms for drinking water chlorination systems. 29,182 protocols to mitigate any event. Mitigation works for noise pollution 29,140 10,325 Chemical product spill containment. 42,038 Improved fuel storing tanks 52,953 54,418 Improved water chlorination systems. 47,973 51,625 Improved water fluoridation system. 41,300 ODOR MANAGEMENT Works to correct the Integrated Management System. 59,026 30,975 Total 260,312 188,643 Odor emission is the most common complaint by the community about Esval management. These emissions are mainly due to the sewage treatment process. Source: Esval Operations Management. The objective of the company is to mitigate community disruptions, through the following strategies. • Mitigating systems to contain or diminish odor-bearing gases, such as gas scrubbing with sodium hydroxide and hypochlorite, administering neutralizers to prevent these compounds, or odor masking with smells tolerated by community. • Activated carbon filters in air exhaust outlets in sewage treatment systems. The company performs a preliminary monitoring and regular supervisions of the gas concentration (ammonia, sulfhydric acid and mercaptans) in sewage pumping stations, in preliminary treatment plants (pipelines) and at specific locations in the drainage system, in order to detect emission of bad odors and prevent potential community disruption. In addition, the company performs network cleaning, follow-up of liquid industrial waste spill, and in some cases, chemical product and essential oil applications. In order to verify the fulfillment of the noise emission standard, the pumping systems and treatment plants with generators are regularly measured. When a noise complaint is received, it is recorded at costumer service and referred to the involved operational areas, and later, the corresponding solution is 34 proposed and implemented. In addition, the detection of possible infractions that 35 require mitigation measures is also performed through a self-control program of Esval has an open-door policy in terms of community complaints regarding bad noise emission. Similarly, the complaints are verified with direct measurements SUSTAINABILITY REPORT odors. The complaint is received through costumer service and is referred to the against the regulation. involved operational areas, and later, the corresponding solutions are proposed and implemented. Often specific problems are dealt with, which are resolved In 2011, 17 events for noise emissions were recorded, while in 2010 there were while the complaint is being handled, allowing the complainants to visit the eight. premises. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The number of events per plant due to bad odors received in 2011 was 15, a 50% reduction compared to 2010, when 29 complaints were recorded for plant. However, an important event is noted in the sewage treatment plant of El Molino in Quillota, where members of the nearby population have declared directly and through the city authorities that the plant produces unpleasant odors at least GREENHOUSE occasionally. In 2011 the first stage of measures to remove odors was completed, GAS EMISSIONS which significantly minimized the emissions. The second stage will continue in 2012. The activities at Esval require continuous power supply. Therefore, in case of mains power failure, the company can generate its own electricity by means of backup diesel generators. Diesel combustion releases the following pollutants: CO, NOx, NOISE MANAGEMENT SOx, COV (volatile organic compound), NH3, PTS and PM-10 (total suspended particulates). Noise pollution management is carried out in order to comply with supreme In 2011, the following sound proofing tasks decree No. 146/97 by the Ministry General Secretariat of the Presidency. This were performed: To date, Esval has not prepared any specific study about methane emissions decree establishes the standard of noise emission from fixed sources and defines during the treatment process. However, measurement of carbon footprint is the maximum allowed levels of corrected sound pressure and technical criteria • Soundproofing of generator shed in expected to begin in 2012, and then its impact will be ascertained within the to assess and rank noise emission from fixed sources to the community, such as Sewage Pumping Stations, 93, Blanco, total greenhouse gas emissions released by the company. industrial, commercial, leisure, artistic or other activities. Valparaiso. An estimated calculation of these pollutant emissions for 2011 is shown in the Esval carried out the necessary tasks to comply with this regulation, through • Soundproofing of pumping room in following table: soundproofing existing sheds or pumping rooms or generators that were Drinking Water Pumping Stations, Pedro breaching the legislation. Montt, Quilpué. TOTAL EMISSIONS ESTIMATED BY ESVAL GENERATORS (T/YEAR) 2009-2011(*) Estimated MP MP10 MP2,5 CO NOX COV SOX NH3 CO2 pollutant Emission (t/year) 3.42 1.72 0.41 10.52 48.71 3.87 2.58 0.085 1,897 2009 Emission (t/year) 3.16 1.64 0.39 10.06 46.56 3.70 2.47 0.081 1,814 2010 Emission (t/year) 4.63 2.32 0.56 14.24 65.91 5.23 3.50 0.115 2,567 2011 (*) The emission factors used for the estimates are those established in the “Methodological Guide for estimating atmospheric emissions of fixed and movable sources in the Emission and Pollutant transference Registry”, prepared by CONAMA; in 2009, in coordination with the Ministry of Health and SECTRA of the Ministry of Planning. The methodology proposed by the authority was used, being an indirect way to validate the emissions based on the fuel consumption, when no direct measurements of atmospheric emissions can be carried out. 0.2.4 BIODIVERSITY AND WATER CATCHMENT 36 WATER AND BIODIVERSITY In the process of water extraction for producing drinking water, the company 37 does not perform a specific study to quantify its possible biodiversity impact, whether for the biotic (human health, flora and fauna) or physical environments. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The activities at Esval are directly related with different natural sources of water: The company will assess in the future the need to carry out these studies. canals, rivers, streams, springs, ground basins and reservoirs. The company has a detailed record of water production classified by source. However, it is very concerned about preserving some of the water source areas, with important diversity, such as Peñuelas lake and Poza Azul catchment(27). In 2011, Esval produced 170,314,615 m3 of drinking water, which is in turn equal EIn these areas, the company actively promotes the preservation of the natural to total water consumption per year. Of this total, 95,314,775 m3 are from surface conditions, forbidding activities endangering these areas. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT waters and 74,999,840 m3 from ground waters. The National Reserve of Peñuelas lake was declared Biosphere Reserve by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco), WATER PRODUCTION 2009-2011 IN M3 because this territory is an ecosystem that represents central Chile. In order to respect this biodiversity, Esval decided to minimize water extraction from this source. To compensate, water is obtained from the Drinking Water Production Production in m3 2009 2010 2011 System of Las Vegas. Although in the Region of Valparaiso there is no formal authority for basin Surface water extraction 87,825,138 94,152,360 95,314,775 management, Esval maintains regular contact with the sector authorities as well Ground water extraction 73,659,139 76,469,177 74,999,840 as organizations of users of the basins to coordinate actions to ensure taking full advantage of the available water resources. Total extraction 161,484,277 170,621,537 170,314,615 (27) The characteristics of Peñuelas lake and Poza Azul were presented in depth in report 2008. Source: Esval Operations Management. As 2011 was a year of drought in the Region of Valparaiso, Esval has to adopt several measures to keep a normal supply of drinking water for its customers. These measures included investments to extend and improve the production capacity: • Opening new supply sources, such as ground basins. • Assessing the possibility of installing a desalination plant in the north of the region. • Special works for drought (purchasing water from third parties, well renting, opening new sources of supply, extending water ducts, supplying the network with drinking water through water trucks). • Signing agreements with organizations of users to take full advantage of the available water resources. • Coordinating with the authorities the establishment of shortage areas if appropriate. BIODIVERSITY AND SEWAGE TREATMENT The power generators existing in water and sewage treatment plants and stations consumed 672 m3 of diesel in 2011, which, compared to 2010 consumption of 693 m3, represents a 2.9% decrease of fuel consumption. This is due to the less The sewage treatment plants owned and operated by Esval have made it possible use of backup equipment during peak hours, thanks to a special yearly contract to keep watercourses unaffected by waste water spills, maintaining the biodiversity 38 signed with the respective electricity distributor. 39 conditions in the Region of Valparaiso. It has been attested through an Environment Monitoring Program that underwater sewers, containing water without biological SUSTAINABILITY REPORT treatment, have a minimum and marginal impact, since it is restricted to the immediate seabed area where the waters are discharged(28). DIRECT CONSUMPTION OF PRIMARY ENERGY M3/AÑO 2009-2011 In 2011(29) the environment monitoring programs continued as in previous years and the results are within the expected parameters. 2009 2010 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sewage is treated with the highest standards. Thus, Esval complies with the Chilean legislation, which requires that 100% of the treated water directed to rivers and streams can also be reused for irrigation. Diesel consumption m3 / year 724 692 672 (30) Source: Esval Operations Management. TREATED WATERS THAT CAN BE REUSED M3/YEAR 2009-2011 DIRECT CONSUMPTION OF SECONDARY ENERGY SOURCES 2009 2010 2011 In order to maintain energy efficiency, Esval selects water pumps of greater efficiency allowing lower energy consumption. Due to the drought, the Treated waters that can be reused m3/year 35,883,069 36,364,563 36,075,025 use of this type of machine has increased. Source: Esval Operations Management. In the following table, the annual energy consumption is classified according to its use in the production processes and drinking water distribution, sewage collection and treatment, and offices and 0.2.5 facilities. ENERGY DIRECT CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRICITY M3/AÑO 2009-2011 Esval uses energy from primary sources, such as diesel for generators, as well as secondary sources, power from electricity suppliers. 2009 kWh 2010 kWh 2011 kWh DIRECT CONSUMPTION Drinking water production and distribution 70,438,689 77,370,578 77,509,262 OF PRIMARY ENERGY SOURCES Sewage collection and treatment 30,039,078 29,739,318 31,116,836 Offices and facilities outside the processes 1,198,850 1,177,492 1,133,098 The stable power generator groups are only used at peak hours of the electrical Total kWh 101,676,617 108,287,388 108,626,098 system. The power generators do not have the technology to record the amount of energy generated. The total electricity consumption in 2011 for drinking water and sewage related activities was 108,626,098 Kwh, while in 2010 it was 108,287,388 Kwh. (28) Thus, Esval is measuring the biodiversity impact in benthos near discharge sewers to seawater bodies. (29) To obtain a thorough list of the organizations involved in the environment monitoring programs and the places where the monitoring is performed, refer to 2009 Sustainability Report http://portal.esval.cl/ To date the company has not carried out studies about the potential use of noncomunidad/anteriores/ conventional sources of energy (ERNC in Spanish). (30) This figure excludes 308 m3 of diesel used in wells in Llay Llay. 0.2.6 SPILLS 40 SEWER OVERFLOW EVENTS 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sewage overflow and spills in public roads can occur due to problems in the In 2011, 603 blocked drain events on average over a month took place with system, misuse, as well as structural damage caused by third parties or natural overflow on public roads and/or customers’ houses, which increased the numbers disasters. In the event of an emergency of this type, the following measures are of records in comparison to 530 block drains on average over a month in 2010 applied according to characteristics of the particular case: (32). This increase was due to system misuse by users and actions by third parties. 1. Sewage spill inside houses: Following an assessment by Esval the affected SUSTAINABILITY REPORT area is cleaned, disinfected and dried. 2. Sewage spill in roads: In these cases, the sector is cleaned with a water truck(31) or using nearby hydrants EMERGENCY EVENTS 3. Sewage spills on the ground: The spill is contained and sewage is transported FOR CHEMICAL PRODUCTS to locations defined by Esval. In 2011, two emergency events related to chemical products took place, 4. Emergencies affecting surface water body: Actions are taken as the case may which can be classified as isolated, considering that Esval heavily uses these be, with measures as follows: products throughout its production process all year round. The first one occurred in the sewage pumping station of Isla Negra, after • Sewage dilution with drinking water: • Lime application on land affected by sodium hypochlorite was discharged through a leakage in a storage tank Drinking water is applied at the spill level or sewage accumulation: of this product, which was transferred to Banco Central and Los Ahogados upstream, opening hydrants and/or drain valves. It is for general cases of sewage accumulation as stations, which have similar equipments. Alongside, the hypochlorite was If no drinking water is available, then water a sanitary measure, odor control, and to reduce removed from the containment room and the tank was repaired. No human trucks are used. humidity. In this situations, hydrated or slaked lime damage was recorded. is poured evenly on the spill-affected surface and • Emergency chlorination of sewage spilled kept there for at least two hours. The second emergency occurred when copper tailing (molibdenum) was on water course: released into Aconcagua river, upstream the Drinking Water Production In these cases, hypochlorite (more concentrated • Saltpeter application on land affected by System El Sauce, after a leakage in a storage tank of Codelco-Andina. chlorine) is applied in a chamber upstream sewage accumulation: from the spill and with two to three minutes of Potassium saltpeter is applied manually on the The company gathered samples, carried out analyses and monitoring as a contact time. affected area. preventive measure. For a couple of hours, the pumping plant of Aconcagua river was out of operation. Later when the analysis showed that water quality • Construction of sewage collecting pools in 5. Contamination by industrial waste: Those responsible was normal, the services with surface water sources were restored. No human the natural terrain: are identified and the economic activities associated damage was recorded. The pool is built depending on land availability with the problem are inspected. Alongside the upstream the spill. It is filled by discharges industrial waste is treated as explained above, as the One milestone in 2011 was the fuel tank regularization before the upstream the failure and emptied with a vacuum case may be. Superintendence of Electricity and Fuels. This protocol establishes the truck or motor pump, disposing of the sewage in minimum safety requirements that the facilities for oil-based liquid fuels a nearby collecting network. must comply with, as well as the minimum safety requirements that must be observed when operating these fuels, in order to protect human life, goods • Applying a layer of soil as absorbing and environment. material in areas where sewage has accumulated: In this specific case, sewage pools are formed on (32) There is a protocol in case of emergencies for sewage spill. The graph showing these processes is land surface due to its accumulation. The sewage included in report 2010. http://portal.esval.cl/comunidad/anteriores/ discharge zone is signaled, and a layer of sand or gravel is applied. Finally, the removed material is (31) Tank: Container for storing drinking water from rainfall. taken to an authorized landfill site. 0.2.7 42 WASTE 43 DRIED SLUDGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The main types of waste generated by drinking water production process and sewage treatment are: In 2011, the generated volume of dried sludge was 30,434 m3, which corresponds to a 9.7% increase in comparison to 27,732 m3 generated in 2010. It decreased at • Debris: solid waste produced in the construction works and sewage and plants in La Ligua and Quillota, but sludge generation increased at plants in San water pipe reposition, as well as solid waste produced by infrastructure works. Felipe and Los Andes. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Solid waste similar to domestic waste: corresponding to what is From December 2008 all dried sludge generated at plants in La Ligua, San Felipe, contained by course and fine screening and sands. Los Andes and Quillota have been disposed of at KDM Loma Los Colorados landfill site in Til-Til,(38) together with urban solid waste. • Hazardous waste: corresponding to chemical product packaging, waste oil, fluorescent tubes, lead materials and batteries. This situation will continue until December 2013, where the sludge generated by Esval is expected to be disposed of in a single sludge landfill system, In 2011, a total of 55,292 tons of solid waste was produced, an increase in 352% corresponding to an exclusive facility specially designed for this. in comparison to the previous year. This is mainly due to the improvement of the system to record and control debris. Debris increased from 9,600 tons to 53,000 During the period, no spill of sludge was recorded at the plants, during transfer tons between 2010 and 2011. On the other hand, waste not corresponding to or at the final destination. debris increased in 5.2% in 2011 in comparison to 2010. The policy to control and record debris was kept within the EMS, detailed in 2008 Sustainability Report(33). TABLE OF SOLID WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL (T) 2009-2011 Type of waste 2010 2011 2011 Final disposal DRIED SLUDGE GENERATION PER PLANT (M3) Domestic waste 73.8 160.0 140.0 Vertederos El Molle Valparaíso. Landfill sites El Molle in Valparaíso, La Hormiga in San Felipe, PLANT 2009 2010 2011 Solid waste similar to domestic waste: 2,845.8 2,308.6 2,4404 Altos de Cartagena. Recyclable solid waste 12.0 2.8 2.1 Paper to Sorepa (34) Waste oils to Cemento Melón. Other waste to Hidronor(35), La Ligua 3,045 2,975 2,643 Hazardous waste 7.4 9.8 4.0 Degraf (36) , Crowan (37) . San Felipe 9,402 7,049 10,283 Debris 6,170.0 9,596.0 52,683 Landfill sites defined for each work. Los Andes 6,417 6,788 10,383 Total annual amount 9,109 12,077 55,233 Quillota 8,925 10,920 7,125 Source: Esval Operations Management. Total annual amount 27,789 27,732 30,434 (33) http://portal.esval.cl/comunidad/anteriores/ Source: Esval Operations Management. (34) www.sorepa.cl (35) www.hidronor.cl (38) During this operation the sludge is discharged from trucks on the same place where common garbage (36) www.degraf.cl is deposited, thus garbage and sludge mixes together favoring the processes taking place inside a landfill (37) www.crowan.tie.cl site. The company’s strategy to 0.3.1 44 relate with its customer is 45 focused on: The Commercial and Development Management SUSTAINABILITY REPORT is in charge of managing Esval’s relationship with its The company’s strategy to relate with its customers. All the interactions with the customers customer is focused on: have clear and defined processes: • Providing a quality service and, • Customers entry. • Commercial cycle (invoicing and collection). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Supporting its more vulnerable • Customer service (attention and reply to queries). customers with respect to a more • Links with the community. efficient use of the water and a proper handling of their payment obligations. Esval has separated its commercial actions per type of customer, in order to provide a service that meets their requirements, according to their characteristics and origin: 1. House or residential: it includes the house connections to the drinking water network and/or to the public sewage system. They are continuous services, 24/7, throughout the year, also including customers from vulnerable areas. 2. Commercial customers: customers that carry out commercial activities, such as supermarkets, hotels, restaurants, among others. 3. Industrial customers: those that carry out productive activities. 4. Other customers: institutions that carry out educational and health activities; public services, such as hospitals, schools, among others. CUSTOMERS PER BUILDING USE 2010-2011 Total Residential Commercial Industrial Others customers 2011 552,186 522,627 26,072 905 2,582 0.3 2010 542,490 514,236 25,656 758 1,840 CUSTOMERS PER TYPE OF SERVICE RELATIONSHIP Drinking water and sewage system Only drinking water Only sewage system WITH OUR CUSTOMERS 2011 499,899 51,597 690 2010 489,224 53,667 691 Source: Form No. 1 of Esval “Customers associated to buildings”, informed to the Superintendence of Sanitary Services as at December 2011. VIRTUAL OFFICE 0.3.2 The assistance regarding commercial matters are classified and submitted to Assistance Channels the Commercial and Development Management for analysis, resolution and In 2011, Esval inaugurated the virtual office, response. The latter is available in the company’s commercial system. In turn, the • commercial offices an online platform to make the access to AN EXCELLENT operational matters are classified and submitted to the Operations Management, customer’s queries and payments easier. and the actions carried out in-situ are also recorded in the commercial system for • telephone customer service The company updated the times for its subsequent reference by customers. SERVICE: online requests and immediate assistance, • letters via ordinary mail modified its webpage in order to facilitate The complaint rate was 6.7% in 2001, which means a rise of about one point 46 access to information about accounts, 47 with respect to 2010, which was 5.59%. This was mainly because in the second CUSTOMER SERVICE, • e-mail Infoesval@esval.cl assistance and/or complaint, as well as the half of September there was an alteration in the odor and taste of drinking water consumption details. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT produced in Plant Concón, which did not mean any risk for the population’s • twitter@Esvalchile ATTENTION AND health, but caused concern on customers. In 2011(39), 875 attentions via web were • mailbox in commercial offices performed, and 15,382 customers made SATISFACTION their payments like this. COMMERCIAL REQUIREMENTS 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Commercial complaints Total Operational attentions Total Esval has implemented a customer service process allowing them to keep a fluent Año 2011 commercial operational Total 2011 contact with their users, meeting their requirements and concerns. In favor Lacking complaints In favor Lacking attentions It is worth noting that, in 2011, the communication through twitter was Excess consumption and readings 8,083 11,657 19,740 0 0 0 19,740 reinforced, recording about 4,000 followers at the end of the year. Additionally, in order to improve the attention to customers in the commercial offices and by Debris and other on public roads 172 169 341 360 613 973 1,314 the telephone service, several improvements were implemented, among which Meters 2,384 770 3,154 0 0 0 3,154 are: Queue attention system, electronic balance system, answering machine for Other commercial matters 2,235 9,498 11,733 0 0 0 11,733 automated replies, attention protocol, hiring additional personnel for greater demand periods and training to the customer attention personnel. Subtotal 12,874 22,094 34,968 360 613 973 35,941 GENERAL TOTAL 34,968 973 35,941 The service provided through these channels are classified as: Dw B. Customers Commercial as at dec. 2011 53,6420 536,420 536,420 • queries • complaints or • requests Rate (Complaints/Customers *100) 6.5 0.2 6.7 DUMPING INTO ACONCAGUA RIVER AFFECTED THE QUALITY OF THE WATER IN THE CONCÓN PLANT The cause of the poor quality of the drinking water in the Concón plant is related with the discharge of waste water by a company in the surroundings of the production plant’s water inlet. Additionally, the poor runoff conditions of said stream caused the stagnation of the waste water, which affected the reception main stream, then the Aconcagua river and, finally, the water inlet Esval has downstream for the drinking water supply. The phenomenon was aggravated by the lack of maintenance and cleaning of the stream’s bed in the last three years. Also, the severe draught affecting the Region of Valparaíso has meant a steep decrease in the caudal of Aconcagua river, which generated even more favorable conditions for the alteration of water normality. Facing this situation, Esval informed the community, through the communication means, in-situ visits, meetings with neighborhood leaders and a letter to the customers of the affected areas, calming the population, indicating that the water was harmless, which was ratified by the corresponding sanitary and regulatory organisms. (39) from April to December. SATISFACTION SURVEY Each year, Esval carries out two quality of service surveys to measure their 0.3.3 INFORMATION, 48 customers’ satisfaction with the service provided. The results are issued in the 49 different media to reinforce the positive aspects and work on the weaknesses by generating projects and improvements. DIALOGUE AND SUPPORT TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESULTS OF THE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY 2009-2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Summary image and quality of service 2009 2010 2011 As a way to energize its relationship with customers, Esval establishes panels with social organizations, which improves the quality of communication and also provides support and direct advise to vulnerable customers in key matters, such General satisfaction 64 66 58 as access to the drinking water subsidy. Drinking water satisfaction 67 68 59 Sewage satisfaction 64 62 59 Product 72 69 56 ACTIONS AND INFORMATION CHANNELS WITH CUSTOMERS Price 42 38 38 Bill 60 58 56 Supply’s continuity 76 74 67 In 2011, 1,422 activities were held in relation to the delivery of information and Offices 72 70 69 contact with the community. In general, this process is carried out with the Problems and complaints 20 26 22 participation of neighborhood leaders, customers, opinion leaders and local authorities. The issues addressed in these meetings are related to needs and Emergency and services 58 63 54 concerns stated by territorial leaders posed by the neighborhood leaders by Telephone customer service 66 66 61 means of personal contact, request in writing in service fairs and other on-site Personnel in-situ 55 56 59 activities. The most discussed matters were: care and maintenance of sewage and responsible use of the fireplugs, drinking water subsidy, commercial information. In 2011, the general perception about the service dropped in 8 points with respect to 2010. This trend is mainly explained by the decrease of qualities San San associated to the product and service with respect to drinking water, which were Quillota Valparaíso TOTAL Antonio Felipe especially affected by the odor and taste of drinking water distributed from the production plant of Concón. Meeting with the authorities 6 3 17 4 29 In 2012, a study of the service gaps with respect to the customers’ perception and Meeting with UNCO and JJW 16 52 15 49 132 expectations, so, a detailed survey on services and their qualities will be carried Panel with organizations 9 23 2 20 54 out. Meeting with other organizations 3 12 16 31 Other activities with the community 206 245 101 624 1,176 ESVAL’S SEMINARIES WITH THE COMMUNITY 31% 3% Valparaíaso El Quisco ACTIVITIES IN SITU This activity was carried out between May and 4% 50 September 2011 and summoned 415 social Cartagena In Valparaíso, 24 areas were covered together with a team of professionals, who 51 5% leaders in order to strengthen a strategic helped new customers to apply for the drinking water subsidy. Also, talks about alliance. The focus of the seminars was to the responsible use of water and sewage were carried out in 10 municipal schools. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT deliver information about the good use Algarrobo of the water resource and the care for the environment. For 2012, we expect to carry out 7% SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES TO INFORM CUSTOMERS 18% this activity in the communes of the franchised area that were not tackled in 2011. San Antonio Viña del Mar SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GUIDED VISITS TO TREATMENT AND 8% 13% San Antonio Quillota San Felipe Valparaíso Total Limache PRODUCTION OF DRINKING WATER 11% Guided visits to treatment and PLANTS Villa Alemana production of drinking water plants 2 1 12 15 Quilpué Services fairs and activities in situ 15 19 8 72 114 In the period, 15 educational and informative guided visits were made to the production and treatment plants. Approximately 375 people participated, from several organizations, of neighbor groups, Support actions to program “Puente” 3 4 7 14 local health councils of the communes of Viña, Valparaíso, Quilpué, Villa Alemana, Repairs workshop to add program San Felipe, and students from the business administration school of Universidad “Al día con Esval (Up to Date with Esval) 22 11 4 26 6 Diego Portales. Talks and activities associated to subsidies 44 20 24 SERVICES FAIRS In order to strengthen a strategic alliance with public services, especially with the province governments, Esval participated in 114 services fairs in the region. SUPPORT ACTIONS TO VULNERABLE CUSTOMERS SUPPORT ACTIONS TO PROGRAM “PUENTE” (BRIDGE) Supporting program “Puente”, carried out by the Fosis together with the SUPPORT TO OBTAIN AND RENEW municipalities, 14 workshops to educate on the drinking water consumption and repair of sanitary artifacts were carried out. The recipients were families who live DRINKING WATER SUBSIDIES in extreme poverty or vulnerability. In 2011, due to the massive expiration of subsidies that occurs every three years, Esval made agreements with the municipalities of Valparaíso, Viña del Mar, San Antonio and La Calera, which consisted of the provision of money to reinforce the administrative and survey work. In parallel, a panel was created –with the participation of the social team of the Municipality of Valparaíso, professionals of Esval and the person in charge of the social department of the Intendancy– to carry out a follow-up to the process, especially in the commune of Valparaíso, which has the highest expiration percentage in the area. All this was reinforced by a communication plan. In spite of the effort, it was not possible to cover all Valparaíso area, so it was arranged with Mideplan to transfer or reassign 3,131 posts for 2012 to the so-called “stretch two”. 2009-2011 DRINKING WATER SUBSIDIES 2011 2010 2009 DRINKING WATER FOR RURAL AREAS 52 In 2011, Esval rendered technical assistance and management of project services 53 to the rural drinking water cooperatives and committees (APR, in Spanish) of the Allocated subsidies 92,123* 92,997 91,693 *The drop is because there were no people with region, according to a covenant entered by the Directorate of Hydraulic Works of SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Percentage of allocated subsidies 96.97 98.05 97.91 the score requested to apply. For this reason, the Ministry of Public Works. it was requested modification and change of Percentage of subsidized customers 17.17 17.57 17.89 stretches. The technical assistance has allowed assisting 150 rural drinking water systems, benefiting an estimated population of 200,000 inhabitants. In 2011, 237 scheduled visits to the services were performed. The purpose of this was to improve and PROGRAM “AL DÍA CON ESVAL” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT consolidate their management as well as to provide technical, administrative (UP TO DATE WITH ESVAL) and financial sustainability to the people in charge of their management. Framed under the technical assistance provided, it is worth mentioning that the legal This is an initiative the company carries out for more than nine years that aims assistance provided to the rural drinking water services, aimed at supporting at educating about the water consumption and the use of sewage, providing the users in regularizing their water rights, land titles and water concessions. In training in plumbing for the good maintenance in the houses and to establish 2011, 227 attentions were provided, which allowed regularizing eight situations agreements of payment in installments. of water rights, five properties and six water concessions. By the end of December 2011, there was a ceremony to acknowledge and reward The technical assistance also serves non-scheduled situations, which mainly families that, with a joint effort, were able to regularize their situation as customers. correspond to operational emergencies that imply suspension of the service. One hundred and fifty were present. Also, 63 workshops about repairs of sanitary Throughout the year, seven non-scheduled visits were carried out, which benefited artifacts were carried out, additional to those carried out by the program. They approximately 8,000 people. Also attendance to the committees in the evaluation were addressed at members of neighborhood organizations and parents centers of feasibility of rural drinking waster, where the technical team carried out a study of the region. to determine whether the connection is possible or otherwise determine the necessary requirements. In 2011, 830 studies, with their corresponding reports, were carried out. WORKSHOPS AND AGREEMENTS MADE BY PROGRAM “UP TO DATE WITH ESVAL” We must also mention the training conferences provided to all the services. In 2011, three training workshops were carried out, one on each province, in which it was considered the economy in the management of rural drinking water as 2011 2010 2009 Continuing the support central topic. Also, it was talked about matters such as: Workshops Workshops to the authorities, in • Laboratory analysis, regulation and procedure to be carried out by each APR, Area sub management Visits Ed. Consumption Repairs Agreements Visits Ed. consumption Repairs Agreements Visits Workshops Agreements 2011 Esval carried out 38 within the framework of the current regulations (NCh 409). conceptual studies about • Current status of the request for water rights. the access to drinking • Importance of the egalitarianism. Gran Valparaíso 5,702 237 43 2,061** 5,573 230 24 2,178 5,440 225 2.273 water, defined as follows: • Scopes of study “Participation and gender in APR services”. Quillota 1,164 77 24 596 1,050 72 11 533 1,103 72 591 • Scopes of Act 20,500 and standard statute. San Felipe Los • 17 Conceptual studies carried out on • Creation of water level meter. Andes 994 54 18 713 1,071 48 14 902 1,072 51 883 seized areas. • Operation of plant filters, maintenance and valve operations. Litoral Sur 1,280 78 25 316 1.279 77 12 361 1,287 83 304 • 21 conceptual studies carried out on An important attendance was achieved, of about 450 people. General Total 9,140 446 110 3,686 8,973 427 61 3,974 8,902 431 4,051 areas of projects “Territorios vulnerables” and “Aldeas y campamentos”. Regarding the project management, new works and designs for an investment amount of 860 million Chilean pesos financed by the Chilean State were SUPPORT TO PROGRAM “ALDEAS *The reports on the repair of sanitary artifacts • In 2012 we will continue this work, conducted. Among the works conducted are the construction of two semiY CAMPAMENTOS” (Villages and shanty towns) workshops is included this year. which has allowed taking drinking water buried pools and the installation of 8,100 meters of network, with 170 new home **There was a small difference between the to new areas. drinking water connections. The concept of vulnerable territory was introduced in 2007 by the Development agreements compared with 2010. This is and Planning Ministry (Mideplan in Spanish) and the Subdirectorate of Regional because there was a drop of 117 customers Development (Subdere, in Spanish) to define the areas of houses lacking that did not continue with the commitment. services related to drinking water, sewage, electricity and connectivity. In April 2011, Mideplan informed that the program “Territorios vulnerables” (Vulnerable territories) did not longer exist and, to replace it, program “Aldeas y campamentos” was established. PRODUCTION Esval’s laboratory has the infrastructure, the equipment and the personnel 21,739 bacteriologic necessary to provide analysis services to third parties, which means a new business unit. 54 0.3.3 and chemical analyses carried out in drinking Throughout the year, Esval’s laboratory carried out a total of 176,000 analysis, mainly bacteriological and chemical. These analyses mainly correspond to self55 CONCERN ABOUT THE water plants. check programs required by the supervising authorities, apart from internal watchfulness and follow-ups, oriented at improving the production and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT distribution of drinking water processes, as well as the treatment and disposal of QUALITY AND SAFETY DISTRIBUTION waste water, in such a way of keeping the superficial streams and the seashore clean, where the treated waste waters are evacuated. OF THE PRODUCT AND 112,759 bacteriologic and chemical analyses All these analyses are framed in around 15 control programs, of diverse periodicity, which are controlled by organisms as the SISS, the Ministry of Health, Sernapesca SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THE SERVICE carried out in drinking and Directemar, among others. water networks. PROCESSES QUALITY CONTROL In order to keep the quality and continuity of the service, there is a quality control system, with technology applied on each process. The quality control carried out by Esval through its laboratory is mainly applied to the processes of production, distribution, recollection and treatment of water. RECOLLECTION LABORATORY Additionally, the company’s laboratory carried out: 19,299 bacteriologic • 1,471 chemical analyses on waste water made by the company according to SD 90. Esval laboratory has a modern equipment and instrumentation to comply with and chemical analyses • 5,669 bacteriological and chemical analyses made due to complaints, which had the regulations. The operations of the laboratory are carried out under a Quality Assurance System certified by the National Institute of Standardization (INN, in carried out in sewage an important increase due to the deterioration of the quality of the water of some Spanish) under Chilean Norm ISO 17,025 Of. 2005, which has been renewed plants. CLEAN UP supply sources. More details about these incidents are on page 51. in 2011 until 2015 by means of the assessment process carried out by the INN • 5,985 these analyses had to be sub-contracted due to the greater regulatory in the last period, adding several parameters to its previous scope. This means 8,518 bacteriologic requirements for chemical parameters that were not certified by Esval’s laboratory. decreasing the analysis sub-contracting rates and improve the services. and chemical analyses • 775 analyses carried out to private parties because the company’s laboratory also renders services to third parties. carried out in mains and shoreline. TOTAL OF ANALYSES 2009-2011 Nº Análisis 56 200.000 2010 2011 0.3.4 57 2009 RELATIONSHIP TOTAL ANÁLISIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 176.215 150.000 WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 152.634 178.889 100.000 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Esval has a procedure for “Selection, assessment and re-assessment of suppliers of critical goods, and contracts for works and services”, establishing the classification 50.000 of its suppliers, according to how they implement the norms of the Integrated Management System. In the selection and assessment of suppliers, the deciding factors are: price, quality, delivery times and post-sale service, understanding this as the compliance with the current regulations at the time of delivering and 0 guaranteeing the products. In the selection and assessment of contractors, the deciding factors are: price, experience, deadlines, and the compliance with the legal regulations regarding labor and hygiene and safety obligations of their workers, as well as the compliance with deadlines, technical specifications and TECHNOLOGY quality and environmental management. The operational work carried out on all the company’s processes is supported The tender and awarding processes are carried out based on trust with the by state-of-the-art technologies, although in 2011 new equipment was not suppliers and contractors, ensuring transparency in the tenders and control of the incorporated. The detail of the technologies used by the company is in the 2010 contracts. report. The suppliers and contractors can, through the company’s webpage, access the ongoing tenders and the current instructive. Among the challenges for 2012 is boosting trainings and displaying new products, in technical, safety and environmental aspects. Also, next year we expect to improve and expand the process to select and assess suppliers and contractors in order to include the participants in the company’s purchase and hiring processes, to create communication spaces allowing to improve the services rendered by the supplying companies and, in turn, improve the internal processes. Another challenge is improving the access to Suppliers portal of the webpage, so that, apart from the queries about tenders, the interested parties have access to purchasing the tender rules and to their evaluations, as well as to other important news. Esval’s goal is that their workers reach high personal and professional development, based on a pleasant working environment, high motivation and full training. 58 59 The company’s relationship with its workers develops through the head offices, which are responsible for spreading the policies and for channeling the workers’ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT concerns towards high administration. The Human Resources management is responsible for, together with the other management offices, implementing and applying policies based on the best practices to relate with collaborators, in agreement with the organization’s strategy. Esval’s human resources policy is specially focused on improving the quality of SUSTAINABILITY REPORT life, establishing incentives aimed at motivating and guaranteeing the workers’ satisfaction. The company is mainly concerned of their proper remuneration(40) and of their professional development, in agreement with their aspirations and possibilities. Regarding recruitment, Esval has clear and explicit procedures that privilege the internal selection, with the same opportunities and transparency to select the people who have the competences required for the positions. Regarding the human resources(41), policy, the company is aimed at preventing child and forced labor, which is explicitly stated in their Internal Regulations. In 2011, the management of people kept its working focus on improving the organizational environment, continuing with the initiatives arranged the previous year, such as the anonymous organizational environment survey, which was applied on all the company’s workers. Based on the results, several groups of analysis were created, with the participation of the workers from all the management offices. This generated several improvement plans, implementation of which continued in 2011. We expect to apply new environment survey the first semester 2012. For 2012, the challenges are oriented to the development of talents and management of people, in such a way to boost the interpersonal skills and their capacities, favoring the workers’ innovation and motivation. 0.4 OUR WORKERS (40) By means of a salary in agreement to the labor market and the payment of incentives associated to the company’s results and the workers’ contribution. (41) The detail of the human resources policies were presented in report 2009.http://portal.esval.cl/ comunidad/anteriores/ 0.4.1 QUANTITY OF WORKERS PER TYPE OF CONTRACT 2009-2011 60 GENERATION Type of contract 2009 2010 2011 61 OF QUALITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Indefinite 356 352 353 EMPLOYMENT Fixed-term 4 3 19 FOR THE REGION Total 360 355 372 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Source: Department of Studies, Esval’s Human Resources Manager As at 31 December 2011, Esval’s staffing was 372 workers, 4.8% more than 2010. The departments with more growth were middle management and operators. QUANTITY OF WORKERS This is mainly because of the staff that entered two new areas of the company: the PER GENDER 2009-2011 Department Surveys Certification Company (ECI in Spanish) and the Department 2009 2010 2011 of Informatics Systems Integration, depending on the Commercial and % OF WORKERS Development Management and of the Administration and Finance Management, 100% respectively. 90% Regarding the type of contracts, 95% of Esval’s workers have an indefinite contract and an average age of 46. 80% 70% 52,7% 52,1% 54% DISTRIBUTION OF THE WORKERS 60% PER DEPARTMENT 2009-2011 50% 40% Departments 2009 2010 2011 30% 20% WOMEN Administrative 25 22 23 Executives 8 8 8 10% 83% 84% 82% Middle management 42 41 46 MEN 0% Operators 71 67 77 Source: Department of Studies, Esval’s Human Resources Manager Professionals 118 118 125 Technicians 96 99 93 Through hiring services, Esval generated 1,307 indirect work posts, which meant a Total 360 355 372 decrease of 1.66% with respect to 2010. This is mainly due to adjustment of the work loads of some additional services. Source: Department of Studies, Esval’s Human Resources Manager. TOTAL TURNOVER 2009-2011 Year 2009 2010 2011 Total turnover rate 5.21% 7.80% 8.37% TOTAL Total of terminations of the Period Source: Department of Studies, Esval’s Human Resources Manager ROLLOVER Average of Staffing of the Period 100 TURNOVER BROKEN DOWN PER GENDER AND AGE 0.4.2 Age range Men 2011 Women TOTAL The financial benefits for HEALTH Esval’s workers are the AND LABOR SAFETY 62 63 following: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18-25 0% 0% 0,0% 26-35 21.3% 32.7% 22.9% • Payment of indemnities without legal 36-45 10.7% 0% 7.6% maximum values. Esval aims at decreasing the injuries and diseases of labor origin that may affect their workers and collaborators. For this reason, it applies the commitments of its quality, 46-55 3.2% 0% 2.7% • Bi-yearly adjustment according to environment, safety and occupational health integrated policy (see page 15). 56-65 5.9% 0% 5.4% inflation (IPC in Spanish). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 66-Más 14.5% 0% 14.5% The company makes effective all the safety and care measures, promoting selfTotal 9.1% 5.02% 8.4% • Payment of daycare and pre-school for care. Each worker and collaborator has to respect them, and make them be children up to 4 years old. respected. The total raining hours about prevention and safety for their personnel and their contractor decreased, which is because in the two previous years it was • Complement of remunerations due to Source: Department of Studies, Esval’s Human Resources Manager necessary to implement and reinforce system OHSAS 18,001. medical leaves. With respect to the workers’ return and permanence rate after the leaves related to the maternity leaves for men and women, in 2011 this was 100%(42). • Permit for leave of absence. ANNUAL TRAINING REGARDING LABOR SAFETY 2009-2011 RELATIONSHIP COMPANY’S INITIAL SALARY VS. LEGAL MINIMUM SALARY Hours/Task force 2009 2010 2011 Legal minimum Year Esval’s minimum salary (43) Variation or ratio salary Esval S.A. 2,156 6,296 1,846 Contractors 11,558 4,378 8,122 2009 410,195 165,000 149% Total 13,714 10,674 9,968 2010 388,202 172,000 126% 2011 426,557 182,000 134% Source: Department of Studies, Esval’s Human Resources Manager Source: Esval’s Remunerations Books and www.leychile.cl (Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional de Chile). ACCIDENT AND INJURIES RATES 2009-2011 Esval kept the group of benefits related to advisory in collective health plans (isapre) and health insurance, retirement and voluntary retirement saving (APV 2009 2010 2011 in Spanish), promotion of the practice of sports and recreational workshops, agreements with health and sport institutions, and professional attention for health, family housing and education. Accident rate (44) 57.0% 53.0% 31.0% (45) (42) In 2011, only one woman took the maternity leave. Injuries rate 2.2% 2.2% 2.5% (43) For the calculation, the annual average of the total taxable paid was considered. (46) Injuries rate (national) 5.36% 5.43% 5.58% Source: Safety and Risk Prevention Department, Esval’s Human Resources Management. (44) Accident Rate (Total): Average Accident Rate due to Temporary Disabilities + Accident Rate due to Disability and Death (according to SD 67). (45) Injuries rate: number of labor accidents/average of workers per 100 in 12 months. (46) Injuries rate: number of labor accidents/average of workers per 100 in 12 months. Information obtained form the statistics of the Social Security Superintendence (SUSESO in Spanish). This year, Esval decided to change its method to calculate the labor accident and JOINT COMMITTEES injuries rate(47). In this report, the accident rate at 12 months was added, instead of the one used so far, which took the calculation formula from the Instituto de Esval has four joint committees: Litoral Sur, Nivel Central, Quillota-San Felipe/ Seguridad del Trabajo (IST) as a reference. Also, it incorporated a global frequency Los Andes and Valparaíso Operaciones. The main functions of these committees 64 index, considering the contractors that work in their tasks. This is to agree with the are: monthly and extraordinary meetings, specific activities of the work program, 65 government’s policies in this matter. such as planned inspections, behavior observations, investigation of incidents, studies and design of products for prevention campaigns. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCIDENT AND INJURIES RATES In 2011, the Headquarters, Bustamante and San Ignacio offices Health and Safety (CALCULATION OVER 12 MONTHS) 2009-2011 at work Joint Committee was renewed and the Litoral Sur Health and Safety at work Joint Committee was formed. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009 2010 2011 In 2012, two new joint committees will be created in order to best cover the prevention matters. Accident rate (48) 25.70% 16.92% 50.81% Accident rate (National) (49) 75.41% 76.99% 80.31% RISK PREVENTION In the collective contracts with the company’s union and in the Internal Source: Safety and Risk Prevention Department, Esval’s Human Resources Management. Regulations there are specific clauses about the obligation of using the personal protection elements, the way and time to provide these elements and about the The increase in the trend in terms of accidents is mainly explained by the high care the workers must have when performing different tasks. quantity of days lost due to only one accident: an open fibula fracture of the left leg of a worker that violated the safe working procedures. Only this accident Additionally, the workers are allowed to carry out only the tasks for which they represents 74.3% of the total of days lost due to labor accident in the company. have been trained, as long as the proper safety conditions are ensured and that the company’s risk prevention rules are followed. ACCIDENT AND INJURIES RATES BROKEN DOWN PER GENDER 2011 Men Women (50) Accident rate 55.64% 26.67% (51) Injuries rate 2.33% 3.33% Source: Safety and Risk Prevention Department, Esval’s Human Resources Management. (47) In previous years, the Accident Rate used by the Instituto de Seguridad del Trabajo (IST) was used to calculate the Additional Insurance Contribution (Social Security against Labor Accidents Risks and Professional Diseases). However, this rate considers data from the last three years (according to methodology of SD 67). (48) Accident Rate (12 months): number of days lost due to labor accidents/average of workers per 100 in 12 months. (49) Accident Rate (12 months): number of days lost due to labor accidents/average of workers per 100 in 12 months. Information obtained form the statistics of the Social Security Superintendence). (50) Accident Rate (Total): Average Accident Rate due to Temporary Disabilities + Accident Rate due to Disability and Death (according to SD 67). (51) Injuries rate: number of labor accidents/average of workers per 100 in 12 months. 0.4.3 TRAINING, DEVELOPMENT TRAINING MAN HOURS 2009-2011 AND EMPLOYABILITY 66 67 2009 2010 2011 Training Area Hours % Hours % Hours % SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The development of people inside the company is one of Esval’s goals. In order to SIG quality and environment 1,467 9% 3,054 15% 1,880 11% achieve this, the company is focused on the correct management of knowledge, SIG safety and occupational health 2,156 12% 6,296 31% 1,846 11% excellence in performance and boosts the good relations among its workers. Update 3,706 21% 5,055 25% 6,674 38% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In this respect, project “Desarrollo humano” (Human development) was Professional development 4,298 25% 678 3% 4,902 28% implemented, which aims at promoting an organizational environment that Personal development 5,645 33% 2,381 26% 2,061 12% allows growing in technical, professional and personal aspects, focusing on team TOTAL 17,272 100.00% 20,464 100% 17,363 100% and participative work, boosting creativity and incentive for the continuous improvement in all the organization areas. Source: Department of Organizational Development, Esval’s Human Resources Management. For Esval, training is understood within a broader framework, called education, in which academic, participative, workshops, e-learning platform and self-study The company’s vision considers its contribution to the development of the activities are carried out. communities where it operates. For this reason and like previous years, resources from the surplus of the tax exemption Sence were used for social grants, favoring In 2011, the objectives related with the development of people were maintained. socially vulnerable areas, with courses about gauges reading and bakery, in which The training cores were oriented at the update of knowledge, professional and 27 people participated, with a total of 1,080 man hours. personal development, totaling 17,363 hours. This corresponds to an increase of 3.8% compared with 2010 (this without considering the pause exercises of 2010). In 2011, the company carried out performance evaluations to 100% of the workers. Special attention was paid on the quality of the feedback the evaluators Also, 156 courses, seminars and workshops were carried out, corresponding to gave their workers, so workshops oriented to the improvement of this variable 2.3% of the available hours in the year. This means that each Esval’s employee was were carried out. trained, as an average, 48.45 hours during the year, which represent an increase of 2.8% compared with 2010. The total of the Sence exemption used in 2011 was 50,075,782 Chilean pesos. 0.4.4 0.4.5 WORK RELATIONSHIPS CONTRACTORS 68 Esval does not only apply its Quality, Environment, Safety 69 There are three unions in Esval, of which 219 workers are members. The and Occupational Health Policy inside the company, relationship between the unions and the company is respectful and cooperative. but also extends it looking to “gradually committing its SUSTAINABILITY REPORT These relationships are developed within the Commission on Labor Relationships contractors and suppliers so that their performance that organizes periodical work meetings throughout the year. regarding quality, environment, occupational health and safety be consistent with the provisions of this policy in the activities, and services they render to the UNIONIZATION DEGREE 2009-2011 organization”. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In this respect, Esval requires the signature of a civil 2009 2010 2011 contract specifying that its processes can be measured according to quality standards, stipulating the terms of the services and requirements between the parties. Union No. 1 125 121 126 Additionally and understanding the importance of Union No. 2 51 46 45 the contractor companies in its business, the company provides clear and opportune information about matters Professionals and heads union 38 36 48 such as tender processes, requirements, assessments of Total unionized workers 214 203 219 compliance and performance. % Unionized workers 59% 57% 59% By means of on-site audits on compliance with the labor and safety No. unionized workers 146 152 153 legislation, the contractor companies have greatly improved their administrative and risk prevention responsibility. Source: Department of Studies, Esval’s Human Resources Manager. The Contracts Sub management carries out the tender processes and the In 2011, two collective negotiation processes were carried out, involving the three administrative formalities that are necessary to verify that the companies hired company’s unions. Said processes finished before the legal deadlines, with the comply with the current labor and safety regulations. In turn, the Human signature of two collective contracts that were satisfactory for the parties. Resources Management, through the Outsourcing Control and Risk Prevention area, carries out permanent on site audits, whether by their own means or by an The negotiated collective work contracts will govern between 1 September 2011 external office. and 31 August 2013, inclusive. Finally, the operational coordinators of each contract verify that the services and works are carried out according to the established standards (quality, labor safety and labor compliance). This task falls on managers, submanagers or heads of departments, as pertinent. In 2011, Esval linked with 52 contractor companies, thus generating 1,307 indirect full-time jobs. The importance and implication of the sanitary service in the well-being, health and quality of life of people, and also the contribution to the economic development and environmental sustainability of the Region of Valparaíso are the premises that mark the relationship of Esval with the community. One of the main motivations of the company is to build open, harmonic and 70 cooperative relationships with the inhabitants and the diverse social organizations 71 of the area. The General Management office is responsible for carrying out this task with the direct collaboration of Corporative Management, Commercial SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Management and Operations Management. In 2011, the work programs with the community continued in the framework of the so-called “Agua sana, vida sana” campaign. Its purpose: strengthen and deepening the consciousness the community about the importance of SUSTAINABILITY REPORT protecting the environment, especially the natural water streams; this is seen as a commitment that has to be undertaken in a joint manner. This task will be reinforced in 2012 to face the scenario of water shortage, which requires an informed and conscious community about their role facing this scenario. 0.5.1 MANAGEMENT OF THE COMMUNITY RELATIONSHIPS Esval, as a regional company committed to providing a service of excellence to its customers and with this, contributing to the standard of living of the inhabitant’s 0.5 of the Valparaíso Region, works closely with regional, provincial and commune authorities, apart from social organizations and the organized community. Its aim is knowing their needs, problems and possible solutions with respect to matters of mutual interest. RELATIONSHIP CAMPAIGN “AGUA SANA, VIDA SANA” WITH THE Campaign “Agua sana, vida sana” started nine years ago, with the purpose of getting COMMUNITY OF Esval and its work closer to the community, and help as a bridge to bring help to those in need. It currently transmits messages about the care for the planet, the water and its importance in life. OUR REGION In 2011, the work in educational events included an “Educational tunnel”, which was a 10 meter tour, where the children were able to interact with several educational games aimed at showing them how to look after the water, the sustainable disposal of the home waste water, recycling and healthy lifestyles. Like every year, plays were performed to transmit the messages about looking after the environment in schools, nursery schools and elderly centers. For sixth SUMMARY OF PUBLIC-PRIVATE consecutive year there were recreational and educative visits in the attention centers the National Women’s Service (Sernam in Spanish) opens every summer COLLABORATION 2011 for the care of the children of female seasonal workers. Also, the educational Resumen de colaboración público-privada 2011 workshops about the efficient use of water and its processes were carried out, addressed to social organizations in the region, apart from the door-to-door Type Of Support/ Level Organism Program/Project campaigns. Aguas del Valle also participated in several public events, among Participation Of Esval S.A. 72 73 which there were health programs carried out together with the education and nutrition departments of the medical centers of the area and the participation in SUSTAINABILITY REPORT several sport activities. Intendancy and • Annual program government governorships in situ. Department of • Participation in all • Annual program I care for my SUMMARY OF THE ACTIVITIES IN SITU 2009-2011 Housing Region of Valparaíso neighborhood. the activities these programs or fairs carry (PER NUMBER OF CONTACTS) out in the region, providing information • Annual program Consumers’ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sernac (52) and listening to the fair. customers. Junaeb (53) • Annual project Healthy food fairs. 2011 • Support to sport Senda(54) • Project Sport clinics to prevent activities on beaches (former Conace) drug consumption. with young people 16.005 to avoid drug 63.673 154.966 consumption. 2.519 • Participation in all Regional the sport events with • Program Street football for 2010 Instituto del Deporte children of the region. children in all the DOOR-TO-DOOR communes of the region. • Program Enterprising women 19.018 92.788 COMMUNITY Sernam (55) and Center for Children of 144.018 3.049 Female Seasonal Workers. Sename (56) and Labor regional • Annual program No to child 2009 EDUCATION secretariat labor. • Participation with play “Las gotitas”, Fundación Integra (57) • Annual program Choose to live information stand and a healthy life water supply. 20.170 OFFICES 43.618 112.653 • Physical activity program, 4.752 Gendarmería de Chile marathon Maritime Governorship • Project “Beaches clean-up. Through several activities, mostly of the region, the campaign directly contacted 237,163 people and participated in 1,264 activities. The goal for 2012 is to expand Municipality • Participation and the coverage to 250,000 contacts and more than 1,500 activities. of Viña del Mar • Program Sport house. support to the activities with play “Las gotitas” Municipality • Project health and the in the events carried of San Antonio environment. 4th school out and delivery of 0.5.1 Olympics. water. (52) Servicio Nacional del Consumidor (National • Participation in Consumer Service) www.sernac.cl all the recreational (53) Junta Nacional de Archivo Escolar y Becas activities addressed to www.junaeb.cl Municipal Municipality • Program Summer in your children and delivery COOPERATION WITH THE PUBLIC SECTOR (54) Servicio Nacional para la Rehabilitación de Drogas y Alcohol www.senda.gob.cl of La Calera neighborhood. of information to the customers in all the (55) Servicio Nacional de la Mujer www.sernam.cl neighborhoods of La One of the Esval’s lines of work is the cooperation with the public sector in Calera. (56) Servicio Nacional de menores www.sename.cl programs or projects that benefit the regional development. Below is a detail of (57) Private organization purpose of which is the integral • EGO health program: the public programs in which the company participated during 2011. development of children living in “Estrategias globales contra Municipality of • Part of the panel and poverty www.integra.cl la obesidad infantil” (global participates in all the Valparaíso strategies against childhood activities. obesity”). 74 0.5.3 75 WORK WITH UNIVERSITIES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The company has traditionally opened its doors so that students from several universities have access to its plants and know the drinking water production processes and treatment of waste waters. In 2011, the company carried out two projects to improve the signaling of the most visited drinking water production SUSTAINABILITY REPORT plants, which are Concón and San Juan in San Antonio. It also distributed an informative brochure with concrete information about the processes of each plant. Below are other types of support Esval provided in 2011 to universities in the region. Apoyo de Esval a Universidades de la Región 2011 University or Higher Type of Support/ Program/Project Education Center Participation of Esval S.A. Participation in the fair in the Universidad de Playa Ancha Program to promote good nutrition framework of the program carried out by the university. Project Sueños de Navidad” Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez (Christmas dreams) for children of Participation with a stand and the the region presentation of play “Las gotitas” (The Droplets) in the events carried out in Universidad Andrés Bello Project to promote Healthy Nutrition the frameworks of the projects and/ or programs. Inacap and DUOC Program to Promote Labor Fairs Pontificia Universidad Participation with a stand in the Interregional sport project Católica de Valparaíso university championship. Area Commitment 2011 Performance 2011 Challenge 2012 76 77 REPORTE DE SOSTENIBILIDAD • Not causing any waste Fairly • Not causing any waste Dumping water dumping on water fulfilled water dumping on streams. water streams. One event SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Reduce 3% of energy • Reduce 3% of energy consumption (KW) Fulfilled consumption (KW) Energy of the company’s ENVIRONMENT of the company’s administrative and administrative and Reduction of the energy consumption in 3,75%. commercial precincts. commercial precincts. • Prepare cadastre and program for the Residues No commitment reduction of residues to be implemented in period 2013-2015. • Carry out a study of the services gaps Customer with respect to the satisfaction survey No commitment customers’ perception and expectations. CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCT • Carry out Esval seminars Information, together with the dialogue community, In the and support to No commitment communes within the customers franchise area that were not tackled in 2011. 0.6 COMMUNITY Campaign “Agua sana, vida sana” No commitment 237,163 contacts were made and a total of 1,264 activities. • Expand the coverage to 250,000 contacts and more than 1,500 activities. TABLE OF GOALS 2011 AND CHALLENGES 2012 78 Number Indicator Page/Comment 79 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1.1. Letter from the CEO or the maximum responsible person from the organization 4 and 5 1.2. Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities. 19 and 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Organization Profile 2.1. Organization name. 11 2.2. Main brands, products and/or services. 11 Organization’s operational structure, including the main divisions, 2.3. 11 operational entities, subsidiaries and joint ventures. 2.4. Location of the organization’s headquarters. 11 Esval only operates 2.5. Number of countries where the organization operates in Chile 2.6. Nature of the property and legal form. Flap 2.7. Markets served. 12 2.8. Dimensions of the informing organization. 11 2.9. Important changes during the period covered by the annual report. 16 2.10. Awards and distinctions received during the last informed financial year. 22 PARAMETERS OF THE ANNUAL REPORT ANNUAL REPORT PROFILE 0.7 3.1. Period covered by the information contained in the annual report. 6 3.2. Date of the most recent annual report. 6 3.3. Cycle for presentation of annual reports. Annual GRI INDEX 3.4. Contact point for matters regarding the annual report or its contents. 9 AND GLOBAL PACT ANNUAL REPORT SCOPE AND COVERAGE COMMITMENT WITH EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 3.5. Process to define the annual report content. 6-8 Esval’s policy on quality, environment, safety and occupational health incorporates the principle of prevention of contamination, 3.6. Annual report coverage. 6 4.11. Description of how the organization has adopted an approach or precaution principle. which deals with anticipating 80 and avoiding events that may certainly 81 3.7. Indicate the existence of limitations of the annual report scope or coverage. Not applicable cause it. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Grounds to include information of joint ventures, subsidiaries, rented facilities 4.12. Principles or social, environmental and economic programs developed externally. Throughout the report 3.8. Not applicable sub-hired activities and other entities. 4.13. Main associations it belongs to 22 3.9. Techniques for data measurement and grounds to carry out the calculation. 9 Description of the effect of the re-submission of information There was no re-submission of the 3.10. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT corresponding to previous annual reports. information from previous annual reports PARTICIPATION OF THE GROUPS OF INTEREST 3.11. Important changes regarding previous financial years in the scope. 6 4.14. Relationship of groups of interest the organization has included. 6y7 3.12. Table with index about basic contents of the annual report. 79 91 Grounds for the identification and selection of the groups of interests 4.15. 21 3.13. Verification. 92 97 with which the organization commits. Focus of the participation of the different groups of interest, including 4.16. 21 the frequency of their participation per type and group. GOVERNMENT, COMMITMENTS AND PARTICIPATION OF THE INTEREST GROUPS Main concerns and aspects of interest that may have arisen by means 4.17. 7 and 8 of the stakeholders participation. 4.1. Organization’s government structure 16 18 4.2. Functions of the highest executive. 17 4.3. Unit directive structure. 16 18 To date, Esval does not have this kind of 4.4. Participation of shareholders and employees. mechanisms. Link between the compensations and the organization’s performance These kind of agreements do not exist in 4.5. to the highest members, directors and senior executives. Esval. Procedures introduced to avoid conflict of interests To date, Esval does not have this kind of 4.6. in the maximum management organism. procedures. Procedure to determine the training and experience requirable To date, Esval does not have this kind of 4.7. to the members of the maximum management organism. procedures. 4.8. Statement of mission, vision and values. 11 and 16 Procedure by the highest government organism to supervise the identification and 4.9. 16 and 17 management, by the organization, of the economic, social and environmental performance. To date, Esval does not have this kind 4.10. Procedures to evaluate the performance of the highest government organism. of procedures. natural spaces, or of non-protected biodiversity areas. P. 8 EN12 Description of the most important impacts of the activities carried 37 and 38 out in protected areas or in non-protected areas of high biodiversity. ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Emissions, Dumping and Residues PRINCIPLE NUMBER INDICATOR PAGE/COMMENT EN16 Total emissions, direct and indirect, of greenhouse effect gases. 35 GLOBAL PACT DMA Management focus. 27 P. 7, 8 and 9 EN17 Other emissions of greenhouse effect gases. 35 P. 8 82 83 Nitrous oxide (Nox), Sulphur dioxide (SO2) and other 35 EN20 important emissions to the air, per weight. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Materials EN21 Total dumping of waste waters, according to nature and destination. 40 and 41 Non-material indicator 42 and 43 EN1 Weight or volume of the materials used, other than water. according to the process P. 8 EN22 Total weight of residues managed, per type and method of treatment. P. 8 indicated on pages 6 and 8 EN23 Total number and volume of the most important accidental spills. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40 and 41 Esval does not use raw EN2 Percentage of the materials used that are waste from other industries (valued). materials that are waste P8 and 9 from other processes or industries. Products and Services Energy Percentage of the products sold susceptible of being recovered EN27 38 at the end of their service life, per product categories. EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down per primary energy sources. 38 and 39 P. 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption broken down per primary energy sources. 38 and 39 EN5 Energy saving due to the conservation and improvements in efficiency. 38 and 39 Compliance with the norms In the period to be informed no important fines were EN28 Incidents and fines or non-economic sanctions caused by issued nor economic sanctions Water the non-compliance with the norms applicable in environmental matters. for non-compliance with the environmental norms. EN8 Total extraction per type of source. 36 P. 8 Related water sources and habitats that have been EN9* 37 significantly affected by the water extraction. General EN10* Percentage and total volume of recycled and reused water. 38 P 8 and 9 EN30 Breakdown of environmental expenses and investments, per type. 32 Biodiversity EN11 Description of the adjacent land or located within protected 37 and 38 natural spaces, or of non-protected biodiversity areas. P. 8 EN12 Description of the most important impacts of the activities carried 37 and 38 out in protected areas or in non-protected areas of high biodiversity. Emissions, Dumping and Residues EN16 Total emissions, direct and indirect, of greenhouse effect gases. 35 Absenteeism rates, professional diseases, days lost and number 63 and 64 LA7 of mortal victims related with the work per region and sex. Prevention programs against LA8 Education programs related with HIV or other severe contagious diseases. the contagion of Hanta Virus, HIV and others, every two years. LA9* Health and safety matters covered in formal agreements with unions. 65 P. 3 SOCIAL DIMENSION (Working practices and work ethics) Training and Education NUMBER INDICATOR PAGE/COMMENT PRINCIPLE GLOBALPACT LA10 Average of hours of training per year per employee, 67 broken down per sex and employee category. DMA Management focus (DMA). 59 84 85 Programs of directive skills and continuous training that boost the continuous LA11* hiring of employees and support them in the management of the retirement programs. 66 and 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Employment Percentage of employees that are submitted regular assessments 100% of Esval workers LA12* are submitted to performance of performance and professional development, broken down per sex. assessments. LA1 Breakdown of the employees collective per kind of job, contract, region and gender. 60 y 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LA2 Total number of employees and ration of new hiring and employees 61 y 62 Diversity and Equality of Opportunities medium rollover, broken down per age group, sex and region. LA3* Social benefits for full time jobs. 62 LA13 Composition of the corporate government organisms and payroll, broken down 17 P. 6 per sex, age group, membership to minority groups and other diversity indicators. Levels of reincorporation to the work and retention LA15 62 after the maternity or paternity leave, broken down per sex. * Additional Indicator Relationships Company/Workers LA4 Percentage of employees that are represented per unions. 68 P. 3 LA5 Minimum period of previous notice with respect to organizational changes. 30 days in advance. Health and Labor Safety Percentage of the collective of employees that 65 LA6* are represented in health and safety committees. Absenteeism rates, professional diseases, days lost and number 63 and 64 LA7 of mortal victims related with the work per region and sex. Prevention programs against LA8 Education programs related with HIV or other severe contagious diseases. the contagion of Hanta Virus, HIV and others, every two years. LA9* Health and safety matters covered in formal agreements with unions. 65 P. 3 Training and Education LA10 Average of hours of training per year per employee, 67 broken down per sex and employee category. Programs of directive skills and continuous training that boost the continuous LA11* hiring of employees and support them in the management of the retirement programs. 66 and 67 Percentage of employees that are submitted regular assessments 100% of Esval workers LA12* are submitted to performance of performance and professional development, broken down per sex. Child Exploitation The company does not have any workers that do not comply Incidents of child exploitation and actions taken to contribute to its elimination. with the legal labor norms HR6 P. 1, 2 and 5 of the Labor Code. Chapter II, article 13. SOCIAL DIMENSION (Human Rights) Forced Labor 86 PRINCIPLE 87 NUMBER INDICATOR PAGE/COMMENT GLOBAL PACT The current law in the country contemplates and is above DMA Management focus. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 the world average regarding Risks or incidents of forced labor and actions taken to contribute to its elimination. Human Rights clauses. Esval HR7 P. 1, 2 and 4 complies with the labor and civil laws. During the report period, there were no incidents of labor work. Investment and Supply Practices SUSTAINABILITY REPORT According to the process HR1 Percentage of important investment agreements including human rights clauses. reported in title P. 1 and 2 Assessment “Report Profile”, Percentage of the main distributors and contractors the matter is classified as HR2 non-material. that went through an observation of human rights. Percentage and total number of operations subject to revision or evaluation To date, Esval does not have HR10 of impact with respect to human rights. this type of procedures. No Discrimination Corrective Measures In 2011, Esval did not record nor HR4 Total of discrimination incidents and actions taken. had incidents related with P. 1, 2 and 6 Number of complaints related with human rights that have been submitted, To date, Esval does not have discrimination. HR11 dealt with and solved by means of formal conciliatory mechanisms. this type of procedures. * Additional Indicator Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements HR5 Incidents of violation of freedom of association In 2011, Esval did not P. 1, 2 and 3 and to subscribe to collective agreements. record any incident. Child Exploitation The company does not have any workers that do not comply Incidents of child exploitation and actions taken to contribute to its elimination. with the legal labor norms HR6 P. 1, 2 and 5 of the Labor Code. Chapter II, article 13. Forced Labor The current law in the country contemplates and is above the world average regarding Risks or incidents of forced labor and actions taken to contribute to its elimination. Human Rights clauses. Esval HR7 P. 1, 2 and 4 complies with the labor and civil laws. During the report period, there were no incidents of labor work. Types of information about the products and services required by the current information requirements and PR3 procedures and norms, and percentage of products and services subject to said legal norms about their services information requirements. through bills and invoices. P. 8 The company does not record any Total number of non-compliances with the regulation and the voluntary codes non-compliance with the PR4* regarding the information and the labeling of products and services, distributed regulations and voluntary codes by the type result of aid incidents. regarding delivery of information about its products and services. Practices with respect to the customer satisfaction, including the results of PR5* measurements about customer satisfaction. 47 and 48 SOCIAL DIMENSION (Responsibility on the product) Marketing Communications 88 NUMBER INDICATOR PAGE/COMMENT PRINCIPLE 89 GLOBAL PACT With respect to the ethical norms and regulation in advertising, DMA Management focus. Programs for the compliance with the laws, standards and voluntary codes related communications and other SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 PR6 with the marketing communication, including advertising, promotion and promotional activities or of sponsorships. sponsorship, Esval abides by the Behavior Code from the Asociación Chilena de Agencias de Publicidad [Chilean Association of Advertising Agencies] (ACHAP in Spanish) Customer Health and Safety SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Esval has not received any legal Phases of the products’ and services’ life cycle in which their impact on customers’ sanctions, fines or warning by any Total number of complaints duly grounded regarding the respect group of interest due to PR1 health and safety are assessed, and the percentage of important categories of 54 and 56 PR8* to privacy and the leak of personal data. P. 1 products and services subject to said assessment procedures. non-compliance regarding communications, advertising and marketing. P. 1 Total number of incidents arising from the non-compliance with the laws or Esval does not have any incidents PR2* voluntary codes regarding the products and services impacts on health and safety with respect to impacts throughout its life cycle. on customers’ safety and health in 2011. Compliance with the Norms Products and Services Labeling As a result of the poor handling during the emergency occurred on 7 August 2007 at Quillota Esval complies with the plants, the SISS, by means of Types of information about the products and services required by the current information requirements and Exempt Resolution No. 129 of 9 PR3 procedures and norms, and percentage of products and services subject to said legal norms about their services January 2008, applied a fine of information requirements. through bills and invoices. 40 UTA for considering that Esval Cost of the important fines resulting from the non-compliance with the norm with PR9 respect to the supply and use of the organization’s products and services. S.A. infringed letters a) and c) of P. 8 subsection 1st of article 11 of Act The company does not record any No. 18,902. Total number of non-compliances with the regulation and the voluntary codes non-compliance with the On 1 April 2011, the judicial PR4* regarding the information and the labeling of products and services, distributed regulations and voluntary codes claimed filed was rejected. by the type result of aid incidents. regarding delivery of information Fine for important entity is about its products and services. understood as those higher than CLP20,000,000. Practices with respect to the customer satisfaction, including the results of PR5* measurements about customer satisfaction. 47 and 48 * Additional Indicator Marketing Communications With respect to the ethical norms and regulation in advertising, Programs for the compliance with the laws, standards and voluntary codes related communications and other PR6 with the marketing communication, including advertising, promotion and promotional activities or of sponsorships. sponsorship, Esval abides by the Behavior Code from the Asociación Chilena de Agencias de Publicidad [Chilean Association of Advertising Agencies] (ACHAP in Spanish) Esval has not received any legal sanctions, fines or warning by any Total number of complaints duly grounded regarding the respect group of interest due to PR8* to privacy and the leak of personal data. non-compliance regarding P. 1 communications, advertising and marketing. Compliance with the Norms SOCIAL DIMENSION (Society) ECONOMIC DIMENSION PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE NUMBER INDICATOR PAGE/COMMENT NUMBER INDICATOR PAGE/COMMENT GLOBAL PACT GLOBAL PACT DMA Management focus. 71 DMA Management focus. 23 90 91 Community Economic Performance SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Nature, scope and effectiveness of programs and practices to evaluate and manage EC1 Economic value, generated and distributed. 25 SO1 the operations impacts on communities, including entrance, operation and exit. 71 74 EC4 Financial help from the government. 66 SO9 Operations with important negative impacts, possible or real, on local communities. 71 74 EC5* Range of the ratio between the standard initial salary an the local minimum salary. 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with important negative impacts, possible or real, on local communities. 71 74 Presence in the Market EC6 Practices and proportion of expenses in local suppliers. 57 Corruption 100% of Esval’s high management EC7 Practices and proportion of expenses in local suppliers. positions are occupied by Chilean P. 6 Percentage and total number of business units professionals.o. SO2 analyzed with respect to risks related with corruption. To date, Esval does not have this type of procedures. Percentage of employees trained in the organization’s SO3 P.10 anticorruption policies and procedures. Indirect Economic Impacts SO4 Measures taken in response to corruption incidents. 16 Description of the investments in infrastructure 23 and 24 EC8 and services supported that provide public benefit. * Additional Indicator Public Policy According to its ethics code, Esval rejects any form of Position in public policies and participation influence to obtain benefits that SO5 in their development and lobbying activities. are not based on the current legal standing. According to its ethical code, Total value of the financial and pecuniary contributions to Esval cannot make contributions SO6* P.10 political parties or related institutions, per country. to political parties. Compliance with the Norms Pecuniary value of sanctions and important non-economic fines arising from the During the report period, SO8 non-compliance with the laws and regulations, related with the relationship with there are no sanctions or important society (government, community, academic institutions, NGO, etc.). fines for these concepts. * Additional Indicator VERIFICATION LETTER OF ESVAL’S 92 STAKEHOLDER FORUM 93 I believe it is crucial that the following aspects are more detailed: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Regarding education, programs could be considered and the inclusion of the adult population. I hereby state to have read the chapters that are pertinent for me as representative • In relation to customers, to be a group of interest, they are below the level of of Esval’s stakeholders. priority. The customer should be an essential issues. • Regarding the Environment, the issues of the drought and the economic I also state having participated in a forum that dealt with subjects included in the impact for the company and the groups of interest such as farmers. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Sustainability Report, reaching, as a whole, the following consensus: • Regarding noises, justification of why the noise level emission has increased is needed. In relation to odors, give detail of the reasons of odor increase, and The most relevant issues included in the Report are: regarding water quality standards, precise and give more information about • As to education, the maintenance of the relationship with schools and the alterations the water had regarding odor and color. educational activities prepared for children. • As to the customers and products, the detail of the bills could be explained • As to Environment, the information regarding the management of odor and in an illustrative form so that the entire population could understand their noise, greenhouse gas emissions, chemical spill emergencies. scope and origin of the charges. Regarding the impacts of the works in the • As to the Customers and Products, customer satisfaction issues, which give public roadway, nothing is mentioned regarding the rubble, the trouble, and good detail as to the explanation in case of claim-answer. the visual contamination produced for the neighbors. • As to the community, the Vida sana Agua sana Campaign. • In relation to the community and the communication channels, more regarding the formal and effective communication ways that the population I consider it is vital to deal with the following issues that have not been dealt uses could be said. with this year: • Regarding the media, they have not been considered as a group of interest. • In relation to Education and Educational Programs issues no new goals aimed at intensifying the scope and coverage are mentioned. Subsidies and transferences from the government to the company are not mentioned either, when more detail and clarity in the actual use of the subsidies and transferences could be given. • The challenges of sustainability in the world are dealt with in a very superficial manner, specially as to drought. • As to the environment, the use of renewable energy is not mentioned. The issue of the relationship with supervising authorities and institutions is not faced. • In relation to Labor Relations, more transparency is needed regarding the incidents occurred in 2011; there was a case in which a worker died while carrying out operations in the public road and it is not mentioned in the Report. Issues regarding the relationship between workers and contractors Rodrigo Huilipang Muñoz Eugenio González Bernal are not mentioned, and neither is the way in which accidents and events Executive Coordinator of Explora Conicyt City Councilor of Valparaíso occurred should be faced. Programme, Region of Valparaíso Director Owner of Radio Congreso FM • In relation to the community, more detail is required regarding Esval’s concrete strategy about the relationship with the community; in that sense, the connection with the universities should be tackled. The Report does not mention the support relation Esval has with CONICYT and EXPLORA program: national science week and science and technology school congresses. • Another relevant subject refers to the Access to drinking water and what Esval participation in the water distribution for shanty towns is. • Response capacity plans, for instance, in case of natural catastrophes, could also be communicated. Jonathan Galarce Alex Lobos Allendes Radio Bío Bío Editor Teacher of Liceo Juana Ross de Edwards REPORT ON INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL VERIFICATION OF Methodology 94 2011 ANNUAL REPORT ON We have applied the requirements of norm AA1000 AS to verify the Sustainability 95 SUSTAINABILITY OF ESVAL Report that assures the performance of the organizations in relation to three principles: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Inclusiveness • Relevance To Esval’s General Directorate, at the request of • Response Capacity Esval’s Corporate Management: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Also, the verification was carried out having as reference the principles of the Esval requested us to develop a verification process of their 2011 Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI, version G3.1) standard. The verification covers Report, with the purpose of promoting a moderate level process, but effective the comprehensiveness of the 2011 Sustainability Report, which considers in the verification of the material information present in the report. Esval’s the operations Esval has in the Region of Valparaíso, and the period between Management is responsible of the preparation of the document and the selection 1 January and 31 December 2011. However, the reliability of the sources of of the contents. Our responsibility is, according to the applied revision procedures, information of indicators corresponds to a B level of application (according to the to express an independent conclusion regarding the following aspects: levels established by the GRI); therefore, 24 indicators were selected, selection of which is detailed below. • Make sure that the materiality study is developed based on the information needs of the groups of interests; We worked with a procedure developed in 4 main stages for two months (June • Establish the completeness level of all the GRI indicators included in the and July 2012). Sustainability Report; • Establish the compliance level of the GRI principles and the AA1000 in the • Verification of the process of definition of materiality of the report: the process Sustainability Report; developed by the company was compared with the revision of documents • Make sure that the information and GRI material indicators are reliable; of the definition of materiality (Materiality Report, workshops of groups of • Make sure that the contents of the Sustainability Report respond to the interest and interviews to leaders of opinion), a press analysis, interviews to information needs of the more relevant groups of interests. The social managers and general managers and unions. management was not included in 2011 Esval’s Sustainability Report, apart from this verification process. • Verification of the reliability of the sources of information of all the profile indicators and of 24 GRI main material indicators of performance. The 24 The Social Management did not provide any service to Esval or the groups of indicators to be revised were defined taking into account the materiality interest in 2011 that could interfere with the independence of the verification process. They were: EC1, EC4, EC8, EN3, EN4, EN8, EN12, EN16, EN17, EN20, process. EN21, EN22, EN23, EN27, HR4, LA1, LA2, LA4, LA7, PR1, PR3, SO5, SO9, and SO10. More than 80 organizations have relied on the Social Management, first consultancy in the country specialized in corporate social responsibility (CSR), • Revision of the principles of AA1000 and GRI; with CONICYT and EXPLORA thanks to our 7 years of experience in the field and our competences in relation to program: national science week and science and technology school the GRI, and norms AA1000 and ISO 26.000. congresses. • Group of interest forum to assure the relevance and usefulness of the contents of the Sustainability Report, of the issues that have not been covered and the subjects that are essential to go into detail. Four people participated in the forum: a city councilor of Valparaíso, an regional editor of Radio Bío Bío, a teacher of Liceo Juana Ross de Edwards, and the executive coordinator of the Explora CONICYT of the region of Valparaíso. • Criteria used to verify the Report: Recommendations • The three Principles of norm AA1000 AS (2008): 96 It is necessary to treat the following points into detail: 97 • Inclusiveness: participation of the groups of interest in the development • Principles of Content and Quality: materiality, comprehensiveness, reliability SUSTAINABILITY REPORT and achievement of a responsible and strategic response to sustainability. • Relevance: determine the relevance and significance of an issue for the and accuracy of the Report. organization and the groups of interest. • Response capacity: way in which the organization shows to respond to the • The general important risks for the organization could be estimated in relation problems expressed by the stakeholders which affect their performance to each GRI dimension. in the sustainable development and which concretizes with the decisions, • The drought information could be completed, information that could SUSTAINABILITY REPORT actions, performances and communication with the stakeholders. influence the groups of interest in their decisions and valuations, and which • The three principles of GRI: can reflect significant social, environmental and economic impacts. Also, the issue that was proposed by the groups of interest is part of the materiality and • Contents: materiality, participation of the groups of interests, context of represents a significant risk for Esval. sustainability, and comprehensiveness. • Quality: balance, comparability, precision, clarity, regularity, and reliability. The Principles of the AA1000: • Coverage. • Inclusiveness of the stakeholders (participation of the stakeholders in the entire organization, timely reaction) as, for instance, with the means of Conclusions communication, contractors, customers, employees, unions, authorities, resident and community associations. • Preparation of a internal communication plan that has concrete and Based on the work carried out, according to what is mentioned in the previous formal channels (or concrete methodology) to establish the information paragraphs, we may comment and conclude that the “2011 Annual Report of connection between the management and the employees, and viceEsval’s Sustainability” includes the basic contents recommended by the Guidelines versa. Also, it is recommended to involve the unions in the issues regarding for the preparation of sustainability reports of the GRI, version 3.1, for the B level the sustainability. of application, according to the self-declaration carried out by Esval and by the • Including in the strategic guidelines of the organization, systematically, requirements of norm AA1000 for a type 2 level of verification. Also, the revision of the ways to establish a relationship with the different groups of interest the principles (AA1000 and GRI) and of the reliability of the 24 material indicators the company relates to. with the consensus of the forum of the groups of interest, provide a reasonable base for obtaining them. We also conclude that not any aspect that could tell us • Relevance of the lack of the communication channels. that the report was prepared with unreliable information was found, according to • Generating a strategic plan that comprehensively and continuously responds the source verification. to the relevant challenges in sustainability matters in relation to its stakeholders. After carrying out the revision process of AA1000 Principles, the following • Response capacity as clarity, transparency and effectiveness of the strengths can be identified: communication channels. • Necessity of including the RS in the organization strategy, including in the • Inclusiveness: a good level of integration of stakeholders is found in relation strategic planning actions and indicators to measure the performance. to sustainability challenges (preparation of an international norm, responsible • Definition of a plan of commitment with the groups of interest included in consumption of drinkable water) and, in particular, with the community the strategic guidelines of the organization, measurable with the performance (Labor Fair, Project of Improvement of Public Spaces in Valparaíso), with the indicators, that allows dealing with the diversity of issues of the different groups. population living in extreme poverty or vulnerability, and students. • Taking firm actions for the foreseen problems (the drought was not a surprise), training the population as to the responsible use of the water resource, and • Relevance: it is observed that the issue of the water sustainable management communicate with particular emphasis the issue the company is undergoing. is dealt with through educational workshops, speeches and the international certification program, for instance, that is part of Esval’s field and that is within their influence scope (shared value). • Capacity of response: good communication channels to adequately meet the needs of the community, as Esval uses an in-situ communication. Sincerely, Juan Pedro Pinochet Becerra 7.643.447-6, General Manager of Gestión Social S.A. 98 99 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Name Esval S.A. TAX Card No. 89.900.400-0 Type of Company: Publicly Traded Company SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Registry of Securities No. 0348 of 24 October 1989 Address 751 Cochrane, Valparaíso-Chile Telephone Number (56-32) 2209000 Fax (56-32) 2209502 Post Code 2370020 Web http://www.esval.cl Design and Production Dinamo Estudio de Diseño Ltda. Edition and Advisory in GRI Guidelines Beatriz Calderón Alzate SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 100
