Keshavlal Mangubhai & Co. an ISO 9001:2000 company certified by BSI. This Company regards the quality first, the customer first and the excelsior spirit and attitude as its highest Principles. The main activities of Company consist of Band sawing of wood, making it to the required sizes, giving Chemical Treatment, Seasoning of the same, after finishing of the material, and last packing and supply it to various destination of the Handicrafts, Furniture , Packing Material. Our company confirm its commitment to UNGC’s Ten Principles and intend to advance the same within the sphere of influence and day-to-day operations. 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Year 2009-10 S.No. Global Commitment/ Policies, Action Taken & Impact achieved and / or Compact plans for the upcoming year Principle 1 Business Commitment/Policies Keshav Lal Mangubhai strongly believes in should support achieving organisational excellence through and respect the human resources. Believes in respecting the protection of rights of all its employees internationally Action taken All employees are made aware of their rights proclaimed within the company human rights Outcomes rights and freedoms of each individuals are protected Plans for the To continue practicing these policies. upcoming year 2 and make sure Commitment/Policies we strongly believes in upholding the rights of that they are individual not complicit in Action taken Make sure that their interest are not hampered human rights Outcomes complicit in human rights abuse avoided abuses Plans for the :to continue to practice this in future endeavours upcoming year and progress of co and individual. 3 Business Commitment/Policies should uphold Action Taken : the freedom of Outcomes . association and Plan for the the effective upcoming year recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 The elimination Commitment/Policies All the Labour Laws bans the forced and of all forms of compulsory labour is applicable. forced and Action Taken All the requisite provisions to ban the forced compulsory and compulsory labour are being stricty followed labour Outcome No forced and Compulsory labour engaged in the company. Plans for the To continue with the present and for betterment. upcoming year 5 The effective Commitment/Policies Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, abolition of 1986 is applicable. child labour Action Taken All the provisions of the said Act is followed dilligently Outcome No child labour is allowed to work in our company We continue to uphold these standards 6 and the Commitment/Policies We do not discriminate while employing an elimination of individual. discrimination Action Taken We ensure strict compliance of labour laws. 2 in respect of Outcome :No such discrimination in employment and employment occupation reported and occupation Plans for the We would continue to follow this in our company upcoming year: Businesses Commitment/ we comply with all the relevant Acts to ensure 7 should support Policies cleaner environment. a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Action Taken Process of cleaning wood consist of loading of wood articles in pressure chamber, applying of Vacuum and high temperature pressurized air to take care of the penetration of the chemical in wood to a sufficient depth which ensures the 8 Undertake quality of the treated wood chemicals or initiatives to preservatives are sent inside the pressure promote vessel for the wood pressure treatment which greater develops the wood to resist any type of attack of environmental insect which make the wood powder and any responsibility biological effect chemical or preservatives is brought from protect paste ( Eco-Friendly 9 And encourage Product ) the development This process is carried out as per AMERICAN and diffusion of WOOD PRESERVATIVE ASSOSIATION environmentally (AWPA) AS WELL AS INDIAN STANDERD friendly CODE 401. technologies; Outcomes • Wood is treated using eco friendly paste with min or no damage to environment Plans for the • We shall continue to use eco friendly upcoming year techniques in our area of work. 3
