About Nykredit 2012 CSR Report on Financial Sustainability Contents Foreword ........................................................................................... 1 Meet Nykredit .................................................................................. 2 Customers ......................................................................................... 3 Nykredit's activities ....................................................................... 4 Need for increased financial sector earnings and capital................ 5 Customer's choice ......................................................................... 7 Customer satisfaction .................................................................... 8 Nykredit's customer ambassador ................................................... 9 Sustainable investment................................................................ 10 Social responsibility ....................................................................... 11 Social initiatives ........................................................................... 12 Sponsorships ............................................................................... 13 The Nykredit Foundation............................................................. 14 Environment and climate ............................................................. 15 Staff ................................................................................................ 17 Clearly defined goals ................................................................... 18 Diversity ...................................................................................... 19 Nykredit Health ........................................................................... 20 Leaner and more efficient organisation ....................................... 20 Staff figures................................................................................. 20 Ownership structure and capital policy ........................................ 21 Unique Danish mortgage system ................................................. 22 New regulation ............................................................................ 24 Sustainable capital policy ............................................................ 25 Nykredit in numbers ...................................................................... 26 Nykredit's investors ..................................................................... 26 Financial highlights ..................................................................... 26 Non-financial highlights .............................................................. 27 Reporting policies .......................................................................... 28 ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 Foreword | 01 Nykredit's objective is to carry on financial business for the Among our other significant initiatives in 2012 was a new benefit of our customers. mortgage advisory concept. We introduced five simple product packages, offering our customers different levels Nykredit is a customer-driven financial mutual. Nykredit of security with regard to mortgage rate development, and was founded by its customers and exists for its customers. different levels of home equity building by means of higher That has been the case for more than 150 years. or lower repayments. The new concept simplifies the choice between different loan types. Consequently, Nykredit puts customers first. That is one of our fundamental business principles and it is in harmony While contributing to a stable and efficient financial market, with our business concept. We will advise and serve our Nykredit also assumes corporate social responsibility (CSR) customers in a manner that enables them to make their own in other areas. Our CSR activities include ambitious targets choices on an informed basis. This places Nykredit under for more women in management, providing independent fia particular obligation to provide responsible advisory sernancial advice to battered women, and offering foreign resivices. Therefore, we train and certify our staff with a view to dents a New Network, assisting them in finding education, handling that task to best effect – and to an extent beyond training or jobs. Nykredit also works actively to improve the statutory requirements. health of the Danish population via the website vorespuls. dk and sponsorships for various running events. Further, By virtue of Nykredit's history and special ownership strucwe contribute to a greener Denmark through an ambitious ture as a financial mutual, we stand out in a number of climate and environment strategy, which encompasses ways. Rather than focusing on short-term gains, our owners business measures as well as Nykredit's own environmental aim for long-term customer relationships and returns – what impact. we call Financial Sustainability – and that is our business concept. About Nykredit 2012 is Nykredit's CSR report on Financial Sustainability. It supplements our Annual Report and Like other financial institutions, Nykredit operates as a differentiates the picture of a company that is more than business and is as such also supposed to make a profit. just numbers. Active lending requires equity in an amount that meets or exceeds the requirements of legislation and bond markets. Enjoy the read! Requirements which will be tightened in coming years. During the financial crisis, Nykredit's lending increased, and Peter Engberg Jensen this trend has continued despite the prospect of higher Group Chief Executive equity requirements. Ensuring credit facilities for our customers is a central part of Nykredit's social responsibility. Thus, our social responsibility goes hand in hand with our business activities, providing a foundation for future growth in Denmark. The increased capital requirements imply that Nykredit needs to raise earnings in order to maintain lending. This may imply price adjustments, combined with cost awareness, to safeguard our financial foundation for future lending. We constantly strive to facilitate the role of the customer and to ensure that we meet our customers in a positive and professional atmosphere. One of our main concerns is the open and trusting dialogue, which is why we are constantly improving our online banking service with new features providing a better overview; why we have a customer ambassador; why we have a blog, and why in 2012 we launched a new central advisory centre, Nykredit Direkte®, to mention but a few initiatives. ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 02 | Meet Nykredit Nykredit is one of Denmark's leading financial service providers with banking and mortgage lending as its core business areas. In addition, Nykredit has activities within insurance, leasing, pension and estate agency business. The Group serves both personal and commercial cus1.1 million tomers, providing advisory services that accommodate the financial costumers requirements of families as well as small and medium-sized enterprises and the largest corporations. The Nykredit Group is in contact with more than 1.1 million customers. This includes 430,000 personal customers, 75,000 commercial customers under the Nykredit brand, and just over 600,000 personal customers served by local and regional banks under the Totalkredit partnership. 4,115 staff Nykredit wants to assume corporate social responsibility (CSR). Consequently, Nykredit is running a number of CSR projects and promote climate and environmentally conscious behaviour. We also support the development of society by awarding Nykredit's architecture and research prizes. Nykredit's long history and special ownership structure as a financial mutual set us apart in a number of ways. Rather than looking for shortterm gains, Nykredit aims at long-term customer relationships and results – what we call Financial Sustainability. This distinguishes Nykredit from listed financial companies. However, in an international context, 55 customer centres approximately one in five of Europe's financial service providers has an ownership structure similar to that of Nykredit. Nykredit's business concept of Financial Sustainability implies that we operate on the basis of a sharply defined ethical frame of reference and long-term relations create new opportunities for customers and investors value balanced risk management and a long-term capital policy. 252,000 mobile app downloads Balanced risk management means that we continuously adjust our Income from business operations business to market conditions – for instance, Nykredit has introduced 2% two-tier mortgaging, and our refinancing auctions have been spread Nykredit Bank 17% over the year. Nykredit Realkredit A robust capital base and high earnings are prerequisites for our Totalkredit ability to maintain active lending activities – also in times of crisis – 36% Other contributing to high bond ratings and consequently low interest rates, to the benefit of our customers. 45% ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 Customers Nykredit puts customers first. This is one of Nykredit's fundamental business principles, and it is important to us that customers gain valuable service focusing on their needs – now and in the future. We strive to facilitate the role of the customer and to ensure that we provide our customers with a positive and professional experience. We aim to have the most satisfied customers among key financial service providers. CUSTOMERS ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 04 | Nykredit's activities Because of our principle of putting customers first and our Historically, Nykredit's business is mortgage financing. Howaim of ensuring long-term financial sustainability, we conever, the banking activities have been expanded, and today stantly strive to adapt our business for the future, focusing on Nykredit offers broad-based financial solutions meeting customers' needs as well as external business conditions such the financial requirements of families as well as small and as regulatory requirements. medium-sized enterprises and the largest corporations. Being Regulatory requirements regarding the capital that banks Denmark's leading lender, Nykredit provides 31% of all Danand mortgage lenders must post as security for their lendish bank and mortgage loans. ing activities will increase significantly in the years to come. Nykredit's sound capital structure benefits our customNykredit therefore has to increase its earnings to be able to ers and has ensured steady lending growth in the years since set aside more capital by way of equity. Also, banks' fund2008, also in periods when total market lending has been on ing rates have gone up over the past few years. The prices the decline. Since 2008 Nykredit's lending has grown by some of bank and mortgage products will have to reﬂect the new DKK 160bn, compared with a drop in lending of some DKK market conditions with higher funding and capital costs. Also 250bn in the remaining financial sector over the same period. the development in losses will affect the need for price adIn 2012 mortgage loans accounted for the greater part justments. of lending growth. Because of the very low mortgage rates, In 2012 Nykredit changed the structure of homeowner mortgage loans were in higher demand among customers mortgages, introducing two-tier mortgaging. Two-tier mortthan bank loans. In the same period, the propensity to save gaging will enable Nykredit to continue to offer customers was rising in Denmark due to the low economic growth. This attractive mortgage loans – also in the long run. was reﬂected in rising demand for Nykredit's savings concepts, investment funds and deposit products. Sustainable business model On 1 June 2012, Nykredit opened a new nationwide adIn June 2012 Nykredit introduced two-tier mortgaging. Going visory centre, Nykredit Direkte® – a service platform offering forward, all mortgage loans offered by Nykredit will consist of a the ﬂexibility and accessibility that customers need. Seven top loan only offered as a repayment loan and a base loan with days a week, professional advisers are ready to provide advian interest-only option. sory services relating to banking, mortgage, investment and Prepaying debt and building home equity will improve the pension products. finances of homeowners, reducing their risk of ending up with The customer services offered at Nykredit's local centres negative equity. This will future-proof the Danish mortgage have also been redesigned, and all centres now offer personal system for the benefit of borrowers, investors and the Danish and commercial customer services under one roof. economy in general. Two-tier mortgaging will reduce ﬂuctuations in Nykredit's Mortgage lending of tomorrow cost of capital while at the same time strengthening the fiNykredit plays a major role in the Danish financial market, nances of homeowners. This will make Nykredit's business having contact with more than 1.1 million personal and commodel more competitive, securing Nykredit's ability to maintain mercial customers. Nykredit therefore has an obligation to active lending activities not only in good times but also in times contribute to a stable and efficient financial market. This is of crisis. in our interest and helps us retain our status as a financially robust group in the long term. Nykredit's market position in Denmark Lending growth in Nykredit and the market 12% DKKbn Market share 10% Total bank and mortgage lending 1,127 31% 8% of which bank lending 67 6% 6% of which mortgage lending 1,060 43% 4% Assets under administration 514 40% 2% Assets under management 101 0% Portfolio of retail investment fund units 43 8% -2% Bond trading 27% -4% Note: Bank and mortgage lending is determined in nominal terms on the basis of the statistics on the balance 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 sheets and ﬂows of the MFI sector prepared by Danmarks Nationalbank. Nykredit Market ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 CUSTOMERS Need for increased financial sector earnings and capital | 05 New international capital requirements are expected to increase Nykredit's equity requirement to about DKK 70bn in the period up to 3 Housing prices back to 2005 level Index 250 2019 given unchanged lending volumes. As Nykredit's equity is currently about DKK 58bn, significant earnings are required in coming 200 years to maintain active lending activities. At the same time, earnings in the financial sector are under pressure. Declining property prices have caused a rise in losses as well as costs of 150 providing supplementary collateral behind the bonds. Also, income is low due to the low interest rate level. As a result of declining property 100 prices and low interest rates, Nykredit' core earnings in 2012 were DKK 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 Detached and terraced houses Owner-occupied flats 3bn-4bn lower than they would be under normal circumstances. In addition, banks' funding costs have soared in the wake of the financial Lower housing prices affect capital requirements and losses crisis, as investors consider banks to be less safe investments than they The financial sector has incurred slightly higher losses due to the decline in property prices. Also, the property price fall has caused used to be. a rise in the sector's expenses, as it has to post supplementary colIn other words, earnings are under pressure, at a time when the seclateral behind its covered bonds. Further, the capital cost of lendtor needs to build more equity. A significant rise in interest rates and ing is up, as mortgage loans today equal 75% of property values property prices does not seem likely in the near future. The financial compared with 65% earlier. sector therefore has to adjust prices and costs. The alternative would be to reduce lending, which would be detrimental to economic growth. . 4 But mortgage rates are low Effective interest rate 1 Capital requirement expected to almost double 6% 5% 20% 4% Ca. 16% 15% 3% 2% 10% Ca. 9% 1% Ca. 14% 0% 5% -1% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0% 2% Nykredit ARM, 1Y reset 2Y Danish government bond Today 2019 Equity Supplementary or higher-quality capital The financial crisis also reduced mortgage rates As mentioned above, interest rates on bank funding in internaStricter requirements for the amount and quality of capital tional capital markets have gone up. Investors have turned to safe Following the financial crisis, the regulatory requirements for the papers such as government and covered bonds from eg Germany sector's financial strength have been tightened. This means stricter or Denmark. Due to the high investor demand, governments and requirements for the amount and quality of capital that banks must mortgage borrowers enjoy historically low interest rates. hold as collateral in future. Going forward, a substantial part of the regulatory capital must be in the form of equity as opposed to previously when subordinate loan capital was also eligible. 5 Requirements to be met by Nykredit 2 Cost of capital up since 2007 Interest rate Equity 2019 To approx DKK 70bn 14% 2012 12% From approx DKK 58bn 10% 8% Increased income Lower cost: Capital 6% income ratio management from customers 4% 2% Focus on earnings and capital 0% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 All in all, stricter regulatory capital requirements, increased capital Supplementary capital Senior debt requirements due to declining property prices and higher bank funding costs mean that banks and mortgage lenders are faced Higher cost of capital for banks after financial crisis with a demand for higher earnings. Earnings may be improved Before the financial crisis, ordinary loans to banks (senior debt) through higher income from customers or cost restraint. were considered very safe investments, and banks were therefore Nykredit's equity must be increased to about DKK 70bn with the able to raise funding at a low cost. The financial crisis changed current business volume. To this should be added an additional apinvestors' view of the financial sector, and they now demand higher prox DKK 4bn per percentage point of annual lending (and capital interest rates. requirement) growth. FIVE MORTGAGE PACKAGES Package A Package B Package C Package D Package E 06 | Fixed-rate loan Floating-rate loan, ARM, 5-year interest Floating-rate loan, ARM, 5-year interest Top loan 60-80% 10-year 10-year cap, 10-year period, 10-year 10-year cap, 30-year period, 30-year With repayments Fixed-rate loan Floating-rate loan, ARM, 1-year interest Fixed-rate loan ARM, 1-year interest Base loan 0-60% 30-year 10-year cap, 30-year period, 30-year 30-year period, 30-year 10-year interest-only period Under the concept of two-tier mortgaging, Nykredit's mortgage mortgage products to the customer's overall needs. Based on advisory services are, more than previously, based on dialogue the dialogue with the customer, Nykredit recommends one of with the customer about principal and mortgage payments: five possible mortgage packages including a top and a base How fast does the customer want to repay the loan, and how loan, designed so as to meet the customer's needs, whether the much should mortgage payments be allowed to ﬂuctuate – a customer wants high or low principal payments or mortgage little, a lot or not at all. This will shift the focus from individual payments that are fixed or allowed to ﬂuctuate a little or a lot. Advisory services Nykredit expects the use of digital comtypes of documents. A safer digital channel For Nykredit, it is essential that our cusmunication and digital solutions involving is required. Nykredit expects to be introtomers receive the best possible advice. NemID to increase in the years to come. ducing safe digital viewing and forwarding For optimum results, Nykredit's adviIndeed, the public authorities have set an of documents in early 2013. The solution sory services must cover all aspects of a ambitious target that all mail communicawill be continuously expanded with new customer's financial position. Nykredit tion with citizens and businesses must be functionality, for instance to enable digital therefore takes a holistic approach to a digitalised over the next few years. signatures, and will only require that custhe customer's finances and on that basis tomers have NemIDs. designs optimum, long-term solutions. 90% digital communication by 2015 The introduction of two-tier mortgaging It is Nykredit's target that at least 90% of Banking of tomorrow has increased the need for customised all Nykredit's communication with customNykredit has launched the concept Beadvisory services. ers must be digitalised by 2015. come a Bank customer in 5 minutes . New The financial crisis has demonstrated Besides the financial advantage of savBank customers can open an account and the need for competent and professional ing paper and postage, it will be easier get access to Nykredit's online banking advice, and Nykredit is making a targeted for both Nykredit and our customers once service without having to submit docueffort to provide all customer advisers with customers are able to receive and sign all ments by mail. The customer is guided the best professional and personal competypes of mail digitally. through the process using NemID and just tencies. Nykredit's adviser competency reNykredit focuses on increasing acceshas to upload a scanned proof of identity. quirements are stricter than the statutory sibility across platforms. If customers with More and more customers use WebDesk requirements. That way, we are sure that NemIDs allow information from the public as a supplement to call centre advisory all advisers possess solid skills enabling pensions info site or their personal online services – the WebDesk allows the adviser them to offer customers sound and relitax folders to be transferred digitally to to share his screen with the customer and able advice. Nykredit's systems, manual processes will show results of calculations etc. In addition to a wide range of profesbe reduced, and customers may quickly Moreover, 2012 saw a new version of sional tools, advisers' ability to engage in gain a clear view of their finances. Nykredit's online banking service, which dialogue with customers about their needs, has been ranked no 1 in Denmark, as well options and any financial restrictions is How far have we come? as an iPad solution. an important element of good advisory Today about 45% of services. Advisers must be able to offer cusNykredit's total mail comtomers simple alternatives, and the dialogue munication with custommust provide customers with the knowledge ers, chieﬂy statements Online activity required to make the right choice. of accounts, receipts etc Number 2011 2012 provided for their informaVisits at nykredit.dk 12,876,536 12,456,171 Nykredit as digital partner tion, is sent digitally to Online calculations 2,452,446 1,486,527 Today 3.8 million Danes use NemID and their mailboxes at e-Boks. Visits at Nykredit Blog 99,887 139,706 have a mailbox at e-Boks, to which pay The number of customers Visits at nykredit.tv 60,244 60,773 slips, statements of accounts etc are contacting Nykredit by eVideo consultations with advisers 14,100 27,742 sent. This paves the way for exchanging mail is rising, but ordinary Downloads of mobile apps 178,632 252,182 information, concluding agreements, etc e-mails do not comply with Smartbudget users 24,588 29,112 Facebook likes 7,573 without any use of paper printouts and the statutory requirements Note: Online calculations include calculations concerning home purchases, design of pension fiphysical signatures. for the forwarding of many nances and size of homeowner's equity. ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 CUSTOMERS Customer's choice Mobile apps Simplicity in everyday life. Mobile banking and four other mobile apps. 55 customer centres Personal advice by specialists. Nykredit.dk Products, advisory services, guides, calculators, blog and much more. Nykredit Direkte® Online bank – mitNykredit Access to advisers seven days a week. Accounts summary, advisory services and transactions. Opening hours: iPad Monday to Friday 8:00-20:00 WebDesk Design your own online bank with Saturday 11:00-15:00 Have video consultations with spending and investment overviews. Sunday 11:00-15:00 advisers and Customer Services. Hold iPad video conferences. Nykredit was awarded Denmark's most digital company in 2010, 2011 and 2012. MitNykredit was found best in test by the Danish consumer magazine Tænk Penge in 2010 and 2011 and was awarded the best online banking provider by the magazine Mobil.nu in 2012. 08 | Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction Nykredit aims to have the most satisfied customers among key Assessment financial market players, and tracking customer satisfaction is 75 an important step towards delivering this objective. 70 High customer satisfaction increases the probability that customers will purchase more Nykredit products and reduces the 65 probability that they will want to change banks. We regularly 60 measure customer satisfaction by asking our customers about 55 their expectations and experience regarding Nykredit's advisers, products and services. This provides us with valuable input from 50 thousands of customers, and their time is not wasted. We use H2/2011 H1/2012 Personal Commercial Source: Ennova (Nykredit's own surveys) the many responses to improve in areas where we could do better, and we constantly strive to make it easier, better and more attractive to be a Nykredit customer. Personal customer satisfaction, banking Index Progress among commercial customers 80 In general, our customers are satisfied with Nykredit. Our lat78 est customer satisfaction survey from spring 2012 showed 76 that personal customers' satisfaction with Nykredit was largely 74 unchanged since 2011, while commercial customers were more 72 70 satisfied than they were in 2011. 68 66 More satisfied customers 64 The surveys show that the most satisfied customers are those 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 who receive solutions covering most of their financial requireNykredit Banking sector Source: EPSI Danmark ments as well as broad-based advisory services relating to dayto-day finances, housing finance and savings products. The surABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 CUSTOMERS veys also confirm that the closer the relationship between Distribution of complaints | 09 customer and adviser, the higher the customer's satisfaction 3% 2% Case handling 8% with Nykredit. 30% Communication Decisions 11% Nykredit's customer ambassador Interest rates/fees/ In 2007 Nykredit introduced a customer ambassador whose parprices ticular focus is on assisting dissatisfied customers. Advisory services The customer ambassador's primary objective is to ensure 13% Other/do not know that any dissatisfied customers feel that their complaints are 19% Products handled fairly. 14% Systems/equipment Nykredit learns from complaints By choosing to complain rather than simply changing banks, the customer gives Nykredit a chance to correct a mistake or Development in complaints Number of complaints misunderstanding. Also, a complaint directs Nykredit's attention 800 towards any inexpedient processes which are inconvenient to 700 customers. 11% of the complaints made to the customer am600 bassador in 2012 led to specific initiatives or general changes. 500 400 Nykredit takes dissatisfaction seriously 300 As part of our efforts to provide good service to our customers 200 – also when they contact Nykredit because they are dissatisfied 100 – we measure the satisfaction level regarding our complaints 0 handling. We strive to offer customers uniform, competent, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thorough and fast complaints handling. In 2012 57% of personal customers were highly satisfied or satisfied with Nykredit's dissatisfaction handling. Of these, 34% Outcomes of complaints received by customer ambassador were highly satisfied. or complaints unit Even though Nykredit strives to meet all customer needs and 15% expectations, complaints are inevitable. Nykredit receives some 26% In favour of costumer 3 million customer e-mails and calls a year. In addition to that, we hold more than 250,000 meetings with customers. With Partly in favour of costumer that amount of communication, mistakes are bound to happen. Rejected Some of these give rise to actual complaints that are handled by Other/do not know the customer ambassador or the complaints unit. 37% 22% Openness about complaints – status for 2012 2012 was characterised by a larger proportion of complaints from customers that were dissatisfied with prices and fees. Personal and commercial customers of banks and mortgage lenders recently find that the services offered are becoming increasingly Complaints handling at Nykredit expensive, despite the historically low general interest rate level. If a customer is dissatisfied with a decision, with the way a case Nykredit wants to set an example as regards openness about has been handled or with Nykredit's products, the customer complaints. In 2012 Nykredit's customer ambassador and the must first contact the person or centre that handled the case. complaints unit handled a total of 478 complaints. The comIf the problem can be solved that way, it is easier and faster for both the customer and Nykredit. plaints typically pertained to case handling (often length of time), communication or a specific decision (eg loan refusal). If the customer finds it necessary to proceed, the customer is 49% of the complaints brought to the customer ambassador welcome to contact Nykredit's customer ambassador or comor the complaints unit were decided entirely or partly in the plaints unit. customer's favour. If, contrary to expectations, a satisfactory solution cannot be found, personal customers are advised to contact one of the private complaint boards. CUSTOMERS ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 Sustainable investment However, investing in the sovereign debt of Like all Nykredit's business activities, Nykredit emerging market countries means that a numasset management is based on sustainability. ber of new factors must be considered before GLOBAL FOCUS EQUITIES an investment is made. In 2012 Nykredit thereWhen investing through Nykredit's investNykredit Invest's Global Focus Equiment funds or investing the Nykredit Group's fore expanded its sustainable investments policy ties subfund is just one of several products that systematically include own funds, Nykredit therefore supplements with a set of guidelines for sovereign debt sustainability assessments from conventional investment research with sustaininvestment. MSCI's extensive database when ability considerations. This is in compliance picking individual investments. with the UNPRI's six principles for responsible Facts on Nykredit's guidelines for sovereign investment, which Nykredit adopted in 2009. debt investment: Morten Gregersen, head of Nykredit Global Equities, explains: Nykredit's sustainable investments policy covers Nykredit excludes countries that are subject Sustainable investment is very much investments worth DKK 211bn. to sanctions against financial transactions a question of identifying risk and Nykredit has set up screening procedures to with the regime or leading members of the opportunities. Sustainability is an identify any breach of generally accepted UN regime. important additional dimension that provides us with a more accurate conventions and the Global Compact principles. Nykredit's external asset manager, Investec, picture of the risk and potential of These procedures are applied for all 2,000 comincorporates democracy and human rights each company. We do it to be able to panies in which Nykredit invests, and in case considerations in its investment process. offer our clients better results. of breach Nykredit considers whether active The observation list is based on the OECD ownership will be sufficient to rectify the comcountry risk classification, which is based on a Concepts pany's behaviour and practices. If the breach is number of financial and political criteria. Global Compact: UN Global deemed to be too serious, or active ownership Compact is the world's largest is not deemed to remedy the situation, the If a portfolio manager or an external manager volunteer network for compacompany will be excluded. Nykredit currently wants to invest in sovereign debt from a counnies that take measures to fulfil pursues active ownership of 19 companies and try in the lowest or second-lowest category of their social responsibility. Global Compact is based on ten principles has excluded 13. the OECD country risk classification, a sustainwithin four areas: Human rights, Nykredit's investment research also considers ability assessment of the investment must be labour standards, environment the risks and potentials of companies from a susmade. Based on the assessment, Nykredit deand anti-corruption. The individual tainability perspective. In order to support these cides whether the bond issue should be placed company selects the areas and the efforts, Nykredit is working with a new investon Nykredit's exclusion list. measures relevant to its core business. ment adviser, thereby obtaining access to a daUNPRI: The UN's six principles for tabase of extensive individual research on more Read more at nykredit.com responsible investment. The printhan 2,500 companies and the ratings of these We want openness and dialogue in relation to ciples constitute a set of common companies relative to competitors in the sector. our work to ensure sustainable investment. For global guidelines for responsible this reason, we have disclosed our reports to investment behaviour, incorpoNykredit is at the forefront of emerging the international investor network, UNPRI, on rating environmental, social and corporate governance issues into market sovereign debt investment Nykredit's website. There you can read about the entire investment process. The economic development of emerging market our work in detail. You can also express your countries provides opportunities to investors opinion at the Nykredit Blog. that seek higher yields in a low-yield environment. This had led to the creation of an important market for emerging market sovereign debt investments, to the benefit of investors as well as the countries whose development they help finance. ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 CUSTOMERS Social responsibility Nykredit's business concept of Financial Sustainability describes how values such as balance, long-term relations and a broad social responsibility are active and integral parts of our dialogue with customers, business partners, investors, staff and the rest of society. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 GRI GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) is an international network working to promote global sustainability reporting. GRI is the reporting standard most widely applied when companies prepare reports in accordance with the principles set out under the UN Global Compact initiative. Nykredit is a member of the UN Global Compact network. This Contribution to society publication describes part of our efforts to implement the ten Nykredit's most important contribution to society is our lending Global Compact principles for corporate social responsibility. to personal and commercial customers. Nykredit grants 31% Nykredit's report on corporate social responsibility is based on of all bank and mortgage loans in Denmark and consequently the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. In addition, plays a crucial role in the Danish economy. Nykredit's investment policy complies with the UN's principles In addition, Nykredit contributes directly to society by way for responsible investment, UNPRI. These are but a few examof 4,115 jobs as well as costs of corporation and payroll taxes ples of Nykredit's broad effort to actively incorporate our social totalling DKK 439m for 2012. responsibility in, and sometimes also outside, our day-to-day business activities. Social initiatives Nykredit possesses a number of competencies which we make Nykredit's anti-corruption policy available for a number of ongoing social partnerships: A social Nykredit resents any type of corruption that may undermine partnership with both Mødrehjælpen (Mothers Help) and crisis democratic values and open market principles. centres, and the New Network project. Nykredit supports and By all accounts, Denmark is among the least corrupt counfacilitates the projects, and Nykredit's staff provide their protries in the world, but still, situations may arise that leave fessional and personal skills and experience on a voluntary and people in doubt of what is right and what is wrong. In 2012 unpaid basis. Nykredit therefore laid down an anti-corruption policy. The policy includes Nykredit's general principles for countering Social partnership corruption, and it also describes a number of specific focus Since the beginning of 2009, the Mary Foundation, headed activities/areas where the risk of corruption is particularly high. by HRH Crown Princess Mary, Mødrehjælpen and Nykredit Examples are bribery and secret commission, the provision or have been partners in a project offering free and independent receipt of improper gifts, entertainment or food, political donapersonal, financial and legal counselling to battered and other tions, nepotism and money laundering. vulnerable women in the metropolitan area. Based on the very positive experience gained from the project, it was expanded in Dialogue with the world 2010 to include similar counselling in Aarhus. Nykredit's staff Nykredit is an agenda setter in the financial marketplace and as do voluntary work as financial mentors under the project at the such pursues an active communications policy. We wish to share premises of Mødrehjælpen. our knowledge about financial conditions and the financial secSo far, over 1,100 women have received counselling in tor in general with our stakeholders through dialogue, and we Copenhagen or Aarhus. Surveys indicate that the number of seek the input of stakeholders to help us continue the developwomen who feel that they can cope with their financial situation ment of Nykredit's activities. after they received counselling has more than doubled. 71% of An example of this dialogue with stakeholders is the the women state that their quality of life has improved. Nykredit Blog where a wide variety of issues are being debated Under the social partnership with crisis centres, Nykredit is – issues relating to matters such as personal finances, customer still working together with the Mary Foundation, but also with service, social responsibility and sustainable investment. the National Organization of Shelters for Battered Women and Another example of our external dialogue is the ongoing Children (LOKK) and local law firms. The counselling provided at communication with our investors. We travel round the world the crisis centres is similar to what is offered at Mødrehjælpen. to ensure that our foreign investors are well informed about The counsellors are lawyers and Nykredit staff working on a Nykredit's activities. But just as importantly, we listen to their voluntary basis and the social workers at the crisis centres. The needs. When Nykredit introduced two-tier mortgaging, we had, project is being expanded to include more crisis centres across in advance, made sure that investors would find the new bond Denmark. By the end of 2012, counselling had been established types attractive. at 12 crisis centres. Obviously, Nykredit's most important stakeholders are our A total of 40 Nykredit staff members were working as financustomers. Through our customer satisfaction surveys, we aim to cial mentors under the projects in the course of 2012. clarify what our customers think we could and should do better. They offer their help on a voluntary basis, using their profesABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY sional skills and a good deal of human insight to help these Vorespuls.dk | 13 women gain control of their financial situation. The counselling In 2010 Nykredit entered into a partnership with DGI on creatis based on the principle of helping the women to help theming a joint, online physical activity universe with sports events selves and thereby facilitating their escape from violence. taking place throughout Denmark. The objective of vorespuls.dk Based on the positive results achieved, Nykredit together is to improve public health by inspiring and motivating Danes with Østifterne will continue to provide financial support for the to engage in physical activity as a natural part of their everyday two social partnership projects in 2013 and 2014. life. With over 50,000 monthly hits, vorespuls.dk is a popular site New Network helps foreign residents get jobs where visitors can find information and subscribe to newsletters Since 2011, 60 Nykredit staff members have served as menabout running, cycling, mountainbiking, swimming, kayaking tors to 60 foreigners living in Denmark and learning Danish at and a healthy lifestyle in general. In autumn 2012, the agreeHellerup Language School. ment was extended by four years. The mentorship period is typically five months, and the ultimate goal is to bring the mentees closer to the Danish labour The Royal Danish Theatre market so that they can get a job. For the 16th consecutive year, Nykredit is the main sponsor of The project is called New Network, and the principal tasks of the Royal Danish Theatre, sponsoring performances, open-air the mentors are to help the mentees expand their networks and operas and two great summer events with ballet, opera and advise them on Danish society, labour market and workplace acting at Rosenborg and Skamlingsbanken. In open-air opera culture. Nykredit is facilitating the project, and Nykredit staff concerts, singers from the Royal Danish Opera performed exmembers work as voluntary mentors to the foreign mentees. tracts from the next opera season to an audience of more than So far, about 50% of the participating mentees have found 16,500. More than 27,000 people visited the two great summer jobs, and most of the remaining 50% are receiving training or events at Rosenborg and Skamlingsbanken. In 2012 Nykredit education. All the mentees have expanded their networks and hosted various events for customers and business relations. have become better equipped socially, professionally, culturally and language-wise to tackle the challenges in the Danish labour Totalkredit partner of men's national handball team market. In 2011 Totalkredit signed an agreement with the Danish HandBased on the positive results achieved in Copenhagen, a ball Association (DHF) as main sponsor and partner of the Dansimilar project was launched in Aalborg in the autumn of 2012. ish men's national handball team for three years. The agreement Here, Nykredit staff members work as voluntary mentors to a is not a sponsorship as such, but a strong partnership beyond a dozen foreign residents who have already completed Danish typical one-way sponsoring agreement. courses and are now registered with the job centre in Aalborg. In cooperation with DHF, Totalkredit has launched the FaceThe task of the Nykredit mentors is to support and facilitate the book page Håndboldherrerne , which is updated regularly with mentees' ongoing job search. news, pictures, results etc. In addition, together with TV2, Totalkredit has developed the game Playmaker for TV 2's handball Sponsorships app. With Playmaker, all Danish handball enthusiasts can join Sponsoring agreements with institutions of arts, culture and the game from home when the national team is playing. sports as well as educational establishments are a natural part See more on Facebook.com/haandboldherrerne. of Nykredit's social commitment. The sponsorships strengthen and expand relations with important groups of stakeholders. In 2012 Nykredit spent about DKK 16m on sponsorships, of which the main ones were: The Royal Danish Theatre – main sponsor National Gallery of Denmark – main sponsor of x-rummet Louisiana – sponsor of Louisiana Contemporary The Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts' Schools of Visual Arts – main sponsor Heart – sponsor of Herning Museum of Contemporary Art Copenhagen Business School – Premium Career Partner Vorespuls.dk – partnership agreement with the Danish Gymnastics and Sports Associations (DGI) Nykredit Copenhagen Marathon – main and title sponsor SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 14 | The Nykredit Foundation The Motivation Prize of DKK 100,000 went to PowerThe object of the Foundation is to support initiatives within house Company, represented by Nanne de Ru and Charles Danish trade and industry relating mainly to the construcBessard, partners. Powerhouse Company is an example of tion sector as well as other purposes relating to Nykredit's the new global-Danish architectural practices starting to activities. The Foundation also offers financial support for mark their presence on the Danish architectural scene and research and cultural projects and initiatives that benefit represents one of the most talented up-and-coming firms society at large. The Foundation has a capital of DKK 100m. of architects. The Nykredit Foundation awarded about DKK 5.5m in Also in 2012, a special merit award of DKK 50,000 was 2012, of which DKK 1.35m for Nykredit's prizes. awarded to Kent Martinussen, architect and CEO of DAC. A Danish architect who has managed to put architecture on Nykredit's Research Prize 2012 the political agenda and who has played a vital role in the The Research Prize was first awarded in 2010. The prize is development of Nordic architectural tradition over the past awarded for original and innovative, high-quality research ten years. in the financial, HR or CSR area. As from 2012, the prize is comprised of three merit awards. A research prize for a Donations senior researcher and two research talent prizes for young The Nykredit Foundation wants to make a difference and researchers. continuously supports initiatives within arts and culture, The Research Prize 2012 of DKK 500,000 went to Proresearch, sports and humanitarian work. fessor Lasse Heje Pedersen, Copenhagen Business School, In 2012 the Foundation donated DKK 1m to Soldaterlewho has performed research in the field of financing, spegatet, a Danish private and independent charity formed to cialising in liquidity risk and pricing of financial assets. help civilians and soldiers who have participated in internaAssociate Professor Sabina Nielsen, Copenhagen Busitional military missions, as well as relatives and dependants, ness School, received the Research Talent Prize 2012 of in need of financial support due to physical or mental injuDKK 100,000. Ms Nielsen does research on the value of ries sustained during missions. different types of diversity in corporate management and on boards of directors. Lastly, Associate Professor Linda Examples of other grants from the Foundation in 2012: Sandris Larsen, University of Southern Denmark, received DKK 125,000 to the Copenhagen Art Festival. Festival the Research Talent Prize 2012 of DKK 100,000 for her redesign. search on the optimum composition of individuals' financial DKK 41,000 to Herlev Hospital. TVs for hospital wards. wealth. DKK 50,000 to Utzon Center, Aalborg. The exhibition Australian Artists and the Sydney Opera House. Nykredit's Architecture Prize and Motivation Prize DKK 200,000 to Nordisk Film and Museum Jorn I SilkeThe Architecture Prize of DKK 500,000 was in 2012 borg. Documentary on Asger Jorn. awarded to COBE, a firm of architects, represented by Dan DKK 137,680 to PTU. Patient-friendly furniture. Stubbergaard, owner and architect MAA, which among DKK 250,000 to the Medieval Centre, Nykøbing F. other projects is behind the design, planning and realisation Erection of medieval town church. of the new Nørreport train station and the development of DKK 10,000 to Stensballegaard Golf, Horsens. Youth Nordhavn – one of Scandinavia's largest and most ambiactivities. tious urban development projects. DKK 50,000 to Children's Welfare. New IT equipment. DKK 25,000 to Hospice Djursland, Rønde. Book project Livsbilleder fra Hospice . DKK 25,000 to Næstved Tennis Klub. Club house furniture. DKK 50,000 to Bornholmer Garden, Rønne. Refurbishment of practice and common rooms. DKK 11,500 to Svømmeklubben TRITON, Ballerup. Air suction installation. DKK 100,000 to Sculpture by the Sea, Aarhus. Sculpture guide and catalogue. Professor Associate Professor Associate Professor Lasse Heje Pedersen Sabina Nielsen Linda Sandris Larsen MSc (Math and Econ), PhD in International MSc (Math and Econ), PhD in Finance Management PhD in Finance Copenhagen Business Copenhagen Business University of Southern School School Denmark ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Environment and climate | 15 Being one of Denmark's largest financial services providers, we share the responsibility for a long-term environment and climate response. Reduction of CO2 emission In 2011 Nykredit achieved the target of reducing the Group's carbon footprint by 10%. The reduction was 10.7% and has been verified by external auditors. When the target was set in 2008, the aim was to first get Nykredit's own CO2 emission under control. The work towards achieving the target has been a learning experience, and we are now ready to take the next step – incorporating climate and environmental aspects as a natural part of our business activities. Nykredit's resource consumption and reduction of CO2 emission Resource consumption 2008 2009 2010 2011 Electricity, MWh 18,319 18,073 18,221 17,152 Heating, MWh 11,359 12,208 11,527 13,938 Water, m3 37,843 38,187 37,916 45,743 Transport, 1,000 km 18,216 18,228 19,632 19,953 of which by aircraft 6,688 6,480 6,547 6,358 of which by car 10,129 11,270 11,008 11,749 of which by train 1,399 1,478 2,078 1,846 CO2 emission, t Electricity 9,410 9,480 9,149 7,290 Heating 1,593 1,503 1,627 1,618 Transport 2,766 3,030 3,019 3,389 of which by aircraft 963 1,041 1,069 1,409 of which by car 1,755 1,939 1,894 1,930 of which by train 47 50 56 50 Total CO2 emission 13,769 14,013 13,795 12,296 Heated area, sqm 129,954 141,345 137,489 151,497 Heating per sqm, KWh 87 86 84 92 CO2 emission per full-time staff, t 3.41 3.47 3.22 2.96 10% less CO2 emission in 2011 CO2 , t 15,000 14,000 13,000 12,000 11,000 10,000 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 16 | Climate and environment strategy 2020 In the costumer area Nykredit will, by implementing own In 2012 Nykredit adopted a new climate strategy building on initiatives and by joining forces with key providers in the area, the attainment of the 2011 target. The starting point for the incorporate climate and environmental aspects as a natural new strategy is climate changes, the pressure on resources and part of our organisation. Our advisory services and knowledge the responses given in the Danish Parliament's Energy Agreerelating to climate and environmental parameters will be imment 2020. proved, and climate and environmental aspects will play an Denmark is facing a number of climate and environmental increasing role in valuations. challenges. In Energy Agreement 2020 a broad majority in the Danish Parliament have decided that a fundamental change of In the environmental area, Nykredit in 2012 joined a new Denmark's resource consumption is required, including improveecolabelling network promoting the purchasing of ecolabelled ment of buildings, for instance by way of energy renovation. products. Through its membership, Nykredit wants to promote sustainable purchasing. Internally, Nykredit will limit its resource dependence by We know that climate and environmental aspects are comreducing its own consumption. This will be done through a plex. The strategy therefore primarily involves setting an overall combination of internal efficiencies, installation of renewable policy, which will be delivered in the form of concrete climate energy systems and reduction of emissions from transport. and environmental projects once we have sufficient experience and data and new opportunities for such projects arise. Read more about Nykredit's new climate strategy at nykredit.dk. Totalkredit's energy calculator Totalkredit's energy calculator provides an easy, fast and realistic estimate of how much CO2 and money a homeowner can save by making environmental home improvements. The energy calculator also presents various ways of financing the environmental improvements. Find the energy calculator at totalkredit.dk. Healthy Green Habits Nykredit is attempting, through dialogue, to motivate our staff to consider the environment and the climate. The staff campaign, Healthy Green Habits, is aimed at raising awareness of what individual staff members can do to reduce Nykredit's environmental impact. Nykredit also encourages proposals for more improvements in the area. Nykredit's Healthy Green Habits: Print in duplex mode Sort your waste and reuse paper Clean out your drives Turn off the computer when you leave work Hold video conferences. Purchasing policy Nykredit has introduced purchasing policies and guidelines so that Nykredit's purchases strike a balance between environmental, ethical and financial considerations. Suppliers and subsuppliers must act responsibly and ethically correct in relation to the environment: All contractual relations must include requirements for responsibility and ethics in relation to child labour, forced labour, general labour standards and the working environment All printed matter from Nykredit must be printed on paper carrying the Nordic ecolabel the Swan Primary cleaning products must be low environment impact products All new lighting fixtures must be energy-saving models. ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Staff As a financial services provider, Nykredit has undergone vast development. Today our activities include mortgage lending, banking, insurance, pension and estate agency services. With a staff exceeding 4,000, we employ a wide range of profiles, including advisers, account managers, IT developers, economists, customer service staff and student assistants. STAFF ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 coherence between the staff members' individual goals, the goals of the units and the strategy of the Nykredit Group. Certification of Nykredit advisers At Nykredit, providing customers with the best and most competent advice is a key parameter, and therefore an effort has been made to lay down intercompany competency requirements and provide in-house training of all customer-facing advisers. As a consequence of increased financial sector regulation, mandatory tests have been introduced in the form of red certification of all staff members working with complex products. Nykredit certification takes it a step further Nykredit strives to be one of the most attractive and challengIn 2011 Nykredit opted to introduce an internal certification ing workplaces in Denmark. To succeed, we need talented and process, Nykredit Certification, for all customer-facing staff, a ambitious people, looking to develop continuously throughout certification which goes beyond statutory requirements. Nykredit their careers. Certification is a mandatory training programme aimed at ensurIn committing to developing and training our staff, we ening that advisers possess high expertise and that such expertise sure that our strategic target of being a leading financial market can be applied to provide good advisory services. participant can be met. Consequently, Nykredit focuses on ofThe training programme includes several different fields such fering the individual staff members opportunities to develop as financing, day-to-day finances, pension and investment. Thus, their professional and personal skills. This is closely related to the certification enables our advisers to provide the best possible Nykredit's focus on establishing a performance culture with service to Nykredit's customers. Nykredit Certification was origidefined targets and clear feed-back, benefiting the individual as nally aimed at the most advanced specialists and was expanded well as the company. in 2012 to include senior advisers at Nykredit's centres. In 2013 all other customer-facing staff will be included. Customer advisers Various measures sustaining focus on professional and personal are re-certified every three years. development: internal traineeships Internal resource mobility internal and external courses and training programmes Internal resource mobility is an important parameter in order business projects across the organisation to develop and retain qualified staff in Nykredit and to retain internal job bank knowledge and competencies. To the extent possible, vacanNykredit Academy cies are filled with in-house candidates. This focus on in-house management assessment. recruitment has incentivised even more staff members to pursue a career within the Group. This trend has been strengthened by Clearly defined goals the efforts made in 2012 to clarify and specify the career opNykredit uses performance management as part of a structured portunities of individual staff members. approach to further developing the professional and personal The efforts to provide in-house resource mobility and career competencies of our staff. A central element of this work is the paths are underpinned by a broad range of development and identification of specified individual goals for the individual competence training offers for staff. Nykredit offers tailored staff member and a clear performance evaluation by the imdevelopment programmes targeted at advisers and specialists mediate superior. The levels of job satisfaction, commitment through Nykredit Certification and Nykredit Academy. Nykredit and loyalty are significantly higher where managers and staff also strives to strengthen the development of in-house manmembers have specified clear goals and the managers follow up agement candidates. To this end, development and selection acon the development relative to the goals agreed. The individual tivities targeted at Nykredit managers are a natural element of goals are agreed between the manager and the staff member, the effort to strengthen and structure the in-house pipeline of ensuring coherence between the tasks and results of the unit management candidates and to ensure that the right candidates and of the individual staff member. are spotted and developed at the right time. In 2012 the performance and development review tool was expanded with a part dedicated to goal setting. The goal setting Collective agreement 2012 process is expected to increase staff members' gain from the Nykredit continuously strives to maintain close ties with its staff performance and development reviews and to contribute to a association, NYKREDS. In mid-2012 Nykredit successfully negood dialogue between managers and staff members. The diagotiated a collective agreement with NYKREDS. One element of logue provides workable input to a structured development prothe agreement was the introduction of a so-called work-hour cess for the individual staff member. The overall group strategy bank for all staff members for registration of work hours, enthus results in individual goals for each staff member, ensuring suring staff more ﬂexibility in general. ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 STAFF DANISH GOVERNMENT MODEL FOR MORE | 19 WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT Further, a number of special working groups formed among The model consists of four elements, targeting both privateNYKREDS and Nykredit will discuss relevant elements such as sector and public-sector companies. competencies, the new payroll system and seniors, sustaining The 1,100 or so largest companies are required to set targets Nykredit's aim to be an attractive as well as challenging workfor the proportion of the under-represented gender in the suplace. Nykredit and NYKREDS regularly discuss these elements preme management body (board of directors or the like). The in a intercompany works council as well as in decentralised individual company is thus specifically to set a target which is realistic and ambitious for the individual company. works councils. The 1,100 or so largest companies must have a policy for increasing the proportion of the under-represented gender Diversity at the management levels of the companies in general. This Nykredit is actively working to promote staff diversity in terms means that the individual company must establish the optiof age, gender, sexuality and ethnicity. A diversified staff mum recruitment basis relative to its specific needs and ideas. Companies must report on the level of attainment of the strengthens our business, makes for a good and innovative target set out in the annual report, including, if so, why the working environment and reﬂects Nykredit's diversified cuscompanies failed to meet the target. Moreover, the compatomer base. Nykredit continued its focus on sexual orientation nies must present the policy in the annual report, stating how in 2012, considering it a significant element of a diversified the policy is implemented and what has been achieved. If the workplace, and participated for the second time in the Copencompanies fail to do so, they may be fined. Regardless of size, state-owned companies must set a target hagen Pride parade. and prepare a policy to increase the proportion of women in management. Women in management Nykredit has focused on women in management since 1996 and adopted the Charter for more women in management in 2008, NYKREDIT INITIATIVES FOR WOMEN IN whereby Danish businesses commit to setting targets for the MANAGEMENT Charter for more women in management percentage of female managers. The development towards getOperation Chain Reaction ting more women in management is positive, but especially senPeter Engberg Jensen – Ambassador of the Confederation of ior management levels hold potential for improvement. This also Danish Industry applies to female managers in the line organisation, where focus Barrier analysis – internal workshops on potential managers will be enhanced. A continued structured Equal representation at pre-management level Relaunch of Nykredit's internal mentoring scheme and determined effort is therefore necessary to achieve the After-hours meetings target. Historically, the financial sector has been dominated by Networks: KIL, WoW, Protocol male staff, and this is still the prevailing trend. As a natural conInternal and external role models sequence, the sector has historically had fewer female than male Increased focus on female managers in the line organisation managers. Nykredit is actively striving to bridge this gap. and setting of specific targets Increased focus on women in highly specialised positions Policy on women in management Percentage of female managers % 1996 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Target 2015 Charter for more women in management Executive-level management 3 10 12 9 10 10 15 Two of the purposes of the Charter for more women in manageMiddle-level management 18 20 25 24 21 30 ment issued by the Danish Ministry of Equality are to ensure 14 equal opportunities for men and women to have a career in Lower-level management 38 35 42 41 42 45 management and to take initiatives aimed at raising the number Note: New determination method as from 2010. of female managers. Women in management (KIL) The purpose of the net¬working initiative is to set up internal Flexitime jobs and wage-subsidised jobs and external networks where female managers can develop their Nykredit will increase opportunities for staff in ﬂexitime jobs or skills and discuss the dilemmas and challenges of a career in management with external peers. under wage-subsidy schemes. The long-term aim is for Nykredit to double the number of ﬂexitime jobs. In the model applied, WOW Exenet (Women on their way) WOW Exenet is a professional forum for knowledge sharing Nykredit enters into an arrangement with selected job centres between individuals, businesses, associations and organisations. to ensure the right competencies and smooth cooperation beThe objective is to further diversity in Danish trade and industry, tween Nykredit and the ﬂexitime staff member. contributing to growth and equality. Protocol Network for Danish women. The objective is to create a platform which allows the individual business to attract and retain female staff, motivate and inspire them and improve their competencies. STAFF ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 In 2012 more than 500 staff members took part in running events sponsored by Nykredit. 820 Nykredit staff members took part in the annual DHL Relay Race. In 2012 45% of vacancies were filled with in-house candidates. Nykredit appeared in 2012 as a case in Talent Management , a textbook authored by Professor Henrik Holt Larsen. The case describes the talent development activities and performance management taking place at Nykredit. As part of Nykredit's health check, staff members' so-called body age is measured. The average body age of Nykredit's staff is nearly two years lower than their real age. Nykredit health Focus on change management 2012 saw continued focus on health as an important parameter The restructuring ended the traditional division of customers for job satisfaction. For the third consecutive year, the health into personal and commercial customers. As a result, Nykredit check offered by Nykredit was a popular offer accepted by more staff now offer holistic advisory services to customers across the than 2,500 staff members. Those who get a health check show previous segmentation. To this end, the restructuring has been growing motivation and desire to lead a healthy life and exercise accompanied by various initiatives enabling staff to provide the more. The annual health checks are supplemented with regular best possible service to customers. The initiatives are impleevents with focus on health in general. The aim is to promote a mented in different phases aimed at both managers and staff healthy lifestyle among all staff members. members. The changes have been among the most comprehensive Nykredit job satisfaction changes in Nykredit's history and placed heavy demands on Job satisfaction is key to a good working environment – physithe organisation. The strategy implementation was enabled by cal as well as mentally. The Nykredit job satisfaction programme the involvement of managers at all levels. Immediate superiors focuses on the physical setting and mental conditions as well as were assigned the important role of setting the right teams and on staff job satisfaction and potential areas in need of improveimplementing the overall strategy in their respective units. Manment. Twice a year, a staff satisfaction survey is carried out, agers have attended various workshops to determine the framebenchmarking Nykredit's results against the financial sector and work of the strategy and to provide managers with specific tools the general labour market. for the implementation as well as involvement of individual staff H1/2012 was marked by considerable changes for many members. Nykredit staff members – both in the way we are organised, our tasks and not least the new loan types offered to customers. Staff figures The many changes caused a dive in job satisfaction, which was At end-2012 Nykredit had a permanent staff of 3,855. to be expected, but Nykredit takes the survey results seriously 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and will work hard to bring back the former up-trend in job satPermanent staff, year-end 3,531 4,061 3,826 4,057 3,855 isfaction. At end-Q2/2012 job satisfaction was back on track. of which part-time staff 367 490 479 495 425 Staff paid by the hour 774 601 665 651 614 Leaner and more efficient organisation New staff1 687 214 197 348 145 Outﬂow2 349 220 287 303 295 In early 2012, Nykredit implemented an organisational restruc1 In 2009 new staff is exclusive of 536 staff of Forstædernes Bank. 22010 is exclusive of 338 staff of Nykredit turing aimed at supporting the overarching business strategy. Forsikring. The organisation was simplified, the customer centres structure was changed by combining personal and commercial customer centres and by opening a new type of advisory centre – Nykredit Direkte®. To many staff members, this resulted in new and changed job areas, new colleagues or a new superior. In addition to reducing costs, the organisational change provided a number of new career opportunities, such as new senior personal customer adviser jobs in the line organisation and new adviser profiles in Nykredit Direkte® that match the new way of serving customers. ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 STAFF Photograph by Brian Buchard Ownership structure and capital policy Through Nykredit Holding, Nykredit is owned mainly by Foreningen Nykredit (the Nykredit Association), which has an ownership interest of 89.8%. The object of Foreningen Nykredit is to be a shareholder of the Nykredit Group and to carry on financial business through the Group. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AND CAPITAL POLICY ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 22 | Nykredit operates through Nykredit Realkredit In order to run for election, candidates must be A/S, the object of which is to carry on mortendorsed by at least 25 other members of the gage banking and other financial business. Association in their electoral district or by the The ultimate authority of Foreningen Nykredit Board of Directors. is the Committee of Representatives, which Bondholders with a bond portfolio in excess HISTORY OF NYKREDIT is composed of 100 representatives who are of DKK 50,000 are entitled to vote at elections elected by the members and bondholders. The for the Committee of Representatives. Bond1851 Formation of KreditCommittee of Representatives elects the Board holders may only vote for bondholder candiforeningen af Jydske Landejendomsbesiddere – of Directors of the Association and approves dates. Candidates are not registered by electoral the oldest of the mortgage the annual reports and any amendments to the district. associations that later articles of association. Owing to Nykredit's corElections are announced towards the end of merge and become Nykredit porate structure, Foreningen Nykredit, Nykredit the year in the daily newspapers and at 1985 Kreditforeningen Nykredit Holding A/S and Nykredit Realkredit A/S have nykredit.dk. is formed by a merger of Jyllands Kreditforening and the same objectives and common interests. For the time being, members joining through Forenede Kreditforeninger Therefore, it is natural that all members of Totalkredit or Nykredit Bank are not entitled to 1991 Kreditforeningen Nykredit is the Board of Directors of Foreningen Nykredit vote at elections of representatives or to run converted into Nykredit A/S elected by the Committee of Representatives as candidate for the Committee of Representa1994 Nykredit Bank is set up are also members of the boards of directors of tives. The reason is that these customers can2003 Acquisition of Totalkredit 2008 Acquisition of Forstædernes Nykredit Holding and Nykredit Realkredit. not be given the same rights as the borrowers Bank All customers who have a mortgage loan of Nykredit Realkredit under Danish financial with Nykredit Realkredit or are customers of legislation. Foreningen Nykredit is working Nykredit Bank with a total deposit or loan of at towards changing this so that all members of least DKK 50,000 gain membership of ForeninForeningen Nykredit have equal rights. gen Nykredit. Customers who have a mortgage loan with Totalkredit may also gain membership Unique Danish mortgage system of Foreningen Nykredit. The Danish mortgage system is unique and Through their membership, customers who recognised as one of the best systems in the have a mortgage loan with Nykredit Realkredit world. The system is founded on are entitled to vote at elections of representalow lending rates based on listed bonds tives in the electoral district in which they own transparent pricing and repayment terms a property. Members may also be elected to the balance principle, which secures longthe Committee of Representatives by running term financial stability as candidate in the area where they live or in personal debt liability. one of the areas in which they own a property. ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AND CAPITAL POLICY Balance principle and match funding Group chart | 23 The balance principle is the cornerstone of the Foreningen Industriens Foreningen PRAS A/S Danish mortgage system. The stability of the Nykredit Fond Østifterne Danish mortgage market derives from the match Ownership Ownership Ownership Ownership funding of most Danish mortgage loans. 89.8% 4.7% 3.25% 2.25% Match funding means that loans and funding mirror each other, and the funding costs are visibly reﬂected in the loan. Match funding eliminates the interest rate, foreign exchange Nykredit Holding A/S and liquidity risks of mortgage banks. The most The Nykredit Realkredit Group important risk of Danish mortgage banks is therefore credit risk – the risk that borrowers Nykredit Realkredit A/S fail to make timely payments or fail to pay at all. Match funding allows customers to prepay Totalkredit A/S their loans by purchasing the underlying bonds on the stock exchange. This principle ensures Nykredit Bank A/S Nykredit Portefølje Adm. A/S financial mobility, active debt management and protection against a loss of home equity. Nykredit Mægler A/S Nykredit Leasing A/S Mortgage loans are today funded with two types of mortgage covered bonds – ROs Nykredit Ejendomme A/S ( realkreditobligationer ) and SDOs ( særligt dækkede obligationer ). Under the rules for Ejendomsselskabet ROs, mortgage banks must only observe the Kalvebod A/S loan-to-value (LTV) limits at the time of granting the loan, while for SDOs the statutory LTV limits must be observed on a continuous basis. The individual mortgage bank decides whether Composition of the Committee of Representatives and to issue bonds that fulfil the SDO requirements Board of Directors and/or bonds that do not fulfil the SDO re64 representatives are elected by and quirements. 24 among members/borrowers; among these, 6 are elected to Board of Directors. 2 24 representatives are elected by and 6 among bondholders/lenders; among Security 4 12 these, 2 are elected to Board of Directors. The security of Danish mortgage covered bonds 64 12 representatives are elected by Board of committee members. is based on the following factors: Directors 4 representatives for the Board of the bonds are secured against a registered Directors are elected by and among the mortgage on real property Committee of Representatives staff of Nykredit Realkredit A/S. LTV limits for loans in the different property categories are laid down by law if property prices fall and LTV limits are exceeded, mortgage banks must provide addiBalance principle match between loans and bonds tional collateral in case of SDO funding mortgage banks comply with a number of statutory requirements such as that of capital adequacy mortgage banks apply a balance principle Loan Investment which reduces financial risk in relation to loan balances Mortgage mortgage banks are supervised by the Danish Bonds Financial Supervisory Authority. Interest and principal payments Interest and Administration redemptions margin Borrower Mortgage lender Investor OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AND CAPITAL POLICY ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 24 | New regulation are risk labelled and divided into the categories The regulatory framework for carrying on financial green, yellow and red according to risk and combusiness is changing rapidly and has done so since plexity. Similar risk labelling of loan types is in the the onset of the financial crisis in 2008. The lessons pipeline. In addition, a multitude of new rules have learned from the crisis have prompted demands for been introduced for reporting, risk management, increased regulation of the financial sector, both management remuneration, etc. in Denmark and internationally. The objective is to The new international regulations require imrender the financial sector more resilient and reduce proved capitalisation of financial institutions in the risk of future financial crises. general. The total capital requirement will nearly In Denmark, the extent of regulation of the double and the requirements for the quality of capifinancial sector since 2008 is already quite signifital will also change so that a substantial part of the cant, and more is to come. As regards advisory serregulatory capital must be in the form of equity as vices to customers, certification of selected adviser opposed to previously when subordinate loan capiprofiles is now required, and investment products tal was also eligible. This increases the demands on banks' earnings going forward. Nykredit's total capital requirement under the The Nykredit Realkredit Group new rules is estimated at around DKK 85bn with the Expected position under future capital rules current business volume. Of this amount, roughly DKK 70bn must be equity, while the remaining Total capital need Approx DKK 85bn some DKK 15bn may be in the form of subordinate Total capital requirement loan capital. Approx DKK 80bn Subordinate loan The coming regulatory framework also tightens capital Total capital Approx 15bn the requirements for banks' liquidity. One of the DKK 69bn requirements is that banks must have a sufficient stock of liquid assets to meet all obligations over a Hybrid capital Statutory equity DKK 11bn capital buffers 30-day period of financial stress. It is expected that banks will be required to change the composition of their balance sheets so as to include a larger share of highly liquid government bonds and covered bonds. Given the special features of the Danish mortgage system, Denmark has to pay special attention Equity Minimum internal Equity to the new international measures, which are deDKK 58bn capital adequacy Approx DKK 70bn requirement signed on the basis of an average EU bank. A large liquid covered bond market only exists in a few EU countries, and Denmark therefore needs to make a special effort to have covered bonds treated as liquid bonds. Nykredit and the Danish Ministry of Business and Growth, Danmarks Nationalbank, the Statutory deductions Danish Financial Supervisory Authority, the Danish Bankers Association, the Association of Danish Nykredit's capital Regulatory capital Capital objective end-2012 requirement 2019 2019 Mortgage Banks and the Danish Mortgage Banks' Federation are therefore taking concerted action in relation to the relevant EU institutions. The purpose is to draw attention to specifically Danish issues arising from the regulatory proposals. The rules are expected to be finally adopted in H1/2013 and will enter into force gradually towards 2019. ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AND CAPITAL POLICY Sustainable capital policy A firm capital structure is an essential element of Nykredit's financial sustainability. Nykredit's ownership structure makes it difficult to raise new capital in equity markets. For this reason, Nykredit plans for the long term and pursues a sustainable capital policy. Long-term financial sustainability ensures a strong rating of Nykredit's bonds, which benefits our customers in the form of low bond yields. Nykredit's aims to be able to maintain active lending activities regardless of economic trends, while retaining a competitive credit rating. Danish legislation lays down a minimum capital requirement in order for Nykredit to fulfil its obligations as a lender. Coupled with a prudent credit policy and sound business operations, the capital policy forms the basis of Nykredit's credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies. Nykredit's covered bonds (SDOs) are rated AAA by Standard & Poor's, and in 2012 Nykredit also retained Fitch Ratings as rating agency. Fitch is expected to assign ratings to Nykredit's bonds in 2013. Nykredit is one of the best capitalised financial companies in Europe, but the new capital requirements oblige us to increase equity considerably in the period until 2019. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AND CAPITAL POLICY ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 Nykredit in numbers 26 | Nykredit's investors The target is a broad and diversified invesNykredit's bonds Nykredit is the largest mortgage lender in tor base and an efficient market for the At end-2012, Nykredit had issued a nomiDenmark and one of the largest private bonds. An efficient market for Nykredit's nal amount of DKK 1,283bn of covered bond issuers in Europe. bonds means favourable interest terms for bonds. The bulk of Nykredit's issued Nykredit's bond issues consist mainly customers and Nykredit. bonds is applied for financing ownerof covered bonds (ROs and SDOs). In adDue to the size of the Danish market occupied dwellings. Most of the security dition to this, Nykredit has issued hybrid for bonds funding mortgage loans, the underlying Nykredit's bonds falls within capital. Moreover, Nykredit Bank has mortgage banking sector is a central ele40% of the value of the properties. issued bonds as part of its international ment of credit intermediation in Denmark. funding programme. Nykredit's covered bond investors 2012 Financial highlights 6% The Nykredit Realkredit Group Banks and mortgage lenders Core earnings and results for the year 18% Insurance companies DKK million 2011 2012 and pension funds Core income 9,010 8,909 Public sector Costs, depreciation and amortisation 5,975 5,534 3% Private sector Core earnings before impairment losses 3,035 3,375 3% Foreign investors Impairment losses on loans and advances 1,414 2,149 Non-distributed Core earnings after impairment losses 1,621 1,226 16% 54% Investment portfolio income 179 2,444 Profit before cost of capital 1,800 3,670 Net interest on hybrid capital (462) (465) Profit before tax 1,338 3,205 Tax 223 575 Bond debt outstanding by property type, end-2012 Profit for the year 1.115 2.629 6% 1% Value adjustment and reclassification of strategic (854) (237) equities against equity totalling1 9% Owner-occupied dwellings 1 Nykredit's portfolio of strategic equities amounted to DKK 1.8bn at end-2012. Private residential rental 10% Industry and trades Office and retail 2% Agriculture Loan impairment rates 2011 2012 Non-profit housing Mortgage lending 0.10 0.14 Others 10% 62% Bank lending 0.42 0.59 Nykredit Realkredit Group 0.12 0.17 Financial ratios 2011 2012 Distribution by type of covered bond Core earnings before impairment losses as % 10.0 10.2 100% of average business capital, pa Core earnings after impairment losses as % 80% 5.3 3.7 of average business capital, pa Tier 1 capital ratio,% 17.1 19.1 60% Total capital ratio, % 17.1 19.1 40% 20% 0% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Fixed-rate callable bonds Fixed-rate bullet bonds Floating-rate bonds Index-linked bonds ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 NYKREDIT IN NUMBERS | 27 Mortgage lending Non-financial highlights DKKbn 1,200 GRI-indi2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 cator* 1,000 Customers and contact 800 Number of Nykredit Realkredit 1,002 1,030 1,051 1,065 1,092 600 Group customers (1,000) Customer satisfaction PR5 400 Personal customers (EPSI 1-100) 76 77 72 74 73 200 Number of complaints1 514 588 698 472 478 0 Share of customers highly satis2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 36% 41% 34% fied with complaints handling Responsible investment HR1 Number of companies screened2 1,800 1,800 2,000 2,000 Bank deposits and loans Number of companies subject to 16 20 22 19 DKKbn active ownership 80 Number of companies excluded 12 11 11 13 70 Energy consumption 60 50 Absolute CO2 emission3 (t) 13,769 14,013 13,795 12,296 40 Staff LA2 30 Average number of full-time staff4 4,037 4,135 4,026 4,139 4,115 20 Staff turnover 10.5% 5.8% 7.5% 6.3% 5.7% 10 Women in management 29.5% 29.6% 28.7% 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Job satisfaction (Ennova 1-100) 75 76 73 Deposits Loans Social initiatives/donations EC1 Nykredit sponsorships, DKKm 19 15 15 15 16 Nykredit Foundation donations, 6.9 6.8 7.7 7.0 5.5 DKKm Loan impairment rates of mortgage lending Voluntary staff in social projects 20 62 74 0.8% *Areas in which the disclosed data partially or completely comply with GRI requirements. 1Complaints received by Nykredit's customer ambassador or complaints unit. The data do not include complaints brought before appeals boards 0.6% and from 2011 do not include complaints handled by Nykredit Forsikring, which was sold to Gjensidige Forsikring in 2010. 2All companies are screened. 3Nykredit had a target of reducing the Group's carbon footprint by 10% from 2008 to 2011. 4Excluding Nykredit Forsikring A/S and JN Data A/S. 0.4% 0.2% 0.0% -0.2% 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 NYKREDIT IN NUMBERS ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 Reporting policies 28 | The contents of this report pertain to all activities of the entire Nykredit's social responsibility Nykredit Realkredit Group, including subsidiaries. In this report, Corporation tax is calculated as current tax and adjustment of tax the Nykredit Realkredit Group is referred to as Nykredit or the assessed for previous years relating to the Foreningen Nykredit Nykredit Group. The reporting policies apply to the data which Group. Nykredit has found significant. As a main rule, the latest data The environmental and climate report includes companies in available are applied in this report. The report is included in the Denmark wholly owned by Nykredit throughout the financial year. audit of the Management's review in the Annual Report 2012. Partially owned subsidiaries and foreign activities are not inDue to rounding-off, the sum totals of the tables in the report cluded, with the exception of JN Data, which has been included may differ from the actual sums. on the grounds of materiality at a proportion equal to Nykredit's ownership interest. Transport data exclude JN Data and Nykredit Meet Nykredit Leasing. The number of staff is an average for 2012 calculated on the basis In accordance with Nykredit's policy to reduce our CO2 emisof the Group's total ATP (Danish Labour Market Supplementary sion by 10% from 2008 up to and including 2011, data for the Pension scheme) contributions for the year relative to the ATP baseline year 2008 have been adjusted for changes resulting from contribution for one full-time staff member. acquisitions or divestments during the year. As the duty of reducThe figure Income from business operations only includes intion also applies to acquisitions, 2008 emissions by acquired ascome from customer activity. Core income from business operasets are added to Nykredit's total emissions for 2008. Thus, Fortions is distributed by product. stædernes Bank is included in data as from 2008. Due to The total number of customers has been adjusted so that divestment of Nykredit Forsikring, Nykredit Forsikring is no longer multi-service customers only appear once. part of the dataset. Resource consumption data also include leased premises. ConNykredit's customers sumption of electricity is computed on the basis of meter readThe market share of mortgage lending as well as bank deposits ings. and bank lending is determined in nominal terms on the basis of In calculating CO2 emission, degree-day adjusted CO2 emisthe statistics on the balance sheets and ﬂows of the MFI sector sion from heat consumption is applied, which enables year-on(Danish monetary financial institutions) prepared by Danmarks year comparison. Nationalbank. Heat consumption is determined on the basis of meter readThe market share of assets under administration is determined ings for Nykredit's own properties. Consumption relating to leased on the basis of the official statistics prepared by the Federation of premises is determined on the basis of the statement of heating Danish Investment Associations. expenses for the premises and Nykredit's share of consumption The market share in terms of Nykredit's amount of retail in(usually in terms of ﬂoor area). Heating sources are district heatvestment fund units in custody denotes the share of the total ing, natural gas and heating oil. number of retail investment fund units which is in custody with Air transport is computed on the basis of data from the travel Nykredit Bank (ie, both self-issued units and those of external agencies which Nykredit uses. Car transport covers work-related managers). travel by company car (50% work-related driving), taxi or own car. Bond trading is calculated on the basis of a 12-month average Staff transport to and from work is not included. of the Nykredit Realkredit Group's share of total bond trading The heated area is larger than stated in Nykredit's environ(excl repo transactions) measured at market value in the regulated mental and climate report for 2010. This is due to the facts that a market and OTC (Over-The-Counter). new main building was brought into use in 2011 and that heated In the figure Lending growth in Nykredit , lending data derive area is now determined according to the B311 standard. from the MFI statistics. The data exclude loans to MFIs, but include reverse transactions. Nykredit's staff The share of digital mail issued by Nykredit does not include Part-time staff are determined as the number of permanent staff Totalkredit. working less than the number of hours required of a permanent Total customer complaints exclude complaints by customers staff member under the group collective agreement. with the Danish local and regional banks of the Totalkredit partInﬂow and outﬂow of permanent staff reﬂect permanent staff nership and are determined as the number of complaints received joining or leaving the Group's wholly-owned companies. The perin the year under review. centage is determined on the basis of permanent staff at the beginning of the year. ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 REPORTING POLICIES | 29 The number of managers in Nykredit is computed as the number of managers having staff responsibility. Nykredit's ownership structure and capital policy PRAS A/S is owned by the regional and local banks of the Totalkredit partnership. The company was formed in connection with Nykredit's acquisition of Totalkredit in 2003. Nykredit's group chart reﬂects the organisation as at end-2012. Nykredit in numbers Data on Nykredit's investor base are for the period up to and including November 2012. The category Non-distributed ensures investor confidentiality subject to the following confidentiality requirements: The principle of numbers: Portfolio data for a given investor sector must comprise the portfolios of at least three investors. The principle of dominance: The portfolio of a given investor must not exceed 90% of the total portfolios of the sector. The bond debt outstanding by property type is computed at nominal value. Mortgage lending for calculation of the impairment rates of Nykredit Realkredit and Totalkredit is based on loans and advances at nominal value and arrears and outlays at fair value. Impairment losses are the earnings impact for the year. Bank lending for calculation of the impairment rate of Nykredit Bank is based on loans and advances at fair value, loans and advances at amortised cost, guarantees excl the government guarantee scheme as well as individual and collective impairment provisions. Impairment losses are the earnings impact for the year excluding the government guarantee scheme. Nykredit's total mortgage lending reﬂects year-end statements at nominal value. Bank deposits and loans are stated at year-end. Bank lending is stated exclusive of guarantees and reverse transactions. The impairment rate of mortgage lending equals the earnings impact of loan impairments relative to mortgage lending at yearend measured at fair value and before impairment provisions. REPORTING POLICIES ABOUT NYKREDIT 2012 Nykredit Kalvebod Brygge 1-3 DK-1780 Copenhagen V nykredit.com 541 340/Jannerup Offset A/S • 5555.4884 • 0213 • Nykredit
