Communication on progress 2012 The COP response can be found on our WEB site: http://www.report2012.cermaq.com/sustainability/endorsing-globalinitiatives.aspx# Cermaq is committed to support global initiatives aiming at improving environmental, social and economic conditions worldwide. Global initiatives contribute to creating a sustainable global environment on which the company is dependent. Global initiatives Cermaq endorses are: United Nations Global Compact (UN GC) Through the membership in UN GC, Cermaq is committed to aligning its operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In 2011, Cermaq became a member of UN GC and joined the Nordic UN GC network. The ten principles: 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Below is Cermaq's Communication on Progress (COP) on implementing the ten priciples. More detailed information can be found in the many parts of the integrated sustainability and annual report. Information in the various parts of this report is tagged according to Global Compact's ten Principles. The 10 principles, Cermaq’s approach and response are summarized in the table below: PRINCIPLE APPROACH RESPONSE Human rights 1. Businesses should Cermaq supports the UN  Cermaq ethical and support and respect the Declaration of Human corporate responsibility protection of Rights and has made a guidelines internationally proclaimed commitment to  Supplier code of human rights. respecting human rights conduct throughout its operations, including in the supply  Human rights chain. performance; LA 4, LA 7, HR 6 2. Businesses should Cermaqhas increased  Cermaq ethical and ensure that they are not awareness in its corporate responsibility complicit in human rights operations where Human guidelines abuses. Rights are most at risk. In  Supplier code of 2012, Cermaq has been conduct seeking more in-depth information about the  Human rights status about indigenous performance; HR 9, HR people in Chile. 6 The company has mutually beneficial agreements with indigenous people in BC, Canada and sees this as strong foundation for its operations in areas PRINCIPLE APPROACH RESPONSE where indigenous peoples rights are affected by Cermaq's operations In addition, Cermaq has been working on understanding how the UN guiding principles on Human rights affect the organization. The work will continue in 2013. Labour standards 3. Businesses should Cermaq is committed to  Cermaq ethical and uphold the freedom of dialogue with employees corporate responsibility association and the and their unions, and guidelines effective recognition of respect collective  Labour standard the right to collective agreements at all levels. performance; LA 4, HR bargaining. 6 4. Businesses should Cermaq will not tolerate  Cermaq ethical and uphold the elimination of any form of forced and corporate responsibility all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its guidelines compulsory labour. operations or in those of  Human rights its business partners. performance; HR 6 5. Businesses should Cermaq condemn child  Cermaq ethical and uphold the effective labour and does not corporate responsibility abolition of child labour. permit such conduct at guidelines any of the company’s  Supplier code of sites or with its suppliers. conduct  Human rights performance; HR 6 PRINCIPLE APPROACH RESPONSE 6. Businesses should Cermaq does not tolerate  Cermaq ethical and uphold the elimination of any form of discrimination corporate responsibility discrimination in respect or harassment. guidelines to employment and  Labour standard and occupation. human rights performance; HR 6, EC 7 Environment 7. Businesses should Cermaq is committed to  Cermaq ethical and support a precautionary minimize the corporate responsibility approach to environmental impacts of guidelines environmental challenges its operations. 9 of 10  Link to environmental operating companies performance; EN 26 have management systems certified according to ISO 14001 standards (as per February 2013). Cermaq has developed own environmental indicators relevant for its feed and farming operations, which do not yet have globally established GRI indicators. In 2012, the indicators for Cermaq’s farming operations have been revised to take account of new sustainability challenges and external request for information. These changes are PRINCIPLE APPROACH RESPONSE implemented for the 2013 reporting. At the company’s operations in Vietnam, Cermaq engaged Veritas to conduct an environmental due diligence to make sure that the company was compliant with Vietnamese environmental regulations. 8. Businesses should Cermaq has promoted  Cermaq ethical and undertake initiatives to environmental corporate responsibility promote greater responsibility within its guidelines environmental own operations as well  Environmental responsibility as in the industry. The performance; EN 3, EN company has participated 4, EN 5, EN 12, EN 26, in several initiatives e.g. EN 28 and all CEQ IFFO R/S (International indicators Fish Oil and Fish meal Organisation  IFFO Responsible Sourcing)  SAD standard. EWOS  GAA Vietnam has been working in a program with IFFO, SFP and also the Prince's Charities (UK) to work with some local suppliers to start to develop more sustainable fishing practices in Vietnam. PRINCIPLE APPROACH RESPONSE 9. Businesses should Through Cermaq’s  Cermaq ethical and encourage the research unit, EWOS corporate responsibility development and Innovation, EWOS guidelines diffusion of improves feed processing  Environmental environmentally friendly and feed composition. Performance; EN 5, EN technologies. Cermaq also, collaborate 26 with providers of new environmentally friendly technology, and completed a testing of sea-water based closed containment for fish farming. Mainstreamis also testing different types of nets in Canada and Norway to reduce the risk of escapes and has been testing sea lice skirts in Norway as a preventive measure to reducing the level of sea lice. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should Cermaq is member of  Cermaq ethical and work against all forms of Transparency corporate responsibility corruption, including International (Norway), guidelines extortion and bribery. and the company does  Anti-corruption not tolerate any forms of performance; SO 3 corruption including extortion and bribes. In 2012, Cermaq has rolled out an anti-corruption elearning tool available for employees at risk in all its PRINCIPLE APPROACH RESPONSE operating companies. Transparency International (TI) Corruption undermines democracy and the rule of law. It also distorts national and international trade. In 2011, Cermaq became a member of TI Norway. Through the membership Cermaq supports TI's anti-corruption work. In addition TI is a channel for Cermaq to share its experience with other businesses and draw on other companies experience in the regions where the company is present. Cermaq has implemented a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption within all its operations and perform regular training of management and other employees in vulnerable positions. In 2012, Cermaq has implemented an e-learning training program on anti-corruption. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Cermaq acknowledges the need for reducing carbon emissions in order to combat climate change. In support of this, Cermaq has submitted its carbon emissions to the CDP annually since 2010. The CDP disclosure process has increased the awareness of the company’s emissions throughout the operations and it has enabled Cermaq to better define activities and set targets. Cermaq obtained a CDP score of 74 C in 2012 (based on 2011 emission figures). (CDP's rating on disclosure is from 0100 and on performance from A-E). Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI's Sustainability Reporting Framework enables all companies and organizations to measure and report their sustainability performance. By reporting transparently and with accountability, organisations can increase the trust that stakeholders have in them, and in the global economy. It also makes it possible to compare individual companies' performance. Cermaq started to report according to the GRI standard in 2009 and discloses its fourth report in 2012. Cermaq recognizes the value of external auditing of its report, and seeks external assurance for its sustainability reporting. The 2012 report meets the requirements of a B+ report. International conventions Cermaq endorses a suit of international agreements and conventions. Some of the most central ones are the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO Convention 169 and the UN Declaration of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP), and the eight ILO core conventions of the Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work These conventions are the basis for Cermaq’s operations in all parts of the Group. Cermaq’s reporting, e.g. management approach and performance indicators address part of the scope in these conventions. In 2012, implementation of the UN guiding principles on human right (known as John Ruggie’s principles) has been addressed, and Mainstream is cooperating with an NGO on a human right survey in Chile. The complaint raised against Cermaq regarding compliance with the OECD Guidelines concluded with a joint statement in 2011. There has been substantial interest in the mitigation process leading up to the joint statement, and Cermaq has, together with the NGO parties in the joint statement, participated in several international seminars and meetings presenting their learning and experience from the mitigation process. Aquaculture related initiatives EWOS has been an active supporter of the International Fish meal and Fish oil Organisation's standard for responsible sourcing (IFFO R/S) and supported a special program to assist companies qualifying for certification, and thus increasing the total volumes of certified fish meal and fish oil. Cermaq has been and is engaged in several industry related international initiatives. Currently Cermaq is concentrating on processes and initiatives that seek better usage of the total catch from fisheries, as by-catch and by-products is a tremendous underexploited source of marine raw materials.
