United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress May 2012-2013 CORPORATE PROFILE United Nations Global Compact Communication munication on Progress May 2012 May 2013 3 Melitron Company Profile Founded in 1995, Melitron on is a privately held Corporation headquartered in Guelph, Ontario. The Company operates two facilities in Canada employing more than 100 people. With a focus on precision metal fabrication, Melitron today is a leading supplier of contract manufacturing services, ervices, metal components, enclosures and assemblies to OEMs competing in technology markets around the world. Melitron's integrated business model provides our customers with a single source manufacturing solution from initial product design through to ffinal inal packaging and distribution. Our world class facilities are equipped with the most advanced manufacturing technologies and automated systems available which enhance our efficiencies, reduce our costs and help our customers achieve superior manufacturin manufacturing advantages. When your markets demand innovation, precision, and speed under pressure, partner with Melitron for your strategic outsourcing needs. Strategic advantages include: Single source manufacturing solutions Flexible manufacturing business mode model Product design and engineering resources New Product Introduction (NPI) and prototyping Advanced manufacturing technologies Integrated manufacturing services Customer-focused focused organization Value added services Company Name: Melitron Corp | Date: May 1995 Address: 404 Silvercreek Pkwy N, Guelph, Ontario Membership Date: April 2008 Country: Canada | Number of Employees: 107 Phone: 519-763-6660 | Sector: Manufacturing Melitron Corporation toll free 888 666 4309 Metal Products United Nations Global Compact 404 Silvercreek Parkway North t: 519 763 6660 for Technology Communication on Progress May 2012 May 2013 Guelph, ON Canada N1H 1E8 melitron..com STATEMENT OF SUPPORT Statement ent of Support In our opinion, Corporate Social Responsibility comprises environmental, economic and social responsibility. Melitron’s approach to Corporate Social responsibility is intrinsically linked to our core business values and we believe that bein beingg a socially responsible business makes good business sense. Additionally, Melitron is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, s, labour, environment and anti anti-corruption. This Communication in Progress provides an overview of our activities since committing in 2008 to the Global Compact’s objectives. Our Corporate Values that we formalized in 2002 and that guides our company today, tod embodies the spirit of ethical sustainability and transparency. We define sustainability through our values which give rise to our policies, our ethics and our corporate culture. They commit our company and every employee to environ environ-mental stewardship, safe work environments and socially responsible behavior in our workplaces and our communities. Signature: Position: President Ted Turner Melitron Corporation toll free 888 666 4309 Metal Products United Nations Global Compact 404 Silvercreek Parkway North t: 519 763 6660 for Technology Communication on Progress May 2012 May 2013 Guelph, ON Canada N1H 1E8 melitron..com HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1 – BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Melitron entirely supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Melitron abides by the UN Global Compact principles for the workplace. Melitron continues with its diversity hiring policy based on qualifications and a balanced work force. PRINCIPLE 2 – BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES At Melitron, we abide by Global Compact’s human righ rights ts principles though our internal policies. We have comprehensive rules and a code of conduct that are binding on all employees. It protects the interest of the employee and other stakeholders. Further, every new employee at Melitron receives an employee handbook delineating elineating their rights, obligations tions and their recourses. The following are some of the subjects in relations to human rights addressed in our Melitron Employee Handbook: Equal Opportunity – Melitron judges individuals by their abilities, not th their eir disabilities; the company seeks to give full and equal employment opportunities to all people capable of performing successfully in the company’s position. Harassment at Work – Melitron is committed to maintaining a positive, fair work and educational environment, free from any kind of harassment Health and Safety – Melitron has an ongoing interest in the health, safety and protection of all our employees and will make every effort to provide (and maintain) a safe and healthy work environment. Privacy – Melitron acknowledges that employees have fundamental rights to privacy in the work place and it is the company’s stated belief that all employees should be treated with respect. IMPLEMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT The Employee Handbook is reviewed annually by Management and areas of concern addressed. A review of Workplace e Violence was conducted in 2012 and Melitron implemented a formal written policy on Workplace Violence. Melitron has adopted a “zero tolerance” policy towards Workplace Violence. United Nations Global Compact Melitron Corporation toll free 888 666 4309 Metal Products 404 Silvercreek Parkway North t: 519 763 6660 for Technology Communication on Progress May 2012 May 2013 Guelph, ON Canada N1H 1E8 melitron..com LABOUR STANDARDS Labour Standards PRINCIPLE 3 – BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING At Melitron every employee has the right and ability to improve their status within the organization through the bid process for higher positions of authority. Since there are no union rules or regulations in place a true collective bargaining process is nonexistent. However, each employee through his/her performance rmance can bargain for position and wages based on a performance focused evaluation. PRINCIPLE 4 – BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATIO ELIMINATION N OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED COMPULSORY SORY LABOUR Melitron complies with local legislation around labour and employment practi practices, ces, such as working hours, wages and benefits, equal opportunity and freedom of association, child labour, health and safety, work-life balance etc. PRINCIPLE 5 – BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Melitron does not permit child hild labour and will not employ children under the age of 16 in our operations. Melitron complies with all relevant Canadian laws, including those related to the Charter of Human Rights. PRINCIPLE 6 – BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION DISCRIMINATI IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Melitron is committed to equal employment opportunity in every aspect of the employment policy and practice including the selection, pl placement and training.. Melitron celebrates diversity and practices employment equity.quity. In complying with this and pursuing our own go goals als of diversity, Melitron does not discriminate on the grounds of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, or disability in employment, education, and all other areas of Melitron. IMPLEMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT Melitron continually solicits suggestions from employees on ways to better im improve prove their working condition / areas. Management ent provides feedback to these suggestions either directly back to the employee or to the business iness group. Melitron has implemented a labor rights and training program progra to ensure employees are up-to--date date on their rights. This training is performed annually. Initial feedback from employees has been positive. Health and Safety audits have measured 91% compliance to safety policies. This is up 2 2% from the previous year. United Nations Global Compact Melitron Corporation toll free 888 666 4309 Metal Products 404 Silvercreek Parkway North t: 519 763 6660 for Technology Communication on Progress May 2012 May 2013 Guelph, ON Canada N1H 1E8 melitron..com ENVIRONMENT Environment PRINCIPLE 7 – BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Melitron supports a precautionary autionary approach and look to anticipate and prevent environmental problems before they occur. Melitron conforms to the strictest air and water quality standards set by federal, provincial and municipal authorities. We carefully monitor all of our water waste w generated in our factory operations. Our pre pre-treatment treatment water effluent is tested and recorded daily. Our modern manufacturing facility uses the latest environmental technologies and procedures and is equipped with anti anti-pollution equipment and alarms systems. stems. All chemical waste is stored and disposed of with an accredited waste disposal company. Melitron recycles all excess cold and hot roll steel, aluminum and stainless steel material used in our manufacturing processes. PRINCIPLE 8 – BUSINESS SHOULD U UNDERTAKE NDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Melitron is committed to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. We are in the process of creating a an ISO 14000 complainant system. Melitron in addition to recycling materials used in our fabrications processes participates in a full full-scale scale office recycling program to reduce waste through-out out the offices. This program includes the recycling of paper and light cardboard materials as-well well as plastic, glass and metal products. Recycling bins are strategically placed throughout the offices and all recyclables are collected daily and periodically shipped to external recycling facilities. PRINCIPLE 9 – BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTAL RONMENTAL FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Melitron is committed to promoting development and diffusion of environmental technologies. Capital projects are reviewed annually that use environmentally friendly technologies. These capital projects reviewed on their po potential tential savings and minimization of consumption and/or output (eg minimizing greenhouse gases)gases). IMPLEMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT The two large capital projects were completed in 2011: retro-fitting all plant lighting with T5 highhigh efficiency florescent lighting ting and converting our prepre-treatment treatment wash system to a low temperature iron-phoss solution. These projects have reduced both our electricity and gas consumption by 11% and 16% respectively. Melitron Corporation toll free 888 666 4309 Metal Products United Nations Global Compact 404 Silvercreek Parkway North t: 519 763 6660 for Technology Communication on Progress May 2012 May 2013 Guelph, ON Canada N1H 1E8 melitron..com Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10 – BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Melitron corporate values are designed to help maintain the company’s reputation of honesty and integrity; all employees are expected to comply with the these se principles. In addition, our employees and managers must run our business in compliance with all the applicable laws and regulations of the country in which we operate. Any violation of the following standards and/or laws and regulations will not be tol tolerated. erated. Moreover, it is everyone’s responsibility to report to the company or HR any violations of applicable laws and regulations without fear of retaliation. Employees should not accept or offer gifts, favors or entertainment, other than infrequent items of nominal value. Appropriate gift gift-giving can serve to build relationships. However, this should never be done if the possibility or even the appear appearance ance of improper influence exists. Melitron expects that its people will exercise good judgment, lead by ex example, ample, and seek guidance, when necessary for their own conduct. IMPLEMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT Anti-Corruption policy review has been conducted with senior management. Melitron has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery in the last year. United Nations Global Compact Melitron Corporation toll oll free 888 666 4309 Metal Products Communication on Progress May 2012 May 2013 404 Silvercreek Parkway North t: 519 763 6660 for Technology Guelph, ON Canada N1H 1E8 melitron..com
