2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Committed to sustainable value creation Contents The 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report sets out our commitment as a responsible company and describes in detail how we put this commitment into practice. Executive statement 2 Who we are and what we do 4 Our approach to corporate responsibility 8 Creating solutions for sustainability 14 Extending our risk intelligence 21 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape 31 Reducing our environmental footprint 38 Being a good corporate citizen 46 Being an employer of choice 54 Ensuring good governance 62 Corporate responsibility in context: The Principles for Sustainable Insurance 64 Corporate responsibility in context: funding longer lives 66 Other Swiss Re publications 68 Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich 70 Memberships, awards and index listings 72 GRI content index, with UN Global Compact “Communication on Progress” references 74 Cover Natural catastrophes such as windstorms, floods and earthquakes $PSQPSBUF3FTQPOTJCJMJUZ3FQPSU $PNNJUUFEUPTVTUBJOBCMFWBMVFDSFBUJPO can have serious consequences for communities and entire economies. Solutions that provide financial protection against these risks are a core element of re/insurance; they help communities strengthen their “risk resilience”, or in other words, their ability to recover after a natural disaster. In 2012, for example, we renewed and expanded the MultiCat cat bond, which offers the Mexican government financial protection of up to USD 315 million against hurricanes and earthquakes. For this and further risk transfer solutions, see pages 14–20. Executive statement Dear stakeholders We take pleasure in presenting to you In our core re/insurance business, we the 2012 edition of our Corporate made a significant five-year commitment Responsibility Report. We have published to the Grow Africa Partnership, which aims such a public account of our performance to improve food security in Sub-Saharan as a responsible company since 1998. countries. Together with several partner As our understanding of key sustainability organisations, we will work to implement issues and our commitment to action index insurance solutions that offer rural has matured, so has the content of our communities protection against the Corporate Responsibility Report. In this consequences of adverse weather. year’s edition, we have made a number In Mexico we successfully renewed and of significant improvements. They are expanded the MultiCat transaction. This all driven by our desire to offer you an cat bond provides the Mexican governhonest and transparent representation ment with up to USD 315 million of of corporate responsibility at Swiss Re. financial protection against damage from hurricanes as well as earthquakes. To begin with, we have extended independent assurance to three full chapters; Within the Group’s risk management, previously this had been limited to the we have worked hard over the years to company’s CO₂ emissions. Furthermore, develop tools that enable us to address we report for the first time against the sustainability, emerging and political risks. Principles for Sustainable Insurance, These tools are now well-established: which we helped develop in cooperation Based on the criteria defined in our with the UNEP Finance Initiative and other Sustainability Risk Framework, a total of partners. It complements our annual 170 transactions were referred to our communication on how we implement the Sensitive Business Risks process. In 23 ten principles of the UN Global Compact, cases, we decided to abstain from the to which we remain committed. Finally, transaction and in 18 cases we specified we have decided to talk more about some conditions that had to be met first. of the challenges inherent in implementing Meanwhile, our employees fed 136 risk sustainability in our business. As deriving notions into the SONAR process (SONAR concrete measures from general sustain= systematic observation of notions ability principles is not always straightassociated with risk), all of which were forward – and at times might even involve assessed for their potential impacts. short-term dilemmas – we believe this can support the discussion on how to achieve Dialogue with our stakeholders and sustainable progress. partners remains an important element of our commitment to corporate As in previous years, our report covers all responsibility. It works in both directions: the areas of our business we regard as we want to share our own knowledge essential to addressing environmental and social issues. Here we would like to point out just some of last year’s achievements: 2 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Executive statement Walter B. Kielholz Michel M. Liès of risks that may affect our clients and We consider our company to be part of society at large, while listening to other wider society and want to contribute to it perspectives on the global risk landscape. in a constructive manner. In doing so, we In 2012, we reassessed our priorities focus on two kinds of activities: On the one and now focus on five Top Topics. Our hand, we provide direct financial support Centre for Global Dialogue near Zurich to selected humanitarian and development supported knowledge sharing on these and projects around the world; the latter other important issues by holding several put a special focus on natural catastrophes, large stakeholder conferences as well as climate change and sustainable water smaller, more targeted events. management. On the other hand, we have Group-wide programmes that offer our Reducing our own environmental footprint employees opportunities to engage has long been a cornerstone of our efforts. directly in charitable work in their commuOur Greenhouse Neutral Programme has nities. All our efforts as a good corporate now entered its tenth year: since its start citizen have now been put on an even in 2003, we have managed to reduce stronger footing through the establishment the Group’s CO₂ emissions by 55.6% per of the Swiss Re Foundation. employee and have compensated all remaining emissions. In the context of our Last but not least, we are keen to act as an internal sustainability efforts, an exciting attractive and responsible employer. In project is Swiss Re Next, the new office 2012, for example, we introduced two webbuilding we are constructing at our based tools that offer our employees headquarters in Zurich. This will set a further assistance in planning and pursuing leading example of what can be achieved fulfilling careers at Swiss Re. We would like today by applying principles of sustainable to take this opportunity to thank our more construction. than 11 000 employees around the world for their continued dedication and hard work. 2012 was a very successful year for Swiss Re, and our employees have played an essential part in this. Zurich, May 2013 Walter B. Kielholz Michel M. Liès Chairman of the Board of Directors Group CEO Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 Who we are and what we do Our mission is clear and simple: to be the leading player in the wholesale re/insurance industry. Swiss Re at a glance Ireland and the Netherlands. In the past The Swiss Re Group year, they accounted for 82.4% of the consists of a holding Swiss Re is a leader in wholesale Group’s total business. company, Swiss Re Ltd, reinsurance, insurance and risk transfer with three distinct solutions. Our clients include insurance In 2011, we announced the reorganisation Business Units: companies, mid-sized and multinational of our company into three Business Units:  Reinsurance corporations and public-sector bodies. Our Reinsurance, Corporate Solutions and  Corporate Solutions capital strength and knowledge enable the Admin Re®. The new structure has simpli Admin Re® risk-taking on which economies depend. fied performance assessment and, most importantly, positioned the Group to deliver Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, shareholder value over the long term. Swiss Re has operations around the globe. At the end of 2012, we had 67 offices Swiss Re Ltd, the Group’s holding company, in more than 20 countries. Based on “net is a joint stock company, listed on the SIX premiums earned and fee income from Swiss Exchange, domiciled in Zurich and policyholders” in 2012, our ten biggest organised under the laws of Switzerland. No markets are: the US, the UK, France, China, further Group companies have shares listed. Australia, Canada, Germany, Japan, Our global presence Americas Net premiums earned and fee income in 2012 (USD billions) 9.5 (USD 9.3 billion in 2011) Number of offices as of 31 December 2012 31 (33 in 2011) Number of employees Regular staff as of 31 December 2012 2845 (2 788 in 2011) For more information on this subject, see swissre.com /about_us/ 4 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Who we are and what we do Europe Asia-Pacific Total (including Middle East and Africa) 10.7 5.2 25.4 (USD 8.6 billion in 2011) (USD 4.3 billion in 2011) (USD 22.2 billion in 2011) 25 11 67 (17 in 2011) (11 in 2011) (61 in 2011) 7186 1162 11193 (6 973 in 2011) (1 027 in 2011) (10 788 in 2011) Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Who we are and what we do One Group, three businesses The three distinct Business Units of the Swiss Re Group correspond to Swiss Re’s core activities in reinsurance, insurance and risk transfer solutions. Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Admin Re® Reinsurance is Swiss Re’s largest business Corporate Solutions offers innovative, Admin Re® provides risk and capital in income terms and the foundation of high-quality insurance capacity to midmanagement solutions by which Swiss Re our strength, providing about 80% of gross sized and multinational corporations across assumes closed books of in-force life and premiums through two segments: the globe. Offerings range from standard health insurance business, entire lines of Property & Casualty and Life & Health. risk transfer covers and multi-line probusiness or the entire capital stock of life The unit aims to extend Swiss Re’s grammes to highly customised solutions. insurance companies. Admin Re® solutions industry-leading position with disciplined Corporate Solutions serves customers help clients to divest non-core blocks underwriting, prudent portfolio from over 40 offices worldwide. of business, thus reducing administrative management and diligent client service. costs and freeing up capital. How we operate Re/insurance protects Re/insurance creates stability. By managing risks and covering losses, we protect society and enables investments and enable economic growth. progress. In simplified terms, our business model works as follows: We provide tailor-made solutions through traditional reinsurance or insurancebased capital market instruments. At the core of our expertise is the costing, pricing and diversification of non-life and life risks. Against up-front premium payments, our solutions enable our clients to reduce peak risks, reduce earnings volatility, free up capital and finance growth, and achieve capital management targets for solvency and ratings. We invest assets long-term until money is needed, applying asset-liability matching techniques to align the duration and currency of invested assets to the duration and currency of our insurance liabilities, ensuring that we deliver on our promises to our clients. We compensate for our clients’ losses, using effective claims management procedures that are based on industry best practice, providing speed of payment when clients need us most. 6 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Who we are and what we do Net premiums earned Key financial data by Business Unit, 2012 The table below provides a simplified overview of the Swiss Re Group’s key financial data. (Total: USD 25.4 billion) USD millions unless otherwise stated 2011 2012 Total assets 225 899 215 785 Total investments 162 224 152 812 Total liabilities 194 612 181 759 Total debt* 20 668 19 898 Shareholders’ equity 29 590 34 002 Retained earnings 22 277 26 322 Total revenues 28 083 33 624 Premiums earned 21 300 24 661  48% P & C Reinsurance Net investment income – non-participating** 4 626 4 473  36% L & H Reinsurance Net investment result – unit-linked and with-profit –403 2 570  9% Corporate Solutions Total expenses 25 208 28 101  7% Admin Re® Claims and claim adjustment expenses 8 810 7 763 Life and health benefits 8 414 8 878 Income tax expense 77 1 125 Current taxes 106 472 Deferred taxes –29 653 Net income *** 2 626 4 201 Earnings per share in CHF 6.79 11.13 Dividends on common shares 1 035 1 134 Return on equity in % 9.6 13.4 * Total debt expressed as total carrying value ** Excluding unit-linked and with-profit business *** Net income attributable to common shareholders Group structure Group Chief Executive Officer Global Partnerships Corporate Functions Business Units Enabling Units Group Strategy Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Admin Re® Group Underwriting  Americas  Regions & Specialty  Admin Re®  Asia  Products Group Asset  Europe, Management Middle East & Africa  CIO Office  Globals  Rates  Property & Specialty Group Finance  Casualty  Life & Health Group Operations  Claims,  Human Resources Accounting &  Legal & Compliance Group Risk Liability  Information Management Management Technology  Communications  Global Service Operations  Corporate Real Estate & Logistics Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 Our approach to corporate responsibility We are committed to being a responsible company. Contributing to sustainable, long-term value creation serves as a guiding principle for our practical actions. Swiss Re has a long-standing commitment This long-term view is embedded in Our commitment to to being a responsible company. A key Swiss Re’s normative framework and enabling sustainable element in our understanding of what this governance (ie the Group Code of progress underpins means is the desire to contribute to Conduct). It is one of the principles that Swiss Re’s values. sustainable value creation, for the benefit form the foundation of our values: of our clients and society at large.  Being open, honest and transparent in everything we do;  Treating everyone with respect;  Taking the long-term view, playing our part in enabling sustainable progress;  Creating an inclusive culture that encourages diversity of thought and opinion. For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/about_us/our_values/ For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ 8 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Our approach to corporate responsibility Our understanding of materiality dates back to 1999, when we published a “Corporate Environmental Report” covering A key question for any company that seeks the business year of 1998. to take a long-term view and promote sustainable progress is what this means Reflecting this long-standing engagement in the context of its own business and for sustainable progress, our understanding industry: what activities and what topics of “materiality” has developed gradually are “material” to making a tangible over time. The key areas of our business contribution to sustainable progress? which we currently consider “material” to enabling sustainable progress are We first began to address a specific sustainexpressed in our “Commitment to Corporate ability issue more than 20 years ago when Responsibility”. As such, this also describes we drew attention to the potential risks how we seek to put our commitment as a created by climate change. Our first effort responsible company into practice. to disclose sustainability-related information Swiss Re’s Commitment to Corporate Responsibility General commitment “Corporate responsibility” expresses Swiss Re’s commitment to being an open, honest and transparent organisation that treats all its stakeholders – employees, shareholders, clients, government regulators and the general public – with respect and integrity. In particular, we aim to take a long-term view, playing our part in enabling sustainable progress. Sustainability as a guiding principle Sustainable progress – or sustainability – can be described as development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. To be sustainable, progress must improve economic efficiency, protect and restore ecological systems, and enhance social well-being. In all our main activities aimed at implementing corporate responsibility, the principle of sustainability is a key criterion:  Business solutions Within our core business (re/insurance and asset management), we strive to develop innovative solutions that help tackle key environmental and social challenges. To this end, we actively work together with our clients and partners, both in the private and public sectors.  Risk intelligence We develop and apply tailor-made tools to extend the scope of our risk management. In this way, we seek to identify and appropriately address sustainability-related and emerging risks in our core business.  Stakeholder dialogue Through regular dialogue with our clients and other stakeholders, we help develop effective responses to sustainability and further key issues, by raising awareness of both the risks and the opportunities arising from them.  Our footprint We apply best-practice standards of resource management to our properties and logistical operations as well as guidelines to our sourcing activities. In doing so, we continually reduce Swiss Re’s direct environmental impact.  Corporate citizenship Playing an active role in society beyond our core business is important to us. We support selected humanitarian and development aid projects across the world, while promoting volunteering and charitable work at our business locations.  Our employees We want to provide our employees with a working environment conducive to their personal and professional development. We nurture a culture of diversity and inclusion across the company, offer excellent training possibilities, and provide a range of health and other benefits. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Our approach to corporate responsibility Our five Top Topics Governance and management In our 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report With our Group Issue Management, we have responsibility we first included two special sections in a formal process in place to identify key addition to these core chapters. Under the topics that are strategically important to us, At Swiss Re’s highest governance level, the heading of “corporate responsibility in our clients and society at large. After an task of overseeing implementation of our context”, they are intended to provide some extensive review, we adopted a revised set commitment to corporate responsibility has background information on important of five Top Topics in 2012: been assigned to a Committee of the Board sustainability topics. In this year’s edition  Advancing sustainable energy solutions of Directors: It is one of the responsibilities of we continue this feature, focusing on:  Funding longer lives the Chairman’s and Governance Committee  Corporate responsibility in context:  Managing climate and natural disaster to periodically monitor the Group’s sustainThe Principles for Sustainable Insurance risk ability and citizenship activities.  Corporate responsibility in context:  Partnering for food security funding longer lives  Supporting financial stability On an operational level, numerous units are involved in implementing Swiss Re’s Challenges to implementing We believe these Top Topics are highly commitment to corporate responsibility in sustainability relevant in terms of sustainability. To varying daily business. The Sustainability & Political Even if one understands which actions and degrees, we address them through our Risk Management unit carries out certain issues are material to enabling sustainable business solutions, risk intelligence, risk coordination tasks and is responsible for progress, defining concrete measures is not dialogue, footprint reduction and corporate producing the Group’s Corporate Responsialways easy – and sometimes may involve citizenship activities. At the same time, we bility Report. short-term dilemmas. For this reason, widen our focus to additional issues in each we have decided to start talking a little more of these areas if warranted. about the challenges posed by impleDisclosure and accountability menting sustainability principles in a private Climate change business. In this year’s report, we have Swiss Re was one of the first organisations We have voluntarily reported on our pertried to present some of these arguments to realise the potential impact of climate formance as a responsible company since in the following sections: change. For more than two decades, we the business year of 1998. The range  Natural catastrophes and climate have been an acknowledged thought leader of topics covered in the yearly reports has change, pages 14–15 on the topic and have developed some gradually widened. While early editions  Sustainability Risk Framework, page 23 path-breaking initiatives. With two of our had a strong focus on environmental  Managing emerging risks, page 27 Top Topics – “Advancing sustainable energy concerns, later editions gradually extended  Business travel, page 40 solutions” and “Managing climate and their focus to social and governance issues. natural disaster risk” – focusing on different Since 2007, we have published a compreScope aspects of climate change, we continue to hensive Corporate Responsibility Report, Our Corporate Responsibility Report covers take this challenge very seriously. Mirroring guided by best practice in corporate the whole Swiss Re Group, ie the listed this, we have a specific strategy for tackling responsibility reporting. holding company, its three Business Units climate change that rests on four pillars: and all subsidiaries. As in past years, Content definition the report’s scope is limited to Swiss Re’s The content and structure of the present own operations. While we do provide  Advancing our knowledge and report reflect the areas and activities of our information on our sourcing and procureunderstanding of climate change business we consider material to enabling ment policies, we do not report on the risks, quantifying and integrating sustainable progress. Each of the six key performance of our suppliers because the them into our risk management areas described in our “Commitment to re/insurance business does not involve a and underwriting frameworks Corporate Responsibility” is covered by an proper supply chain. where relevant; individual chapter. Priorities within these  Developing products and six areas are described in the respective services to mitigate – or adapt chapters. An additional chapter highlights to – climate risk; some key features of Swiss Re’s corporate  Raising awareness about governance regime, including the Group climate change risks through Code of Conduct: dialogue with clients, employees  Creating solutions for sustainability and the public, and advocacy  Extending our risk intelligence of a worldwide policy framework  Exploring and shaping the risk landscape for climate change;  Reducing our environmental footprint  Tackling our own carbon  Being a good corporate citizen footprint and ensuring  Being an employer of choice transparent, annual emissions  Ensuring good governance reporting. 10 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Our approach to corporate responsibility Reporting frameworks The present report succeeds the 2011 Our 2012 Corporate As far as is sensible for, and applicable to, edition and covers the calendar year of Responsibility Report refers a business-to-business company in financial 2012. We plan to maintain our yearly to three reporting services, this report takes into account publishing cycle and to present our next frameworks: the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Corporate Responsibility Report in the  The Global Reporting of the Global Reporting Initiative second quarter of 2014, covering the year Initiative (GRI) provides (www.globalreporting.org). We also of 2013. It will again assess the progress a detailed voluntary indicate the application level that the report made against our key goals stated on the framework for sustainmeets in our own assessment (ie “selfnext page. ability reporting; the declared”). The detailed GRI content index corresponding content is included in the report on pages 74–76. index is included on Corporate responsibility goals pages 74–76; The 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report  The UN Global Compact also incorporates our “Communication on Each year, we publicly state our main corpois a voluntary commitment Progress” on 2012 for the UN Global rate responsibility goals and then report on to ten principles; our Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org). In our progress made against them in the Communication on Progress line with the United Nations’ recommenfollowing year. Below is our progress report is incorporated into the dations, references to the Compact’s ten on the goals defined for 2012. The goals for GRI content index, pages principles are incorporated into the GRI 2013 are presented on the next page. 74–76; content index. In this year’s report, we also  The Principles for report against the Principles for Sustainable Sustainable Insurance are Insurance, PSI (www.unepfi.org/psi) for the a voluntary commitment first time. The disclosure statement can be for re/insurers; our public found on page 65. disclosure on the four principles is included on page 65. Report on our corporate responsibility goals for 2012  Further strengthen cooperation with  Share results from our research on risks  Maintain reduction in CO₂ emissions privateand public-sector partners to in the renewable energy sector with per employee by 50% and improveimprove communities’ risk resilience, clients to advance effective climate ment in energy intensity by 38% with a particular focus on micromitigation strategies. against 2003 baselines, as the insurance solutions. Following launch of the Swiss Re company pursues its growth strategy. Developed, renewed or supported sponsored report “Managing Arrived at a reduction in CO₂ several innovative solutions that the risk in renewable energy” from emissions per employee of 55.6% offer exposed communities the Economist Intelligence Unit, and an improvement of energy insurance protection against a leveraged this with clients and the efficiency by 42.4% since 2003, range of different risks. media. despite strong increase in business See pages 16–20. See page 32. travel. See pages 39–40.  Explore further opportunities to help  Strengthen competency and clients devise long-term adaptation accountability of business lines to  Extend the scope of our corporate strategies to climate change, based on address sustainability risks directly, citizenship activities to projects in the Economics of Climate Adaptation and deepen dialogue on sensitive the health sector including social (ECA) methodology. issues such as fossil fuel extraction. entrepreneurship, thereby leveraging Managed to secure major mandate Created platform supporting our Swiss Re’s expertise. for an ECA study, to be carried out client-facing staff in implementing Among a number of humanitarian in 2013. the Sustainability Risk Frame and development projects, started work and established an internal a three-year partnership with “Champions Network” to Ashoka to promote innovation strengthen client dialogue on through social entrepreneurship energy, mining and food. in the Indian health sector. See page 24. See page 48. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 Our approach to corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility goals for 2013 These are our main corporate responsibility goals for 2013. We will report on our progress made against these goals in the next Corporate Responsibility Report. Help exposed communities get better insurance protection against a range of risks, by engaging in public-private partnerships and microinsurance schemes. Through ongoing dialogue, assist clients in devising and implementing long-term adaptation strategies to climate change based on the Economics of Climate Adaptation methodology. Further sharpen our positions on key sustainability risks and collaborate with partners to advance sustainable business practices in the re/insurance industry. Maintain 50% reduction in CO₂ emissions per employee achieved since 2003 despite rise in business travel, and devise follow-up strategy until 2020 comprising carbon neutrality and extended scope. Further enhance the effectiveness of our corporate citizenship activities by transferring them to the newly-established, independent Swiss Re Foundation. 12 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Our approach to corporate responsibility Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Creating solutions for sustainability With our re/insurance solutions we help address key environmental and social challenges. Focus areas are natural catastrophes and climate change, funding longer lives, and insurance cover in emerging countries. While all our risk transfer solutions help Natural catastrophes and climate create stability, we consider three risk areas change to be of special relevance in terms of sustainable development: natural catastrophes and Natural catastrophes constitute a key risk in climate change, longevity, and insurance our Property & Casualty (P&C) business. covers in emerging countries. We address Losses from floods, storms, earthquakes these challenges within our established and other natural catastrophes can affect risk modelling and underwriting activities millions of lives and the economies of entire or through the development of specific, countries. Providing effective re/insurance innovative solutions. In either case, we protection against natural catastrophes cooperate closely with our clients and therefore has large social and economic partners. benefits. In 2012, the total premium amount our clients were willing to pay to obtain Our solutions frequently include one or financial protection against natural more of the following elements: catastrophes was USD 2.53 billion, or  Insurance-linked securities (ILS) or cat 20.5% of our entire P&C business. bonds: We are a leader in the development of these products, which Globally, insured natural catastrophe losses enable large risks to be transferred to the are becoming more frequent and severe capital markets. due to increasing insurance penetration and  Index-based insurance products: We are the concentration of insured assets in a pioneer in creating innovative exposed areas. This development is likely to insurance solutions that use an index to be further compounded by the effects of determine payments. climate change. According to the Special  Public-sector partners: In addition to Report on Extremes (SREX) published direct insurers and corporate clients, we by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate seek to develop risk transfer solutions for, Change (IPCC), a changing climate and in cooperation with, governments gradually leads to shifts in the frequency, and various public-sector organisations. intensity, spatial extent, duration and timing of extreme weather events. In 2012, we were able to scale up or renew some solutions (MultiCat, Kilimo Salama). Understanding natural catastrophe risks This is a crucial part of enabling sustainable and the impact of climate change is critical progress. Renewals and scale-ups to assessing our P&C business accurately essentially validate the original product and to structuring sound risk transfer design and demonstrate that the product solutions. This is why we invest in propriecreates tangible benefits for clients at tary, state-of-the-art natural catastrophe an appropriate price. models and collaborate with universities and scientific institutions. This enables us to stay abreast of the latest knowledge on the economic impact of natural disasters, including the effects of climate change. 14 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Creating solutions for sustainability Complementing our reinsurance covers, Longevity and health are two of our strategic Our natural catastrophe we support our clients with strategic priorities in the L&H business. The demand premiums were USD expertise and integral risk assessment of for longevity solutions is expected to grow 2.53 billion in 2012. We natural disasters and climate adaptation. further as demographics shift. Our substantial regularly review and These include our expertise publications, investment into research and development adapt our models to free access to Swiss Re’s CatNet® and our is aimed at continually improving our ability account for all factors Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) to predict mortality and longevity trends. that may increase the studies. With a time horizon of 2030, the In 2012, we completed two longevity loss potential of these ECA methodology enables decision-makers insurance contracts with pension funds in covers. to understand the future economic impact the UK (see next page). of climate change – and to identify the most cost-effective actions to minimise that Demand for commercial health insurance impact. This makes it possible to integrate solutions is also growing, driven by several While the impact of climate change will adaptation to climate change with major demographic and socioeconomic manifest itself over the coming decades, economic development and sustainable trends. These include: the greater healthmost of our business is renewed annually growth. care needs of ageing societies; rising and our risk models are refined every few healthcare expectations of the new middle years. Risks are essentially covered for class, especially in growth markets; and 12 months, for cat bonds up to five years. Life & Health insurance and healthcare finance reform, particularly in Thus, reinsurance premiums do not reflect longevity solutions mature markets. Swiss Re offers a variety of expected loss trends over the next health reinsurance solutions to meet these decades. Rather, for underwriting and risk Life and health (L&H) insurance products needs, from short-term protection against management purposes, our models provide play a crucial role in creating stability for the risk of volatility in medical expenses for an estimate of today’s risk. However, as individuals and society. They provide insurers or employers, to very long-term natural catastrophe losses continue to rise financial security in the event of death or protection against the financial impact of as a result of the different factors described illness, give access to medical treatment disability or critical illness. above, our models will gradually reflect this and offer dependable income in retirement. trend, as they are updated in regular By providing reinsurance, we help primary intervals. L&H insurers and other clients – both from the private and the public sector – to manage such risks efficiently, thanks to our specialist knowledge of mortality, morbidity and longevity trends. For more information on this subject, see rethinking/climate_and_natural_disaster_risk/ Natural catastrophes such as floods, windstorms and earthquakes can disrupt millions of lives. Offering financial protection against such risks forms an essential part of re/insurance and helps communities recover more quickly after a catastrophic event. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Creating solutions for sustainability Two longevity solutions for pension In 2012, new ILS totalling USD 6.3 billion In 2012, we completed funds were issued, the second highest amount two transactions that In 2012, we completed two transactions ever after 2007. Moreover, new issuance help pension funds meet that help two private-sector clients manage exceeded the total amount of maturing their obligations when their longevity risks: one covers bonds by USD 2.5 billion (taking into clients live longer than GBP 1.4 billion (USD 2.2 billion) of liabilities account both natural catastrophe and expected. and almost 17 000 members of one of extreme mortality risks). This underlines the AkzoNobel’s UK pension funds; the other fact that ILS have developed beyond a niche GBP 800 million (USD 1.3 billion) and more product and now form an essential part than 5 000 members of the pension fund of re/insurers’ risk management strategies. of UK insurer LV=. The LV= transaction is Likewise, the investor base for ILS has grown unique in that it also includes insurance and broadened. for members aged 55 and over who have not yet retired. Our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries underwrote and distributed to institutional The two transactions show that pension investors non-life ILS worth USD 663 funds are becoming more aware of million on behalf of Swiss Re during 2012. longevity risk and more comfortable with They underwrote and distributed an insurance solutions to address the resulting additional USD 2.28 billion of non-life ILS exposures. In both transactions Swiss Re for clients. The total of non-life and life ILS keeps the liabilities on its own balance underwritten by Swiss Re in 2012 was sheet, bringing the total to over USD 3.2 billion, or about half the volume of USD 12 billion. We are able to do this new issuance in the whole ILS market. because we have the necessary capital strength and are seen as a trustworthy partner for the long-term contracts of Renewal of MultiCat in Mexico longevity solutions. Swiss Re served as the co-lead manager in the renewal and expansion of the MultiCat Non-life ILS underwritten Insurance-linked securities cat bond, which provides the Mexican by Swiss Re government with insurance protection from USD millions Swiss Re is a leading player in the the capital markets against several kinds of 3000 insurance-linked securities (ILS) sector. ILS natural catastrophes. It succeeds the first are capital market instruments, typically in MultiCat programme launched in 2009 and 2500 49.7 bond or derivative format, designed to meet is expected to mature in December 2015. 2000 the risk or capital management needs of a 1500 transaction “sponsor”. In exchange for a Like its predecessor, the renewed MultiCat 1000 coupon or premium payment, the sponsor programme covers two different natural 500 receives single or multi-year collateralised perils – earthquakes and hurricanes – 0 protection for specified risk events. If such in different regions of the country. In total, 2009 2010 2011 2012 an event occurs, the sponsor receives all or it provides financial protection of up to part of the principal; otherwise this is paid USD 315 million and uses parametric  as a sponsor back to the investors in full at maturity. triggers to determine payouts.  as an arranger for clients Insurance-linked securities are particularly well-suited to provide protection against peak risks – events that happen infrequently but tend to lead to high losses, for example earthquakes or windstorms. ILS are used for The MultiCat solution both risk and capital management purposes provides the Mexican in the P&C and the L&H business. For government with reinsurers they are attractive because they financial protection of free scarce capital; for insurers and corpoup to USD 315 million rate clients they provide multiyear collateragainst damage alised protection; and for investors they from hurricanes and offer attractive diversification possibilities, earthquakes. as they are relatively uncorrelated with For more information on this subject, see other asset classes. Corporate responsibility in context: funding longer lives, on pages 66–67 For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/investors/ils/ 16 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Creating solutions for sustainability We worked closely with the Mexican Our commitment is strongly grounded in government and the World Bank both our previous efforts to bring effective in developing the original MultiCat insurance protection to vulnerable commuprogramme and in its renewal. Innovative nities. To fulfil our commitment in Africa, risk transfer solutions such as this one we work closely with several partner help governments to financially prepare for organisations, including Oxfam America, natural disasters and ensure that rapid the World Food Programme, USAID and funding is available for relief efforts after a the Global Index Insurance Facility. disaster. MultiCat is a key component in Mexico’s strategy to deal with catastrophic For the whole of 2012, we helped to bring risks, which has been carefully developed weather insurance to 175 000 smallholder over the last decade. farmers through 19 programmes in 12 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. Our commitment to the Grow Partnering with the Global Index We have made a fiveAfrica Partnership Insurance Facility year commitment to We first started to work with the Global the Grow Africa Millions of people in Africa depend on Index Insurance Facility (GIIF) in 2011. Partnership to provide agriculture for their livelihoods, but vulnerEstablished by the International Finance agricultural insurance ability to volatile weather and the ensuing Corporation, IFC (www.ifc.org) – the for up to 1.4 million swings in agricultural production pose a private-sector arm of the World Bank – and smallholder farmers. constant threat to their food security. As supported by the European Commission, climate change leads to an increase in the GIIF is a platform designed to improve frequency and intensity of natural hazards, access to index-based insurance products these weather-related risks will also in developing countries, especially for become more acute. farmers and people in agrarian communities. Our cooperation with GIIF takes the form of In view of this challenge, a number of a technical partnership, through which we organisations, including the African Union, contribute our long-standing know-how the New Partnership for Africa’s Development and expertise in developing index-based (NEPAD) and the World Economic Forum insurance products. (WEF), launched the Grow Africa Partnership (www.growafrica.com) in 2011. Its As weather extremes such as droughts, chief objective is to promote public-private excessive rainfall, storms etc. can wipe collaboration and investment in African out the livelihoods of entire families in an agriculture. In its first year, seven African instant, well-designed and affordable countries volunteered to participate in the insurance schemes not only help avoid partnership and to support its objectives. these devastating consequences, they can set in motion a virtuous cycle of developThe Group of Eight (G8) then decided to ment and asset creation. Index insurance is align its work with the Grow Africa particularly suited for this purpose because Partnership and, at its 2012 summit, it is transparent, has low transaction launched the New Alliance for Food and costs and allows for rapid claims payment. Nutrition Security, a commitment to lift 50 million people in Africa out of poverty over the next ten years. As one of 45 companies, Swiss Re made a tangible commitment to the Alliance and thus to supporting Grow Africa. Over the next five years this commitment has the following three elements:  Provide farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa with tools such as weather and yield index insurance products;  Invest in resources equivalent to about USD 2 million per year to support the development of sustainable agricultural risk management markets;  Provide agricultural insurance for up to 1.4 million smallholder farmers. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Creating solutions for sustainability Example: the Kilimo Salama programme One of the weather index insurance programmes supported by GIIF is “Kilimo Salama”, which literally means “safe farming” in Kiswahili, the language spoken in much of northern Kenya (http://kilimosalama.wordpress.com). The programme is a partnership between the Syngenta Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture, local mobile phone operator Safaricom, local insurer UAP and Swiss Re Corporate Solutions. It insures the cost of inputs (seeds, fertilisers) and the expected value of farm harvests, covering yield shortfalls due to insufficient or excessive rain. Swiss Re Corporate Solutions reinsures the programme and provides actuarial support to price the insurance cover. Since its launch as a pilot with 200 farmers in 2010, Kilimo Salama has seen strong growth: in 2012 it provided weather insurance protection to 53 000 farmers in Kenya and covered crops such as maize, wheat, beans and sorghum. An important reason for Kilimo Salama’s success is that it uses mobile phone technology to speed up access and payouts to rural farmers, through Safaricom’s well-established and trusted M-PESA mobile money transfer service. In 2012, the programme was successfully expanded to Rwanda, where it covered 21 000 farmers by the end of the year. Due to adverse weather conditions, there were payouts in both countries in 2012: in Kenya 7 800 farmers received a total of USD 541 000, and in Rwanda 1 600 farmers were paid USD 10 300. The Kilimo Salama programme offers smallholder farmers in Kenya and Rwanda insurance protection against harvest shortfalls. It is one of a number of initiatives through which we contribute to the Grow Africa Partnership. The MiCRO programme in Haiti In view of this situation, Swiss Re partnered The MiCRO programme with Fonkoze (www.fonkoze.org), Haiti’s provided vital financial The devastating earthquake that struck largest microfinance institution, and Mercy assistance to microHaiti early in 2010 was one of the worst Corps (www.mercycorps.org), to develop entrepreneurs in Haiti natural catastrophes in recent years, the Microinsurance Catastrophe Risk after both Tropical Storm causing terrible human suffering and killing Organisation, MiCRO (www.microrisk.org). Isaac and Hurricane over 220 000 people. It also destroyed the MiCRO’s first product (named Kore W Sandy. livelihoods of numerous grassroots which means “for you” in Haitian Creole) entrepreneurs, because they did not have is specifically targeted at the informal sector any insurance protection against the in Haiti – Fonkoze’s almost 60 000 female consequences of such natural disasters. clients who have set up small businesses to provide for their families and improve their 18 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Creating solutions for sustainability economic situation. As Haiti is highly vulneremergency payout in cash (a fixed sum Kore W, MiCRO’s first product, was able to natural disasters, having access of 5 000 Haitian Gourdes, the equivalent of launched in 2011. However, MiCRO has to insurance protection is vital for these USD 125), their outstanding loan balance been designed as a “scalable” facility that micro-entrepreneurs to recover after a with Fonkoze is cancelled, and they receive a can be extended to other catastrophic catastrophic event and to gradually build new loan under the same terms once they are risks as well as further countries. MiCRO better, sustainable lives. ready to resume their commercial activities. is currently developing programmes to expand its catastrophe risk solutions to MiCRO’s key innovation is that it combines MiCRO proved its worth in 2012 when Central America and the English-speaking a parametric cover with a basis risk cover, Tropical Storm Isaac and Hurricane Sandy Caribbean. which enables it to closely mirror the actual brought destruction to Haiti yet again. Both damage on the ground. This means that storms caused substantial flooding and MiCRO can offer effective, accurate mudslides, and many micro-entrepreneurs Bringing agricultural insurance protection to the insured micro-entreprelost their merchandise and/or their homes, to remote Indian farmers neurs and their families. At the same time, especially in the country’s south. Isaac and the solution allows Fonkoze to respond Sandy, together with smaller events in April Agriculture contributes 19% of GDP in India, quickly to the problems faced by their and June, triggered payouts from MiCRO the second highest ratio in the world. India’s clients and helps them remain solvent. The to Fonkoze. For the whole of 2012, MiCRO rural population is about 800 million, of programme covers earthquakes, hurricanes provided USD 4.7 million in cash payouts which some 600 million are farmers. Since and excess rainfall. and loan cancellations to a total of 27 949 2007, there has been strong government beneficiaries out of the 60 000 Fonkoze backing for agricultural insurance products, In Haiti, when the Kore W product is clients covered by Kore W. Thus, the both weatherand yieldbased. Swiss Re triggered, the insured micro-entrepreneurs average amount per case was USD 168 has supported these programmes from the benefit in three ways: they receive an for the year 2012. There are around 600 million farmers in India. Over the last decade, we have provided reinsurance and pricing support for several programmes covering smallholder farmers against agricultural risks. In 2012, we supported a pilot project that aims to bring insurance protection to more remote communities. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Creating solutions for sustainability start by providing reinsurance as well as Supporting the RSBY programme National e-Governance Plan actuarial assistance to the insurers that in India (NeGP): implement them. The NeGP is an ambitious Over the past three years, we have programme by the Indian At present, agricultural insurance supported a private insurance company, government to build rural programmes still only reach 5% of farmers, Tata AIG General Insurance, in infrastructure on an though. While farmers who buy credit from implementing Rashtriya Swasthya Bima information and technology banks (bancassurance) can often bundle Yojana, RSBY (www.rsby.gov.in) in platform. It comprises four this with insurance, the big challenge is to India. Literally meaning “National Health pillars: state-wide area establish alternative distribution channels Insurance Programme”, RSBY is a networks, state date centres, to reach the large number of farmers who government-sponsored scheme for state portal and service do not take out loans. In light of this, the low-income families. It covers inpatient delivery gateways, and Indian government launched the National hospitalisation expenses for up to decentralised common e-Governance Plan (NeGP), a nation-wide INR 30 000 (approx. USD 530) per family service centres. initiative to build rural infrastructure on an per year, as well as preand postwww.deity.gov.in/content/ information and technology platform. hospitalisation expenses. Currently, over national-e-governance-plan One of NeGP’s four pillars is the establish34 million families are covered by RSBY ment of “Common Service Centres” (CSCs), across all Indian states. which offer a multitude of different services to the rural population. Each CSC is Tata AIG General Insurance has impleintended to cater to roughly 10 000 villagers, mented the scheme in 19 districts across which translates into a total of about 85 000 three states, covering approximately to reach India’s entire rural population. 1.5 million families. We have supported implementation through scheme costing, Srei Sahaj e-Village Limited formulating risk management guidelines (www.sahajcorporate.com) is one of the and conducting field audits. entities chosen by the Indian government to create this network of Common Service Centres. To date, Srei Sahaj has set up around 20 000 CSCs; it already offers life and non-life insurance (motor, personal accident, health) through its infrastructure. In 2012, Srei Sahaj wanted to add weather index-based insurance to its product offerings so remote farmers could obtain financial protection against the consequences of adverse weather. We collaborated with Srei Sahaj and our insurance client HDFC Ergo to help this initiative, by providing product structuring and pricing. A pilot was launched in the monsoon season of 2012 to sell weather index insurance in some districts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. We supported the pilot by structuring products for key crops like rice and maize. The pilot covered a few hundred farmers and provided valuable lessons for a scale-up planned in 2013. 20 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Extending our risk intelligence Tailor-made tools enable us to tackle sustainability, emerging and political risks, both in our re/insurance business and investment activities. Risk management is at the core of Swiss Re’s management: we need to be constantly business model. Controlled risk taking aware of further risks we may be exposed requires a strong and independent risk to, especially in the longer term. management organisation, as well as comprehensive risk management processes Currently, we consider three types of risk to identify, assess and control the Group’s particularly relevant in this respect: and the Business Units’ risk exposures. sustainability, emerging and political risks. The main categories of our risk landscape For all three, we have developed specific comprise core risks (insurance, financial tools and know-how that help us identify market and credit) as well as operational and assess them. This allows us to and other risks that arise as a result of doing determine those risks we think should be business: liquidity, regulatory, reputational avoided – because of their loss potential, and strategic (see 2012 Financial Report, for ethical reasons, or both. pages 48–55). Our extended risk management expertise Sound risk management is a key requirement is also key to managing our assets responfor a responsible re/insurer as it allows sibly. The risk assessments and decisions us to act as a reliable partner to our clients we make through our Sustainability Risk when they suffer financial losses. In Framework, in particular, flow directly into our understanding, however, there is an our asset management. additional dimension to responsible risk The defence industry is one of eight sectors and issues for which our Sustainability Risk Framework contains a specific policy. In 2012, we added an amendment to this policy that categorically bans any transactions involving cluster weapons. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 Extending our risk intelligence Swiss Re’s Sustainability Risk business transactions, ie re/insurance as Sustainability risks Framework well as investments, to the extent that we We define sustainability risks can influence its various elements. as ethical concerns related There has been growing awareness to environmental and sociorecently among many stakeholders that Our Sustainability Risk Framework consists economic impacts of our economic activities, while creating tangible of the following elements: business transactions, and benefits on one side, may also damage  Eight policies on sensitive sectors or the reputation risks they the environment and have disruptive effects issues; may entail. on social structures. If unmitigated, such  The Sensitive Business Risks (SBR) environmental and social impacts may process, a due diligence tool for casecome to pose a threat to societies’ longby-case assessments; term sustainable development.  Company exclusions;  Country exclusions beyond compliance For companies, this situation can cause with International Trade Controls. dilemmas: a particular business transaction may be economically beneficial and perfectly Policies fine from a legal point of view, yet it may At present, the framework comprises have significant environmental and social policies on eight sectors and issues we downsides. At Swiss Re, we believe that consider to be of particular relevance: the addressing such dilemmas requires a welldefence industry, oil and gas (including defined approach and the willingness to oil sands), mining, dams, animal testing, make decisions based on ethical principles. forestry and logging, nuclear weapons proliferation, plus an overarching human With our Sustainability Risk Framework we rights and environmental protection policy. have an advanced risk management As an important adjustment in 2012, we methodology in place which is specifically made an amendment to our policy for the designed to identify and address such defence industry that categorically bans “sustainability risks” in our core business. any transactions involving cluster weapons. The framework applies to all of Swiss Re’s The key concerns addressed by the framework’s eight policies are listed below. Key concerns Defence industry Dams Nuclear weapons proliferation  Particularly cruel weapons that inflict  Human rights abuses;  Activities associated with nuclear indiscriminate harm to humans and  Significant adverse environmental energy or similar in countries that are the environment, often after a conflict or social impacts, particularly where outside the established framework has ended; critical natural habitats, vulnerable and international regime of global non The provision of certain services by groups and/or critical cultural proliferation efforts. private security companies. heritages are impacted;  Non-involvement of relevant Human rights and environmental Oil and gas stakeholders; protection  Human rights abuses;  Non-involvement of affected  Human rights violations and abuses  Significant adverse environmental or neighbouring states. such as murder, torture, deprivation of social impacts, particularly where liberty, forced labour or harmful child critical natural habitats, vulnerable Animal testing labour; groups and/or critical cultural  Unethical and inhumane treatment  Countries that lack an operational, heritages are impacted. of animals. effective and internationally recognised government; Mining Forestry and logging  Companies that are causing ongoing,  Human rights abuses;  Illegal logging; severe and unmitigated damage  Significant adverse environmental or  Significant adverse environmental or to the environment, flora and fauna of social impacts, particularly where social impacts, particularly where a particular place and biodiversity critical natural habitats, vulnerable critical natural habitats, vulnerable in general, especially in industries and groups and/or critical cultural groups and/or critical cultural activities that have had a problematic heritages are impacted; heritages are impacted. track record in this area in the past.  Poor occupational health & safety record and risk of increasing HIV penetration. 22 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Extending our risk intelligence The Sensitive Business Risks process Fundamental Principles and Rights Each of the eight policies contains at Work, its environment principles from predefined criteria and qualitative the Rio Declaration on Environment standards which define precisely when our and Development and its anti-corruption underwriters and client managers need to principles from the United Nations refer a transaction to the Sensitive Business Convention against Corruption. Risks (SBR) process. In such a case our sustainability and other experts carry out a This web of ethical principles helps us take due diligence assessment: they carefully decisions that consider universal fundaanalyse the benefits and downsides of the mental rights. However, this is not sufficient transaction at hand and decide whether it for taking decisions in a business context. is acceptable on ethical grounds. What we also need to consider are the social and economic implications of our This decision takes the form of a decisions in their respective cultural recommendation either to go ahead with contexts. Last but not least, we need to the transaction, to go ahead with certain take into account the implications for our conditions attached or to abstain from it. business. Balancing these various aspects If there is disagreement about the recomrequires the careful and consistent mendation, the case can be escalated to assessment of a transaction and its local the next management level. effects, often in collaboration and dialogue with external experts and local stakeholders. In 2012, the number of transactions referred to the SBR process rose to 170. Thus our decisions are neither subjective We issued negative recommendations in nor entirely objective. In essence, they 23 cases and positive recommendations reflect our recognition of global fundamental with conditions in 18 cases; all these rights, of human suffering and our conditions were eventually met. commitment to limiting unwanted negative impacts of our business transactions. The decisions we take as part of the Sustainability Risk Framework are based on internationally recognised ethical principles. Swiss Re is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, which derives its For more information on this subject, see human rights principles from the Universal swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ Declaration of Human Rights, its labour managing_env_risks.html principles from the ILO Declaration on 170 Total number of business transactions Sensitive Business Risk referrals 2012 Number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals 160 140 120 100 referred to the Sensitive Business Risks 80 process in 2012 60 40 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012  Proceed  Defence  Proceed with conditions  Human rights and environmental protection  Abstain  Oil and gas  Not materialised  Mining  Dams  Forestry and logging  Animal testing  Nuclear weapons proliferation Other issue/industry Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 Extending our risk intelligence Company exclusions Client and industry interaction We played an active The policies of our Sustainability Risk We strongly believe that effective role in developing the Framework define certain criteria that may sustainability risk management ultimately Principles for lead to the exclusion of a company from equals sound business conduct and are Sustainable Insurance. both our re/insurance transactions and keen to promote its further uptake in the For more details and investments, to the extent that such an re/insurance industry. our first progress report, exclusion is permissible (eg by virtue of see pages 64–65. mandatory law or internal policies) and Recently, we have taken steps to involve possible (eg if existing documentation our client managers and underwriters more relating to such re/insurance transactions strongly in implementing the policies of and investments provide for it). These the framework. In 2012, we established activities include: the manufacturing of a “Champions Network” focusing on the antipersonnel mines; verifiable complicity three topics of energy, mining and food. in systemic, repeated and severe human The role of these “champions” is to examine rights violations; infliction of repeated, their client contacts and to explore where severe and unmitigated damage to the a closer dialogue with Swiss Re might help environment; and proliferation of nuclear some clients to improve their sustainability weapons. performance. Country exclusions Based on the experiences over the last Swiss Re also excludes certain countries few years we have also identified those from its business, beyond compliance with of our client managers and underwriters International Trade Controls (ITCs). The for whose work the Sustainability Risk criteria for these country exclusions are a Framework has had the highest practical particularly poor human rights record and relevance. For this “core community” of no prospect of improvement. Our goal is to client-facing staff, we have developed an not directly underwrite risks or make interactive platform that will further assist investments into entities that are based in them in pro-actively implementing these countries. At the end of 2012, the the policies of our Sustainability Risk countries excluded from our business for Framework. human rights reasons were North Korea, Somalia and Sudan. For our clients and other interested parties, we produced an eight-page publication on Swiss Re’s Sustainability Training the Sustainability Risk Framework in 2012. Risk Framework Over the years, we have made considerable It offers further information on the context This eight-page brochure efforts to ensure that our staff with clientof the framework, the issues it strives to provides further information facing and underwriting responsibilities address and how it is managed in detail. on the context and details know how to properly apply the (The brochure can be ordered at swissre. of our approach to managing Sustainability Risk Framework. Between com/publications) sustainability risks. 2011 and 2012, a total of 442 employees completed an eLearning course which we Going beyond risk management, we have had specially designed for this purpose. been strongly involved in the development For all newly joining employees with clientof the Principles for Sustainable Insurance facing or underwriting functions, this (PSI) by the UN Environment Programme training is mandatory. Finance Initiative, UNEP FI (www.unepfi.org/psi). Launched in 2012, In addition, we held workshops in five these principles address environmental, different locations, which were attended by social and governance issues in the 225 employees in total. Last but not least, re/insurance industry, spanning risk manthree employees from business and other agement, underwriting, product and units joined the team responsible for service development, claims management, managing the framework on job rotations, sales and marketing, and investment learning more about its details as well as management. Currently, a Swiss Re helping with its implementation. representative has the co-chair of the UN PSI Board and is a member of the UNEP FI Global Steering Committee. 24 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Extending our risk intelligence Managing emerging risks Our SONAR framework To address emerging risks effectively, Reinsurers operate in a risk landscape that Swiss Re operates a Group-wide risk is changing faster today than ever before. management framework called SONAR Key drivers are new economic, techno(“systematic observation of notions logical, socio-political, regulatory and associated with risk”). Firmly embedded in environmental developments. What is the Group’s risk management organisation, more, there are growing interdependencies SONAR allows us to identify and assess between these developments, which emerging risks in a timely manner and to 136 Total of risk notions assessed as part can lead to accumulations of risk and create significant cascading effects. Important changes are also occurring in the business environment: liability and regulatory incorporate the resulting insights into the relevant decision-making processes. SONAR is based on an interactive, web of the SONAR process in 2012 regimes continue to evolve, stakeholder 2.0-based platform which enables our expectations are strengthening and employees to submit risk notions quickly people’s risk perceptions are shifting. and easily and to stay up-to-date on current developments. In 2012, a total of 136 risk Taken together, these trends may give notions were fed into the SONAR process, rise to so-called “emerging risks”: newly drawing on all main areas of the emerging With the SONAR developing or changing risks that are risk landscape. While many of these process, we have an difficult to quantify and whose potential early signals will never actually turn into interactive tool in place impact on our business is not yet emerging risks, others may well do so. to identify and assess sufficiently taken into account. As it is impossible to anticipate which emerging risks arising signals will fall into which category, we from the ever-shifting The pre-emptive identification and investibelieve that all of them warrant equally risk landscape. gation of such risks forms an important careful attention. element of Swiss Re’s comprehensive approach to risk management. The key Thus, our emerging risk specialists have objectives are to reduce uncertainty and assessed all these risk notions for their help prevent unforeseen losses while potential impact on Swiss Re’s business identifying new business opportunities and and have subsequently carried out more raising awareness – both within the Group in-depth investigations of selected topics, and across the industry. Meeting these for example shifts in the frequency of objectives requires a deeper understanding extreme weather events, changing of changing conditions and an assessregulatory requirements and 3D printing ment of the risks’ impacts as well as their (see next page). interconnectedness. For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/about_us/managing_risks/ emerging_risks.html Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 Extending our risk intelligence 3D printing: a new emerging risk? 3D printing is a method for additive manufacturing of three-dimensional parts by using computer-controlled printers. Objects are created by means of an additive process where successive layers of material are laid down in different shapes. 3D printing is thus distinct from traditional machining techniques, which mostly rely on subtractive processes such as removing material by cutting or drilling. As the technology matures, 3D printing delivers greater precision at ever lower cost. As a result, its application is spreading across various fields such as the automotive industry, aerospace, construction and medical prosthetics industries. Apart from improving research and development processes by allowing rapid prototyping, 3D printing also enables new forms of product design by overcoming the structural constraints associated with subtractive manufacturing processes. Widespread use of 3D printers could have implications for various lines of the re/insurance business, such as product liability and recall, engineering covers or workers’ compensation policies. It may also pose challenges for intellectual property covers and could eventually even affect the marine insurance market by reducing the need for transportation of products due to increased on-site production. For now, 3D printing still faces certain constraints: firstly, most current-generation printers are limited to producing homogeneous objects made from one single material; secondly, printed objects are rarely as durable as traditionally manufactured products; and, thirdly, mass-produced objects are still substantially cheaper to manufacture. Nonetheless, from an emerging risk perspective, developments in 3D printing warrant a high level of attention and should be monitored closely. 3D printers create objects by means of an additive process laying down successive layers of material. Because of its potential implications for manufacturing practices, 3D printing may create emerging risks for the re/insurance industry. 26 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Extending our risk intelligence Strategic risk initiatives WEF Risk Response Network (RRN) International Risk Governance Council Identifying and addressing emerging risks The RRN was launched in 2011 to provide (IRGC) can be challenging. The novelty and private and public sector leadership with an IRGC is an independent organisation whose interconnectedness of such developments independent platform to better map, purpose is to help the understanding and make it difficult to determine when a monitor, manage and mitigate global risks. management of global risks that impact on particular risk notion must be considered www.weforum.org/community/riskhuman health and safety, the environment, an emerging risk. The question of timing is response-network the economy and society at large. thus of crucial importance: if measures to www.irgc.org/ exclude a particular risk are taken too early, CRO Forum Emerging Risks Initiative we can offer our clients less insurance (CRO ERI) iNTeg-Risk protection. If measures are taken too late, The CRO ERI was launched in 2005 to raise iNTeg-Risk is a large-scale integrating we may end up with increased loss awareness of major emerging risks relevant project aimed at improving the potential on our books. to society and the re/insurance industry. management of emerging risks related www.thecroforum.org/emerging-riskto new materials and technologies in Given these analytical challenges, we initiative-2/ European industry. believe it is essential to foster risk dialogue www.integrisk.eu-vri.eu/ with various partners. By continuously sharing perceptions and assessments, all As a partner of these strategic risk parties involved can thus gain a better initiatives, we contributed to two reports understanding of potential emerging risks. on relevant risk developments in 2012 With this in mind, we actively contributed (see below). to four strategic initiatives involving emerging risks in 2012. Publications with partner organisations Insight Report Global Risks 2012 Seventh Edition An Initiative of the Risk Response Network Global Risks 2012, Seventh Edition, The CRO Forum’s Position Paper on provides a high-level overview of 50 Endocrine Disruptors deals with risks selected global risks, based on a survey related to endocrine disrupting with 469 experts and industry leaders chemicals, substances which can around the world. It aims to improve interfere with the hormonal system of public and private sector efforts to map, living organisms. It explores potential monitor, manage and mitigate global impacts on the environment and human risks and seeks to help decision-makers health and highlights the implications evaluate complex risk events and for the re/insurance industry. respond proactively in times of crisis. www.thecroforum.org/endocrinewww.weforum.org/reports/globaldisruptors/ risks-2012-seventh-edition Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 Extending our risk intelligence Accounting for political risks We integrate sustainability-related risk A thorough underinformation consistently across our entire standing of political In today’s increasingly integrated world, investment portfolio. We consider environrisks is key to enacting political developments, actions and mental, social and governance (ESG) the policies of our decisions that can have an adverse impact factors as an integral part of our investment Sustainability Risk on our business are growing in significance. management activities and decisions – Framework. Within the Group’s risk management also in the belief that these factors can have organisation, we have established specific an impact on the financial performance of expertise to tackle a wide range of both the investment portfolio in the long run. To commerceand security-related political formally endorse our commitment, Swiss Re risks at global, country and business signed the Principles for Responsible transaction levels. Investment (PRI) in 2007 and the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) in 2012. The identification, assessment and ongoing monitoring of political risks are Governance preconditions for controlling the resulting The governance for our investment risk exposures and initiating risk mitigation management activities is defined in line measures. We focus in particular on key with Swiss Re’s Group and Business Units’ markets and sectors, current hotspots and governance. Our Responsible Investment emerging developments. Policy, issued by the Group Chief Investment Officer, is an internal document We also consider the ability to address that outlines how we approach sustainapolitical risks as an integral part of ensuring bility in the management of our investment sustainable business operations in line assets. with environmental, social and governance (ESG) principles: several of the sectors The execution of our commitment to Investment mix and issues covered by the eight policies of responsible investment is monitored in as of 31 December 2012 our Sustainability Risk Framework (see various ways. Overall responsibility lies (Total: USD 137.4 bn; assets for own account pages 22–24) have an important political with a senior committee within Asset only, excluding unit-linked and with-profits) dimension. Enacting these policies, both Management, chaired by the Group Chief through Sensitive Business Risk assessments Investment Officer. An ESG Advisory Group and exclusion policies, thus requires strong connects our risk management, investment expertise and awareness of political risks. and sustainability experts. This provides This is particularly true with regard to a Group-wide platform for coordination and human rights violations, the proliferation knowledge sharing and helps ensure that of armaments into conflict areas or the our approach to responsible investment identification of areas prone to civil unrest. remains closely integrated into day-to-day investment activities. Responsible investment 7% Cash and cash equivalents Swiss Re follows a controlled and 14 % Short-term investments structured investment process which adheres to the principles of asset-liability 42 % Government bonds management (ALM) and also reflects our incl. agency commitment to corporate responsibility. 3% Equities 17% Corporate bonds ALM is the cornerstone of our investment 5% Securitised products philosophy: premiums from our underwriting activities are invested in assets 2% Mortgages and whose cash flows match the obligations other loans from our re/insurance liabilities. This 9% Other – investment process favours higher-quality fixed income related investments with stable long-term returns; 1% Other – insurance with such investments accounting for 66% related of our assets under management at the end of 2012 (excluding cash and shortterm investments), our core focus on ALM is reflected in our portfolio mix, as illustrated in the chart on the left. 28 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Extending our risk intelligence ESG integration sovereign fixed income investments. The company and Swiss Re is a long-term investor and In addition, the portfolio is periodically country exclusions we therefore monitors the key risk factors reviewed and assessed against the determine through our which may adversely impact our screening criteria to reflect any change Sustainability Risk investment portfolio over a long-term in the assessment of political and Framework flow directly horizon. These risk factors include ESG sustainability-related country risks. into our investment considerations, which our Sustainability decisions. Risk Framework (see pages 22–24) helps to integrate into our investment management decisions. Political Country Risk Rating The Political Country Risk Rating Consisting of eight detailed policies dealing comprehensively measures the with sensitive sectors and issues, this political risk in a country, with political framework provides a methodology for the risk defined as events of a political, identification and assessment of environeconomic or social nature that harm mental, social and ethical risks. It outlines business operations or adversely criteria for the exclusion of companies and affect the business climate. Multiple countries from our business transactions external and internal data sets as well (both re/insurance and investment as Swiss Re’s expert assessment transactions). The criteria – our first line lead to an overall country risk score. of defence in mitigating ESG risks in our investment portfolio – are strictly applied to Sustainability Rating most of our investment assets, and applied The Sustainability Rating, a derivative whenever possible to certain specific asset of the Political Country Risk Rating, classes, in particular for investments into measures the overall social, environcomingled investment vehicles. mental and human rights situation in a country and supports Swiss Re’s Focus areas alignment with relevant United For key aspects of our investment activities, Nations principles. we have developed specific requirements to ensure ESG criteria are duly taken into consideration. These focus areas include sovereign fixed income investments, the engagement of external managers, the exercise of voting rights and direct real Engagement of external investment estate investments. managers As of the end of 2012, around 25% of our Sovereign fixed income investments investment portfolio was managed by Sovereign fixed income products constitute external managers. We work closely with the largest asset class in our investment our external managers on the integration portfolio with a holding of 42% at the end of ESG considerations into investment of 2012 (excluding cash and short-term processes and decision-making. To the investments). In order to guide investment extent that some of our investment decisions and monitor the quality of our management activities are outsourced sovereign fixed income portfolio, we apply to external managers, Swiss Re relies on Swiss Re’s political risk and sustainability their resources for socially responsible assessments at country level. These rating investment analysis. These resources are measures are used to define the investment assessed through a detailed due diligence mandates of the portfolio managers of process before external managers are selected and allocated investment mandates to manage for Swiss Re. All our external managers are required to report on their responsible investment activities regularly and their individual performance is monitored in line with our Responsible Investment Policy. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 Extending our risk intelligence Eighty-five per cent of our externally For these real estate investments we For several areas of our managed assets are currently managed apply ambitious sustainability standards. investment activities, we by entities that are PRI signatories For projects in Switzerland, the applicable have defined specific themselves and are therefore committed criteria are defined in the Energy Mission requirements to ensure to implementing its guiding principles. Statement of Swiss Re, Zurich: This lays the integration of ESG All of these have contractual provisions down that all new buildings need to criteria. with Swiss Re specific to responsible conform to the MINERGIE® standard investments. (www.minergie.ch), a Swiss quality label specifying high levels of energy efficiency Exercise of voting rights and superior user comfort. Once an existing We recognise the rights and responsibilities building in the portfolio is due for inherent in being an asset owner – and in renovation, the standard is to be applied particular in share ownership – as an whenever this is feasible from an integral part of our commitment to being a architectural, technical and financial point responsible investor. The Swiss Re Voting of view. Policy lays down the guiding principles that form the basis of all our voting activities. By the end of 2012, the combined value of We are committed to actively exercising our MINERGIE®-certified buildings had those rights as an effective way of reached USD 363 million, or 17.1% of our enhancing portfolio value, based on the Swiss portfolio of direct real estate conviction that the key drivers of value investments. The total energy consumption creation include ESG considerations and, surface in accordance with the MINERGIE® in particular, good corporate governance standard was 77 250 m2 at the end of and transparency towards shareholders. 2012, an increase of 29.2% from 2011. In addition, more than 56 000 m2 had been For internally managed assets, we successfully sold on to third parties in aim to use our influence as a responsible previous years. shareholder by directly exercising our voting rights. For portfolios outsourced to Currently, we are developing a new building external investment managers, we delegate which applies the MINERGIE-ECO® the exercise of proxy votes and related standard: in addition to environmental engagement activities to the portfolio specifications, this also includes health managers and have defined a voting framecriteria and demands on building materials. work to ensure appropriate oversight over The residential complex with 40 flats the exercise of its proxy votes. External reached the construction phase in 2012. managers’ voting policies are reviewed as part of the due diligence process prior to their selection. In addition, external managers are required to report on a quarterly basis on the voting activities conducted on Swiss Re’s behalf, including an explanation of the votes cast. Direct real estate investments Our investment portfolio includes direct investments in real estate, principally in our home market of Switzerland and in neighbouring Germany. Comprising buildings for both residential and commercial use, the total value of the portfolio was USD 2.53 billion at the end of 2012. 30 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Exploring and shaping the risk landscape We regularly engage in dialogue with our stakeholders to advance our understanding of the changing risk landscape and to help society develop eﬀective responses to key risks. Re/insurance creates economic and social With our business evolving and global value by offering financial protection agendas shifting, we periodically review the against major risks. Developing effective Top Topics portfolio. Following an extensive risk transfer solutions requires a sound review, approved by our Group Executive understanding of the changing risk Committee, we adopted a revised set of five landscape. Swiss Re makes substantial Top Topics in 2012 to guide our stakeholder efforts to explore developments that may dialogue: impact the global risk landscape – including  Advancing sustainable energy solutions market, regulatory, technological, socio Funding longer lives economic and environmental trends. The  Managing climate and natural disaster insights we gain from regular dialogue risk with key stakeholders play an important  Partnering for food security role in this.  Supporting financial stability In turn, we are keen to play an active role Independently or in cooperation with our in discussions on important risk topics and partners from the public and private are valued for the quality of our contributions. sectors, we developed a number of new Sharing our risk expertise with stakeholders communication formats to share our allows us to help society and business form expertise on each of these topics, including adequate responses and develop effective publications, new digital products and an risk transfer instruments. award-winning app. The following is an introduction to the five Top Topics, what they mean for us, why we consider them to Group Issue Management be important and what we have to offer. After an extensive review, we recently With Group Issue Management (GIM), adopted five revised we have a formal process to define and Top Topics to guide our communicate on topics which are stakeholder dialogue. strategically important to us, our clients and society at large. These Top Topics are areas in which we seek to share our risk expertise and to shape public policy agendas. The GIM process involves risk and product experts and other professionals from across the Swiss Re Group who share specialist knowledge and solutions with the outside world through our publications and dialogue. Our stakeholders range from clients, investors and policymakers to regulators, academics and civil society groups. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Advancing sustainable energy solutions Innovative risk transfer solutions can help Notable achievements in 2012: Improving energy efficiency and deploying reduce these risks and drive investment in  Following the launch of the Swiss Re low-carbon technologies, including the sector. Swiss Re has a long-standing sponsored report “Managing the risk in renewable energy, will be critical to commitment to sustainability. We partner renewable energy” from the Economist reducing greenhouse gas emissions and with clients to give them the security Intelligence Unit, we leveraged the study supplying a growing and developing world needed to realise their sustainable energy with clients and the media; with a more sustainable energy mix. But projects. In addition, we have intensified  Launched and communicated Corporate as sustainable energy projects increase in renewable energy research, using Solutions’ partnership with Solar Impulse scale and complexity, so will the risks the results to help clients – and the global (see below); associated with them. community – develop a secure energy  Pioneered outreach on climate change supply for years to come. and sustainable energy via new and social media channels, including the firstever live Twitter session with Swiss Re experts. Our partnership with Solar Impulse Solar Impulse is the world’s first solar-powered airplane able to fly day and night without fuel. It was designed by Swiss pioneers Bertrand Piccard and André Borschberg with the explicit goal of flying around the world using only solar energy. In 2012, Solar Impulse proved that this is no utopian dream: it travelled more than 6 000 kilometres and completed the world’s first solar-powered intercontinental flight. Through Corporate Solutions, we are proud to be the official insurance provider to Solar Impulse. The re/insurance industry can play an important role in managing the risks inherent in ambitious renewable energy projects; our partnership with Solar Impulse is a point in case. Using solar energy only, Solar Impulse travelled more than 6 000 kilometres in 2012. We support this pioneering renewable energy project through Corporate Solutions. For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/rethinking/sustainable_energy/ 32 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Exploring and shaping the risk landscape “Partnering for food security” is one of our five Top Topics. In cooperation with our partners, we seek to help secure a sustainable food supply for the world’s growing population. Funding longer lives Notable achievements in 2012: Notable achievements in 2012: We are living longer and there are  Published report on building a capital  Launched new publication “Flood – proportionately fewer people of working market for longevity risk, which received an underestimated risk” and Swiss Re’s age to support ageing populations. The extensive global coverage; Flood App for iPad®, a first in the costs of funding retirement income,  Held multi-stakeholder conferences industry; healthcare and long-term care in old age at the Centre for Global Dialogue  Shared our research and possible will increase dramatically. This could have and, in cooperation with swissnex solutions with senior public-sector clients significant financial consequences for (www.swissnex.org), in Singapore in a series of high-level meetings at NY individuals, insurers, employer pension and Boston (see pages 35–36); Climate Week, the Annual Meeting of the funds and society in general. Public-private  Made “funding longer lives” a major topic Clinton Global Initiative, the UN COP18 partnerships are needed to meet this at several client events in Europe and Climate Change Conference and the challenge. North America. Rio+20 Earth Summit;  Launched our new Global Flood Zones™ As the world’s largest life & health reinsurer, Managing climate and natural disaster in CatNet® and shared our natural longevity and health risks associated risks disaster and climate change expertise in with ageing societies are part of our core Losses from natural disasters impact the more than 70 client meetings. business. Our in-depth research and develeconomies of entire countries and are opment combines medical, demographic, therefore a key driver for the re/insurance Partnering for food security social and financial expertise to deliver business. These losses are becoming more The world’s population is estimated to reach critical insights into the implications of frequent and severe due to higher insurance 9 billion people by 2050. Emerging markets funding longer lives. Moreover, we have penetration, the concentration of assets in will account for much of this expected the financial strength to write risks across exposed areas and the effects of climate increase – with Sub-Saharan Africa leading the entire lifespan. change. This is why communities are the way: its population is predicted to double increasingly interested in comprehensive from 770 million inhabitants in 2005 to risk management techniques and new 1.5 billion by 2050. solutions to finance disaster losses and to strengthen their resilience. In light of this, securing a sustainable food supply for the growing population represents Swiss Re understands the relationship one of the biggest global challenges today, For more information on this subject, see between climate and natural disaster risk especially in the face of soaring food prices, swissre.com/rethinking/longer_lives/ and the societal impact of both. We have climate change and water and energy For more information on this subject, see helped shape the global climate agenda constraints. Triggered by the food price Corporate responsibility in context: funding longer lives, on pages 66–67 through dialogue with our publicand crisis in 2008, food security has gained For more information on this subject, see private-sector partners and by providing new public attention. It tops the list of issues swissre.com/rethinking/climate_and_natural_ cutting-edge research and innovative risk being discussed by global opinion leaders disaster_risk/ transfer solutions for over two decades. at international conferences. For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/rethinking/food_security/ Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Notable achievements in 2012: Notable achievements in 2012: Risk Talk on food security in emerging  Participated in global multi-stakeholder  Shared our messages through numerous markets platforms such as the WEF, B20, G20 strategic engagements and high-profile Food security is one of Swiss Re’s Top and G8 to leverage the food security events for senior leadership, including Topics. This Risk Talk shed light on the message, and made a five-year co-hosting the IIF International underlying causes of food insecurity and commitment to the Grow Africa Colloquium on “Financial Stability and some of the risk mitigation measures that Partnership (see pages 17–18); Insurance”; could be taken, especially in emerging  Focused on high-growth markets by  Gave input to numerous partner markets. Within our current food system delivering our key messages on food publications/papers and to industry there are many aspects that could be security through local teams; reactions to regulatory developments; improved. For example, consumer food  Continuously promoted exemplary  Published sigma studies “Understanding wastage in industrialised countries is solutions, eg from Vietnam, Kenya and profitability in life insurance” (1/2012), around 222 million tonnes per year, while Ethiopia/Senegal through multi“Facing the interest rate challenge” in Sub-Saharan Africa, total net food stakeholder events in East Africa and (4/2012) and “Insurance accounting production is 230 million tonnes per year. Latin America. reform: a glass half empty or half full?” There is an over-reliance on fossil fuels in (6/2012). production, scarce freshwater is being used Supporting financial stability inefficiently and soil is being degraded. Since the 2008/2009 financial crisis, the finance industry has been engaged in Our Centre for Global Dialogue Addressing these challenges requires a debate regarding financial stability and the systemic approach, the Risk Talk found. In regulations designed to enforce it. Many of The Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue developed countries less – yet more diverse these reforms are taking place in a very just outside of Zurich is our in-house – crops should be grown; in developing challenging and uncertain macro-economic conference centre and functions as a countries more – but also more diverse – environment, which increases the importance platform for dialogue between Swiss Re crops should be grown. Green agriculture of considering the cumulative and crossand external parties. In addition, it is a and the individual farmer are at the centre of sectoral impact of new regulations. A crucial catalyst for strategic research in collabsustainable solutions. Studies have shown distinction that needs to be made in this oration with third parties. that good organic production systems can context is the one between re/insurance substantially improve yields; moreover, and banking, and their specific risk profiles. Events at the Centre are broken down into organic crops also tend to be more resilient. three categories. Expertise events aim to Swiss Re is a financially strong company develop knowledge on important risk In emerging markets, an important means with a large capital base and risk capacity. topics. They function along the knowledge of increasing yields is to strengthen the Our fundamental business model promotes chain, from small select and specialised position of the individual farmer. Insurance financial and economic stability: In addition meetings to large public stakeholder has its own role to play in this, as it offers to providing risk and capital management conferences on major issues of the day. The greater security against key risks and solutions, our reinsurance activities stabilise second category, marketing events, are enables investment into more effective and promote growth within the insurance targeted at Swiss Re clients, emphasising production methods. Index-based covers industry. We invest funds into the economy, the key objective of translating expertise are particularly suitable, as they are easy while our insurance and reinsurance into tangible business solutions. The third to understand, cheap and pay out quickly. solutions act as shock-absorbers, riskcategory is termed networking events. Swiss Re has been at the forefront of removers and stabilisers. These are held with senior Swiss Re developing innovative index-based insurrepresentatives and external stakeholders, ance schemes in cooperation with various such as industry bodies, the research partners, thus helping to improve food community, policymakers, non-governsecurity (see pages 17–20). mental organisations and international institutions. A key network is the Advisory Panel, which meets twice a year. The Panel is comprised of distinguished members from the realms of science, economics, politics, security, law and journalism, and serves as a forum to discuss long-term trends and strategies with Swiss Re’s executive management. The following is a selection of three events we hosted at the Centre for Global Dialogue in 2012. For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/rethinking/financial_stability/ For more information on this subject, see cgd.swissre.com/ 34 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Risk Talk on public-private partnerships As governments are increasingly concerned As our in-house to finance catastrophic risks in India, about these costs, they have started to look conference facility, the Vietnam, Mexico and the Caribbean at new forms of risk financing. This Risk Talk Centre for Global The costs of natural disasters, crop failures focused on new insurance solutions that Dialogue enables us to and health risks represent a growing burden governments in India, Vietnam, Mexico and engage directly with for governments and societies, particularly the Caribbean have recently implemented our stakeholders. in developing and emerging countries. in collaboration with the private sector. Natural catastrophes are becoming more These solutions work on both the macro costly, due to accelerated development and micro level as a means to protect public in exposed areas in combination with the budgets and low-income households alike. effects of climate change. Insurance penetration, however, is much lower in The Risk Talk concluded that, although emerging countries: as a result, the financial the number of public-private partnerships losses arising from such risks can have has increased, the potential for further a substantial, and prolonged, impact on expansion remains considerable. economic development. Re/insurers not only bring capacity to the market; with their rich experience in risk assessment, loss adjustment and payout, they are ideally suited to complementing and strengthening traditional government and public-sector approaches. A broad section of stakeholders met at our Centre for Global Dialogue near Zurich to discuss how the developments that lead to longer lives affect us as individuals (see next page). Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape The future of human longevity: We have maintained a number of research focusing on you partnerships focusing on climate-related Like food security, longevity is one of our risks in recent years. These projects aim to Top Topics. Guided by the overarching quantify impacts on extreme weather question of how to fund longer lives, we events. started a conference series in 2011 at the Centre for Global Dialogue. Follow-up The first of the partnerships described events in Boston and Singapore featured below focuses on climate risks, the second the latest knowledge on diseases, advances on risks related to legal developments. in treatment, and innovations in technology, medical care and public health. This latest ProClim conference at the Centre examined ProClim – the Forum for Climate and Global what these developments mean for the Change – seeks to facilitate integrated individual, by focusing on three areas: research activities on the climate and the consumer behaviour, health policy and necessary interrelations among scientists, translational medicine. policymakers, business and the public. Swiss Re is a member of ProClim’s steering Recent health research has illuminated committee. The partnership provides a how individual choices and behaviour valuable interface with an extensive network shape health and longevity. However, it of scientists and the opportunity to also shows that we are all influenced by exchange findings of the latest climatesociety, peers, family and the media. Thus, related research. The IMILAST improving human health will increasingly (“Intercomparison of mid-latitude storm mean grappling with the complexities of diagnostics”) project, for example, brought human behaviour. together many international storm researchers to generate insights of practical At the same time, it was emphasised at the use for decision-makers in business and conference that health policy still matters. other sectors of society. The health policies of different countries www.proclim.ch/imilast/ diverge widely with regard to medical care, cost control and health insurance; these As a special service for Swiss Re, ProClim factors continue to have a strong influence monitors the latest climate change-related on citizens’ health and longevity. research worldwide and reports the findings to us in quarterly meetings. With genetic sequencing and other innovations it is possible to tailor health Cooperation with Oxford University for interventions to an individual’s unique research into civil justice systems biology. This has led to a renaissance of Swiss Re closely monitors the spread of translational medicine, which turns collective action instruments across Europe scientific discoveries into new treatments to continuously assess their impact for and therapies. Discussing innovations such re/insurers. In 2012, we entered into a To expand our own risk as smart monitoring devices, remote care partnership with the Faculty of Law at expertise, we engage delivery, stem cell therapies, nanomedicine Oxford University to support independent in research projects and novel therapeutics, the conference comparative research into civil justice with partners from the asked which of them may have the biggest systems across Europe. This “Research academic world. impact on future health and longevity. Programme in European and Comparative Civil Justice Systems”, carried out by the Centre for Socio-Legal Studies, yields Research partnerships unique insights into the development of the liability landscape across Europe. It also Adequately addressing key risks in our enables stakeholder dialogue with underwriting and risk management policymakers, researchers, insurers and framework requires a thorough underother industry sectors on the challenges standing of them. To advance our related to the spread of collective action. knowledge of specific risks, we often find it www.csls.ox.ac.uk/european_civil_justice_ beneficial to complement our own expertise systems.php with external research. For this purpose, we engage in research projects with selected academic institutions and other partners. 36 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Selected communication products of 2012 The publications and other media we produce in-house or in cooperation with our partners play an essential role in Swiss Re’s efforts to help society form effective responses to important risks. Listed below are eight Swiss Re publications and one iPad® App we launched in 2012. Information on the topics they cover is provided in this chapter. More of our publications are displayed on pages 68–69. Publications Floods in Switzerland – A mature market an underestimated risk Building a capital market for longevity risk Flood – an underestimated risk Inspect, inform, insure The future of human longevity: focusing on you Understanding the Drivers of Longevity Risk Dialogue Series Swiss Swiss Re Re Conference report Centre Centre Global for for Global Dialogue Dialogue Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue you A mature market: The future of human Understanding the Flood – an underFloods in Switzerland – Building a capital longevity: Drivers of Longevity estimated risk: an underestimated risk market for longevity focusing on you (Risk Dialogue Series) Inspect, inform, insure risk (Conference report) Other media sigma sigma T JHNB No 4/2012 No 1/2012 /P Facing the interest rate challenge Understanding profitability in life insurance *OTVSBODFBDDPVOUJOHSFGPSN BHMBTTIBMGFNQUZPSIBMGGVMM 1 Executive summary 1 Executive summary 2 The history of interest rates since 1900   &YFDVUJWFTVNNBSZ 2 Introduction: life insurance today 6 How interest rates affect insurers   *OUSPEVDUJPO 4 Historic trends in life profitability 18 Life savings products in key markets   *OIFSFOUDIBMMFOHFTGPSWBMVJOH JOTVSBODFDPOUSBDUT 12 Measuring profitability 26 How can insurers mitigate interest rate risk?    CSJFGSFWJFXPGDVSSFOUJOTVSBODF 21 Zooming in on product preformance BDDPVOUJOHQSBDUJDF Flood App for iPad® 32 Interest rate scenarios 31 Conclusion  1SPTQFDUJWFDIBOHFTUPBDDPVOUJOHBOE 37 Conclusion UIFTVSSPVOEJOHQPJOUTPGDPOUFOUJPO 39 Glossary  4  USBUFHJDJNQMJDBUJPOTPGBDDPVOUJOH SFGPSN  $PODMVTJPO document1668785780598415043.indd 1 11/13/2012 4:22:30 PM sigma 1/12 sigma 4/12 sigma 6/12 Understanding Facing the interest Insurance accounting profitability in life rate challenge reform: a glass half insurance empty or half full? Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 Reducing our environmental footprint We work to minimise the environmental impact of our operations. Cutting CO₂ emissions and reducing energy consumption are key targets across the Group. As a provider of financial services, Swiss Re Local responsibility for implementing does not cause large environmental impacts environmental management lies with the through its own operations. Moreover, Logistics departments of the respective compared with industrial and manufacturing locations; several of our largest locations companies, our impacts are fewer in number. have been certified according to the Nonetheless, minimising the key dimensions ISO 14001 Environmental Management of our direct environmental footprint is Standard (www.iso.org). At the end of an important part of our commitment as a 2012, 45% of our employees were working responsible company. at locations with an ISO 14001-certified Logistics department. In line with our long-standing strategic commitment to tackling climate change, our priorities are to reduce CO2 emissions and The Greenhouse Neutral energy consumption. Over the years, we Programme have launched some pioneering initiatives, in particular the Greenhouse Neutral Tackling climate change has been an Programme and the COYou2 Reduce and environmental priority for Swiss Re for more Gain Programme. Further focal points than 20 years. One element of our fourare the use of sustainability guidelines for pronged climate strategy (see page 10) is our sourcing activities and for our own our pledge to reduce our own CO2 office construction projects. emissions. Our principal initiative to achieve this goal is the Greenhouse Neutral Programme, which we launched in 2003. Management systems and Originally, the programme combined two certification commitments: firstly, to reduce our CO2 emissions by 15% per employee within ten Environmental objectives are defined at the years (ie by the end of 2013) and, secondly, Group’s headquarters and are then fully to fully offset the remaining emissions by integrated into the global management purchasing high-quality emissions reduction system of our Corporate Real Estate & credits. To our knowledge, we were the first Logistics division. With the help of a Grouplarge financial services provider to make wide reporting process, we continuously such commitments. monitor our environmental performance and implement appropriate prevention and We consider the programme to have been a improvement plans. Our environmental significant success. The original 15% per reporting operates on a state-of-the-art, employee reduction target was met in 2007 – web-based platform, which optimises the ie, five years ahead of schedule. Subsequently, accessibility and reliability of key data. we raised the reduction goal to 30% and, For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ after this target had been met in 2009, to reducing_footprint.html 45%. By the end of 2012, we had achieved For more information on this subject, see a total reduction of Swiss Re’s CO₂ swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ emissions per employee by 55.6% since greenhouse_neutral.html 2003. 38 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing our environmental footprint 2003 2011 2012 Power Heating Business travel CO2 emissions per employee (full-time equivalent, FTE), Swiss Re Group Change since 2003 2011 2012 base year 2003 in % kg/FTE kg/FTE kg/FTE Power 3 703 909 634 –82.9 Heating 706 395 381 –46.0 Business travel 2 190 1 1 723 1 917 –12.5 Total 6 599 3 027 2 932 –55.6 1 The 2011 figure for business travel has been restated because of an internal reporting error concerning rental car use. Underlying environmental data, Swiss Re Group Change since 2003 2011 2012 base year 2003 in % 55.6% Total reduction in CO₂ emissions per Power Heating Energy intensity (power & heating) kWh/FTE kWh/FTE kWh/FTE 8 801 3 381 12 182 5 532 2 080 7 512 5 022 1 997 7 018 –42.9 –40.9 –42.4 employee since 2003 Business travel km/FTE 1 13 145 1 10 252 11 244 –14.5 1 After reporting on air travel in the 2011 CR Report, we have reverted to reporting on total business travel (including ground travel). As a result, the figures for both 2003 and 2011 have been restated. This achievement has been reached We want to ensure that the renewable Launched in 2003, our through two principal measures: switching power we use lives up to its name. In order Greenhouse Neutral to renewable power at many of our to select suitable sources, we use a Programme is a locations and continuous improvements in “minimum standard” that clearly lays down voluntary commitment energy efficiency. how we define “renewable energy” and to reduce CO₂ emissions what requirements it needs to meet. At per employee and to Using renewable energy our Zurich headquarters, for example, we offset the remainder. Our drive to use electricity from renewable only buy “naturmade star” electricity sources started in 2005 at four of our (www.naturmade.ch), which meets tough European locations. By the end of 2012, we ecological quality criteria. In Munich, we had switched to using renewable power – purchase our electricity from NaturEnergie fully or partially – at 21 locations in Asia, (www.naturenergie.de), one of Germany’s Europe, North America and Oceania. premier suppliers of renewable energy. Swiss Re’s goal is to use 100% renewable power wherever it is available in dependable quality by the end of 2013. At the end of 2012, the share of renewable power was 89% of the Group’s total power consumption. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 Reducing our environmental footprint 42.4% Reduction in energy intensity per Reducing energy consumption In addition to our policy of buying electricity from renewable sources, we have made efforts to bring down the actual amount of improvement in the business environment and, lately, to our strategy of generating new business in high-growth markets. On the other hand, Swiss Re’s realignment employee since 2003 energy consumed per employee – or in into a holding company with three distinct other words, to reduce our energy intensity. business units has led to the creation of For this, we also established a Group-wide additional functions and, as a consequence, goal: measured in kWh per employee an increase in business travel required for (full-time equivalent or FTE), we pledged management purposes. Furthermore, we to reduce energy intensity by 20% in have continued to embed our operational comparison with 2003 levels. By continprocesses on a global basis; this, too, has uously taking measures to improve energy increased travel activity. efficiency and by concentrating back-office tasks in fewer locations, we have met Last year’s financial results show that our and exceeded this goal: At the end of 2012, strategic focus on high-growth markets and energy intensity across the Group was our new Group structure benefit our clients 42.4% lower than in 2003 – and down by and shareholders. But it is equally clear 6.6% from 2011. The improvement during that there has been a parallel increase in 2012 was partly due to the fact that we business travel. In essence, this reflects were able to reap the full benefits of moving a dilemma between two objectives: that into our newly constructed, energy-efficient of creating economic value and that of office building in Fort Wayne, but the mild reducing environmental impacts which, winter in the Armonk region in the US also in this case, are difficult to reconcile. played a role. Nevertheless, we remain committed to curbing unnecessary business travel Minimising business travel without jeopardising our business Over the years we have taken a number of objectives. measures to curb business travel. Travel budgets are continuously monitored, while Offsetting our remaining CO₂ emissions To offset those CO₂ travel data are centrally collected and fed The second commitment of our Greenhouse emissions we cannot into our environmental reporting platform. Neutral Programme is to compensate all avoid, we only buy We also built up a dense network of videoCO₂ emissions that remain after our reducVoluntary Emissions conferencing equipment, counting more tion measures. From 2003 to 2011 we Reductions (VERs) of than 100 facilities worldwide in 2012. bought and retired high-quality Voluntary a high environmental Recently, we started to replace these Emissions Reductions (VERs) for a total of quality. through state-of-the-art Telepresence 426 000 tonnes of CO2e. To offset the technology. Telepresence is the latest emissions we caused in 2012, we bought video collaboration technology, which and retired VERs for a further 43 000 creates a real-time, life-size virtual meeting tonnes of CO2e. This amount includes experience in specially designed rooms. additional voluntary commitments to offset We made a further substantial investment the CO₂ emissions caused by events such in 2012, raising the total number of our as Swiss Re’s Annual General Meeting and Telepresence facilities to 55 globally. those held at the Centre for Global Dialogue. At the end of 2012, the CO₂ emissions We are keen to ensure that the VERs we caused by business travel were 12.5% buy are of a high environmental standard. lower per employee than in 2003; in the To achieve this, we have developed a set of first few years of the CO₂ Greenhouse criteria to select the projects that generate Neutral Programme, we managed to certificates. For instance, we do not take gradually reduce business travel by a into consideration projects that support significant margin. But in both 2011 and carbon sinks and we give priority to projects 2012, the average amount of kilometres which come with strong social side-effects travelled by our employees and the resulting and benefit the poorest regions. CO₂ emissions increased again. On the one hand, this was due to the general 40 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing our environmental footprint In 2012, for example, some of the VERs we External verification of our CO₂ reporting bought and retired came from a wasteWe have been communicating the progress water treatment project at a starch plant in of our Greenhouse Neutral Programme on Thailand. Prior to the project, the large a yearly basis by disclosing our CO₂ output of wastewater from the plant was emissions, their principal sources and relative treated through cascading open lagoons, performance over time in our Corporate with a retention time of more than a year. Responsibility Reports. The calculation of Besides causing water and air pollution, this our emissions is based on the guidelines of process led to the steady generation and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the most release of methane, a greenhouse gas 21 widely-used emissions accounting standard times stronger than CO₂. However, through (www.ghgprotocol.org). Before our the installation of a closed anaerobic emission figures are published, wastewater treatment facility it became PricewaterhouseCoopers perform an possible to capture the methane and then assurance engagement to verify our use it to produce clean energy directly on calculations. In this year’s report, assurance the plant site. This has had twin benefits: has been extended to the full “Reducing not only have CO₂ emissions been cut our environmental footprint” chapter as significantly, the plant found that it could well as two further chapters. The complete purchase 80% less fossil fuels, thus further assurance report from reducing emissions. Moreover, the resulting PricewaterhouseCoopers is included on carbon revenues have helped to fund pages 70–71. social and educational activities in the local community. By installing a wastewater treatment facility, this starch plant in Thailand managed to substantially reduce its CO₂ emissions and to produce clean energy on-site at the same time. In offsetting our own CO₂ emissions we cannot avoid, we only buy high-quality Voluntary Emissions Reductions (VERs) as generated by this project. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 41 Reducing our environmental footprint Paper, water and waste Group sourcing guidelines and Our Group Sourcing minimum standards Policy stipulates that our CO₂ emissions and energy consumption are suppliers need to adhere our two environmental priorities. For these, As a provider of financial services, Swiss Re to the ten principles of we have set ambitious reduction targets – does not have an extended supply chain. the UN Global Compact. and exceeded them. For paper use, we Our core business does not require us to have not set a quantitative target but have buy intermediate inputs like a manutaken a number of measures over the last facturing company. But to run our operations, few years to reduce the amount used and to we do require a range of goods and ensure we only purchase paper of a high services. ecological quality. Other environmental impacts are of less relevance to Swiss Re, For the procurement of these goods and not least because we cannot directly services, we apply general and individual influence them at locations where we rent criteria. Our overarching Group Sourcing office space. However, for the office Policy, which is applicable to all our buildings we own ourselves we require locations, contains criteria to select appliances to meet high standards of water suppliers that offer best value for money, efficiency. meet high quality standards and adhere to the UN Global Compact. As a signatory Paper use increased slightly in 2012 to the Compact, we are committed to compared with 2011. Over the longer term, honouring all its ten principles; amongst the trend has been positive though. other things, these prohibit any sort of Compared with 2003, we have reduced discrimination or the use of child or forced paper use per employee by more than 50%. labour and require that the freedom of Two important factors have been more association and the right to collective frequent scanning of documents, at least bargaining be upheld. partly as a result of our Document Induction Process, and encouraging our employees Environmental criteria must be included to use more double-sided printing. in purchasing decisions with regard to materials and ingredients, production Our Group sourcing guidelines and our methods, recycling and waste. For some “minimum standard for copy paper” sourcing categories, we have developed set clear environmental requirements for minimum standards that further specify our the type of paper we use (see below). requirements: besides electricity (see page Consequently, we purchase a consistently 39) and paper, they cover office supplies, high proportion of FSC-labelled paper and cleaning services and agents, furniture and recycled paper. building materials. Each standard lists objectives, ecological aspects, ecological In view of the moderate data quality for minimum standards, exceptions, controlling both water and waste, we do not regard and labels. the slight changes observed between 2011 and 2012 as statistically significant. Paper use per employee (FTE), Swiss Re Group 2003 12011 2012 Change in % since 2011 Paper kg/FTE 93 40 41 2.5 Recycled paper % 14 74 76 2.7 FSC-labelled paper % n/a 94 95 1.1 1 The data for 2011 have been restated due to the inclusion of additional data from two locations. Water consumption and waste generation per employee (FTE), Swiss Re Group 2003 2011 2012 Change in % since 2011 Water m3/FTE 25 18.3 17.9 –2.2 Waste kg/FTE 286 211 207 –1.9 For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ procurement_guidelines.html 42 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing our environmental footprint Swiss Re Next, the replacement building at our Zurich headquarters, has been designed to set a prime example of sustainable construction. In 2012, we erected a façade mock-up of Swiss Re Next on a public field adjacent to our Zurich headquarters. Showing a doublestorey section of the southeast corner, the mock-up serves as a lab to test a number of the new building’s characteristics. When we select new suppliers, we examine maintenance and running costs. MINERGIE-P-ECO® whether they comply with these requireConstructing or renovating an office The MINERGIE-P-ECO® ments as part of the overall evaluation building in line with such sustainability construction standard process. Existing strategic suppliers are criteria is the most effective way to combines requirements on re-examined in the periodical contract minimise its environmental footprint. health criteria and building reviews, and individual suppliers are visited materials (“ECO”) and on and inspected on-site. For construction projects in Switzerland, the maximum energy efficiency applicable criteria are defined in detail in (“MINERGIE-P”); the use of Internally, we conduct regular awareness the Energy Mission Statement of Swiss Re, “passive” heat sources such trainings with all our sourcing staff. Zurich: They stipulate that new buildings as solar radiation and waste need to conform to the MINERGIE® heat, instead of traditional standard (www.minergie.ch) – a Swiss heating and cooling Sustainable construction and quality label specifying high levels of energy technology, make it possible Swiss Re Next efficiency and superior user comfort. to construct buildings When we renovate old buildings, the with ultra-low energy Swiss Re has over 60 offices in more than standard is to be applied if feasible from an consumption. 20 countries. For construction projects at architectural, technical and financial these offices – new building or renovation perspective. The same criteria are applied work – we apply a number of principles. by our pension fund in Switzerland for all its One of them is sustainability, which direct investments into real estate projects. translates into criteria such as stringent construction standards, high-quality fittings and finishes, a comfortable ambient climate, environmentally sound, durable materials, low energy consumption and low Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 Reducing our environmental footprint In practice we usually go beyond these The COYou2 Reduce and Gain The COYou2 Reduce requirements and use further standards Programme and Gain Programme such as MINERGIE-ECO®, which also enables our employees includes health criteria and demands on The commitment to cutting our own CO₂ to claim subsidies building materials and, more recently, emissions is one of four elements of our from Swiss Re for MINERGIE-P-ECO®, which specifies the climate change strategy (see page 10). In investments that help characteristics of a “passive house” 2007, we launched an initiative that gives reduce their personal that consumes even less energy than our employees the opportunity to make a carbon footprint. a MINERGIE®-certified building. personal contribution to the Group’s climate change efforts: the COYou2 Reduce and Swiss Re Next Gain Programme. It grants our employees Our current flagship construction project is subsidies for a range of investments through “Swiss Re Next”, the replacement building which they can reduce their own carbon at the Group’s Zurich headquarters. From footprints. To our knowledge, it was the first the start, sustainability was defined as a key global corporate initiative of its kind when feature of this project. We want Swiss Re we launched it. Next to set a leading example of top-class sustainable construction. The investments eligible for subsidies are clearly specified in the programme. Some In 2012, the building consent for Swiss Re of them are supported at all our locations, Next was approved by the local authorities. others vary depending on the prevailing We also received the preliminary climatic and social conditions in order to MINERGIE-P-ECO® certificate. The old maximise the programme’s effectiveness. building was vacated and subsequently Our subsidies cover 50% of the investment prepared for decontamination and sum up to a maximum of CHF 5 000 or an demolition. Earlier in the year, we erected equivalent amount, adjusted to the local a façade mock-up of Swiss Re Next on a cost of living. The programme is open to all public field adjacent to our headquarters. employees who have been with Swiss Re It shows a double storey section of the for a minimum period of time (currently one southeast corner of the future building year). (see page 43). This mock-up is effectively a “lab” for testing a wide range of issues The first, five-year phase of the programme as part of a thorough quality assurance came to an end in 2011; in total, we had process. Based on the mock-up, the granted almost 4 000 subsidies worldwide designers and Swiss Re can evaluate the by then. In view of this resounding success, design and optimise it before proceeding we launched a new two-year cycle starting with commissioning and executing the in 2012. The basic features of the building. programme have remained the same, but some of the locally available investment options have been reviewed to make the programme even more effective. In 2012, a total of 1 750 employees were granted subsidies through the COYou2 Programme. The inclusion of conventional bicycles among the eligible investments proved a big success: with 357 uptakes, they were the most frequently used option, followed by public transport passes and energy-efficient refrigerators (see chart on next page). Over the whole programme, investments supporting sustainable mobility have been the most popular as well, accounting for almost half of all subsidies. For more information on this subject, see next.swissre.com/ For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/coyou2_ programme.html 44 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing our environmental footprint COYou2 payouts 2012, by type COYou2 payouts 2012, per 1000 employees 1 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 21% Conventional bicycles 0 14% Public transport passes Netherlands Slovakia Germany India France Italy Switzerland Singapore Hong Kong Mexico Japan China 13% Refrigerators 12% Washing machines 9% Windows/doors 31% Others 1 Only countries where Swiss Re has 30 or more employees are shown. Relative to the number of employees who For financial services providers, who use work at our different locations, the highest relatively small amounts of heating fuel but number of subsidies was granted in employ large workforces, this has resulted Bratislava, Slovakia (see chart above). in a substantial “net reimbursement”. As this location has been growing strongly, many new employees made use of the When setting up the Foundation, the opportunity to claim subsidies in 2012. partner organisations agreed to collect these funds and to use them to support various climate-friendly projects Partner initiative: The Swiss undertaken by small and medium-sized Climate Foundation companies in Switzerland. Since becoming operational in 2009, the Foundation has In cooperation with a number of partner provided support totalling CHF 6.28 million. companies, we set up the Swiss Climate In 2012, 82 climate-friendly projects Foundation in 2008 in response to the were selected and supported with introduction of the Swiss CO₂ law, which CHF 2.86 million. These projects are provides the basis for the CO₂ levy on expected to help avoid 48 000 tonnes of heating fuels in Switzerland. This levy is not CO₂ emissions over the next ten years. a proper tax but an environmental market Around 80% of last year’s funding went to mechanism: It imposes a charge on the use projects that will increase energy of heating fuels and then reimburses the efficiency; the remaining 20% support the money thus raised – to private companies development and marketing of innovative proportionate to their total salary expenses. solutions for mitigating climate change. The potential of such solutions to reduce emissions is significantly higher than that of efficiency projects, but it is not as easy to verify. In addition to paying in our net levy reimbursement, Swiss Re has been sponsoring the Foundation’s managing director position since it was established in 2008. For more information on this subject, see swiss-climate-foundation.ch Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 Being a good corporate citizen We support development and humanitarian projects across the world, while enabling our employees to do volunteering and charitable work in their local communities. Our commitment to being a responsible by a disaster, insurance provides valuable Swiss Re Foundation company includes several important support for recovery and rebuilding, The Swiss Re Foundation aspects of how we run our business. But but rapid, hands-on assistance is essential. is a non-profit organisation beyond these efforts, we also see ourselves committed to social and as part of wider society and seek to play These two objectives are central to environmental concerns. an active role in it in the same way private Swiss Re’s corporate citizenship strategy: Launched in 2012, the citizens do. For these citizenship activities, firstly, we support development proFoundation aims to make we have set clear priorities. We share our grammes that help communities reduce people more resilient to knowledge, time and financial resources and better cope with risks; and, secondly, natural hazards, climate to help communities build capacity, we provide humanitarian aid when required. change, population growth, focusing on three main categories: Using the know-how from our core business, water scarcity and global humanitarian and development we focus on risks related to natural pandemics, along with other programmes, local charities and catastrophes, climate change and water. challenges to society’s volunteering activities, and – mainly at security, health and the company headquarters in Zurich – In 2012, we supported the following prosperity. It also supports sponsoring cultural institutions. humanitarian and development projects: community projects and employee volunteering in the In our Corporate Responsibility Report we Overcoming poverty in northeastern locations where Swiss Re cover the first two of these categories; Brazil has offices. information on sponsoring culture can be In the Goità Basin in northeastern Brazil, we www.swissrefoundation.org found on our website at www.swissre.com/ partnered with Habitat for Humanity Brazil corporate_responsibility/corporate_ (www.habitat.org/where-we-build/brazil) citizenship/spons_culture.html. in a project that aims to help poor women and their families build better lives. The Both our global and community women supported by the programme work programmes are now expertly devised and in the local cassava flour factories, often looked after by the Swiss Re Foundation, under conditions of semi-slavery and an independent organisation we recently earning less than half of the local minimum set up specifically for this purpose wage. As a result, they and their families (www.swissrefoundation.org). live in extreme poverty, in homes that have no basic water or sewage facilities. Global humanitarian and The project aims to integrate various development programmes development programmes in the region to break the cycle of poverty in which these By offering reliable financial protection families are trapped. It has three pillars: against major risks, our core re/insurance strengthening community development, business helps create economic and social encouraging the creation of alternative stability. Often, though, financial risk incomes such as cooperatives, transfer is not enough to deal with major and providing affordable housing. For more information on this subject, see risks. Poorer communities, in particular, swissrefoundation.org/what_we_do/global_ benefit strongly if they know how to better programmes/ manage key risks. If a community is struck 46 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Being a good corporate citizen Swiss Re makes a direct contribution to Adapting agricultural practices in India Using the expertise from the housing part of the programme, to climate change our core business, our complementing funds from government In many parts of India, arable land is rain-fed global programmes aim programmes. The beneficiaries are directly and ecologically fragile. In these regions to build capacity and involved, not only as partners at the design land degradation, local climatic variations improve risk preparedstage, but by way of investing their own and frequent droughts, in combination with ness for natural labour and paying small monthly unsustainable utilisation practices, have led catastrophes, climate mortgages. The money thus raised goes to a severe depletion of land, water and change and water. into a revolving fund, which is used to build biomass resources. As a result, many rural more houses later. But just as importantly, households are forced to abandon their having financial responsibilities gives the villages and to become “ecological migrants” women a sense of dignity and helps them in search of a living. The problem is further build the confidence that they can improve compounded by climate change, which their families’ lives. affects temperature variations and monsoon patterns. A group of villagers in Maharashtra create a three-dimensional model of their community. This highly participatory process forms part of a project by the Watershed Organisation Trust to tackle land degradation and to promote sustainable agricultural practices in 12 villages. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Being a good corporate citizen In 2012, Swiss Re began supporting a Developing dog rescue teams in Japan three-year project by the Watershed After the disastrous earthquake and ensuing Organisation Trust, WOTR (www.wotr.org) tsunami that brought devastation to in Maharashtra, where 15 million out of 16 the northeastern coast of Japan’s Honshu million hectares of arable land are estimated Island in March 2011, Swiss Re swiftly to be degraded and in need of amelioration. made donations to the Swiss Red Cross Targeting 12 villages, the project aims (www.redcross.ch) and Save the Children to help vulnerable communities develop (www.savethechildren.net) to assist their sustainable and climate-resilient agricultural emergency relief activities. At the time, we practices. Based on a highly participatory also pledged to support Japanese rescue process, the project focuses on improving organisations in their efforts to develop dog soil and water conservation measures, rescue teams which could be rapidly introducing sustainable means of increasing deployed in the aftermath of such disasters. productivity and empowering women in the As hours or even minutes often decide over villages, as they often bear the brunt of the life and death, this is of essential importance. effects of land degradation. To enable this, we supported a joint project Promoting social entrepreneurship in between the Swiss Disaster Dog the Indian health sector Association, REDOG (www.redog.ch) – a Also in India, we started a three-year Swiss Re partner for several years – and the partnership with Ashoka Japanese Rescue Dog Association, JRDA (www.ashoka.org), a global association of (www.kinet.or.jp/kyujoken). The objective the world’s leading social entrepreneurs. of this cooperative venture is to share Ashoka has been a pioneer in this field since know-how by involving REDOG in tailor1980, investing in more than 2 500 social made training activities for the Japanese entrepreneurs in over 70 countries. rescue dog teams. Specific goals of the Known as Ashoka Fellows, these practical training are, for example, to achieve more visionaries work at a systemic level, in frequent and rapid deployment, increase the process transforming the way children the number of teams ready for deployment learn, for example, or how healthcare and improve coordination among the services are delivered. agencies involved. Swiss Re’s partnership with Ashoka focuses Helping communities in Vietnam cope on the health sector in India. Specifically, with disasters we are helping Ashoka to find and engage Vietnam is one of Asia’s most disaster-prone new social entrepreneurs who have countries. Its vulnerability to various natural innovative ideas to address health-related disasters is likely to be further compounded challenges. At the same time, the by the effects of climate change. Climate partnership seeks to reinforce the impact of trends already felt today include a rise in the Ashoka Fellows by creating a platform average temperatures, lower annual precipfor collaboration. Finally, the resulting itation but increased rainfall in summer, and innovations and insights are spread through more frequent weather extremes such as dialogue across different sectors to heat waves, cold spells and typhoons. In influence the Indian health industry. view of this situation, the Vietnamese government recently developed a strategic programme that aims to enhance “community-based disaster risk management” (CBDRM), particularly in the country’s 6 000 most vulnerable communes. The Vietnam Red Cross, VNRC (www.redcross.org.vn) plays a key role in implementing this programme, working together with several international Red Cross partners. Swiss Re decided to support a partnership between the VNRC and the Swiss Red Cross (www.redcross.ch) to bring the programme to seven strongly exposed communes in the Ca Mau province at the southern tip of the country. 48 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Being a good corporate citizen Bottom-up approaches are considered Aid efforts after Hurricane Sandy Our International essential to effective disaster risk In October 2012, Hurricane Sandy cut a ReSource Award for management, because local communities 1 100 mile-wide swath along the Atlantic Sustainable Watershed have the best grasp of local conditions and seaboard of the US. With tides of 10 to 14 Management, worth are the first responders in the event of a feet, Sandy exceeded previous storm surge USD 150 000, was disaster. Working both with the population records. Many of our employees in the conferred for the tenth and the authorities, the project in Ca Mau US immediately volunteered to personally time in 2012. province will enable the seven communes help colleagues and communities, in many involved to analyse their vulnerability different ways. In the aftermath of the storm, to natural disasters, to assess their own our company donated CHF 200 000 to the capacities and, on this basis, to improve American Red Cross (www.redcross.org), response mechanisms. Overall, the Ca Mau which acted as the lead organiser of relief project is expected to benefit 84 000 efforts in the affected areas. people. 2012 International ReSource Award Our International ReSource Award for Sustainable Watershed Management was presented for the tenth time in 2012. By recognising innovative approaches and workable solutions, the ReSource Award seeks to highlight the social, ecological and For more information on this subject, see economic benefits of protecting vulnerable resourceaward.org watersheds in emerging countries. A gabion (a stone wall reinforced with wire mesh) is being built in an effort to reclaim polluted watersheds in Nairobi, Nigeria. This inexpensive but effective measure is part of the project that won our 2012 ReSource Award. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 Being a good corporate citizen The tenth anniversary edition of the Through the Charity of the Year programme, We offer our employees ReSource Award went to a project in Kibera, our employees can propose charities they three Group-wide the largest slum area of Nairobi, Nigeria. would like Swiss Re to support, and then programmes to do Kibera sits on the tributaries of the Ngong vote on the resulting shortlist. The selected volunteering work in River and Nairobi Dam, both of which are charity receives financial support from their local communities: severely polluted and thus pose a substantial Swiss Re and, in most cases, invites our  Community Days health hazard to the local communities. The employees to engage in volunteering and  Charity of the Year winning project by the Kounkuey Design fundraising activities.  Dollars-4-Doers Initiative (www.kounkuey.org) comprises three phases in an innovative participatory The Dollars-4-Doers programme enables process: understanding the watershed our employees to seek financial support for through broad cooperation, engaging the charitable work they do in their own time. whole community and then reclaiming the Swiss Re contributes up to CHF 3 000 or an river by creating three low-cost but highequivalent amount to submitted projects, impact “productive public spaces” (PPS). To provided they meet a set of criteria. achieve their objectives, the three PPS will combine river bolstering, environmental Community Days: Japan… remediation, water supply and sanitation In autumn 2012 one and a half years facilities, and community buildings. had passed since the massive earthquake and subsequent tsunami that brought Celebrating the tenth edition of the devastation to the Tohoku region on the ReSource Award, we also offered a special northeastern coast of Japan’s Honshu prize for a project submitted by one of our Island. Yet, in some areas of Tohoku a lot of employees. Almost 1 500 of them voted on cleaning and reconstruction work still a list of six finalists and selected a project remained – and remains – to be done. designed to advance a tool that purifies While the larger cities were able to recover up to 1 000 litres of water per hour through relatively quickly, smaller villages in ultraviolet radiation and human kinetic particular lacked the necessary resources force. The award will finance this project and continued to rely on volunteer work. for one year in Burkina Faso. Therefore, our employees in Tokyo decided to hold another Community Day in the region. Local volunteering and charity programmes Some 30 volunteers from our Tokyo office took part in the Community Day, which Swiss Re is a global company with business represents two thirds of its total staff. Their locations around the world. Besides our destination was the small village of humanitarian and development programmes, Minamisanriku. As the journey there takes we want to act as a responsible corporate about four hours from Tokyo, the party left citizen in these communities too. We do so on a Thursday evening so it could start mainly by supporting local charities and by working early on Friday morning. The task providing opportunities for our employees assigned to our employees was to clear to take part in volunteering activities. Over debris that had accumulated in a residential the last three years, we have established area and needed to be sorted manually for two Group-wide volunteering and charity correct disposal. Unfortunately, worsening programmes: Community Days and Charity rainfall made conditions increasingly of the Year (COTY). dangerous, and the volunteer centre felt it had no choice but to stop work at Community Days give all our employees the lunchtime. Even so, the work accomplished opportunity to spend one working day per was another small step towards ultimately year engaging in volunteering activities that reviving the whole area. reflect Swiss Re’s commitment to environmental and social sustainability. For more information on this subject, see swissrefoundation.org/what_we_do/ community_programmes/ 50 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Being a good corporate citizen Despite having to cope with some bad weather, volunteers from our Tokyo office get ready to sort and clear debris left from the 2011 tsunami in a small village in the Tohoku region. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 Being a good corporate citizen … Switzerland … … UK … Charity of the Year: Thailand … In a hilly country like Switzerland, intact In the UK, a number of our employees took Between October and December 2011, mountain forests have a vital role to play. part in a “team challenge” at Highbury Thailand was hit by disastrous floods. Of the They offer protection against avalanches, Quadrant Primary School in Islington country’s 77 provinces, 61 were declared rockslides, erosion and flooding. This is why (www.highburyquadrant.islington.sch.uk). flood disaster zones in what has been they are often referred to as “protective This London borough is home to many described as the “largest insured fresh forests”. Such forests need to be mainethnic minorities, at least 35 of which are water flood in global history”. In response, tained, though, which is neither cheap nor represented among the school’s pupils. our colleagues in Bangkok decided to easy. All too often, these days, only the The school works hard to help the children devote their Charity of the Year to helping most urgent tasks can be carried out. from these different backgrounds to a local institution that had been badly develop their full potential – efforts which affected by the flooding. At our headquarters in Zurich, we first chose were rewarded with an “outstanding” to hold a Community Day doing maingrade in a recent government inspection. They chose the Banggruay Centre in the tenance work in a mountain forest in 2011. north of Bangkok, a government agency Based on the participants’ positive Swiss Re’s employees helped develop that provides basic, continuous and informal feedback, it was then decided to designate the school’s nature area that is used by the education to around 1 000 members of a “Swiss Re protective forest”, which our children. They created a new woodchip the local community for free. More than 80 volunteers could help look after over path across the site, constructed a number employees gathered to help restore and an extended period of time. This forest is of small benches and built a dipping improve the Centre by painting fences, situated in the Tamina valley in eastern platform by the pond. In addition, the group landscaping, gardening and restoring a Switzerland and is managed in cooperation donated a bird box fitted with a camera. reading corner. The community programme with the Stiftung Bergwaldprojekt After a satisfactory day’s work, the was part of the Asia Strategy Days and (www.bergwaldprojekt.org). members of the group thought that they involved several of our senior managers as had been able to both make a difference in well. The first priorities in 2012 focused on the the community and to interact with each upper part of the forest. On 14 project days, other. … and UK twelve teams with a total of 165 Swiss Re Our employees in the UK chose the NSPCC, volunteers built or repaired a footpath of … and US the National Society for the Prevention of more than 500 metres, constructed In the US, about 50 employees from our Cruelty to Children (www.nspcc.org.uk) as wooden tripods acting as snow barriers, New York office as well as some colleagues their Charity of the Year for 2011 and 2012. planted 580 wild tree seedlings among the from Armonk spent their Community Day After raising a total of GBP 240 000 in 2011 tripods and thinned a patch of young forest, creating a community garden in Brooklyn, for the NSPCC’s ChildLine and adult clearing out weaker trees. In doing so, they East New York. A garden like this in an helpline (see 2011 CR Report, page 50), our laid the foundation for a strip of protective urban area is not only a fun place for the staff again carried out a wide variety of forest that will still serve its purpose in residents to enjoy, it also helps address activities and raised a further GBP 96 000 40 to 50 years. a much deeper need: in areas like this one in 2012. A highlight was the production and in Brooklyn, many children live so far away sale of the “Swiss Re Cookbook for the from any green space or available fresh NSPCC”, a compilation of our employees’ produce that some of them do not know favourite recipes, including contributions what vegetables look like. from well-known British TV presenters Esther Rantzen, founder of ChildLine, and The day’s activities were arranged by Fiona Bruce. GrowNYC (www.grownyc.org), an organisation which seeks to make New York a better place for everyone to live in. Our employees worked in small groups and had several different options to choose from. Some built a large shade structure for harvesting rainwater, others carried out work on the chicken coop and yet others built raised beds for the children to plant in. But, of course, completing the job also required our volunteers to do quite a bit of “grunt” work such as painting, clearing and dirt moving. 52 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Being a good corporate citizen The book is illustrated with 82 colourful Dollars-4-Doers help them fully participate in community pictures of the Gherkin”, drawn by pupils at One of our employees in Armonk in the US life. Our employees have taken part in the William Davis Primary School in the received support from the Dollars-4-Doers several group service projects, completing borough of Tower Hamlets. The children programme for the second time for his work such as interior painting or brush were invited to visit Swiss Re’s iconic office efforts to raise funds for Partners in and tree trimming. building in the City of London and, Development, PID (pidonline.org). This moreover, their pictures were shown at a charity helps the poorest communities in The Dollars-4-Doers contribution enabled public exhibition nearby. Swiss Re paid all Haiti to build better lives through various Glenkirk to build a garden that can be used the costs associated with producing the self-sustaining programmes. both for therapy and teaching. Clients learn book, so the full proceeds go to the NSPCC. how to maintain the garden and grow The book has been stocked by the local The Dollars-4-Doers contribution was used vegetables themselves. The produce is then branch of a large bookstore chain and is for the PID’s Small Business and Housing distributed to Glenkirk’s residential sites and also available through amazon.co.uk. programme. This offers adults who meet also sold at a local farmers’ market, bringing certain criteria funds to develop a business clients in contact with the wider community. and purchase a home. Once the business is up and running, the beneficiaries pay back the debt so the funds can be used to help other families. At Swiss Re’s office in Schaumburg, our employees have for some time supported Glenkirk (www.glenkirk.org), a non-profit organisation that provides services to people with developmental disabilities to Well-known British TV presenter and ChildLine founder Esther Rantzen presents “The Swiss Re Cookbook for the NSPCC”, which contains recipes from our UK employees as well as 82 pictures of our “Gherkin” building drawn by local primary school pupils. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 53 Being an employer of choice Our goal is to attract talented people from a broad range of disciplines and backgrounds. We oﬀer them a culture of diversity and inclusion, excellent development opportunities, a supportive environment and attractive total rewards. Swiss Re’s mission is to be the leading we work to maintain favourable employee player in the re/insurance industry. We relations; and we offer competitive comwant to be the preferred partner for our pensation and benefits. clients – earning their long-term trust Employees by region and confidence, and delivering a service Swiss Re is a global company with a as of 31 December 2012 unmatched elsewhere in the market. presence in all major markets. As of 31 December 2012, we employed 11 193 Our employees are the key to fulfilling this people, hailing from 85 nations worldwide. mission, through the skills, diversity and Currently, 64.2% of our employees work talent they bring to the company. Swiss Re’s in Europe (including Middle East and goal is to be seen as an employer of choice Africa), 25.4% in the Americas and 10.4% that can attract talents from around the in the Asia-Pacific region. world and offer them a place to succeed. Between 2011 and 2012, we created As a knowledge-based company, approximately 400 net new jobs. Many we consider four areas to be particularly of these are located in Asia, reflecting 64.2% Europe (including important for this: we foster diversity Swiss Re’s strategic goal to grow in these Middle East and Africa) and inclusion; we provide excellent markets. 25.4% Americas development and training opportunities; 10.4% Asia-Paciﬁc Employee data 2010 2011 2012 Total headcount regular employees 10 362 10 788 11 193 Full-time 9 451 9 845 10 237 Part-time 911 943 956 Temporary employees 176 308 373 Turnover rate (incl. company sales) 13.6% 11.2% 10.1% Voluntary 6.7% 6.3% 5.0% Involuntary (incl. retirement) 6.9% 4.9% 5.1% 54 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Being an employer of choice Diversity and inclusion from the various business units. RegionallyWe further strengthen based D&I Champions and D&I Councils Swiss Re’s culture of An inclusive corporate culture is a prehelp ensure a “glocal” approach, which diversity and inclusion requisite for a diverse workforce and the means that local differences with regard to through a Group-wide diversity of thought this helps create. diversity and inclusion are acknowledged strategy. It is motivating for employees, enables and addressed under a global umbrella. companies to attract fresh talent and Last but not least, grassroots mobilisation is is good for bottom-line results. There is driven by around 25 inclusive employee strong evidence that diverse teams networks worldwide. outperform non-diverse teams, produce a broader range of ideas and are more Our Group D&I strategy rests on three innovative and agile in the way they pillars: anticipate and respond to changes in the The first pillar of our D&I strategy focuses external environment. Furthermore, on “Inclusive Leadership”. We have stronger representation of local talent is developed an Inclusive Leader Competency a prerequisite for developing new markets, Framework that describes exactly what a strategic priority for Swiss Re. we expect of our leaders and managers in terms of inclusion. It provides a clear vision In essence, inclusion is about championing of the behaviours that we want to see, and and respecting the uniqueness of every forms the basis of Inclusive Leadership individual, about providing an atmosphere training which is embedded in the Group’s in which everyone feels valued and leadership development and manager empowered to perform at a peak level. training as well as stand-alone sessions for We want to achieve an inclusive culture and management teams. a leadership climate founded on fairness, openness and trust, which makes all As an important element of the Inclusive employees feel they belong, are respected Leadership pillar, we also address and heard – in short, a culture that fosters “Unconscious Bias”. Neuroscience research diversity of thought and opinion. confirms that unconscious bias is universally wired into humans. Everyone has To achieve this inclusive culture, we have hidden biases which can adversely set up a comprehensive strategic influence perceptions and decision-making. framework to promote diversity and However, it is possible to overcome them. inclusion across the whole Group. With Rather than trying to deny unconscious the support of the Group CEO and the biases, it is preferable to accept them and Group Executive Committee, our Diversity & to do something about them. Through Inclusion (D&I) strategy is primarily being awareness events as well as face-to-face driven by a network of 35 D&I Champions and web-based training, we provide our Swiss Re – where talented people from many backgrounds meet and work together. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 Being an employer of choice Women in management positions (in %) 2010 2011 2012 Total workforce 47.5 47.7 47.3 Executive/senior management positions* 19.6 20.8 21.7 All management positions* 29.3 30.2 30.7 * We have simplified the way in which we report on the share of women in management, in an effort to disclose data that are easier to understand and more in line with other companies’ reporting practices. “Executive/senior management positions” is comprised of the management levels of Director/Senior Vice President and upwards. (In last year’s CR Report we referred to this as “all management levels.”) “All management levels” now refers to Vice President and above. employees with insights and tools on how practical means of moving towards a to identify and address unconscious bias. better gender balance. They help change Corresponding training has also been how people are hired and promoted, thus embedded into our leadership developcreating a more equal playing field for men ment and manager training. and women. “Own the Way You WorkTM: Living Team As part of the Gender Balance pillar, we also Spirit” forms the second pillar of our D&I run the “Women Leading Swiss Re strategy. It is a cultural change initiative Programme”. It consists of three parts: which aims to increase our employees’  Leadership Strategies: 12 women from autonomy to decide how, when and where Swiss Re’s senior ranks are selected to they carry out their tasks, in the process participate in a programme centring on motivating and engaging high-performing sponsorship, coaching, leadership teams. Own the Way You WorkTM is based development and peer networking; on four building blocks:  Today and Tomorrow: enables a group of 1. One size does not fit all: around 35 of our female middle Embrace flexibility and support managers to benefit from external non-traditional work models. development opportunities; 2. Work smarter not longer:  Women’s Development Programme: an YES to managing by results; internally designed programme which NO to presenteeism. takes the participants on a deep dive into 3. Focus on the team rather than the their own personal development. individual: Discover how you and your team perform best. D&I is embedded in our core talent and 4. Reinforce trust, respect and open human resources policies (eg recruitment, dialogue: Between you, your manager succession planning and talent and your team. management) and thus underlies the three strategic pillars. Under the sponsorship of our Chief Risk Officer, this initiative has been launched In support of Swiss Re’s policy of fostering successfully at a number of our locations diversity, we also have strong provisions in and is gradually being rolled out across place to penalise any infringing behaviour. the Group. Our Group Code of Conduct clearly states that discrimination in the workplace The third pillar addresses “Gender against any employee or job applicant Balance”. By gaining critical insights into based on the person’s age, (dis)ability, how gender relationships unfold in the origin, gender, religion or sexual workplace, it is possible to improve our orientation (or any other characteristic intelligence about gender dynamics, protected by local law) is not tolerated capitalise on the strengths of both genders under any circumstances. We encourage and articulate differences between our employees to report violations of the men and women in ways which increase Group Code of Conduct, laws, rules, or transparency and understanding. regulations, explicitly stating that reporting Articulated “Gender Nudges” are a in good faith is treated with discretion. For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/about_us/diversity/ 56 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Being an employer of choice Learning hours 2010 2011 2012 Total learning hours recorded 139 014 168 011 179 007 Learning hours per trained employee 14.9 14.3 16.7 Development and training and inclusion, interpersonal skills, project management, office tools, language skills Developing our people, at every level and and compliance training. in all functions, remains a strong focus for Swiss Re. Offering our employees topThe number of employees making use of The recently launched quality development and training our development and training Swiss Re Academy opportunities has strong mutual benefits: opportunities has consistently risen over intranet site and Virtual for a knowledge company with a global the last few years, culminating in more Career Centre both presence, constantly adapting skills, than 10 700 participants in 2012. In total, make it easier for our behaviours and qualifications to changing our employees completed 179 007 hours employees to plan market conditions is indispensable for of training, an average of 16.7 hours each. satisfying careers at retaining a competitive edge. It also helps More than 80% of this training was Swiss Re. create exciting and fulfilling career delivered through eLearning formats, thus prospects for our employees. reducing the need for our employees to travel and to spend days away from the Our approach office. This also supports our commitment Personal and professional development to reduce our carbon footprint. at Swiss Re combines technical, professional and leadership skills training. An important milestone in 2012 was the Our training is designed internally or introduction of a new career development in collaboration with leading external philosophy. At the core of this is our partners, and is delivered through our conviction that career development at long-established Swiss Re Academy. Swiss Re is a shared responsibility Currently, we offer more than 900 different between the employee, the line manager training courses in various topic areas. and the company. Employees are Employees and line managers have the encouraged to think in terms of a multiopportunity – and sometimes the dimensional career lattice and not just a obligation – to attend training in areas vertical career ladder. There is no single, as diverse as underwriting, finance, sales pre-set career path at Swiss Re; rather, the and negotiations, leadership, diversity paths are as diverse as the individuals working in our company. The Swiss Re Academy intranet site and Virtual Career Centre offer our employees easy and quick access to the full range of Swiss Re’s training and career possibilities. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 Being an employer of choice A special feature of the Swiss Re Academy Senior management development is that it also provides industry-leading Fulfilling top management roles at technical and professional skills training to Swiss Re requires proven leadership and external clients. These training offerings managerial skills as well as strong are tailored to the different market and technical knowledge. We provide highly client needs: As defined in cooperation focused programmes to develop suitable with our internal topic experts and client candidates for positions at Director and executives, we use a variety of delivery Managing Director levels. Every year, we methods to maximise the learning select a number of employees around the potential for each client segment. Our globe to take part in these Talent Pool clients expressed their satisfaction with programmes and expose them to the Academy’s training by rating it with structured and accelerated development 4.52 out of a possible 5 points. offerings for more senior roles within Swiss Re. The selected employees Employee support tools undergo formal training, are stretched by In support of our flexible development and challenging simulations, assignments and training philosophy, we launched the job rotations, and are given opportunities Swiss Re Academy intranet site early in to engage in direct dialogue with 2012. It is designed to help all our Swiss Re’s senior management. employees easily find what they need from our extensive training offerings. Besides Our “Early Joiners” programmes giving easy access to an extensive set of Each year, the graduates@swissre learning solutions, the site features a programme provides entry positions for multimedia library with short five-minute around 50 university graduates with little learning sequences on selected or no work experience. It offers an competency areas as well as links to excellent opportunity for young talents to regional learning offerings and other discover the world from Swiss Re’s development resources. Since its launch, perspective. the site has had an average of 3 000 visitors each month. Over a period of 18 months, the graduates receive on-the-job training in their As a further support tool for our respective functions. They also attend a employees, we launched the Virtual Career significant number of classroom-based Centre (VCC), a one-stop shop for all training sessions which are specially career development matters for both designed for the programme and focus on employees as well as managers. It Swiss Re’s core business areas. Currently, encourages them to explore the variety of there are about 220 employees working at careers and development opportunities Swiss Re who have benefited from this that exist at Swiss Re and provides easy programme since it was launched in 2007. access to “stretch assignments , job They are employed across many different rotations and training opportunities. functions and regions. Mentoring In Zurich and Munich, Swiss Re also offers Complementing the wide range of training a Junior Power programme, which was courses offered by the Swiss Re Academy, first introduced in 1981. Nearly 100 we also offer our employees a mentoring apprentices and trainees aged between 15 programme. In a mentoring relationship, a and 25 participate in the programme each person with less experience in whatever year and are trained in a broad range of area of business or personal development occupations. In turn, they contribute new (mentee) is matched with a more perspectives to Swiss Re and challenge experienced person (mentor) who acts as existing practices. We offer training a listener and guide. It is a confidential programmes in various areas such as relationship outside the reporting line that businesswoman/-man, information and helps individuals develop and make documentation specialist, computer positive changes to their skills, knowledge specialist, building maintenance specialist, and behaviours and to move successfully chef, qualified waitress/waiter, hotel For more information on this subject, see through times of change and transition. housekeeper and media specialist. About swissre.com/careers/recent_graduates/ Our newly established Virtual Career 30% of all our former apprentices and For more information on this subject, see Centre includes a special feature that helps trainees are still working at Swiss Re. swissre.com/careers/ our employees identify potential mentors. Welcome_to_Junior_Power_en.html 58 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Being an employer of choice Employee relations In Zurich, for example, we offered training We are keen to maintain to line managers on how to manage teams constructive relations We place strong emphasis on having good in times of high pressure and held Lunch & with our employees, overall relations with our employees. We Learn sessions on burn-out prevention, both present and past. know that if they feel engaged with the involving external physicians. Our offices in company, our employees can contribute Munich and Bratislava both organised much to Swiss Re’s success beyond the health days, which presented practical immediate responsibilities of their jobs. information on health prevention. This presupposes a culture of mutual respect and open communication. At the We also launched a new initiative in 2012, same time, it is a fact that today’s called Parents@Swiss Re. This aims to workplace can be challenging at times. assist parents in finding the best way to Through various programmes, we seek to combine career and family life. Apart from assist our employees in dealing effectively offering a broad choice of childcare with work-related pressures. services, this initiative focuses on offering parents valuable information through Assistance and prevention brochures and regular newsletters. Swiss Re sets high standards regarding its duty of care for employees and their wellEmployee engagement surveys being. When employees are affected by We aspire to communicate openly and difficult personal or professional transparently with our employees: an circumstances, our dedicated Employee integral part of this is having a constructive Relations team strives to ease such debate on how we want to develop our situations by finding adequate solutions. corporate culture and to live our strategy. Offering such counselling services not only One of the ways in which we do this is helps preserve valuable skills and knowthrough our regular employee engagement how, it also reduces the risk of reputational surveys. The results of the most recent damage and lawsuits. We constantly survey in 2011, in which 71% of our review and continue to develop our employees took part, generated numerous prevention and support services with the ideas and activities in our company, eg a aim of helping our employees combine marked change in our approach to internal health, performance, well-being, family communication: it puts emphasis on and work. raising the visibility of our senior managers, holding more frequent town-hall meetings The Health Day held at our Bratislava office in 2012 offered practical advice on how to deal with work-related health challenges. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 Being an employer of choice and increasing transparency regarding In the UK, Swiss Re has an Employee Networks company goals and strategy. Liaison Group (ELG), consisting of elected Our former employees remain important representatives from across all functions. stakeholders for Swiss Re. They are the We will continue to build on the insights The ELG provides a forum for employee people who have helped make Swiss Re gained from the surveys to further representatives and managers to discuss what it is today and form an essential part encourage and support our employees’ company policy and practices which affect of our extended employee community. engagement within Swiss Re. The next all employees. These include: Furthermore, as many of our alumni work employee engagement survey will be  Employment policies and procedures for our clients, they also help deepen our carried out in 2013.  General terms and conditions of client relationships. employment Employee groups  Benefits Through the Swiss Re Alumni Network, In several of our locations there are active  Working conditions we offer our alumni the opportunity to employee groups. We believe that these  Training and development continue sharing their knowledge and employee representatives can play an  Any statutory matters (eg redundancies) experience and to keep in contact with important part in the company’s success,  Company performance former colleagues. The network has by contributing valuable perspectives and continued to grow and currently counts by helping to identify employment-related The ELG is legally recognised as the more than 2 700 members. challenges. collective consultation body for redundancy purposes. When a business The network also includes our retirees, At our Zurich headquarters, the Personnel unit is likely to be affected by proposed many of which continue to take great Committee (PECO) represents the interests collective redundancies, the respective interest in the company. Through of all Zurich employees. One of PECO’s employee representatives are consulted. extended access rights, we enable them central goals is to create and preserve a to read news items and utilise resources positive working environment, with At our Munich office there is a Works that are normally available to employees employees forming the focal point of its Council, which has co-determination rights only. The “Senior Consultants” pilot, thoughts and actions. in the following matters: which creates opportunities for our retirees  New entrants to get involved in specific projects on PECO supports efforts to help staff put  Transfer of employees a part-time basis, continued throughout their knowledge, skills, expertise and  Termination of employment contracts 2012. Due to its success, it will now networks to the best possible use. This by the employer become an official programme. The includes offering them appropriate further  Working conditions initiative creates a beneficial situation for education and training. The Committee  Benefits all involved, as Swiss Re gains access also seeks to ensure the de-facto equality  Employment policies to people with extensive know-how of the of men and women. While doing so, it company and the business, while the places a special focus on the requirements The Works Council has the legal obligation retirees can continue to do some work in of employees with family obligations, to support topics like diversity, training and a flexible way. without, however, discriminating against development, career opportunities and single staff. work-life balance. The eleven members of the Works Council are elected for four years by employees who hold a position in Corporate Bands D to F. For more information on this subject, see swissre.com/about_us/alumni/ Additional employee data Average tenure (all regular staff) 2010 2011 2012 Years 9.3 9.1 9.0 Sick leave days (Switzerland regular staff) 2010 2011 2012 Number of employees 2 938 3 042 3 171 Number of employees who have recorded absence due to illness 1 657 1 744 1 918 Average number of sick days 6.6 7.9 6.9 60 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Being an employer of choice Compensation and benefits Performance reviews are considered an We complement our important basis for feedback as well as balanced compensation Swiss Re’s compensation framework is input into employees’ compensation. packages with designed to attract, motivate and retain the Optional mid-year reviews are frequently competitive pension qualified talent that the Group needs to used to check progress and to discuss plans and other succeed globally, while creating a tangible career opportunities. In 2012, close to employee benefits as link between pay and performance. The 100% of the Group's employees completed well as a first-class aim is to provide compensation that is year-end performance reviews. working environment. competitive in local labour markets while ensuring that employees focus on delivering Health benefits and financial protection in outstanding results without taking case of ill-health are an important part of inappropriate risks. overall packages. We provide medical, life and disability insurance to supplement A balanced compensation package is state provision in many of our locations. generally complemented by competitive Additionally, we support employees pension plans and other employee benefits, in accumulating retirement benefits to and a first-class working environment. supplement any state provisions. For all eligible employees, the annual In addition, the COYou2 Reduce and Gain performance incentive is linked to both Programme continues to offer our individual and company performance. employees the opportunity to claim subIn order to align employee and shareholder sidies from the company for a range of interests, we also encourage ownership of emissions-cutting investments they want to Swiss Re shares through the Global Share make in their private lives (for details, see Participation Plan (GSPP) and the Incentive page 44). Share Plan. Further information on Swiss Re’s approach Swiss Re has a range of incentive to compensation and benefits can programmes that reflect the long-term be found in our 2012 Financial Report nature of the business: both the Value (pages 93–117). Alignment Incentive Plan (the deferred part of the annual performance incentive) and the Leadership Performance Plan aim to reward sustained performance rather than short-term results. This helps to align shareholder and employee interests more closely. At Swiss Re, we strive for a high performance culture in which our individual and team goals and behaviours – what we do and how we do it – are aligned to our firm’s purpose and business strategy with challenging targets, and in which our rewards are aligned to our achievements and contributions. Dialogue and feedback are important aspects of our performance management cycle, which includes goal setting, interim feedback and performance reviews. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 Ensuring good governance We consider good corporate governance the basis to ensure sustainability throughout all the company’s activities. Swiss Re considers good corporate Dual Board structure Swiss Re has a dual governance indispensable to maintaining Board structure: long-lasting, valuable relationships with Swiss Re has a dual Board structure: the the Board of Directors its stakeholders. We recognise that Board of Directors is responsible for is responsible for transparent disclosure of our governance oversight, while the Group Executive oversight, while the structure fosters assessment of the quality Committee is responsible for managing Group Executive of our organisation and business conduct. operations. This structure maintains Committee is Swiss Re’s corporate governance adheres effective mutual checks and balances responsible for to the SIX Swiss Exchange’s Directive on between the top corporate bodies. managing operations. Information Relating to Corporate Governance, including its annex, as issued in 2002 and amended in 2009. It is also Independence of the Board of in line with the principles of the Swiss Code Directors of Best Practice for Corporate Governance (Swiss Code) issued in 2002 by economieSwiss Re’s Group Bylaws stipulate that the suisse, the Swiss business federation. An Board of Directors consists of at least a additional appendix was issued in 2007 majority of independent members. To be which deals with compensation principles. considered independent, a director may Swiss Re, moreover, conforms to the Swiss not be employed as an executive officer of Financial Market Supervisory Authority the Group, or have been employed in such (FINMA) provisions on corporate a function for the previous three years. governance, risk management and internal Moreover, he or she must not have a control systems, which came into effect material relationship with any part of the on 1 January 2009. Finally, Swiss Re’s Group, directly or as a partner, director corporate governance complies with or shareholder of an organisation that has applicable local rules and regulations in all a material relationship with the Group. All jurisdictions where it conducts business. directors of Swiss Re meet our independence criteria. In our Corporate Responsibility Report, we highlight key elements of Swiss Re’s The members of the Board of Directors are corporate governance concerning the also subject to procedures to avoid any structure and independence of the Board conflict of interest. of Directors, shareholder rights and the Group Code of Conduct. Comprehensive The organisation of the Board of Directors is information following the structure of set forth in the Group Bylaws, which define the SIX Directive is available in the 2012 the responsibilities of the Board of Directors, Financial Report, pages 57–91. its committees and the Group Executive Committee, as well as the respective reporting procedures. The Board has delegated certain responsibilities, including the preparation For more information on this subject, see and execution of its resolutions, to five swissre.com/about_us/corporate_governance/ committees: the Chairman’s and 62 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Ensuring good governance Governance Committee, the Audit Statutory rules on participating in the should react when they observe a possible Committee, the Compensation Committee, General Meeting of shareholders breach of the principles in the Code. All the Finance and Risk Committee, and the Any share whose owner, usufructuary or employees are obligated to uphold both the Investment Committee. nominee is entered in the share register as letter and spirit of the Code and the Group’s having voting rights on a specific qualifying corporate governance principles in their Audit Committee day (Record Date) determined by the Board daily business activities, and to respect and All members of the Audit Committee are of Directors entitles its holder to one vote at obey applicable laws and regulations in all non-executive and independent. In addition the General Meeting of shareholders. jurisdictions where we do business. to the independence criteria applicable to Board members for other committee Swiss Re’s legal provisions allow any The Code is regularly reviewed and updated memberships, members of the Audit shareholder with voting rights to have his to reflect changes in regulations and Committee may not accept any consulting, shares represented at any General Meeting principles. advisory or other compensation fee from of shareholders by another person the Swiss Re Group, and will be required to authorised in writing, or by corporate Swiss Re’s commitment to sustainability possess such additional attributes as the bodies, independent proxies or proxies for Our commitment to sustainability is fully Board may, from time to time, specify. Each deposited shares. Such representatives integrated in the Code’s section on business member of the Audit Committee has to be need not be shareholders. ethics. It provides a guiding principle for financially literate. Swiss Re’s efforts to act as a responsible Business firms, partnerships and corporate company. The central task of the Audit Committee is bodies may be represented by legal or to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its authorised representatives or other proxies, Bribery and corruption oversight responsibilities as they relate to married persons by their spouses, minors The Code’s section on moral behaviour the integrity of Swiss Re’s and the Group’s and wards by their guardians, even though contains, among other things, Swiss Re’s financial statements, the Swiss Re Group’s such representatives are not shareholders. position on bribery and corruption. This compliance with legal and regulatory clearly states that “Swiss Re prohibits all requirements, the external auditor’s Defence measures forms of bribery and corruption” and that qualifications and independence, and the Swiss Re has not put in place any specific “bribing governmental agents, regulators performance of the Swiss Re Group’s measures to defend against potential or other officials is a crime”. internal audit function (GIA) and the Group’s unfriendly takeover attempts. The Board of external auditor. Directors believes that the company’s best The Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption protection is a fair valuation of its shares, Policy was rolled out and Group-wide and that the efficiency of a free market is training delivered in 2012. Shareholders’ participation rights preferable to artificial obstacles, which can have a negative impact on the share price Employee training on the Group Code Shares in the long term. of Conduct All shares issued by Swiss Re Ltd are fully All new employees joining Swiss Re must paid-in registered shares, each with a par undergo training on the Group Code of value of CHF 0.10. Each share carries one Group Code of Conduct Conduct. Completion of the training is vote. There are no categories of shares with tracked, and instances of non-completion a higher or limited voting power, privileged The Group Code of Conduct (Code) is one are escalated until resolution. To date, dividend entitlement or any other in a series of documents governing 99.5% of new hires in 2012 have completed preferential rights, nor are there any other the organisation and management of the their training. The remaining employees securities representing a part of the company. It sets the framework and defines required training in other languages; these company’s share capital. The company the basic legal and ethical compliance sessions are planned to be completed by cannot exercise the voting rights of treasury principles and policies we apply globally. the middle of 2013. shares. The Code also offers practical guidance As part of Swiss Re’s biannual process, Voting right restrictions, statutory group and examples for deciding the appropriate all employees will be required to complete clauses and exception rules course of action and solving ethical dilema Code of Conduct Acknowledgment There are no voting right restrictions and no mas. It further sets out how all employees in 2013. statutory group clauses. Therefore, there are no procedures or conditions for cancelling Furthermore, training on specific restrictions and no rules on making compliance risks is delivered across the exceptions to them. No such exceptions Group on a regular basis. were made in 2012. Our commitment to sustainability is integrated in the business ethics section of the Group Code of Conduct. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 63 Corporate responsibility in context: The Principles for Sustainable Insurance The Principles for Sustainable Insurance for the global insurance industry to address The four principles in detail (PSI) were launched in Rio de Janeiro in environmental, social and governance 2012 at the UN Conference on Sustainable risks and opportunities. They represent the Principle 1 Development (Rio+20 Conference). result of six years of extensive research We will embed in our decision-making Developed by the UN Environment and consultation with UNEP FI member environmental, social and governance Programme’s Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) organisations and numerous other issues relevant to our insurance business. in collaboration with leading re/insurance stakeholders. companies, the PSI provide a framework Principle 2 We will work together with our clients and business partners to raise awareness of environmental, social and governance The PSI’s aspiration issues, manage risk and develop solutions. “challenges. Our world is facing increasing environmental, social and governance (ESG) This changing risk landscape is leading to diverse, interconnected and Principle 3 We will work together with governments, complex risks, and presents new opportunities. Accordingly, we believe it is prudent regulators and other key stakeholders to for the insurance industry to adjust the range of risk factors considered in managing promote widespread action across society its business. ESG issues are increasingly influencing traditional risk factors and can on environmental, social and governance have a significant impact on the industry’s viability. Therefore, a resilient insurance issues. industry depends on holistic and far-sighted risk management in which ESG issues are considered. Principle 4 We will demonstrate accountability and As risk managers, risk carriers and investors, the insurance industry has a vital interest transparency in regularly disclosing publicly and plays an important role in fostering sustainable economic and social our progress in implementing the Principles. development. We believe that better management of ESG issues will strengthen the insurance industry’s contribution to building a resilient, inclusive and sustainable society. However, many ESG issues are too big and complex and need widespread How do the PSI work? action across society, innovation and long-term solutions. The Principles for Sustainable Insurance Therefore, it is our aspiration to build on the foundation the insurance industry has laid are not legally binding. Rather, they provide in supporting a sustainable society. The future we want is a society in which people a voluntary and aspirational framework. are aligned and incentivised to adopt sustainable practices. To realise this aim, we will Accordingly, signatory companies are free use our intellectual, operational and capital capacities to implement the Principles to decide what actions they deem for Sustainable Insurance across our spheres of influence, subject to applicable laws, appropriate to implement the Principles. rules and regulations and duties owed to shareholders and policyholders. ” This should be seen as a work in progress and a direction to head in, rather than a “Sustainable insurance”: the PSI’s definition descriptive checklist with which to comply. Sustainable insurance is a strategic approach where all activities in the insurance value chain, including interactions with stakeholders, are done in a responsible All signatories are required to participate and forward-looking way by identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risks in the annual public disclosure process, and opportunities associated with environmental, social and governance issues. though. Transparency is an integral form of Sustainable insurance aims to reduce risk, develop innovative solutions, improve accountability to the public, particularly in business performance, and contribute to environmental, social and economic a voluntary and aspirational framework. sustainability. Public disclosure of progress is considered important to the credibility of an organisation that has publicly adopted the Principles, which are meant to be implemented. 64 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate responsibility in context: The Principles for Sustainable Insurance Signatories are free to decide the content of Our disclosure of progress for 2012 their disclosure. They are, however, required to disclose annually their progress in Principle 1 b) sharing and advancing our risk implementing the Principles. Moreover, they We will embed in our decision-making expertise with a special focus on need to make their disclosures public and environmental, social and governance five “Top Topics”, supported by our allow them to be publicly available on the issues relevant to our insurance own dialogue platform, the Centre UNEP FI website. business. for Global Dialogue; c) applying overarching guidelines The Principles for Sustainable Insurance – As expressed in our “Commitment and specific “minimum standards” as well as Principles for Responsible to Corporate Responsibility”, we in our sourcing activities. Investment – are global frameworks within seek to embed environmental, the financial sector. They are aligned with social and governance issues in Key actions taken in 2012: and complement the aims of the UN Global both our business solutions and risk a) for client and industry Compact Principles, which promote the intelligence (see page 9). cooperation, see achievements adoption of sustainable business practices described on page 24; across all industry sectors. The ten We plan to achieve this by: b) for general risk dialogue, see principles of the UN Global Compact are a) developing innovative risk achievements described on derived from universally accepted principles transfer solutions (eg index pages 31–36; in the areas of human rights, labour, environinsurance products and cat bonds) c) for sourcing guidelines, ment and anti-corruption. and by working closely with see achievements described partners both in the private and on pages 42–43. There is no obligation for signatories of the public sectors; PSI to sign either the PRI or the UN Global b) using tailor-made tools in our Principle 3 Compact, and vice-versa. risk management to address We will work together with sustainability risks; governments, regulators and other key c) integrating ESG criteria in our stakeholders to promote widespread Swiss Re and the PSI asset management. action across society on environmental, social and governance issues. We are keen to support the spread of Key actions taken in 2012: sustainable business practices in the a) for business solutions, As expressed in our “Commitment re/insurance industry. For this reason, we see achievements described to Corporate Responsibility”, we play an active role in supportive industry on pages 14–20; engage in regular dialogue with all organisations and initiatives. Not only are b) for risk management, our stakeholders (see page 9). we one of the original signatories to the see achievements described Principles for Sustainable Insurance, we on pages 21–28; We plan to achieve this by: played an active role in their development. c) for asset management, sharing and advancing our risk In 2011, for example, we hosted a meeting see achievements described expertise with a special focus on at our Centre for Global Dialogue near on pages 28–30. five “Top Topics”, supported by our Zurich, where the results from the global own dialogue platform, the Centre consultation meetings were consolidated Principle 2 for Global Dialogue. into the PSI’s pre-final version. We will work together with our clients and business partners to raise Key actions taken in 2012: Currently, a Swiss Re representative has the awareness of environmental, social and See stakeholder dialogue co-chair of the UN PSI Board and is a governance issues, manage risk and achievements on pages 31–36. member of the UNEP FI Global Steering develop solutions. Committee. Principle 4 As expressed in our “Commitment We will demonstrate accountability and We support the PSI’s call for transparency to Corporate Responsibility”, we transparency in regularly disclosing and disclose our progress on implementing engage in regular dialogue with our publicly our progress in implementing its principles as part of our Corporate clients and other stakeholders, the Principles. Responsibility Report. The box on the right and apply ESG guidelines in our provides references to the relevant sections sourcing activities (see page 9). Beginning this year, we will disclose of the Report for each of the Principles. our progress in implementing the We plan to achieve this by: Principles on an annual basis as an a) interacting with clients and taking integrated part of our Corporate an active role in industry initiatives Responsibility Report. to advance sustainable business practices; For more information on this subject, see www.unepfi.org/psi/ Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 Corporate responsibility in context: funding longer lives Longer lives: a good thing … What the re/insurance industry Moving risk from individuals to insurers can do Annuities are a well-established method of Over recent years, people’s life expectancy addressing longevity risk. In return for a has risen substantially, driven by medical The risk associated with funding longer lump-sum payment – often through assets advances, improved lifestyles and other lives is spread among several stakeholders, built up while saving for retirement – factors. Although there are some counterprincipally governments, employers, people can purchase an income for life at acting trends such as the increased individuals and re/insurers. Recently, retirement. Annuities take many forms, prevalence of obesity, the consensus is that governments and employers have started including joint-life annuities and indexlife expectancy will continue to rise. At the to shift longevity risk to individuals, eg by linked annuities. same time, fertility rates are decreasing in reducing benefits or switching to definedmany countries. The OECD predicts that, contribution plans. As all three of these Moving risk from employer pension as a result, the world’s proportion of people groups are increasingly looking for “defunds to re/insurers aged 65 and over will rise from 7.7% in risking” strategies, the re/insurance industry Pension plans can pay a lump-sum, upfront 2010 to 16.2% by 2050, with many can offer a range of solutions that help premium for a bulk annuity, which pays countries experiencing numbers of 30% them pass on some or all of their longevity the retirement income of a number of their or more. risk (see illustration below). Re/insurers are members who have already retired. This well-placed to do so because they usually removes the investment and inflation risk, hold mortality risk – the risk that people will as well as the longevity risk, from the fund’s … with financial consequences die sooner than expected – which allows trustees. In return, the insurer receives a them to balance two opposing risks. defined amount of assets. The unprecedented increase in life expectancy is a great success story. It Over recent years, re/insurers have does, however, create massive financial developed so-called indemnity longevity challenges, primarily in connection with risk transfer solutions – or indemnity healthcare provision, long-term care and longevity swaps – which transfer only the pension funding. In many countries, longevity risk liabilities from a pension plan employers have traditionally offered to the insurer. The pension plan retains defined-benefit pensions: these schemes control of its investments and assets. These promise to pay employees a certain income insurance-based swaps differ from bulk when they retire, typically at a level based annuities in that they involve premium on their length of service and salary, for payments over a period of, say, 60 years, the rest of their lives. rather than an up-front payment. “Longevity risk” The problem is that the resulting liabilities of Government Insurance industry State pension; Longevity risk transfer solutions Annuity portfolios; these pension fund plans have been consistpublic sector pensions; long-term care ently underestimated, because reserving long-term and medical care has long been based on outdated historical nt assumptions about life expectancy. me ire This “longevity risk” can be substantial: r ret ts fo c underestimating life expectancy by just one nd odu Reduced beneﬁts e ma e pr Longevity risk transfer D om year can increase pension liabilities by up inc solutions and bulk annuities to 5%. In combination with the effects of the recent low interest rate environment, research carried out in 2011 concluded that Individual Closure of deﬁned-beneﬁt Employer the pension schemes of the Global 500 Risk of outliving their assets schemes Deﬁned-beneﬁt pensions; companies were underfunded by 24% on retiree medical beneﬁts average. Source: Swiss Re 66 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate responsibility in context: funding longer lives Over time, this implies a fundamental Indemnity longevity swaps: how they work change in attitudes towards retirement. Recently, there have been a number of significant longevity swap transactions, Rather than an immediate end to a working particularly in the UK. The insurance-based (or indemnity) solution allows pension life, retirement should be seen as a gradual funds and annuity providers to retain control of their assets, while removing their process; labour market reforms such as longevity exposure. These longevity risk transfer solutions may seem complex, but incentives for part-time employment could are effectively a straightforward “outsourcing” of a specific risk. help encourage this important cultural shift. They are similar to bulk annuities, but regular premiums (the “fixed leg”) are payable by the pension plan to the insurer over, say, a 60-year period instead of a single Swiss Re’s contribution upfront payment. In return, the insurer covers annual pension payments until the last member dies – these are the claims (the “floating leg”). In practice, only the net “Funding longer lives” is one of our Top difference is exchanged. Topics: We regularly engage in dialogue and share our risk expertise, for example The transactions to date have all involved very large books of business, but as product through expertise publications and by design and innovation have evolved, solutions suitable for smaller pension funds and organising stakeholder conferences (see annuity books have become available. pages 33–37). But we also offer clients solutions that enable them to transfer longevity risk. Recently, we have completed several such transactions with pension funds in the UK. Moving risk from insurers to reinsurers Over the long term, many believe Insurers have a finite capacity for taking on creating additional capacity will require the longevity risk. In order to free up their development of a capital market for capital to offer further solutions for their longevity risk (see above). Re/insurers have Pioneering Swiss Re longevity customers, they can pass on some of their an important role to play in this: by working swap transactions: risk to a reinsurer. The reinsurer would offer together with governments and industry  GBP 1 billion contract with the a transaction similar to the longevity risk bodies, they can help increase awareness, Royal County of Berkshire Pension transfer solution mentioned above and build confidence and create investor demand. Fund in 2009; enable the insurer to provide more annuities  GBP 1.4 billion contract with one using the resulting freed-up capital. With Transferring longevity risk allows governof Akzo Nobel’s UK pension funds regulations such as Solvency II in Europe, ments and pension funds to plan with in 2012 (see page 16); these solutions will become increasingly certainty, while access to the capital  GBP 800 million contract with important over the next few years. markets would help to keep prices at an pension fund of UK insurer LV = affordable level. It is important to note, in 2012, also covering members Moving risk to the capital markets however, that such solutions will not who have not retired yet Although reinsurers can take on a great eliminate current systems’ lack of long-term (see page 16). deal of longevity risk, they have insufficient sustainability. The scale of the challenge capacity to take on all the risks that may means that no party can provide a solution ultimately be transferred, and would need on its own. to create additional capacity in the longer Sources: term. This could be done by encouraging To ensure that rising life expectancy  A short guide to longer lives: Longevity capital market investors to assume remains a positive trend for society as funding issues and potential solutions longevity risk against a payment of a opposed to becoming a financial  A mature market: Building a capital premium, or coupon. burden, governments, employers and the market for longevity risk re/insurance industry need to work closely together. In addition to encouraging a Funding longer lives – the future capital market for longevity risk, all parties A short guide to longer lives: Longevity funding issues and involved have a responsibility to promote potential solutions A mature market Building a capital market for longevity risk Until now, there has been limited demand sufficient reserving, labour market reform, for reinsurance of longevity risk, so the educate citizens and create structures sector has sufficient capacity for the time and incentives to save. being. But as price expectations between buyers and sellers of longevity risk are Governments, specifically, need to choose converging, demand for reinsurance among three potential interventions: reduce solutions is expected to gradually increase. pension payouts, increase the younger generation’s pension contributions and taxes, or increase the retirement age. The solution will probably be a combination of these, but the most reasonable seems For more information on this subject, see to be aligning retirement ages with life swissre.com/rethinking/longer_lives/ expectancy. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 67 Other Swiss Re publications Our publications provide the gateway to Swiss Re’s broad knowledge base and expertise. They cover a wide range of topics: from technical reinsurance issues and emerging risks to natural perils, economic trends and strategic issues in our industry. This is a selection of recent publications, in addition to those featured on page 37. 5IFIJEEFOSJTLTPGDMJNBUFDIBOHF XJOEPXJOUPUIFGVUVSF OJODSFBTFJOQSPQFSUZEBNBHFGSPN 6OEFSTUBOEJOHBOEQSFEJDUJOHMPOHFWJUZ TPJMTVCTJEFODFJO&VSPQF Closing the financial gap New partnerships between the public and private sectors to finance disaster risks The future of human longevity: breaking the code Conference report Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue A window into the future: The hidden risks of climate Closing the financial gap: New The future of human Understanding and change: An increase in partnerships between the longevity: breaking the code predicting longevity property damage from soil public and private sectors to (Conference report) Unprecedented increases in subsidence in Europe finance disaster risks Societies are living much life expectancy experienced in Property damage from This publication features some longer – but why? It is an recent decades have been drought-induced soil subsiof our most innovative exceedingly complex consistently underestimated, dence has risen dramatically transactions and shows how question, involving biology, causing funding difficulties for across Europe. Climate governments in different medical trends, public health employers, insurers and change will further magnify regions have used risk transfer and lifestyle choices among governments. Forwardthe risks. products to prepare for the others. It also influences looking models will play a vital economic consequences of how we cope with a rapidly role in the overall solution. catastrophic events and make ageing society. their societies more resilient. 68 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Other Swiss Re publications Our publications can be downloaded or ordered at www.swissre.com/library/  1PMMVUJPOSJTLBTTFTTNFOUT 4UBZJOHPOUPQPGGMPPESJTLJO#SB[JM 'BJSSJTLBTTFTTNFOU 5IFGVOEBNFOUBMT JOFNFSHJOHNBSLFUT 1SFWFOUJPO BEBQUBUJPOBOEJOTVSBODF JOMJGFIFBMUIJOTVSBODF PGJOTVSBODFMJOLFETFDVSJUJFT 5SBOTGPSNJOHJOTVSBODFSJTLJOUPUSBOTQBSFOUBOE USBEBCMFDBQJUBMNBSLFUQSPEVDUT Pollution risk assessments Staying on top of flood risk Fair risk assessment in life & The fundamentals of in emerging markets in Brazil: Prevention, health insurance insurance-linked securities Governments expect adaptation and insurance Private insurance relies upon Since its inception in 1996, companies to manage their The population in Brazil the use of objective, relevant the market for insuranceenvironmental risks properly exposed to flood risk is likely and reliable data for insurance linked securities (ILS) has and pay for any damage to surge from 33 million today pricing purposes. This witnessed robust growth caused through negligent to 43 million in 2030. The enables insurers to consider worldwide. Re/insurers, management of these risks. annual expected losses are differences between risks in a governments and Insurers consequently need estimated to rise from way that is fair to consumers corporations continue to to assess companies’ risk USD 1.4 billion to USD 4 billion. and insurers. access capital market management of environPrevention, adaptation and solutions to finance growth, mental hazards, especially in risk transfer measures could manage capital and transfer emerging markets. allow Brazil to avoid pitfalls risk related to extreme events. in its socio-economic development. Country risk management: Making societies more resilient Striking the right balance: Insurance and systemic risk regulation Weathering climate change: Insurance solutions for more resilient communities sigma No 1/2013 Partnering for food security in emerging markets 01 Executive summary 02 What is food security? 14 Food security and agricultural insurance 34 Ensuring food security ahead 40 Conclusion Country risk management: Striking the right balance: Weathering climate change: sigma: the series Making societies more Insurance and systemic risk Insurance solutions for For more than three decades, resilient regulation more resilient communities the sigma series has been a Societies are becoming more As a result of the recent More than 3.4 billion people trusted source of market vulnerable as the risks they financial crisis, systemic risk worldwide are already information for managers and face become more intersupervision is increasing threatened by natural hazards, specialists in direct insurance connected. Integrated risk globally. However, the most of them in the developing companies worldwide. To management can help business model of insurance, world. Climate change could ensure a truly global countries identify and prepare which weathered the crisis make matters even worse. readership, sigma appears in for risks. A country risk officer relatively well, differs Innovative insurance solutions six languages: English, could act as a focal point fundamentally from that of the can help these large German, French, Spanish, in this process and help banking sector. Insurers and populations cope with the Japanese and Chinese. coordinate government and reinsurers, therefore, should growing risks in a changing private sector action. not be subject to systemic risk climate. supervision. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 69 Feature Storys Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich (“Swiss Re”) Introduction  the organizational measures and internal Responsibility of We have been engaged to perform a limited key controls in place at the corporate PricewaterhouseCoopers assurance engagement on the consolidated level regarding aggregation of information Our responsibility is to form an independent CO₂ emissions reporting and a selection obtained from the subsidiaries and conclusion, based on our limited assurance of CR topics and sections disclosed with reporting functions. procedures, on whether anything has come the 2012 Swiss Re Corporate Responsibility to our attention to indicate that the 2012 CR Report for the year ended December 31, Responsibilities of the management Report is not stated, in all material respects, 2012. Swiss Re’s management is responsible in accordance with the reporting criteria. for the selection and application of the Scope and subject matter reporting criteria detailed below: We conducted our engagement in Data and information disclosed with the  “Internal Environmental Performance accordance with the International Standard Corporate Responsibility reporting of Indicators for the Financial Industry” on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3 000, Swiss Re and its consolidated subsidiaries. published by the Verein für “Assurance engagements other than audits Umweltmanagement in Banken, or reviews of historical financial The scope of our work was limited to: Sparkassen und Versicherungen e.V. information”, issued by the International  the management and reporting (VfU) published in 1997; Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. processes with respect to the  “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A This standard requires that we comply with consolidated Corporate Responsibility Corporate Accounting and Reporting ethical requirements and plan and perform (“CR”) reporting as well as the control Standard (Revised Edition)” published in the assurance engagement to obtain limited environment in relation to the 2001 by the World Resources Institute assurance on the identified corporate aggregation of data and information; and the World Business Council for responsibility information.  the consolidated data and information Sustainable Development; disclosed in the sections “Extending our  the framework document “Environmental Summary of work performed risk intelligence” on pages 21 to 30, Performance Indicators Reporting at Our procedures included examination, on “Reducing our environmental footprint” Swiss Re”, version 2012; and a test basis, of evidence relevant to the on pages 38 to 45 and “Being an  the defined internal guidelines, by which identified CR data and information. It also employer of choice” on pages 54 to 61; CR data and information are gathered, included an assessment of the significant  the consolidated CO₂ emissions 2012 collated and aggregated internally. estimates and judgments made by the (Scope 1, 2 and business travel-related management in the preparation of the Scope 3 in adherence with the The Swiss Re management is responsible identified CR data and information. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol) of the table for both the preparation and the evidence-gathering procedures were more entitled “CO₂ emissions per employee presentation of the selected data and limited than they would be on a reasonable (full-time equivalent, FTE), Swiss Re information disclosed with the CR reporting assurance engagement and, so, less Group” on page 39 in the 2012 CR in accordance with the reporting criteria assurance was obtained than would be on Report comprising power, heating and such organizational measures and a reasonable assurance engagement. and business travel for the period of internal key controls as determined October 1, 2011 till September 30, necessary to enable the preparation of the In our engagement we performed the 2012; CR reporting to be fairly presented. This following procedures:  the retirement of 43 000 tones of CO₂ e responsibility comprises the arrangement,  evaluating the CR reporting and (CO₂ equivalents) described on page 40 implementation and maintenance of underlying performance indicators by of the 2012 CR Report; and adequate records and internal controls that performing analytical procedures and are designed to support the CR reporting interviewing selected key contacts to processes. assess whether the internal 70 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich (“Swiss Re”) Environmental Performance Indicators  reviewing the relevant documentation Limited assurance conclusion Reporting guidelines and CR guidance on a sample basis, including Swiss Re’s With reference to the identified subject were consistently applied by the selected CR-related policies, the management of matter information, and based on our work locations (Japan, China, Hong Kong, reporting structures, the documentation performed, nothing has come to our India, Italy, US, UK, Germany); and systems used to collect, analyse and attention that causes us to believe that:  reconciling the CO₂ emissions data for aggregate reported CR data and  the Swiss Re internal corporate energy consumption and business travel information; responsibility reporting guidelines are not and CR data and information to the data  reviewing the appropriateness of the applied in all material respects, in used for the internal CR emissions management and reporting processes accordance with the reporting criteria; reporting of the selected locations; for CR reporting; and assessing the  the internal reporting processes to collect  performing enquiries of personnel processing and consolidation of data at and aggregate CR data and information responsible for internal CR reporting and Swiss Re’s Group level; and is not functioning as designed and does data collection at the Swiss Re corporate  reviewing the retirement of 43 000 not provide an appropriate basis for the level to evaluate the reporting and tonnes CO₂ e verified emission presentation of CR data and information, aggregation process and to assess its reductions (VER) according to the in all material respects; appropriateness; Voluntary Carbon Standard or Gold  the CR data and information disclosed in  assessing whether the methodology Standard. the 2012 CR Report is not stated, in all applied by Swiss Re is in line with the material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria; We believe that the evidence we have reporting criteria; and  performing tests on a sample basis of obtained is sufficient and appropriate to  the CO₂ emissions data and information evidence supporting selected CR data provide a basis for our limited assurance disclosed in the 2012 CR Report is not and information (Sensitive Business Risk conclusion. stated, in all material respects, in process, management of emerging and accordance with the reporting criteria. political risks, responsible investment, Inherent limitations HR data and information, diversity The accuracy and completeness of CR data & inclusion, development & training, and information are subject to inherent Zurich, 31 May 2013 compensation & benefits, energy limitations given their nature and methods consumption, business travel, other for determining, calculating and estimating PricewaterhouseCoopers AG environmental data, Group sourcing, such data. Our limited assurance report construction management) to assess should therefore be read in connection with their completeness, accuracy, adequacy Swiss Re’s internal guidelines, definitions and consistency; and procedures on the reporting of its CR Marc Schmidli Stephan Hirschi performance. Future orientated data and information were not part of our assurance scope. We do not provide any assurance on statements out of our scope. Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 71 Feature Storys Memberships, awards and index listings Listed here is a selection of Swiss Re’s most important memberships, recent awards and index listings with regard to corporate responsibility. Memberships Clinton Global Initiative Öbu (“Ecologically conscious Established in 2005 by President Bill enterprises” network) Carbon Disclosure Project Clinton, the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) Öbu is a Swiss think tank for sustainability The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is convenes global leaders to devise and and management topics. It carries an independent not-for-profit organisation implement innovative solutions to some out projects focusing on corporate and holding the largest database of of the world’s most pressing challenges. economic policy, and promotes primary corporate climate change www.clintonglobalinitiative.org experience-sharing among its members. information in the world. It acts on behalf www.oebu.ch of 551 institutional investors, holding ICRC Corporate Support Group USD 71 trillion in assets under management The ICRC Corporate Support Group is an Principles for Responsible Insurance and some 60 purchasing organisations. innovative and long-term partnership set Developed by the UN Environment www.cdproject.net up by the International Committee of the Programme’s Finance Initiative, the Red Cross (ICRC) and a group of selected Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) Chief Risk Officer Forum Swiss companies. The members of the are a framework for the global insurance The Chief Risk Officer Forum is a Corporate Support Group have committed industry to address environmental, social professional risk management group that themselves to supporting the ICRC’s and governance risks and opportunities. focuses on developing and promoting humanitarian work in the years ahead. Currently, a Swiss Re representative has the industry best practices in risk management. www.icrc.org co-chair of the UN PSI Board. The forum was formed in 2004 to work www.unepfi.org/psi on key relevant risk management issues International Risk Governance Council within the insurance industry. IRGC is an independent organisation whose The Climate Group www.thecroforum.org purpose is to help the understanding and The Climate Group is an independent, management of global risks that impact on not-for-profit organisation working ClimateWise human health and safety, the environment, internationally with government and ClimateWise is the collaborative insurance the economy and society at large. business leaders to advance smart policies initiative through which members aim www.irgc.org and technologies to cut global emissions to work together to respond to the myriad and accelerate a clean industrial revolution. risks and opportunities of climate change. Klimastiftung Schweiz www.theclimategroup.org A member of Swiss Res Board of Directors (Swiss Climate Foundation) currently acts as Chairman of ClimateWise. The Swiss Climate Foundation is a nonwww.climatewise.org.uk profit foundation that directly champions the cause of climate protection in Switzerland, helping to fund small and medium enterprises that are proactive in their approach to reducing CO2 emissions. Swiss Re is one of the foundation’s members and is sponsoring its managing director. www.swiss-climate-foundation.ch 72 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Feature Storys awards Memberships, | Our newand holding index structure listings The Geneva Association Recent awards Selected index The Geneva Association is a leading international insurance think tank for strategically Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical listings and ratings important insurance and risk management Companies in 2012 issues. It identifies fundamental trends For the fourth consecutive year, Swiss Re Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, and strategic issues where insurance plays has been recognised as one of the world’s insurance sector leader a substantial role or which influence the most ethical companies by Ethisphere, a insurance sector. leading international think tank. www.genevaassociation.org ILS Advisor of the Year 2012 The Sustainability Forum Zürich Our ILS team won Reactions Magazine’s The Sustainability Forum Zürich (TSF) “ILS Advisor of the Year ” award for a Ethibel Sustainability Index is an independent, non-profit, non-partisan second consecutive year, due to a number Excellence Global association that was founded in Zurich of innovative deals and the high volume by leading representatives from the fields of issuances closed in 2012. of business, science and the public authorities. It focuses on sustainability Global 100 Most Sustainable topics relevant to the financial market. Companies 2011 www.sustainability-zurich.org Swiss Re was once again included in this data-driven corporate sustainability UNEP Finance Initiative assessment by Corporate Knights Inc. FTSE4Good Index Series UNEP FI is a global partnership between UNEP and the financial sector. Over MiCRO named “Company Launch of the 190 institutions, including banks, insurers Year” in 2011 by the Review magazine and fund managers, work with UNEP to The Microinsurance Catastrophe Risk understand the impacts of environmental Organisation (MiCRO), of whom we and social considerations on financial are a founding partner, was called “the performance. most significant new venture in an oekom research, Prime investment www.unepfi.org area of need”. status World Economic Forum Risk Response Intelligent Insurer Magazine award for Network “Global Best ILS Advisor” in 2011 The World Economic Forum’s Risk Based on the views of 13 000 readers, Response Network (RRN) aims to address we won this award for our performance the new world of risk we live in. Uniquely as the top service provider in the ILS placed to catalyse a response to this new market, alongside three awards in the landscape, the World Economic Forum’s main reinsurance category. RRN provides a platform to better understand, manage and respond to complex, interdependent risk. www.weforum.org Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 73 Feature Storys GRI content index with UN Global Compact “Communication on Progress” references This content index refers to the Global We have self-declared our reporting Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines to be Application Level B. for Sustainability Reporting. The guidelines form a voluntary framework setting out References to the UN Global Compact principles and indicators that companies principles addressed as part of our can use to measure and report their Communication on Progress (COP) are economic, environmental and social incorporated into the GRI content index, performance. in line with UN recommendations. UN Global Compact principle Page Profile Strategy and analysis 1.1 Chairman’s and CEO’s statement Statement of continuing support 2–3 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 10, 14, 22, 31-34 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation 4 2.2 Brands, products and services 4–6 2.3 Operational structure 7, FR 210–213 2.4 Headquarter location 4 2.5 Countries of operation 4–5 2.6 Nature of ownership 4, FR 60–65 2.7 Markets served 4–5, FR 198–208 2.8 Scale of the organisation 7, 54, FR 20–35 2.9 Signiﬁcant organisational changes 4, BR 2 2.10 Awards received 73 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period 11 3.2 Most recent previous report 11 3.3 Reporting cycle 11 3.4 Contact point 77 3.5 Content deﬁnition 10 3.6 Boundary of the report 10 3.7 Limitations on the report’s scope 10 3.8 Reporting on other entities 10 3.9 Data measurement techniques 39, 41, 56, 70–71 3.12 GRI content index 74–76 3.13 External assurance 70–71 BR = 2012 Business Report; FR = 2012 Financial Report 74 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Feature GRI content Storysindex, | Ourwith newUN holding Global structure Compact “Communication on Progress” references UN Global Compact principle Page Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure 62–63, FR 58, 66–79 4.2 Independence of chairman FR 66–67 4.3 Independence of board members 62-63, FR 66–74 4.4 Shareholder and employee representation 63, FR 86–87 4.5 Executive compensation FR 93–116 4.6 Conﬂicts of interests 62–63, FR 58, 66–74 4.8 Mission statements and Code of Conduct 9, 63 4.9 Governance procedures on CR 10 4.11 Precautionary approach principle 7 8–10, 21–30 4.12 Externally developed charters and principles 2, 24, 28, 64–65 4.13 Memberships 72–73 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 9, 31 4.15 Stakeholder identiﬁcation 29 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 9, 24, 27, 31 Management approach and performance indicators Product and service impact Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure on our management approach to product and service impact in the two chapters “Creating solutions for sustainability” and “Extending our risk intelligence”. FS1 Environmental and social policies in business lines 1, 2, 7–9 9, 14, 21 FS2 Screening of environmental and social risks 1, 2 and 8 22–24, 28 FS4 Environmental and social training for staﬀ 1, 2 and 8 24 FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners 1 and 2 14, 24 FS7 Products with speciﬁc social beneﬁt 14–20, 66–67 FS8 Products with speciﬁc environmental beneﬁt 7 and 8 14–20 FS11 Environmental and social screening in asset management 28-30 Economic dimension Disclosure on management approach: Our management approach to the economic dimension is primarily disclosed in the 2012 Business Report. Specific aspects (“implications of climate change” and “indirect economic impacts”) are disclosed in this report in the “Who we are and what we do”, “Creating solutions for sustainability” and “Exploring and shaping the risk landscape” chapters. EC1 Direct economic value generated 7, FR 120–126, 181 EC2 Implications of climate change 7 14–19, 32–33 EC3 Beneﬁt plan obligations FR 185–192 EC9 Indirect economic impacts 6, 14–20 Environmental dimension Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure on our management approach to the environmental dimension in the chapter “Reducing our environmental footprint”. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 8 42 EN2 Recycled materials used 8 and 9 42 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 8 39–40 EN5 Energy conservation and efﬁciency 8 and 9 40 EN6 Initiatives to use renewable energy 8 and 9 39 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 8 and 9 40, 43–44 EN8 Total water withdrawal 8 42 EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions 8 39 EN17 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 8 39 FR = 2012 Financial Report Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 75 GRI Feature content Storys index, with UN Global Compact “Communication on Progress” references UN Global Compact principle Page EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 and 9 38–41, 43–44 EN22 Total weight of waste 8 42 EN29 Environmental impact of transport 8 39–40 Labour practices and decent work Disclosure on management approach: Our management approach to labour practices and decent work is disclosed in the chapter “Being an employer of choice”. LA1 Breakdown of workforce 54–56 LA2 Employee turnover 6 54 LA7 Number of lost days 60 LA8 Training on serious diseases 1 59 LA12 Performance review 61 LA13 Workforce diversity 1 and 6 54–56 Human rights Disclosure on management approach: We address human rights aspects relevant to our business through our Sustainability Risk Framework and our sourcing guidelines. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Extending our risk intelligence” and “Reducing our environmental footprint”, respectively. HR2 Supplier screening on human rights 1–6 42–43 HR6 Child labour 1, 2 and 5 22, 42 HR7 Forced or compulsory labour 1, 2 and 4 22, 42 Society Disclosure on management approach: We address society aspects relevant to our business through our business solutions, Group Code of Conduct and stakeholder dialogue. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Creating solutions for sustainability”, “Ensuring good governance” and “Exploring and shaping the risk landscape”, respectively. FS14 Access to ﬁnancial services for disadvantaged people 14, 17–20 SO3 Anti-corruption training 10 63 SO5 Public policy positions 31 Product responsibility We consider the definition of product responsibility in the GRI guidelines to be of little relevance for a company providing business-to-business services in the financial industry, and hence provide no information in this area. 76 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Contact details Contact address Sustainability & Political Risk Management David Bresch Telephone +41 43 285 6361 Fax +41 43 282 6361 David_Bresch@swissre.com Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 77 © 2013 Swiss Re. All rights reserved. Title: 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Committed to sustainable value creation Production: Sustainability & Political Risk Management Group Communications Graphic design and production: Swiss Re Corporate Real Estate & Logistics/ Media Production, Zurich Writing and editing: Stefan Moser/Swiss Re Additional editing: Orla Harte/Swiss Re Picture editor: Karin Giger (Giger Creative Services) Printing: Photographs: Multicolor Print AG, Baar Mike Theiss, Getty Images (Cover, back cover) Geri Krischker (p 3) Swiss Re/Getty Images (p 6, left and right), Swiss Re/Keystone (p 6, middle) Swiss Re (p 15) Thierry Br/Godong, Keystone (p 18) Frederic Soreau, Keystone (p 19) AP Sepah News/Keystone (p 21) Gaetan Bally, Keystone (p 26) Solar Impulse: Jean Revillard (p 32) Swiss Re/Getty Images (p 33) This report is printed on sustainably produced paper. Peter Himsel/Swiss Re (p 35) The wood used comes from forests certified to South Pole Carbon (p 41) 100% by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Daniel Spehr/Swiss Re (p 43) WOTR (p 47) Visit www.swissre.com to Konkuey Design Initiative (p 49) download or to order additional Satoshi Sakairi/Swiss Re (p 51) copies of Swiss Re publications. Theodore Wood Photography (p 53) Andreas Meier/Swiss Re (p 55) Order no: 1490937_13_EN Tatiana Orlicka/ Swiss Re (p 59) 06/13, 5000 en 78 Swiss Re 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Swiss Re Ltd Mythenquai 50/60 P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com
