CSR report 2012 2 STOCKMANN csr report 2012 contents 3 Stockmann Group in brief 4 CEO’s review 5 Responsible acts in 2012 6 CSR strategy and vision 8 Key stakeholders and distribution of added value 11 10 Responsibility for personnel 14 Responsible products and the supply chain 3 1 18 Environmental responsibility 2 22 Financial responsibility 5 4 26 Reporting principles 6 27 GRI content comparison 7 8 9 10 Stockmann is a Finnish listed company engaged period was EUR 53.6 million and earnings per 12 in the retail trade. Its business divisions are the share came to EUR 0.74. Stockmann plc shares 13 14 Department Store Division and the Fashion Chain are listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. The company has almost 60 000 shareholders. Division. Stockmann was established in 1862 and The Stockmann Group has 16 department stocelebrated its 150th anniversary in 2012. The res and over 700 other stores in 16 countries. In Group’s revenue in the anniversary year was up by 2012 operations expanded to Croatia and Serbia, 5.5 per cent, to EUR 2 116 million. This was the first where Lindex franchising stores were opened. year ever when revenue from international operaOperations in Ukraine were discontinued, when tions was higher than revenue from Finland. the two Seppälä stores located there were closed Stockmann Group’s operating profit increased down in October. The Stockmann Group has six to EUR 87.3 million in 2012. Revenue and operapurchasing offices in five Asian countries. The 15 ting profit increased most in Russia. Profit for the company headquarters are located in Helsinki. 16 Countries with stores: 1 Finland, 2 Sweden, 3 Norway, 4 Russia, 5 Estonia, 6 Latvia, 7 Lithuania, 8 Poland, 9 Czech Republic, 10 Slovakia, 11 Iceland, 12 Croatia, 13 Bosnia and Herzegovina, 14 Serbia, 15 Saudi Arabia, 16 United Arab Emirates. Purchasing offices: Bangladesh, India, China, Pakistan and Turkey. Online stores: Lindex (EU countries and Norway), Seppälä (Finland), Stockmann, Hobby Hall and Academic Bookstore (Finland). 3 Stockmann Group in brief STOCKMANN csr report 2012 Stockmann REVENUE BY MARKET 2012 International leader in retailing The Stockmann Group has customer-focused and profit-oriented operations. Its expertise in the department store business and fashion retailing is very strong. 50% Finland Diverse Department Store Division 2012 Lindex had 469 stores in 16 countries. Its this, Stockmann’s presence in its supplier coun25% Sweden and Norway focused on its core business range covers a variety of fashion concepts within tries increases the company’s ability to ensure that 18% Russia Stockmann’s 16 department stores in four counwomen’s and children’s wear, lingerie, and cosits suppliers’ factories have good and safe working 7% Baltic countries and Central Europe tries offer an extensive and high-quality product metics. Lindex’s business idea is to offer inspiring conditions. There are social responsibility experts range, a competitive price/quality ratio, and excelaffordable fashion. At the end of 2012 the Seppälä in every purchasing office. They monitor producREVENUE BY DIVISION 2012 lent and professional customer service in an inspirfashion chain had 220 stores in Finland, Russia, tion processes and the responsibility of the operaing shopping environment with an international and the Baltic countries. Seppälä offers a diverse tions. ambience. The Department Store Division also and affordable fashion product range to women, Stockmann’s operations in every country comincludes Hobby Hall’s online store, mail order children, and men. Seppälä’s brand renewal began ply with local laws and regulations and are in sales and store, the Nevsky Centre shopping cenin 2012, and the fashion chain’s target is to be the accordance with the Group’s core values and tre in St Petersburg, Academic Bookstores, Stockbold challenger in international fashion markets. guidelines. mann Beauty cosmetics stores, and Stockmann The Fashion Chain Division’s revenue grew in The Group’s growing international operations and Academic Bookstore online stores. Stocktotal by 6.0 per cent and was EUR 814 million. also pose challenges for resolute anti-corruption 62% Department Store Division mann ended its loss-making Bestseller franchising Lindex accounted for 82 per cent of the division’s action. Stockmann has prepared guidelines for 38% Fashion Chain Division operations in Russia in 2012. The Zara franchising revenue. The division’s operating profit was EUR personnel in situations of abuse and conflicts of operations in Finland were discontinued in spring 50.0 million, up EUR 7.3 million from the previous interest. In addition, Stockmann is a founding REVENUE BY MERCHANDISE SECTOR 2012 2013. year. member of Transparency Suomi ry, the Finnish In 2012 the Department Store Division’s revenue chapter of Transparency International, an organizaincreased by 5.3 per cent to EUR 1 302.7 million. Purchasing offices monitor buying tion that works to combat international bribery and Operating profit was EUR 48.0 million, up EUR and production corruption. Transparency International operates in 12.8 million from the previous year. Stockmann Group’s purchasing offices are located 90 countries. in China, Hong Kong, India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Seppälä and Lindex combined their and Turkey. They purchase the garments for Linforces to achieve success dex, Seppälä and the Department Store Division’s Stockmann Group’s organisational structure was own fashion brands from a network of about 500 67% Fashion and cosmetics renewed in 2012 when Lindex and Seppälä formed factories. 14% Food a new Fashion Chain Division. Lindex is one of the Close relations with garment suppliers provide 9% Leisure leading fashion chains in Europe. At the end of an important competitive advantage. In addition to 7% Home 3% Books, publications, stationery 4 CEO’s review STOCKMANN csr report 2012 STOCKMANN 150 YEARS TAKING RESPONSIBILITY EVERY DAY Stockmann has been operating in the retail trade ing in 2012, Stockmann was able to report reasonexpanding the number of loyal customers very for just over 150 years. The company has always able earnings. The earnings growth allowed us to significantly. The Group’s combined total of loyal taken a responsible approach to its business, pay our shareholders a higher dividend than the customers now exceeds seven million. which began in 1862 with the opening of Stockprevious year, and we also offered significant One of our key strengths is that we have longmann’s first store in Helsinki. Over the years the financial added value to our other key stakestanding partnerships with our suppliers. Working company has grown into an international corpoholders. with key stakeholders over many years produces rate group with more than 700 stores in 16 counDespite this, the way ahead for 2013 is not simadded value for both parties. To improve our cortries. Responsibility has also become global. To be ple. Europe’s financial crisis is still unresolved, porate social responsibility work, we shall be carryable to provide responsible shopping experiences consumer confidence has weakened and the ing out a stakeholder survey during 2013, which is for our customers – millions of people daily – we markets are uncertain. What is more, the slackenaimed at deepening our understanding of responstrive to ensure the safety and quality of the proding of growth in the economy means that all retail sibility work and focusing on the wishes of stakeucts on sale and the responsibility of the supply operators are under pressure to cut their costs. It is holders. We will continue to work closely with our chain. essential that our cost structure is in right proporpersonnel, customers and other stakeholders for a Throughout its history Stockmann has been a tion to revenue growth. Therefore we launched a sustainable future. leader in corporate social responsibility and in major cost savings programme in April 2013, which taking the needs of its personnel into account. In will have an effect on our employees in particular Finland we have been an innovator in matters such in Finland. Helsinki, 25 April 2013 as employee health care and children’s day care, and in codetermination between employer and Loyal and long-serving partners employees. We also made history in 2012: our Customer orientation is one of Stockmann’s core climate reporting was recognised when Stockvalues and underlies the company’s sustained mann gained first place in the Nordic Consumer success. I am very pleased that our skilled and Discretionary sector of the Climate Disclosure committed personnel know how to provide the Leadership Index. We intend to continue as leaders right service and products for our customers. Solid Hannu Penttilä in environmental matters, and during 2013 we will customer loyalty creates opportunities to succeed CEO be taking our good practices and environmental even in commercially challenging times. management models to new Stockmann’s operatPurchases by our loyal customers form a consiing countries. derable proportion of total sales, which means we shall continue to focus on staff training to ensure Reasonable financial result we can provide an enhanced customer experience. Although the operating environment was challengDuring the anniversary year, we succeeded in 5 Responsible acts in 2012 STOCKMANN csr report 2012 Highlights of responsible operations in 2012 Council (MSC) certification, an international labellaunched in April. Eco-friendly materials are Department Store Division ling system for sustainable fish products. In addition favoured in the clothes. Lindex launched a collection to this, Stockmann’s central kitchen was granted ISO in September in cooperation with Missoni, the 22000 certification for food safety management. Italian fashion house. The collection was a success Awards More about the new certificates on pages 15 and 17. in many different ways. 10 per cent from the sales of the Lindex Missoni products were donated to the First place in the Nordic Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index in Building success together Pink Ribbon Fund in full. Lindex donated a total of Consumer Discretionary series. Thousands of Stockmann employees participated in EUR 1.8 million in 2012 to fund breast cancer Second best reputation in the retail a value discussion of the Department Store Division. research and the battle against breast cancer. The sector in Finland in the Finnish The results of the value discussion that began in donated amount almost doubled from 2011. More Corporate Reputation and Respon2011, as well as the new value courage, were pubabout the responsible product selections on page 14. sibility survey 2012 by TNS Gallup. Environmental management system lished in the autumn. The jointly assembled values Fourth place in consultant and in use for 10 years support the Department Store Division’s vision of HER project increases research company Universum’s The ISO 14001 environmental management system being the best European department store chain. young women’s well-being Finland’s Ideal Employers 2012 has been in use in the Department Store Division in More about our personnel practices on page 10. Stockmann Group aims to increase local well-being survey among students from the Finland for 10 years already. Environmental operaby working in cooperation with different stakeholdfield of economics. tions have been developed on the basis of a long ers. In 2012, Lindex commenced a new project in Hobby Hall the best contact centre term approach, and the department stores’ sorting Fashion Chain Division co-operation with BSR (Business for Social Responfor 2012 in Finland. rates are among the best in the retail sector. More sibility). The Health Enables Returns (HER) project More about the awards on page 25. about our environmental responsibility on page 18. focuses on young women’s health and well-being in two factories in Bangladesh and Pakistan. More New certificates about the local operations on page 15. Stockmann Delicatessen’s fresh fish counters were Responsible collections the first in Finland to receive Marine Stewardship Seppälä’s new baby clothing collection was 6 CSR Strategy and Vision STOCKMANN csr report 2012 STRATEGY For a more sustainable future · Responsibility is one of the company’s which is supported by the guidelines, operating poliwell-being. The company’s responsibility also extends core values. cies and training. indirectly to the supply chain, product manufacturing · Responsibility work is guided by the corporate The responsibility for implementing, developing and product safety. We are social responsibility strategy and policy, and and monitoring CSR within the Stockmann Group lies Stockmann celebrated its 150th anniversary committed the 10 principles of the United Nations Global with Stockmann’s Corporate Social Responsibility together with stakeholders. As is customary, medals to work Compact initiative. Steering Group, whose Chairman is Maisa Romaof merit were awarded to long-serving employees. In · The guidelines and operating policies ensure nainen, Executive Vice President and Director of the this anniversary year, a total of 564 employees for a more responsible operations in day-to-day activity. Department Store Division. Matters and proposals received a medal of merit, 54 of whom had more than sustainable future. discussed by the Steering Group are prepared by the 30 years’ service with the company. In 2012, the Responsibility has formed an important part of the Group’s CSR Working Group. Group’s organisational structure was revised and We offer Stockmann Group’s business operations for over 150 resulted in new job descriptions being created at our customers years since the company was founded. Responsibility Corporate social responsibility goals Seppälä and Lindex. Through an active internal labour responsible is one of the company’s core values. Stockmann The goals of the Stockmann Group’s CSR strategy are market, new career opportunities were offered shopping operates in a highly ethical manner, complying with divided into the following categories: People (social throughout the Group to hundreds of employees. experiences. international laws and regulations and with the responsibility), Planet (environmental responsibility) One of the challenges for Stockmann Group, and national laws and regulations in the countries in which and Profit (financial responsibility). The extent to the entire retail sector, is responsibility across the it operates. Stockmann’s operations are also guided which the goals under the focus areas are achieved is supply chain. The Stockmann Group has six fashion by international agreements and recommendations. measured and monitored regularly. In 2013, the focus purchasing offices in five countries (China, India, The CSR strategy, which was approved in 2011, areas will also be discussed in conjunction with an Bangladesh, Pakistan and Turkey). Stockmann’s supports the goals of business operations and extensive stakeholder analysis. presence in its supplier countries increases the comimproves efficiency. Stockmann’s vision is to be a The Stockmann Group provides information about pany’s ability to ensure that its suppliers’ factories leader in the retail trade. We are committed to working its responsible operations transparently and regularly have good and safe working conditions. Since 2005, for a sustainable future, and we offer our customers on an annual basis in its CSR report, and about clithe Stockmann Group has also been a member of the responsible shopping experiences. mate change management in the Carbon Disclosure Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), which The company’s responsibility work is based on the Project (CDP) report, and on the company’s website aims to develop and monitor social responsibility in CSR strategy and policy, and the 10 principles of the at stockmanngroup.com. the supply chain. UN Global Compact. In accordance with the UN Global Compact initiative, Stockmann promotes People –responsibility with individuals Planet – we work for the good of the human rights, labour rights, environmental work and and entities environment anti-corruption measures. Responsibility is a part of The goals of the social dimension of CSR focus parStockmann’s environmental objectives concern every employee’s daily work and decision-making, ticularly on our own personnel and their training and management of the environmental impacts of busi7 CSR Strategy and Vision STOCKMANN csr report 2012 ness operations, systematic consideration of environmanage risks with the help of the risk management efficiency. To ensure that Stockmann’s divisions can People mental aspects in procuring goods and services for the Group’s own use, and inclusion of responsible principles confirmed by the Board of Directors and with the unit and function-specific guidelines. fulfil their longer term operating potential, they must take natural resource sustainability and raw material We show respect for our people products in the product selection. For Stockmann, 2012 was characterised by the availability issues into account. Close cooperation Our personnel is aware and In 2012 in the Stockmann Group’s Fashion Chain uncertain economic situation and the difficulty in with the Group’s own brand designers and the purtrained in CSR Division, Seppälä successfully launched a baby colpredicting the outlook. The company’s near-term chasing offices is one way of seeking to ensure that Responsibly and lection that favours ecological materials. Lindex’s challenges are also connected closely with the general from the product planning stage onwards the selected fairly produced goods customers bought considerably more products made economic situation and consumer behaviour. Cusmaterials and the product manufacturing process We fulfil the product safety laws with responsible materials than before. During 2012, tomer expectations in regard to product selections have a minimal adverse impact on the environment. If and regulations as well as meet Lindex had in its selection 8.9 million products made and types of services offered are growing. This is the availability of existing raw materials and finished the self imposed requirements from organic cotton or recycled fibre. The responsible creating growth opportunities for the Group’s online products deteriorates, the importance of eco-friendly selections at Stockmann department stores in Finland stores and for expanding the range of responsible products and especially recycled materials will grow have also been expanded, for example through the products. further. In addition, changes in the operating environPlanet MSC certification for the Delicatessen food departLong-term risks associated with climate change ment as a result of climate change, for example ments’ fish counters. include increases in energy prices and the availability through droughts and floods, may have an impact on Stockmann department stores in Finland are of raw materials. Stockmann is constantly developing procurement sources in the future, and for certain We work to reduce our impact investing in energy efficiency through various volunits climate-positive operations and is searching for product groups it may lead to an expansion of local on the environment tary measures and projects and agreements. In envinew, cost-effective solutions for improving energy purchasing. Sustainable procurement ronmental matters, Stockmann’s Finnish department We offer our customers stores lead the way in the Department Store Division. As part of the Department Store sustainable products The next goal is to introduce these successful and Division’s value discussion, an online as a part of our assortments efficient environmental practices to the Baltic coundiscussion involving the different tries. countries of operation was arranged in which senior management invited Profit – we are profitable all employees to take part. Around Financial responsibility means good financial 1 350 people participated in the Profit management that meets shareholders’ profit expectations, creates permanent jobs and generates economic well-being extensively for the whole of discussion, which was held on the intranet over two days, and nearly 500 comments and questions were Our CSR work supports our society. In 2012, Stockmann’s financial performance submitted. core business targets and strengthens our brand position was reasonably good in a demanding market environPlanner Minna Mähönen particiment. Stockmann’s longer-term objective is to pated in the art workshop about the Charity programs continue achieving profitable growth. company values in the department Stockmann is recognized as a store day which was arranged in responsible and transparent Operating challenges and opportunities autumn 2012 in Finland. Altogether company among investors In all operations, the aim is to take social impacts into around 440 pieces of art were made account and to make use of opportunities, and to in the workshop. 8 Stockmann Group’s stakeholders STOCKMANN csr report 2012 Key stakeholders and distribution of added value In the 2012 financial year, the Stockmann Group’s several of the Group’s countries of operation. The successful operations brought economic added value to all its During its 150th anniversary year, Stockmann Lindex Missoni key stakeholders: customers, employees, sharesupported a range of projects including the Clean collection and the holders and investors, goods suppliers and Baltic Sea project of the John Nurminen FoundaPink Ribbon service providers, public authorities and organition, the Four Generations Meet challenge camcooperation raised sations. The key stakeholders were identified and paign organised by the Central Union for the Welan unprecedented selected in conjunction with drawing up the corpofare of the Aged, and HelsinkiMissio’s Save a amount to breast rate social responsibility strategy. Generation campaign. Stockmann’s involvement cancer research. Stockmann works closely with its key stakeholwith charity organisations is guided by its donation ders and makes its expertise available to its stakeprocedures, which can be found on the company’s holders through various working groups and initiawebsite. tives. Stockmann strives to promote sustainable The Group’s divisions may support worthy caudevelopment and to increase stakeholders’ underses in their commercial campaigns, the most Improving standing and awareness of responsibility issues. prominent example of which is Lindex’s cooperation with the cancer fund’s Pink Ribbon campaign. stakeholder Creation of economic added value Stockmann is a major employer, purchaser of Lindex donated a total of EUR 1.8 million in 2012 to fund breast cancer research and the battle against cooperation products and services, investor, taxpayer and breast cancer. The donated amount almost The Stockmann Group will carry partner. The breakdown of the added value from doubled from 2011. out an extensive stakeholder Stockmann’s operations is presented in the table analysis in 2013 on the next page. Stockmann’s 150th birthday was celebrated in The majority of the economic added value goes February 2012 in a variety of ways. The into personnel salaries and other remuneration. In Helsinki city centre department store hosted a 2012, Stockmann employed an average of 15 603 special event for more than 7 000 First loyal people, who were paid EUR 361 million in salaries, the aim of which is to determine customers and other stakeholders. The other remuneration and pension contributions. the views and wishes of the key company’s success and long history were As part of its corporate social responsibility, stakeholders regarding the celebrated with the staff of the Department Stockmann also makes donations to worthy cauStockmann Group’s CSR and its Store Division in Finland for example with a ses each year. The goal of these donations is to reporting. celebratory lunch. support education, culture, research and other social projects across Finland and extending to 9 Stockmann Group’s stakeholders STOCKMANN csr report 2012 distribution of economic added value to different stakeholders EUR million 2012 2011 2010 Producing added value Customers* Sales exluding VAT, other operating income, 2 118.8 2 006.1 1 830.1 financial income One of our core values is customer orientation, which guides us strongly to put our customers’ needs first. We want to improve our dialogue with our customers and better understand their needs and expectations towards Stockmann. Goods suppliers and service providers* Costs of goods, materials and service -1 610.4 -1 533.8 -1 474.8 purchased, includes capital goods and paid rents We commit our suppliers and providers to our responsibility work. We collaborate with them to develop our partnerships in order to ensure good business environment conditions for all and the best possible service to our customers. Added value produced by Stockmann 508.4 472.3 355.3 Distribution of added value Personnel* Salaries, wages and pension contributions -361.0 -348.6 -324.0 Stockmann is a good place to work. Our working atmosphere is great and we try to continuously improve it. We value our personnel and their commitment to the company. We reward success. Our goal is to be a For the customer: over 15 million customers sought-after employer on the labour market. visit the Stockmann flagship store in the Shareholders Dividends -43.2 -35.9 -58.3 Helsinki city centre annually. Investors Financial expenses -34.2 -34.9 -22.8 Stockmann wants to be an attractive and sought-after investment target on the capital market. We have rewarded our Loyal Customers and gained a substantial amount of new shareholders by organising Loyal Customer share option programmes. Public sector* Other social security payments, taxes -45.4 -46.4 -33.7 We work actively with the authorities and various organisations. We network and promote sustainable future. Distributed to stakeholders in total -483.8 -465.8 -438.8 Retained in the company to develop operations 24.6 6.5 -83.5 *Accounting principles have been adjusted to better meet the GRI guidelines. 10 People – Responsibility with individuals and entities STOCKMANN csr report 2012 People Responsibility for personnel • Over 500 long-serving employees were Director, who is responsible for the company’s human lish a European Works Council (EWC) in the Stockawarded a medal of merit. resources matters, was appointed a member of the mann Group and negotiations between the employer • Department store supervisors received more Group’s Management Committee. and trade unions on the issue have commenced. If an Stockmann than 600 days of coaching. The implementation of good HR practices is moniagreement on the EWC’s activity was concluded group’s • Cooperation between Seppälä and Lindex tored through regular personnel surveys, performance during 2013, it would begin to operate in 2014. core values: strengthened due to the establishment of the reviews and other feedback channels. For example, Two employee representatives participate in meetFashion Chain Division. an extensive discussion of values was held in the ings of Stockmann’s Board of Directors. One of these Profit orientation Department Store Division in 2012, and this resulted representatives is elected by the employee representCustomer orientation The Stockmann Group is a major employer, and the in the division’s values being revised. In 2013, the atives of Stockmann’s Group Council and the other by goals of the company’s social responsibility focus Department Store Division will carry out a SOUND the association representing Stockmann’s senior Efficiency particularly on own personnel. The Group employs personnel survey in Latvia, Russia and Estonia. The salaried employees. The employee representatives Commitment own personnel in 15 countries. The Stockmann Group fashion chains will continue their own Spirit and Souls have the right to attend and speak at Board meetings. complies with local legislation in all its countries of programmes. The strength of these coaching proThey are not Board members. Respect for our people operation and treats its employees equally and grammes is their reciprocal feedback, which has given In Finland, around 85 per cent of the Stockmann Responsibility according to the equality principle in all personnel rise to new, efficient and productive ways of working Group’s personnel are covered by collective agreematters. that benefit the entire chain. ments. Stockmann respects its personnel’s freedom Stockmann values its employees and provides of association and right to engage in collective agreeregular training. The aim is to be a sought-after and Long tradition of employeement activity. The company does not monitor the well-liked employer on the labour market. In addition management cooperation extent of union membership, but it does compile to employees’ personal and professional developStockmann has played a leading role in codeterminastatistics on those employees in Finland whose trade ment, attention is also given to ensuring a healthy and tion issues in Finland. The company’s Employees’ union membership fee is deducted from their salary. safe working environment. The personnel are also Council was set up in 1924. It was not until 1979 that In 2012, these employees accounted for 26 per cent of encouraged to look after their own well-being. legislation was passed on legal requirements for the Group’s personnel working in Finland. In other codetermination between employees and employers countries of operation, statistics on union memberHuman resource management practices in companies. ship have not been collected. The company’s human resource practices are based In Finland, the divisions have their own Employees’ on its core values and the human resource strategy. Councils, which convene four times a year. A similar Diverse and international personnel The divisions comply with the common rules, but they model is followed in the Baltic countries. Human At the end of 2012, the Stockmann Group employed also have their own, more detailed personnel pracresources matters concerning Finland are handled at 16 041 people. With 9 634 employees at the end of tices that support the division’s performance and the the Group Council, which is held twice annually. In the year, the Department Store Division employed the personnel’s well-being. On 1 January 2013, the HR 2012, the employees launched an initiative to estabmost people. At the close of 2012, the fashion chains 11 People – Responsibility with individuals and entities STOCKMANN csr report 2012 employed a total of 6 121 people, of whom 4 702 were term employees is high in the retail sector. In all, 16 per managerial staff working in Finland and abroad, 65 employed by Lindex and 1 419 by Seppälä. Seppälä’s cent of the Stockmann Group’s employees were per cent were women. On the Stockmann Board of number of personnel was lower than in the previous fixed-term employees in 2012. The proportion of Directors three out of eight members are women. year, due to the closure of 13 stores. Lindex opened 21 fixed-term and seasonal employees is larger during There are two women in the Group’s Management stores of its own in 2012, which increased its number the Crazy Days campaign and the summer and ChristCommittee. of personnel. A total of 132 people worked in Stockmas seasons in the retail trade. At the end of 2012, 53 per cent of the personnel, mann’s Corporate Administration, and 154 people The Department Store Division and Fashion Chain 8 488 people, worked abroad. One of the factors worked in the company’s purchasing offices. Division provide many young people with an opportubehind the international success is that the company Personnel turnover was 26 per cent in 2012, which nity to become familiar with working life through the makes use of the local expertise of the country in is average for the sector. However, this figure is practical training periods arranged by various educaquestion. Using local personnel brings additional dependent to a great extent on the local labour martional and training institutions. For example, 382 expertise and diversity to the company’s operations ket. In Finland, the personnel turnover was 13 per cent practical training positions were offered to students in and produces knock-on economic effects for the local which is significantly lower than in the retail sector in 2012, providing a valuable opportunity to become area. In operations outside Finland, over half of senior general, whereas in Russia, for example, the personfamiliar with retail sector operations and customer and middle management are local retail sector pronel turnover is greater. In total, the Group had 6 761 service duties. fessionals. In 2012, all the members of the Departfull-time employees and 9 280 part-time employees. In 2012, women comprised 84 per cent and men 16 ment Store Division’s Management Committee and The number of full-time employees decreased by 348 per cent of the Group’s personnel. The proportion of the Finnish department stores’ management were compared with the previous year. The need for fixedwomen managers was high in all functions: of all the Finns. In total, 69 per cent of the management and Personnel creating the future of the fashion chains The strength of the Lindex Souls coaching prowould be meeting its customers’ needs in 2020. gramme is using its personnel’s expertise for Lindex’s advantage. The programme’s participators Seppälä’s Spirit is a coaching programme that are carefully chosen, and they work in different provides information and job familiarisation for the roles in different parts of the organisation. What all fashion chain’s new and long-term employees. the participators have in common, is that they are The coaching is carried out by store managers, inspiring role models in Lindex. Lindex Souls devewho coach their own personnel, and Spiritors, who lops the company’s operations for example by are specially trained to coach new store managers. pondering which are the success factors of the In addition to the head office’s own Spiritor team future. The goal is to create new tools and practises (pictured), the chain has 25 Spiritors operating in that will benefit the whole chain, from buying five countries. The Spiritors hold monthly coaching functions to the stores. In 2012, 8 members of staff sessions in the stores. The amount of Spirit coaparticipated in the Lindex Souls coaching proching during the year 2012 came to a total of more gramme. Their task was to find out how Lindex than 1 000 hours. 12 People – Responsibility with individuals and entities STOCKMANN csr report 2012 members of the Country Management Committees of working environment and a decrease in working remained unchanged from 2011 due to pay the Baltic and Russian department stores were locals. accidents. The e-notifications have made the processincreases. Employee benefit expenses totalled In 2012, all the members of Lindex’s top management ing of improvement measures faster, and the number EUR 405.1 million, or 19.1 per cent of revenue. were Swedish. Sixty per cent of Lindex’s country of allocated safety directions for workers has grown. Employees are rewarded for succeeding, and are directors were locals. In 2012, Seppälä’s Management The most common accidents in Finland are accidents thus encouraged to contribute to the company’s Committee consisted of 7 Finnish members and also on the way to work, mainly slipping. performance, productivity and growth. A significant one Estonian member, who was the country director During the year, the Department Store Division’s part of the personnel are covered by an incentive for the Baltic countries. supervisors took part in various training programmes, system. The incentive systems for supervisors and amounting to over 600 days altogether. experts are based on financial indicators. For personOccupational health and safety nel in other duties, the main incentive systems are of key importance Wages and salaries, incentives those for specific personnel groups. In 2012, the Occupational health care is arranged in accordance and benefits personnel were paid a total of EUR 5.8 million in Crazy Days campaign and retail trade’s seasons with local laws and regulations in all countries of Although the Group’s average number of personincentives of different kinds from the company’s 2011 offer a chance to get acquainted with the retail operation. In 2012 in Finland, all employees whose nel fell slightly during the year, the total payroll earnings. Key senior and middle management of the trade’s everyday routine. employment had lasted over 4 months, were covered by the basic-level of occupational health care. The amount of these employees was around 6 000. In personnel key figures Valuing long Finland, occupational health care costs totalled EUR 2.1 million. Employee well-being and occupational 2012 2011 2010 employment safety are discussed regularly in the employees’ Staff 31 December in Finland 16 041 7 553 15 960 7 237 16 184 7 430 councils, which operate in accordance with the relationships requirements of local legislation and represent all abroad Average number of employees 8 488 15 603 8 723 15 964 8 754 15 165 Every year, the company awards personnel groups. Average number of employees converted to full-time staff 11 898 12 172 11 503 medals of merit to some of its An extensive coaching programme focusing on Avarge age of staff 34 34 35 employees. The tradition started in working ability was arranged in 2012 and was attended in Finland 34 34 36 1924, and almost 20 000 medals by nearly all the supervisors in Finland. This training is abroad 34 37 34 have been distributed over the intended to increase employee well-being and to Staff turnover of permanent employees, average % 26 30 24 years. reduce absences and the costs incurred from in Finland 13 15 14 absences. Preventative work is also focused on in the abroad 37 42 34 Medals of merit are awarded for whole Group’s occupational safety day, which is Sickness absences, % 4.5 4.9 4.3 careers of 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, organized every other year. In the reporting year 64 in Finland 4.2 4.5 4.4 45 and 50 years with the Stockemployees, who act as safety delegates, deputy safety abroad 4.8 5.6 4.2 mann Group. In the 150th anniversary year, medals were awarded to delegates or safety officers, or whose work is related Full-time staff/part-time staff, % 42/58 45/55 42/58 564 Group employees in four to occupational health care, real estate management in Finland 42/58 43/57 41/59 countries. or HR, participated in an extensive training. Online abroad 42/58 46/54 43/57 notification forms for internal accidents and close call Number of reported accidets at work, Finland 212 243 271 situations have also had a significant effect on a safer Staff expences, share of revenue % 19.1 19.4 19.9 13 People – Responsibility with individuals and entities STOCKMANN csr report 2012 Stockmann Group are also covered by a key personsupporting sports and through various staff clubs and organisational change was to make use of in-house nel option scheme, the costs of which amounted to the opportunity to rent holiday cabins. In 2012, the knowledge as much as possible. EUR 1.5 million in 2012. More detailed information on company’s support for such activities amounted to In the Fashion Chain Division, the year’s most management’s salaries and bonuses (Remuneration over EUR 0.4 million. important project was the adoption of an operating Statement 2012) can be found on the company’s model based on the new organisational structure and website. Job rotation between divisions the associated renewal of processes. The organisaThe Stockmann Group offers the personnel benContinuous career development and an active intertional changes offered new internal carees paths for efits required by local legislation in all countries of nal labour market are Stockmann’s strengths. Opporthe personnel of the Stockmann Group. In addition to operation. In most countries, employees are offered tunities to switch duties between divisions, functions this, it was decided to recruit new people for the benefits that clearly go beyond the requirements set and countries promote learning and the retention of completely new positions in Seppälä to help develop by legislation, such as health insurance and meal competent personnel in the company’s service. Many the fashion chain’s brand and support its success. benefits. Employee benefits also include a company members of the Group’s management have worked phone and car for those duties that require these. All in customer service duties earlier, and many also have employees are entitled to a purchase benefit to buy experience from various parts of the company. products at a personnel rate in Stockmann Group In 2012, the Department Store Division gave constores. siderable attention to efficient and team-oriented Stockmann supports recreational and leisure purchasing through the adoption of a new buyeractivities for permanent employees, for instance by planner operating model. The aim of this major From department manager to department store director Maria Martynova began her career at Stockmann model. The St Petersburg department store has says Martynova. ”Stockmann’s in 1998 as a department manager at the Nevsky over 500 employees in whose recruiting Martynova has actively participated in internal success in Russia store in St Petersburg. Martynova later worked as Martynova has been involved. “As Department training programmes. She is also taking part in is due to the local store director for several years until she changed Store Director, I interview each permanent salesStockmann’s new LEAD coaching programme. and motivated divisions and became Country Manager for Lindex person and ensure the suitability of the potential The objective of the training programme is to in Russia in summer 2008. Martynova returned to employee by discussing values at this recruitment further develop supervisor skills and strengthen personnel”, says the world of department stores in 2010, when she stage”, says Martynova. the management culture based on strategy and Maria Martynova, assumed the leadership of Stockmann’s flagship “Stockmann is a responsible employer, and our values. Participants also have the opportunity to director for the department store in St Petersburg. personnel are proud to be Stockmann employees. learn more about Stockmann’s international opedepartment store Stockmann’s success in Russia is due to the We value the opportunities for personal developrations and to get to know colleagues working in in St. Petersburg. local and motivated personnel, who are comment as the company moves forward. Our goal is different positions and in different countries. mitted to the Department Store Division’s values to improve our operations continuously and to be and to Stockmann’s customer-focused operating part of Europe’s best department store chain”, 14 Products – Responsible products and the supply chain STOCKMANN csr report 2012 Responsible products and the supply chain • The fashion chains had about 9 million garThe Stockmann Group does not have its own stores adhere to the principles of responsible ments made from organic cotton or recycled factories or production facilities. import trade as set out by the International Assofibre in their selections. The Stockmann Group requires that the Suppciation of Department Stores (IADS). In addition, • Stockmann Delicatessen food departments lier Code of Conduct, which is based on the prin16 goods suppliers had SA8000 certification in lead the field with their MSC certification. ciples of the Business Social Compliance Initiative 2012, which is an indication that these companies • Nearly 350 audits of supplier factories were (BSCI), is complied with in supply chains for its have adopted sufficient internal processes to performed: 173 external BSCI audits and 170 own brand products. Stockmann does not conensure workers’ basic human rights. own inspections. done child or forced labour in any shape or form A significant number of the Stockmann Group’s and requires its goods suppliers to abide by this own products come from areas classified as risk The Stockmann Group strives to ensure the safety principle. Stockmann does not permit any treatcountries by the BSCI, such as China and Banglaof the products it sells and the responsibility of the ment of individuals or working conditions that desh. The recognised social responsibility risks of supply chain and production. In 2012, the range of contradict international treaties or accepted interStockmann’s supply chains in risk countries clothing made from organic cotton or recycled national conventions. If deficiencies in the supply include deficiencies identified in audits and in fibre in the fashion chains’ selections was expanchain are identified, an action plan for correcting public discussion concerning overtime, remuneraded. The selection of responsible products in the these will be drawn up and the implementation of tion and employee-related documentation in partidepartment stores’ Delicatessens in Finland grew this plan will be monitored. cular. To improve practices, Stockmann encouraas well. ges its suppliers that are involved in the BSCI audiThe majority of the product selection in Social responsibility in the supply chain ting process to participate in training concerning Stockmann’s department stores consists of interStockmann’s social responsibility extends to good and safe working conditions. national and domestic brand products in which encompass, indirectly, the working conditions of responsibility issues are assessed during purchase employees all along the supply chain. Since 2005, Regular factory audits negotiations. Over half of the Department Store the Stockmann Group has been a member of the In 2012, a total of 173 BSCI audits were carried out Division’s own brand fashion products are procuBSCI, a body set up to promote cooperation in at factories located in risk countries which manured through the Group’s own purchasing offices. social compliance. The BSCI was developed by facture Stockmann department store and fashion All of Lindex’s products and a significant portion of European companies, trade unions and other chain own brand products. Nearly half of the the products in Seppälä’s selection are procured organisations and is administered by the Brusselsaudited factories were assessed as being “Good”, through the same purchasing offices. The purchabased Foreign Trade Association (FTA). The purand 23 per cent were found to be “Non-complising offices are located in China, Hong Kong, pose of the BSCI is to improve the working condiant”. Of all the audits conducted in 2012, 128 were India, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Turkey. They tions in the production facilities of goods suppliers, initial audits. purchase the garments from a network of circa at the same time clarifying and harmonizing the The BSCI audits are conducted by internationally 500 factories and almost 220 garment suppliers. monitoring process. In addition, the department accredited independent auditors. In addition to 15 Products – Responsible products and the supply chain STOCKMANN csr report 2012 BSCI AUDITS IN 2012 (N=173) these external audits, Stockmann carried out 170 of receive training on matters related to well-being its own inspections of supplier factories through its that interest them. During the year, the HER project purchasing offices in 2012. Each purchasing office and its principles have reached a wider audience has responsibility experts who monitor the producthrough the women working at the factories, as tion processes and the responsibility of operations. those who participated in the training have passed The purchasing offices review the operating on information and good practices to others. models and quality levels of each factory that they Through the project, women’s knowledge about use before entering into a contract and starting their personal health and that of their families has production. Own inspections focus on employees’ increased, and absences at the factories have 46% Approved working conditions and environmental issues. In decreased. During 2012, Lindex continued with two 31% Approved after improvements addition to this, the fire safety of factories in Bangprojects for school pupils that it had started earlier: 23% Fails to meet requirements ladesh has been given special attention for several the School of Hope in Bangladesh and the Shangyears in cooperation with the Bangladesh Garment hai Sunrise in China, respectively. Manufacturers and Exporters Association BSCI AUDITS IN 2011 (N=199) (BGMEA). Training materials were distributed to Responsible selections expanded factories, and fire safety inspections were carried out in 40 factories during 2012 and in the beginStockmann department stores BSCI ning of 2013. In 2012 there were several fires at Stockmann department stores offer an extensive code of conduct factories in Bangladesh, though these were not range of products, consisting of over 1.5 million factories supplying garments to the Stockmann product titles. In the areas of fashion, cosmetics 1. Legal compliance Group’s divisions. In order to improve the fire and household products, the choice includes 2. Freedom of association and the safety of the factories, external inspectors will carry products made from organic and recycled materi53% Approved right to collective bargaining out electrical inspections during 2013 in the factoals and eco-labelled products. The range also 25% Approved after improvements 3. Prohibition of discrimination ries that are used by the Group. includes wood and paper products with FSC 22% Fails to meet requirements 4. Compensation (Forest Stewardship Council) and PEFC (Pro5. Working hours Participation in local operations gramme for the Endorsement of Forest Certifica6. Workplace health and safety Many challenges relating to working conditions in tion) certification, and electronics that comply with BSCI AUDITS IN 2010 (N=184) 7. Prohibition of child labour risk countries are not limited to individual factories, Energy Star requirements. 8. Prohibition of forced and but affect the entire country or industry. The StockPlenty of organic and Fair Trade food products compulsory labour mann Group strives to enhance local well-being are available at Stockmann Delicatessen food 9. Environment and safety issues and good and safe working conditions through departments. The Delicatessens’ selections 10. Management systems cooperation with various stakeholders. In 2012, include nearly 1 400 organic products. Stockmann Lindex commenced cooperation with Business for Delicatessen reached an important milestone in Social Responsibility (BSR) and committed itself to 2012 when the fresh fish counters were the first in the Health Enables Returns (HER) project. Finland to receive Marine Stewardship Council Through the HER project, women working in (MSC) certification, an international labelling 26% Approved selected factories in Bangladesh and Pakistan system for sustainable fish products. The MSC 22% Approved after improvements 52% Fails to meet requirements 16 Products – Responsible products and the supply chain STOCKMANN csr report 2012 products sold in Stockmann Delicatessens are part recycled fibre or Tencel fabric. Sales of products Cotton Initiative (BCI), which aims to reduce the of a wider range of fish products available to customanufactured from responsible materials grew by environmental impacts of cotton farming. In 2012, mers. The MSC certified fish products consist of 6 per cent from the previous year. Products manuLindex sold 80 000 products manufactured from imported wild fish that is caught responsibly, witfactured using materials complying with Lindex’s BCI cotton. hout endangering fish stocks, and the origin of the sustainable development principles are clearly Seppälä has increased the use of organically fish is traceable all the way to where it was caught. marked with own labels in the stores, and are grown cotton in its products. The new Seppälä displayed on a separate page in the online store. Baby collection was launched in 2012, and ecoFashion chains These products account for nearly 13 per cent of friendliness is favoured in the materials used. In 2012, Lindex had in its sortiment 8.9 million Lindex’s selections. Collections includes more Seppälä’s “Organic Cotton” label on garments also products manufactured from organic cotton, materials of cotton that complies with the Better indicates to customers that organic cotton is used. Delicatessens’ fresh fish counters in the department stores in Finland have been the first to achieve the international environmental certificate of the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC). 17 Products – Responsible products and the supply chain STOCKMANN csr report 2012 The selection of these products will be expanded addition, Stockmann follows product notifications assurance system for product safety. Stockmann’s in 2013 to cover women’s and men’s T-shirts avaiissued by the European Union in order to inform central kitchen has been certified in accordance lable in the collection. customers as quickly as possible about products with the ISO 22000 international food safety that pose a risk. standard. The central kitchen complies with the Product safety and internal quality One public product recall involving a Stocklegal requirements and those of the authorities, assurance mann department store own brand product was and is seeking to further improve its operations. In The Stockmann Group is responsible for the safety made in 2012. The product was a LED book, sold in 2012, there were no product recalls regarding the of the products it sells, ensuring that they do not the Helsinki city centre department store during central kitchen’s products. pose a risk to customers’ health or property. The the Christmas season. Only a few customers had company’s purchasing organisation makes sure bought the product, and they were advised to quit that products comply with the valid requirements using the product immediately and to return the set in chemical and product safety legislation. In product. Stockmann made a refund to the custoaddition to Finnish Customs, products are tested mers. During 2012 Seppälä recalled one product, regularly by their manufacturers and importers, which was a leather glove. There was a defect in and by Stockmann in the case of own brand prothe chromium content of a decoration of the glove, ducts. Testing ensures that the products fulfil all which caused the product recall. quality and safety requirements set by legislation Stockmann Delicatessens and the company’s or the stricter requirements set by Stockmann. In central kitchen have an extensive internal quality Working in the core of buying for 20 years Elisabeth Hedberg started working at Lindex ”Having our own purchasing offices, we are ”We are close to the nearly 20 years ago as a buyer of children’s wear. close to the garment production facilities and can Her career at the company, which began in 1994, control the production and working conditions in garment production, and has featured a range of different jobs. These have the factories. Due to our presence in local operacan control the production included her involvement in establishing Lindex’s tions, we can also listen to the wishes and expectaand working conditions”, operations in Turkey, and also various duties contions of the local people relating to our social says Elisabeth Hedberg, cerning products and purchasing. As the director in responsibility”, says Hedberg and continues: ”We director in charge of charge of the Stockmann Group’s purchasing do not merely ensure thet the factories meet our Stockmann Group’s offices, Hedberg is very knowledgeable regarding requirements; we also want to help them to impLindex’s countries of operation and store network, rove their operations”. purchasing offices. and is in contact with the purchasing offices on a daily basis. 18 Planet – Working for the good of the environment STOCKMANN csr report 2012 planet Environmental responsibility • Top ranking in the Nordic Consumer Department Store Division. The department stores in warehouses, the Outlet, and the stores at HelsinkiDiscretionary sector of the Carbon Disclosure Finland reached their sorting rate target, which was Vantaa Airport. External audits were carried out at the Project (CDP) survey. 95 per cent. In addition, the total amount of waste Helsinki, Jumbo, Turku, Tampere and Oulu depart• Stockmann’s Finnish department stores have decreased by 2 per cent compared with 2011. Stockment stores. In addition, the central kitchen received complied with the ISO 14001 system for 10 years. mann’s Finnish department stores are the division’s an ISO 14001 certificate. Seven external and 15 inter• The fashion chains have an environmental code leaders in environmental matters, and the next objecnal audits were carried out during the year. that addresses sewage treatment, waste mantive is to extend the effective and efficient environStockmann department stores in Finland are agement, and chemicals and emissions control mental practices to the department stores in the investing in energy efficiency through voluntary in the supply chain. Baltic countries. The fashion chains continued their measures and various projects and agreements. For own environmental programmes, which focus on example, the Stockmann department stores in HelStockmann’s objective is to manage the environmenpreventing the adverse effects of cotton production sinki and Tampere took part in the WWF’s global tal impact of the company’s business operations. and reducing the environmental impacts of manufacEarth Hour event by turning off the lights on their Stockmann takes environmental considerations into turing. façades and in display windows and vestibules for the account in the planning and management of operahour. The Helsinki city centre department store also tions and in the procurement of products and serManaging environmental responsibility joined the Climate Partners network, through which a vices for its own use. Operations are continuously In developing their operations, all of Stockmann’s commitment has been made to reduce the energy being developed with energy saving in mind, and the department stores in Finland take environmental consumption of the Department Store Division’s most environmentally friendly solutions are sought in issues into account to an extent greater than the law Finnish stores in accordance with the energy effistore furnishing, lighting and maintenance. requires. These Finnish department stores have ciency agreement scheme for the Finnish retail secEco-friendliness is taken into Environmental work at Stockmann is based on its operated under an ISO 14001 certified environmental tor. account in the manufacturcorporate social responsibility strategy and on the system for 10 years already. The ISO 14001 certificaThe Fashion Chain Division does not use a certified ing processes of the fashion environmental policy approved by the Board of tion covers the functions of Stockmann’s department environmental management system. The Lindex and chains’ own brands. Lindex Directors. The management of environmental stores and Academic Bookstores in Finland, as well Seppälä stores mainly operate in leased premises in sold 80 000 products responsibility is organised as a part of the divisions’ as the Department Store Division’s support functions. shopping centres, which means that in addition to manufactured from day-to-day management. Over 80 per cent of the Group’s personnel in Finland the store’s energy-efficient concept, environmental BCI cotton. The divisions (Department Store Division and work in jobs falling within the scope of the certified issues are taken into account to the extent possible Fashion Chain Division) independently set specific functions. within the property in question. environmental targets, define indicators for monitorAudits of the ISO 14001 environmental system are For several years, Stockmann’s purchasing offices ing the achievement of these targets, and establish carried out on a regular basis, and an internal audit of have made efforts to assess and minimise the harmmanagement practices. In 2012, waste sorting and the environmental system was carried out in 2012 in ful environmental impacts of their suppliers’ factories. energy efficiency were further developed in the all of Stockmann’s Finnish department stores and Lindex has drafted an environmental code that 19 Planet – Working for the good of the environment STOCKMANN csr report 2012 addresses sewage treatment, waste management, and-tested practices. energy consumption, waste, and transportation. and chemicals and emissions control in the supply Bangladesh is one of the most important producEnvironmental impacts are monitored closely within chain. The personnel of the purchasing offices contion locations for the Group’s own brand clothing. the divisions and at the different business locations. duct environmental inspections of factories and Since large batches of clothes are produced in BangThis enables any divergences in consumption or monitor compliance with environmental protection ladesh, the fashion chains have committed themwaste to be addressed quickly. The Group also prolegislation and the requirements set by the Group’s selves to the Cleaner Production project, which aims vides training and information to improve the personSupplier Code of Conduct. In 2012, Lindex particito achieve more efficient and cleaner production. nel’s environmental awareness. pated in three projects that improved the level of Through the project and in cooperation with various The department stores and stores of the company environmental protection at production facilities in players, the use of water, chemicals and energy has are located on areas zoned for business properties. China and Bangladesh. been reduced at various factories and their producBecause the commercial activities are not located on Since 2008, Lindex has participated in the Better tion costs have also decreased in 2011 and 2012. properties with protection or high biodiversity requireCotton Initiative (BCI), which aims at reducing the Employee health and occupational safety matters ments, the Group’s effects on biodiversity are small. harmful environmental impacts of traditional cotton have also shown an improvement. No environmental damage, accidents or offences cultivation. During the last three years, a total of were recorded during 2012. 2 000 farmers have been trained to grow cotton Key environmental impacts Environmental matters are taken into account in using less water, chemicals and fertilizers. In addition, constantly monitored the office functions. For example, online salary paythe BCI works to improve workers’ conditions and The most significant environmental impacts of the ment was adopted in the Group’s Finnish operations encourages farmers to cooperate and share triedStockmann Group’s own operations arise from in 2012. Stockmann’s divisions hold most of their A dream job for promoting sustainability Emilia Gädda has responsibility for environmental tise in environmental matters forms part of our Emilia Gädda joined Stockmann in February matters at the Helsinki city centre, Jumbo and Turku excellent customer service”, Emilia Gädda says. 2008. She has held various positions, for example as department stores, the Pitäjänmäki offices and the an hourly-paid employee and then team supervisor Department Store Division’s warehouses. Key Environmental friendliness of department at the service point at Jumbo, and as a purchasing aspects of her work as environmental expert include stores constantly improved assistant in Pitäjänmäki. As an environmental expert, training Stockmann employees, conducting audits The employees of Stockmann’s Finnish department she is now in her dream job: ”I believe in sustainable and replying to environment-related customer feedstores work with determination to achieve environdevelopment. My work is important both for the back. mental objectives. ”We engage in active dialogue company and for society at large. The best things ”Environmental issues are continuously discussed with our partners so that we can learn about the best about the job are its diversity and constant variation in department meetings and on the stores’ informaenvironmental practices and incorporate them. We and the challenges. I also get a lot of encouragement ”Expertise in environtion screens. I also hold extensive environmental also continuously monitor waste volumes and diverfrom my wonderful colleagues and our external mental matters forms training every month for new employees of the gences in real time. New objectives are set every year partners. Working together spurs us on to achieve part of our excellent Helsinki city centre department store. The results of for environmental matters so that we can continue to the objectives.” customer service”, my work are visible to the customers as well. Experimprove and develop our operations”, says Gädda. Stockmann’s environmental expert Emilia Gädda says. 20 Planet – Working for the good of the environment STOCKMANN csr report 2012 Energy and water consumption 2010–2012 regular internal international meetings with the aid of ple, the stores in the Lindex fashion chain succeeded sions and the Group’s support functions, the water video and telephone conferencing equipment. The in reducing energy consumption by around 8 per used at the different business locations is supplied by 2012 2011 2010 DIRECT company also pays attention to emissions caused by cent per store square meter over two years. In 2012, the local water utility. Water consumption is miniCONSUMPTION business travel undertaken by its personnel, and energy savings were sought by optimising the departmised by instructing personnel, preventing and Heating fuel(l) 532 4 325 4 570 alternatives with low emissions are favoured. For ment stores’ ventilation and general lighting. For repairing even the smallest leaks and procuring more Natural gas (m3) 1 352 649 1 505 546 638 200 INDIRECT example, business travel between Helsinki and St example, the lighting at the Helsinki city centre efficient water fittings to replace older ones. The CONSUMPTION Petersburg is done by train when possible. In addidepartment store’s One Way department was wastewater from operations goes to municipal sewer Elektricity (MWh) 171 585 169 900 151 223 tion, it was decided that starting from 2014, the comrenewed and replaced with LED technology. Drawing systems. Stockmann has no emissions into the water District heating and 90 058 96 883 103 811 pany headquarters will gradually move to new premon the lessons of this, the entire Department Store system, nor is water recycled or reused in the operacooling (MWh) ises. The solutions used in these premises will Division’s lighting concept was renewed. LED techtions. Water (m3) 287 297 267 185 211 678 emphasise energy efficiency and sustainable develnology will be incorporated more widely throughout opment. the chain in conjunction with future renovation and Waste management and recycling Heating fuel does not include the energy used by vehicles. enlargement projects. The waste generated by the divisions’ operations is Electricity covers all Group operations, excluding franchise operations. Heating and cooling energy covers all the Energy consumption At the St Petersburg shopping centre, an energy mainly packaging waste, such as cardboard and Group’s operations, excluding franchise operations, as well The Group’s energy consumption mainly consists of consumption monitoring system with alarms was plastic. The Department Store Division also generas the Stockmann Beauty and Seppälä store consumptions. Water covers all the functions of the department electricity, heating and district heating. Energy is introduced. The resulting reports enabled the energy ates biodegradable waste as a result of the operastore division (excluding the Stockmann Beauty stores, as consumed by the lighting, ventilation, heating and efficiency of the property to be improved substantions of the central kitchen, the Delicatessen food well as, Jumbo and Itäkeskus department stores), Group administration, Seppälä HQ and logistics center, as well as cooling systems in the stores, warehouses and tially. Based on the good experience gained in 2012, it department and restaurants and cafés. The waste Lindex logistic center and part of the HQ functions. offices, as well as by the equipment and machinery in was decided to link the other Russian department sorting results for the various business locations are Electricity and water consumption data for 2011 restated due to an error. these facilities, including lifts, escalators, refrigeration stores to the reporting system. monitored on a monthly basis, and the aim is to keep and IT equipment. Increasing attention is being given the amount of landfill waste as low as possible. The to environmental matters in the store modifications Water consumption Finnish department stores have provided training for and new store concepts within the Department Store Most of the water is used in the department stores’ personnel in waste sorting and recovery, and have Division and the Fashion Chain Division. For examrestaurant, kitchen and sanitary facilities. In the divialso improved the guidance issued on these and stockmann’s waste management statistics 2010–2012 (tons) Department stores, Finland Department stores, abroad Lindex Seppälä Total 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 RECYCLABLE WASTE Cardboard and paper 2 201 2 242 1 741 536 300 262 3 181 1 166 1 144 277 309 378 6 195 4 017 3 525 Combustible waste 1 344 1 227 1 052 102 n/a n/a 21 28 24 17.2 19.7 16 1 483 1 274 1 092 Bio waste 2 310 2 433 2 132 256 354 386 2 1 n/a 5.1 5.1 9 2 573 2 794 2 527 Other (plastic film, metal, glass) 131 81 88 21.9 26.3 6 103.5 83.4 3 4 7 7 260 198 104 LANDFILL WASTE 334 484 587 7 104 6 115 6 113 0 4 6 5.3 6.9 16 7 444 6 610 6 722 HAZARDOUS WASTE 10 7 14 4.9 n/a n/a 0.5 n/a n/a 0.2 0.4 0 16 7 14 TOTAL 6 330 6 474 5 614 8 021 6 796 6 767 3 307 1 282 1 177 308 348 425 17 972 14 899 13 984 WASTE UTILIZATION, % 95 93 89 11 10 10 100 100 100 98 98 96 59 56 52 Waste disposal contractors defined the waste disposal methods. Figures for the department store division in Finland cover all division’s functions. Figures for the department store division in other countries, cover department stores and logistics centers in the Baltic states and Russia, as applicable. Lindex figures cover the distribution center and part of the HQ functions. Seppälä figures cover the HQ and the logistics center. 21 Planet – Working for the good of the environment STOCKMANN csr report 2012 made sorting practices more convenient. In 2013, the in the operations of the department stores and fashtained by these producer organisations. Portable metal and glass collection system will be expanded at ion chains. The department stores donate bread batteries and disposable batteries, household electrithe Finnish department stores, and the scope for products to their partners in compliance with product cal and electronic appliances, fluorescent lamps and increasing the collection of film and shrinkwrap will safety guidelines and legislation. In addition, Finland’s energy-saving lamps can be returned to Stockmann be assessed. department stores has begun cooperation with a department stores. In 2012, nearly 95 per cent of the waste generated number of partners on the re-use of items that are by the Department Store Division’s functions in removed from stock items, such as old work uniforms Transport Finland was either recycled or converted into energy. and office furniture, surplus materials or products. The Stockmann Group comprises 16 department A total of 99 per cent of the waste generated at the Seppälä provided fashion students with an opportustores and over 700 other stores. The stores extend head offices and logistics centres of Lindex and nity to create their own collection from Seppälä’s from the Nordic countries to Russia and Saudi AraEnvironmental matters are taken into account Seppälä was utilised, which was about the same as in samples. bia. We serve customers in different countries and at the Lindex logistics centre. 2011. The waste recycling efficiency rates of the In their role as product importers, Stockmann’s continents, and so emissions are produced in the Department Store Division’s international operations divisions have producer liability, i.e. they are obligated distribution of goods to our stores. Attention is are considerably lower than those in Finland due to to arrange the waste disposal and recycling of certain focused on the efficient and environmentally friendly differences in recycling systems and limited recycling products and their packaging at their own expense. movement of product flows. In 2012, for example, possibilities. Consumers can return free of charge those products Seppälä’s air freights decreased over ten per cent Attention has been focused on reducing all waste which they no longer use to collection points maincompared to the previous year. Stockmann’s carbon footprint Greenhouse gas emission reporting is a managreenhous gas emissions 2012 (tCO2e) Direct Stockmann extensively reported its greenhouse gement tool and provides the basis for defining 2012 • Own energy generations greenhouse gas Direct emissions (Scope 1) • Vehicles in company use, gas emissions for the first time in 2010. The carbon emission reduction priorities and targets. Reporemissions Vehicles and own energy generation 742 compensated mileage footprint calculation was developed in 2012 to ting will be developed in the future to cover all Indirect emissions due to energy (Scope 1) include the Baltic and Russian functions of the emissions in all countries. Stockmann’s carbon purchases (Scope 2) department store division. Reporting covers now footprint was calculated by a third party according Electricity 50 748 District heat and cooling 22 011 Indirect • Electricity Seppälä’s operations in Finland, as well as the to the international Green House Gas (GHG) Other relevant indirect emissions greenhouse gas • District operations of the department store division and Protocol reporting guidelines. Stockmann reports (Scope 3) emissions due to heat and Lindex in all countries. its carbon footprint annually in the international Distribution transports* 3 393 energy purchases cooling Stockmann’s total reported emissions doubled CDP survey. Import cargo 14 969 (Scope 2) Cooling agent 3 391 from the previous year. This is mainly due to new Air travel** 1 536 functions that have been added to the scope of Waste*** 1 350 Other reporting. In particular, the purchased energy of Total 98 139 relevant indirect • Distribution transports • Import cargo the Baltic and Russian operations raised the total The Baltic and Russian department store operations were greenhouse gas added to the reporting in 2012. The figures are not compaemissions • Cooling agent reported emissions substantially The largest emisrable with earlier years. (Scope 3) • Waste sions came from purchased energy, especially * Internal logistics and customer deliveries (avoided electricity production. Other major emissions came emissions deducted). • Business travel **Air, train and bus travel, and employees’ company cars. • Employees’ company from import freight. ***Only the Department Store Division’s operations in cars Finland and the Baltics. 22 Profit – We are profitable STOCKMANN csr report 2012 Profit Financial responsibility • Revenue was up by 5.5 per cent and operating Act, the provisions of its Articles of Association, and the Corporate Governance Statement for 2012 has profit improved by EUR 17 million. other applicable legislation. Stockmann complies in been published. • For the first time in our history, revenue abroad full with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code, Stockmann’s financial reporting is prepared in was greater than in Finland. which is issued by the Securities Market Association. accordance with International Financial Reporting • A bond issue expanded our financing sources At the end of 2012, Stockmann had nearly 60 000 Standards (IFRS), and in compliance with Finnish and brought new investors. shareholders. The increase in the number of sharefinancial reporting and corporate legislation supple• In our 150th anniversary year, the number of holders was mainly due to the share subscriptions by menting the IFRS. The Group’s Chief Financial Officer department store loyal customers increased by more than 5 000 loyal customers using loyal cusand the Finance and Control Department are responaround 350 000. tomer share options. Stockmann launched new loyal sible for the Group’s financial reporting. Auditors • Lindex began the new More at Lindex loyal cuscustomer share options in accordance with the decielected by the General Meeting audit the company’s tomer programme with a launch in Norway. sion of the General Meeting of shareholders. accounting, financial statements and administration. • The number of members in the Seppälä Club Stockmann plc’s highest decision-making body is The Internal Audit examines and assesses the exceeded one million. the General Meeting, which approves the company’s effeciencyof business operations, risk management financial statements, grants release from liability to and internal control. The Internal Audit functions as Profitable growth forms the core of Stockmann’s the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer an independent unit under the Chief Executive strategy. Competitiveness and positive financial and elects the Board of Directors. A total of 967 Officer and reports its findings to the Board of Direcperformance create an opportunity for the Group to shareholders participated in the 2012 General Meettors. meet investors’ return expectations and focus on ing of shareholders. The purpose of Stockmann’s disclosure policy is to personnel development and wider social responsibilAt present, the Board has eight directors, none of ensure that, as a basis for establishing the price of ity. Socially responsible operations, in turn, create a whom are full-time and all of whom are independent Stockmann shares, all those operating on the market solid foundation for efficient operations and the of the company. The majority are also independent of have sufficient and accurate information on Stockcompany’s financial growth, and strengthen the the company’s major shareholders. The personnel mann available to them simultaneously, promptly corporate image. The aim is that Stockmann should have elected two representatives who have the right and impartially. All investor information is published be recognised as a responsible and transparent to attend and speak at Board meetings. The Board of on the website stockmanngroup.com in Finnish, company among investors. Directors appoints the CEO, who is responsible for Swedish and English. Financial information is pubthe company’s operations in accordance with the lished on the parent company, the Group as a whole 150-year-old Finnish listed company instructions and policies issued by the Board. The and its divisions. Stockmann plc, the parent company of the StockBoard also appoints the other members of the Group Stockmann’s Board of Directors has targeted a mann Group, is listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. In Management Committee. More detailed information dividend distribution of more than half of the earnits decision-making and administration, Stockmann on Stockmann’s corporate governance is available in ings derived from the company’s ordinary operations. complies with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies the Annual Report and on the Group’s website, where In 2012, a total of EUR 35.9 million, equivalent to EUR 23 Profit – We are profitable STOCKMANN csr report 2012 0.50 per share, was paid to shareholders in dividends cent in 2012. The company reached an important operation, while 2012 was a challenging year for from the 2011 earnings. In spring 2013, the Annual milestone in its international expansion, as revenue Seppälä. A new joint division, comprising the Seppälä General Meeting resolved to pay EUR 43.2 million in was greater abroad than in Finland for the first time in and Lindex fashion chains, was created in summer dividends from the 2012 earnings, or EUR 0.60 per Stockmann’s 150-year history. This trend is also 2012. The aim of this is to improve together the effishare, which is more than 80 per cent of the earnings expected to continue in the future. ciency of operations on international markets. Sepper share. In the Department Store Division, the revenue of pälä also started a comprehensive brand renewal in the Russian department stores, in particular, grew 2012 that is intended to support the success of the Revenue and operating profit improved substantially. In the Fashion Chain Division, Lindex fashion chains and increase Seppälä’s competitiveIn 2012, the European debt crisis created uncertainty raised its market share in nearly all its countries of ness and profitability. in consumer behaviour and affected growth prospects in the Nordic markets. The Russian market major shareholders 31 december 2012 performed favourably in 2012, and the Stockmann Percentage of shares Percentage of votes Group achieved a positive operating profit in Russia 1. HTT STC Holding Oy Ab 11.7 10.7 for the first time since 2008, when the economic 2. Föreningen Konstsamfundet grouping 9.4 15.0 crisis began. All the units in the Baltic countries also 3. Society of Swedish Lieterature in Finland 7.6 15.7 continued to perform well. In Finland, retail trade 4. Niemistö grouping 5.8 9.4 growth slowed down in the second half of 2012, and 5. Stiftelsen för Åbo Akademi 4.3 6.7 the earnings of Stockmann’s Finnish functions 6. Etola Group 4.2 6.1 declined. Although it was a challenging year, the 7. Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 3.1 0.7 Stockmann Group’s operating profit grew by 17 mil8. Samfundet Folkhälsan i svenska Finland r.f. 2.2 2.7 lion to EUR 87.3 million in 2012. 9. Jenny ja Antti Wihuri’s Fund 1.9 2.1 The Stockmann Group’s revenue grew by 5.5 per 10. Inez och Julius Polins Fond 1.5 0.8 DIVIDEND FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 2008-2012 DISTRIBUTION OF VOTES 2012 DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES 2012 59 283 EUR mill. % 60 180 50 150 40 120 shareholders 30 90 20 60 31 december 2012. 10 30 55% Foundations and associations 43% Foundations and associations 0 0 17% Households 23% Households 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 25% Private and public corporations 24% Private and public corporations 1% Banks and insurance companies 2% Banks and insurance companies Dividend 2% Nominee registrations(incl. foreign shareholders) 8% Nominee registrations(incl. foreign shareholders) % of earnings 24 Profit – We are profitable STOCKMANN csr report 2012 Due to the prolonged period of economic uncerattending its General Meetings is handled confidenproviding a first-class service that exceeds expectatainty, the Board of Directors of the Stockmann tially in accordance with the applicable legislation. In tions. Group decided in summer 2012 to abandon the 2012, Stockmann received some queries from cusCustomer satisfaction surveys and customer and previously agreed timetable for achieving the longtomers regarding how we use personal data. These employee feedback provide valuable information that term financial targets, but the targets themselves cases were dealt with and did not lead to follow-up guides the Group’s divisions in developing their remained unchanged. Stockmann aims for an effimeasures. There were no complaints or cautions operations. Information concerning customer relacient capital structure that will ensure favourable about the loyal customer systems from the authoritionships is utilised in improving customer service operating conditions regardless of the sector’s sensities. The loyal customer systems’ data file descripand sales, in daily management of personnel, in tivity to changes in the economic situation. In 2012, tions can be found on the respective units’ websites. developing the skills, remuneration and commitment Stockmann issued a corporate bond and expanded of supervisors, and in the design of training proits financing sources. As a result of the bond issue, Key importance of customer satisfaction grammes. Stockmann also got new institutional inverstors. The Stockmann department stores are known for Customer satisfaction is regularly assessed, as is their customer-oriented service. Top-rated, profesrecognition of the Group’s own brands and the differOver seven million loyal customers sional customer service does not happen by itself, ent units. Tools that are used include online surveys The Stockmann Group’s divisions have four loyal but instead requires regular personnel training from and exit polls, and in the Department Store Division customer programmes: Stockmann’s and Hobby Hall the recruitment stage onwards, including compremystery shopper method. Customer satisfaction is loyal customer programmes in the Department Store hensive induction arrangements for employees. monitored actively in relation to the wider competitive Division and the Seppälä Club and More at Lindex Customer orientation strongly guides the company’s situation and the general retail market. The loyal launched in the latter half of the year in the Fashion operations, and considerable attention is given to In the Stockmann Group, the divisions use sepacustomers Chain Division. These have more than 7 million customers in total. The companies keep in touch with of the Stockmann Group’s divisions their loyal customers on a regular basis and offer are committed and long-term them benefits with a monetary value. In 2012, the customers. Stockmann department stores focused strongly on In the Department Store Division acquiring more loyal customers by offering free loyal 70% customer membership to celebrate the 150th anniversary. Stockmann gained approximately 350 000 new loyal customers during the year, representing an increase of 20 per cent. The Seppälä Club also successfully increased the number of its loyal customers, of sales are from loyal customers. as the number of Seppälä Club members exceeded one million in the latter part of the year. All the loyal customer programmes have their own customer registers, which are compiled in order to manage customer relationships and for customer service and marketing purposes. The personal data of Stockmann’s customers and of shareholders 25 Profit – We are profitable STOCKMANN csr report 2012 rate customer feedback channels for each retail Disclosure Leadership Index the score 87/100, in the Finnish Corporate Reputation and Responsibibrand. The principle of replying to customer feedback which was the highest score in the Consumer lity survey 2012 by TNS Gallup. 57 companies from six is the same in all units: a reply is made to all customDiscretionary series. Stockmann improved 26 different sectors were evaluated in the survey. The ers who request this. The use of different social media points on its last year’s result. The report lists the focus was on such aspects as public image, quality of services as a customer feedback channel alongside company’s operations relating to climate change products and services, trustworthiness, financial the traditional feedback channels increased in all on a level from A to E. Stockmann’s operations success and corporate social responsibility of the units in 2012. were evaluated to be at level B, which is the companies. 22 000 Finnish consumers were interviesecond best level, improving 3 levels on its 2011 wed for the survey. Awards achieved during 2012 classification. Stakeholders value Stockmann. During 2012, StockFinland’s best customer service mann got recognition for the Group’s carbon reportA popular and valued workplace Finnish customers selected Hobby Hall as the best ing, and rose to top places in customer service, Stockmann achieved fourth place in consultant and contact centre for 2012. Hobby Hall managed to raise reputation and employer surveys. research company Universum’s Finland’s Ideal customer service satisfaction 18 per cent from the Employers 2012 survey among students from the previous year. The selection was based on customer Carbon reporting to a new level field of economics. satisfaction surveys sent via SN4Mobiles, and the The Stockmann Group’s carbon emissions reporStockmann was rated as the company with the survey data covers feedback from over 50 000 Young people value Stockmann as a workting and management received in the Carbon second best reputation in the retail sector in Finland Finnish customers. place. Trainee Martti Kähkönen in the Helsinki city centre department store. 26 Reporting principles STOCKMANN csr report 2012 Corporate social responsibility reporting principles This report provides information about the focus the personnel and environmental indicators are The annual report for the 2012 financial year and areas and results of the Stockmann Group’s resreported only for Finland, which accounted for 50 the Group’s website stockmanngroup.com also ponsibility work. The report is directed at per cent of revenue and 47 per cent of personnel in have information on the company’s financial Stockmann’s main stakeholders (p. 8). The repor2012. These exceptions and the measurement and responsibility, ownership, governance and risk ting period of this report is the financial year from 1 accounting principles are mentioned in connection management. Lindex, one of the Group’s fashion January to 31 December 2012. The previous report, with the indicators. The goal is to gradually expand chains, also publishes more specific information concerning year 2011, was published in April 2012. the reporting with regard to these indicators. about its responsibility on their website This CSR report for 2012 covers all Stockmann The report is set within the framework of the lindex.com/csr. Group’s own operations, which include two divisiGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 reporting According to Stockmann’s own estimate, the ons (Department Store Division and Fashion guidelines. On page 27 the content of the report is coverage of this report meets the requirements of Chain Division) in 10 countries of operation, Group compared with the GRI recommendation and application level C of the GRI guidelines. The administration activities in Finland, and purchasing there is also an index of GRI indicators. The report report has not been reviewed by a third party. offices in five Asian countries. The report does not complies with the GRI accounting principles where cover Lindex’s franchising stores, which are located applicable. The Group’s financial indicators have in six countries and run by four partners. Some of been prepared in compliance with IFRS standards. On its website stockmanngroup.com, Stockmann publishes an annual corporate social responsibility report that covers the entire Group. 27 GRI content comparison STOCKMANN csr report 2012 gri content comparison GRI References Level Location (page) and notes Strategy and analysis 1.1. CEO’s statement 4 Organisation profile 2.1–2.9 2–3, AR, WWW. 2.10 25 Report parameters 3.1–3.4 26. Back cover: contact information. 3.5 Relevancy is mainly based on Group’s internal factors. 3.6, 3.7, 3.10, 3.11 26. Possible changes or specific limitations mentioned in connection with the text or chart relating to the key indicator in question. 3.8 Leased out commercial premises in the Nevsky Centre shopping centre not included. 3.12 27 Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1–4.4, 4.14 22, AR: Corporate Governance Statement. 4.15 8–9 Social performance indicators LA1*,LA11, LA13* 10–13 LA2*, LA3, LA4*, LA6, LA7*, LA8* 10–13 HR2*, HR6*, HR7* Included in BSCI audits and own inspections. Product responsibility performance indicators PR5 24 PR2, PR8 17, 24 Environmental performance indicators EN3*, EN4*, EN8*, EN10, EN11*, EN16*, EN17*, EN21*, EN22*, EN23*, 18–21, EN23 and EN28: None, EN29: CO2 emissions mentioned in connection with EN25, EN28*, EN29 EN17. EN1*, EN5, EN7, EN12, EN26* 18–21, EN26: 15, EN1: The reported amount of packaging material put to the market. Economic performance indicators EC1*, EC4*, EC7*, SO7 EC1: 9 (adjusted accounting principles), EC7: 11–12, EC4: Stockmann Group has not received significant financial assistance from government in the reporting period. SO7: No legal acts or fines in year 2012. EC2* 7. The overall economic effects of the climate change’s risks and possibilities on the company’s business operations have not been evaluated. Reported Partially reported AR Annual Report 2012 WEB Stockmanngroup.com * GRI core indicator we offer responsible shopping experiences. Contact information Corporate Communications P.O. Box 70, 00621 Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 9 121 3089 www.stockmanngroup.com/en/responsibility Questions and feedback concerning the report and CSR: csr@stockmann.com
