United Nations Global Compact Initiative Communication on Progress 2013 www.steag.com Foreword Declaration of Support for the United Nations Global Compact For STEAG, as an enterprise with global operations in the In December 2012 we published a new, completely revised constantly changing energy markets, many factors conversion of our STEAG Code of Conduct, which is based on tribute to business success. Beyond profits and growth it the Global Compact‘s Ten Principles and forms an integis also the path which we have chosen to reach our goals ral part of our contracts of employment. Furthermore, we that is an essential precondition for our lasting business inform our employees in compliance training courses about success. the Global Compact and our commitment in this context. Moreover, in STEAG‘s annual report and other publications This path includes compliance with the applicable laws and we communicate to our stakeholders and the public at larlegislation, but also responsible action going beyond that. ge our participation in and support for the United Nations Global Compact initiative. Ever since we became an independent company again in June 2011, STEAG has participated in the UN Global We are pleased to hereby submit our second CommunicaCompact initiative, and supports the implementation of the tion on Progress. We are resolved to continue to integrate Ten Principles. In the last two years we have successfully the Global Compact into our business processes and managed to integrate the Global Compact into our stratecorporate responsibility activities and to further step up our gies and our operational business in the energy sector. commitment. The Ten Principles form an integral part of contracts and Joachim Rumstadt agreements with our business partners. As a matter of Chairman of the Board of Management principle, we obligate our suppliers and service providers to observe and comply with the Ten Principles, which noticeably facilitates negotiations with our customers. 2 Human Rights (Principles 1 and 2) Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2 … make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Implementation at STEAG One focus of the investigations in 2012 was on compliance STEAG respects internationally proclaimed human rights with ILO Convention 169 for the safeguarding of the rights as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of of indigenous people. This included visits to suppliers Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational outside of Europe on certain occasions. Furthermore, as Enterprises. a participant in the UN Global Compact Network, STEAG conducts dialogues with non-governmental organizations At STEAG, acting responsibly and in compliance with the on human rights compliance and maintains contact with law forms the core of our corporate culture. STEAG also political foundations in the countries concerned. expects its business partners to act legally and responsibly, and exerts its influence to bring this about. Health and safety at work are ensured at all STEAG plants and facilities by an occupational health and safety system. STEAG ensures health and safety at work. By means of focused health and safety measures and information campaigns, the number of accidents has been STEAG cares for its staff as a socially responsible employer. further reduced throughout the Group. In 2012, additional certifications pursuant to the OHSAS 18001 standard and STEAG takes on broader social responsibility and is comaccording the occupational safety regulations issued by mitted to supporting its local communities. the employers’ liability insurance associations were obtained. In April 2013, a health and safety campaign focusing Systems, actions and achievements on the topic of “Rescue from confined spaces” was launThe international regulations for the protection of human ched at our power plant sites in Germany. rights are enshrined in the STEAG Code of Conduct which applies throughout the company. The Code is compleSTEAG implements in-house social management to assist mented by Group Policies and Directives. The Compliance employees in addressing social, mental and health issues Management System ensures compliance and sanctions by means of providing opportunity for occupational rehainfringement of the laws in force throughout the Group. bilitation and by counseling and facilitating contact with recognized professional bodies. Business partners of STEAG are expected to respect and support the general human rights; key suppliers are revieSTEAG’s efforts to strengthen local infrastructures both in wed in this regard on the basis of inquiries. This obligation Germany and abroad reflect the company‘s commitment is reflected in STEAG’s general terms and conditions of to society and contribute to improving the living conditions business. of the people. STEAG offers development programs and start-up aid for small companies near its power plants. On To ensure sustainability within the supply chain, STEAG the Philippine island of Mindanao, for instance, within the verifies that its business partners respect human rights. scope of the Livelihood and Economic Enterprise Deve3 Human Rights (Principles 1 and 2) lopment Program, STEAG supported the establishment of supporting the project “Das erste Buch”, which aims at small businesses by providing training and facilitating busiarousing children’s interest in reading and fostering their ness contacts. STEAG also provides a similar service for creativity. Furthermore, there are local partnerships with local small enterprises in Turkey, in the vicinity of the Iskennumerous schools. derun power plant location. Moreover, ecological projects developed there are also designed to support business Voluntary active commitment and initiative of employees start-ups and secure the livelihood of the local people. likewise forms part of STEAG’s commitment to society. With an extraordinary project on the topic of energy in Furthermore, STEAG has taken various measures to supSeptember 2012, apprentices from the STEAG locations in port schools and local education programs. At the TermoEssen, Lünen and Duisburg-Walsum involved themselves paipa location in Colombia, the facilities of local primary actively in “neighborly help”. A total of 40 fourth-graders schools have been refurbished and maintained for several from two classes of the Adolf Reichwein Primary School in years. The same applies to our plant site in Turkey, where the Altenessen district followed their invitation to take part we are active in the “My School” project. In the Philippines, in an exciting project day on the neighboring youth farm. STEAG through the Social Empowering through Education The STEAG apprentices jointly with the fourth-graders Program contributes to raising the level of education by who came with their teachers built up a miniature energy sponsoring reading and learning programs for children. world and familiarized the children playfully with renewable In Essen, for many years STEAG Fernwärme has been energies. 4 Labour (Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6) Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; … Principle 4 … the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; … Principle 5 … the effective abolition of child labour; and … Principle 6 … the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation at STEAG STEAG supports equal opportunities in employment. STEAG puts the principles of the eight ILO core labor standards into practice and also expects them to be impleSystems, actions and achievements mented by its business partners. The STEAG Code of Conduct and the supporting Directives constitute an internal control system which obligates STEAG facilitates Works Council activities and trade union the employees to comply with the eight ILO core labor activities by its employees. standards. STEAG’s business partners are bound by general terms and conditions and contractual obligations to STEAG promotes the health of its employees, also in the comply with the ILO core labor standards, so as to ensure light of the ongoing demographic change. a sustainable supply chain. STEAG offers flexible working hours, supports the compaWithin the STEAG Group, committees with broad respontibility of family life and career, and strives for a balanced sibility such as the Group and General Works Councils and relationship between work and private life. the Works Councils at each individual location ensure that the interests of the employees are represented. As decisiSTEAG offers its employees opportunities for further on-making bodies within the STEAG organization, they are development and promotion, by implementing modern HR in continuous and constructive contact with the Group’s development programs for various target groups. executive boards. Trade union activity is broadly based in the STEAG Group, as is demonstrated by the existence of STEAG trains people both for its own needs and for ema separate STEAG local group in Essen. ployment by third parties. Aimed at long-term promotion of individual responsibility, Within the scope of its corporate suggestions system, STEAG’s company health program LIFE is appreciated STEAG provides a framework for staff initiatives, so as to by employees, executives and works council members generate continuous improvement in working practices. alike and also recognized outside of the company; in the 5 Labour (Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6) last year, the program was an important element of a new Moreover, STEAG also supports sandwich courses for demographic management system. For this purpose, junior employees in cooperation with local colleges and rehabilitation and therapeutic measures, as well as inforuniversities. In the technical disciplines course participants mation campaigns, for instance on a healthy diet based on can earn a Bachelor of Science in Energy Engineering, and the “LOGI” principle, were used. in business administration they can graduate as Bachelors of Business Administration. Outside Germany too, STEAG STEAG offers its employees flexible working hours to suit has a trainee program in the operation and maintenance of the situation and plans of the individual. The focus here power plants for young engineers. is on family-friendliness and the compatibility of family life and career. STEAG has part-time working arrangements to STEAG’s corporate suggestions system has been hosupport parents and single parents, and employees with nored by two awards in 2012 from Deutsches Institut für elderly dependents and dependents in need of care. This Betriebswirtschaft. As the best performing company in the is ensured by local partnerships, such as a cooperation energy industry, measured by the number of suggestions project developed jointly with the Arbeiterwohlfahrt worimplemented in practice, the number of people submitting kers’ welfare organization which provides childcare and suggestions and the total savings achieved through the counseling on the care for dependents. STEAG employees implemented suggestions, STEAG companies in 2012 reahave access to a total of six places in a daycare facility for lized a measurable annual benefit of almost 6 million euros. children aged between four months and three years, which is located near the company headquarters. Trainees at STEAG likewise rank among the best suggestion makers in Germany. In the “Germany’s Best Trainee’s In order to further support and promote the personal deIdea” competition of the Deutsches Institut für Ideen und velopment of our employees we have continued our “High Innovationsmanagement, STEAG trainees ranked first Potentials Network” program. In networking meetings, the with their idea of developing a protective sleeve for milling participants design and conduct their own events on toheads designed to improve safety when working with pics such as the turnaround in energy policy or leadership milling machines. culture at STEAG and thereby explore internal and external potentials and risks. The STEAG Code of Conduct prohibits discrimination against employees and job applicants on the basis of oriFurthermore, a first group has successfully finished gin or race, gender, religion or philosophy, disability, age or STEAG’s internal personnel development program known sexual identity. STEAG safeguards equality of opportunity as the Energy Development Program (EDP). This program in personnel development for male and female employees. is designed to help the participants from various departThe proportion of female participants in the program for ments and business lines of the STEAG Group to build high potentials was about 25 % in 2012. up their professional networks and develop and improve their skills. In addition, reflecting an open feedback culture, employee interviews are conducted with all STEAG employees as a central management tool providing guidance and contributing to personal development. STEAG’s tradition has always been to provide training for more people than it needs itself. Initial professional training ensures a continuous supply of qualified employees for the company. In training workshops at the power plants, first steps have been made towards integrative vocational training for physically handicapped people. 6 Environment (Principles 7, 8 and 9) Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; … Principle 8 … undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and … Principle 9 … encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Implementation at STEAG wind power and biomass projects are an integral part of STEAG develops projects and operates distributed facilities STEAG‘s operative business. In 2012, work was started to in numerous fields of renewable energies. install a biomethane-fired combined heat and power plant in Essen. For the current year, construction of additional STEAG invests in environmental protection measures and facilities is in the feasibility verification stage. improvements of efficiency at the existing power plants. In order to contribute to the stabilizing of distributed power STEAG is one of the leading operators of district heating networks, STEAG participated in 2012 in the EU-sponnetworks and trunk line systems in Europe. sored project LESSY (Lithium Electricity Storage System), which aims at the development of a large-scale battery. STEAG Power Minerals recovers and recycles power plant This project is being continued. by-products as substitute raw materials for the construction industry and thereby helps to avoid CO2 emissions. In 2012, STEAG continued the ongoing optimization of the instrumentation and control systems of its power plants. STEAG implements active environmental management This was accompanied by a further reduction of nitrogen at its plants. oxide emissions in the SNCR process. Combined heat and power generation in power plants and distributed generaSTEAG implements active environmental protection in ting facilities ensures high efficiency and thereby contributhe vicinity of its plants and locations. tes to preserving the environment. By providing environmentally friendly district heating through newly built transfer STEAG fosters public acceptance for energy facilities. stations, e. g. at the Herne CHP power plant, STEAG also contributes to local energy supply near its plant locations. Systems, actions and achievements Since 2012, STEAG’s Renewables business line has For decades, STEAG has been one of the leading operagrown by installing many new distributed generating tors of district heating networks and trunk line systems. facilities on the basis of biomass, mine gas, geothermal In this context, STEAG continues to contribute to the energy and wind power. STEAG also acquired a share in feasibility study initiated by the state government of North a solar-thermal power plant in Arenales, Spain. In addition, Rhine-Westphalia which deals with an integration of the partnerships with municipal utilities were also expanded district heating systems in the Rhine / Ruhr region. STEAG in the renewables field. Projects to develop wind farms in also developed and financed the heat supply system for Romania and Turkey were continued in 2012. In Poland, the Bottrop campus of the Ruhr University of Applied 7 Environment (Principles 7, 8 and 9) Sciences. The cornerstone ceremony for the new campus In Germany the STEAG Group owns and cultivates land took place in the last year and heat supply will be based on in the vicinity of the Voerde and Walsum power plants. a hybrid system that combines heat recovery from waste By cultivating this land in the spirit of local recreation, an water with district heating. attractive improvement of the neighborhood has been achieved. The Wohnungswald forest in the vicinity of the The power plant by-products fly ash, FGD gypsum, botVoerde power plant site covers an area of about 220 ha of tom ash and slag-tap granulate are recovered and used mixed deciduous forest with old beech and oak trees and as secondary raw materials for the construction materials a species-rich fauna. Management and cultivation of the industry. In that way STEAG makes an important contriland focuses on promoting the positive effect on man and bution both to the management of such residues and to the environment rather than on using the forests for timber their sustainable recycling. Using fly ash in cement proproduction. This biotope is important on the regional level duction instead of clinker saves significant amounts of CO2 and has a well developed network of hiking trails which emissions. The product quality of the by-products and the permits walks through the forest and sports activities. Anoassociated quality management procedures are regularly ther biotope, the Driesenbusch forested area, is located in inspected by independent inspection bodies. the direct vicinity of the Walsum power plant in the northern part of the city of Duisburg and is an important habitat At all of its locations, STEAG has an Environmental for rare bird species. The hiking trails of the two areas are Management System in place which covers the areas of interconnected by the Walsumer Rheinaue floodland, an pollution control, procedures in the case of plant incidents, internationally recognized natural conservation area of protection of natural water courses, transport of hazardous about 550 ha, which makes the entire region attractive materials, and waste. This aims at constantly and forefor ramblers and cyclists. The major areas of this overall sightfully assessing potential impacts on the environment biotope are managed and cultivated by STEAG itself. and mitigating such impacts where possible. Consequently, the Group has made a major contribution to the ecological development of this natural conseration area Technically sophisticated industrial plants like the STEAG which is unique in the region. plants rely on acceptance by the people living nearby. Such acceptance is fostered by manifold ecological Agricultural land owned by the Group near the Voerde and measures in the immediate vicinity of the industrial plants. Walsum power plants is cultivated by STEAG‘s own ScholAround the plants and power plants in Germany and abtenhof farm. As it is an ecological farm, the use of artificial road, STEAG demonstrates its ecological expertise. mineral fertilizers and chemical crop protection products is dispensed with. Farming is a cost-efficient and attractive At its foreign locations, STEAG actively promotes ecologioption of landscape design. The agricultural products are cal restoration in the surroundings of the large-scale plants. successfully sold through the local farm shop. At the Mindanao location in the Philippines, STEAG State Power Inc. and the Environment Contribution Program Nature protection measures are also implemented in the jointly implement reforestation and mangrove area restoraSTEAG plants themselves. In power plants and heating tion projects. At the Iskenderun location in Turkey, STEAG plants, nesting boxes are provided for peregrine falcons, supports the local olive farming project by providing agriwhich are protected under nature conservation legislaticultural training and supplying fertilizers. Moreover, STEAG on. For several years, now, the birds at the power plant continues to support a project for sustainable fishing in the sites have been observed and banded by ornithologists maritime region near the power plant. from the German nature conservation organization BUND. Under the motto of the “Green Power Plant”, the flora At the Paipa power plant site in Colombia, STEAG likewise and fauna at the site of the Herne CHP plant was studied offers educational and training programs for youth and in 2012 by the biological research station for the eastern adults on ecological farming and gardening and on enviRuhr region, an institute established by the federal state of ronmental protection and waste prevention. North Rhine-Westphalia to develop further nature conser8 Environment (Principles 7, 8 and 9) vation and urban ecological measures in the west German metropolitan area. Furthermore, STEAG creates public acceptance for its operations and awareness of environmental protection concerns, accompanied by societal ecological commitment, by implementing the principle of the “Open Power Plant”. As in the previous years, the power plants and facilities were pleased to host numerous visitor groups, for instance during the Ruhr Night of Technology which was organized by the VDE technical association in summer 2012. In addition, STEAG cooperates and maintains close contacts with the local authorities and municipal facilities at its plant locations. In particular, there has been longstanding, intense cooperation with municipal fire brigades, reflected in joint fire drills and establishment of a fire simulation container on our plant premises. 9 Anti-Corruption (Principle 10) Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Implementation at STEAG includes anti-corruption clauses in accordance with the STEAG Code of Conduct 2012: Corruption is prohibited applicable local laws. The contract clauses agreed with the at STEAG and is not tolerated. business partners also comply with international regulations, such as the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery STEAG implements a comprehensive anti-corruption of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Tranpolicy. sactions or foreign local laws with international relevance, such as the FCPA in the United States or the UK Bribery The STEAG Compliance Management System is a Act which came into force as recently as in 2011. ConsulGroup-wide joint task. tants or subcontractors of the business partners are likewise bound by these anti-corruption clauses. In negotiations, STEAG works towards anticorruption throughout the STEAG also works towards including provisions in the supply chain. contracts that bind upstream suppliers or external service providers to implementing anti-corruption policies. Thereby, Systems, actions and achievements STEAG ensures to the largest possible degree the sustaiThe STEAG Code of Conduct and its supporting directives nability of its supply chain with regard to anti-corruption. prohibit corruption in any form. Even the impression that decisions might have been influenced by the behavior of Contracts with sales agents, project facilitators or other STEAG employees must be ruled out. agents that are especially prone to corruption are completely reviewed by the Compliance department for consisThe STEAG Code of Conduct was completely redesigtency and the potential contract partners scrutinized for ned and adopted at the end of 2012. Forming an integral any past criminal corruption activities which they may have part of the employment contracts, the Code regulates the engaged in. employees‘ conduct in their day-to-day work and thereby provides guidance to all employees. With a view to corDue to the fields of business of STEAG, which are often ruption prevention, the Code is complemented by a new related to public decision-making processes, special awaorganizational directive, issued in February 2013, which reness is required in business dealings with office holders. addresses the issue of gifts and invitations. In training sessions and information circulars, the Compliance department regularly and in accordance with latest In the course of 2013, all employees throughout the supreme court decisions points out the risk of increased group will be instructed on the content of the Code of criminal liability in connection with corruption. Conduct, either in training sessions or by means of elearning modules. The anti-corruption training courses held in February 2013 for the relevant target groups covered, for the first time, At the same time, the Code of Conduct reflects the corall companies and divisions of the Group in Germany and porate culture to the outside world. On the basis of this abroad. According to the agreed training intervals of two proposition, the Compliance Department is actively and years, the first follow-up training measures have meanwhile operationally involved in contract negotiations, project agbeen initiated at the power plant locations in Germany. reements and the design of internal processes throughout the Group, in order to pre-empt and counter the risks of The Compliance department promptly investigates any incorruption. In contracts with its business partners, STEAG dications and allegations of corruption or fraudulent acts in 10 Anti-Corruption (Principle 10) the Compliance Task Force, a proactive committee which brings together members from the Legal, Auditing and HR departments. In addition to the Compliance Officers appointed in the main subsidiaries, in 2012 Compliance Specialists were appointed for special topics, such as anti-trust or tax legislation, who are responsible for implementing prevention measures in their respective fields. Serious violations of the compliance policies in the special fields are dealt with jointly by the respective specialist and the Compliance department. 11 Sources STEAG Annual Report 2012 STEAG Code of Conduct www.steag.com STEAG GmbH Rüttenscheider Strasse 1–3 45128 Essen Germany www.steag.com Udo Woidneck Phone +49 201 801-4335 Fax +49 201 801-4331 Email udo.woidneck@steag.com
