We are pleased to confirm that with this COP communication the Clean Light Foundation continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to; human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and we continue to express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles a part of the strategy and culture of our NGO organization and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals in support of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. The Clean Light Foundation makes a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public and delivers a message meant to help people understand that eradicating fuel based kerosene lighting through our “Clean Light for All” initiative will bring clean, safe solar light solutions to the people living without electricity in the emerging markets. Communications are ongoing with respect to building our support base and outcomes have been positive. We continue to work to establish new partners in manufacturing to build the lighting system that will allow us to implement the “Clean Light for All” initiative and have built new partnerships in Canada that will help us to see that goal through to fruition. In the interim we will continue to maintain our support, communications, and dialogue with regard to the ten principles of the Global Compact and the Millennium Development Goals. Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Sincerely yours, Chris Morrall Chris Morrall Director
