Growing focus on annual report emerging 2012 markets Konecranes We are committed to providing our customers with products and services of unrivaled is an industry quality, safety, and reliability – and helping shaping, improve the efficiency and performance of our customers' businesses. global group of By leveraging our unique know-how and dynamic Lifting technology, we are able to develop innovative Businesses™. integrated lifting solutions. With our remote services, we can gather real-time information on how our customers’ equipment is performing and help improve operational safety, as well as provide maintenance when it is needed. With solutions that help increase customers’ productivity and safety performance, we are not just lifting things, but entire businesses. Growing focus on emerging markets Already well positioned in the world’s emerging markets, we continue to work determinedly to further expand our presence. Focused primarily on Asia, South America, Africa and the Middle East, we focus on serving the needs of these markets to enable us to seize the substantial growth opportunities they offer. contents 2 konecranes 16 Business area 50 Group Executive in a snapshot equipment board 4 2012 18 Regional 52 Extended Highlights overview management team 6 CEO’s 20 Research & 54 Board of review development directors 8 Chairman’s 23 Product 57 financial letter overview statements 2012 10 Company 26 Corporate 122 shares & cornerstones responsibility shareholders 11 Company 32 GRI 126 investor Strategy information 12 Business 34 Corporate 128 contact environment governance details 14 Business area 44 Risk management, service internal control, and internal auditing KONECRANES 2012 1 Konecranes in Konecranes is a world-leading manufacturer of lifting equipment, serving manufacturing and a snapshot process industries, shipyards, ports, and power plants with productivity-enhancing lifting solutions and real-time services. Our extensive resources, technologies, and proactive mindset ensure that we always deliver on our customer promise: Lifting Businesses™. market industrySales of 12,100 leader leading EUR employees in industrial technology 2,170 in 2012 cranes and components, as and global modular million well as crane product platforms in 2012 service. One of the largest suppliers of port cranes and lift trucks Production Sales and service Head office listed on facilities locations in NASDAQ in 17 in 48 Finland OMX countries countries Helsinki, Finland Konecranes offers high-quality lifting 2 KONECRANES 2012 Konecranes in a snapshot equipment featuring the latest technology. Sales by business ebit by business personnel by area, 2012 area, 2012* business area, 2012 39% 47% 49% 51% 53% 61% Service, MEUR 884.0 Service MEUR 74.6 Service 6,119 Equipment, MEUR 1,411.4 Equipment MEUR 83.8 Equipment 5,973 *Excluding restructuring costs Business Areas Service Equipment Through its global service network, Konecranes offers specialBusiness Area Equipment offers components, cranes, and ized maintenance and modernization services for all types material handling solutions for a wide range of industries, of industrial cranes, lifting equipment, and machine tools. including process industries, the nuclear sector, industries Konecranes has 626 locations in 48 countries. handling heavy loads, ports, intermodal terminals, shipyards, and bulk material terminals. Products are marketed through a Products multi-brand portfolio that includes the Konecranes corporate Konecranes’ extensive service offering covers the following brand and the STAHL CraneSystems, SWF, Verlinde, R&M, and products: inspections, preventive maintenance programs, Sanma Hoists & Cranes power brands. repairs and improvements, on-call service, spare parts, modernizations, and special services such as operational service, Products and consultation. Industrial cranes, including standard-duty cranes, heavy-duty TRUCONNECT® Remote Services represent the latest incranes, and workstation lifting systems such as light crane novation in Konecranes’ service business, and cover areas systems and load manipulators; components, including wire ranging from periodic data reporting to real-time diagnostics, rope hoists, crane kits, electric chain hoists, manual hoists technical support, and production monitoring. and accessories; nuclear cranes; port cranes; bulk material unloaders; lift trucks; and shipyard cranes. Market position Konecranes is the clear market leader in crane service, with Market position the world’s most extensive crane service network. The Group Konecranes is the world’s largest supplier of industrial cranes, is also one of the largest international machine tool service and a world leader in explosion-protected crane technology. It providers. is also a global leader in electrical overhead traveling cranes for process industries and shipyard gantry cranes; and a Service contract base strong global supplier of cranes and lift trucks for container Almost 420,000 units are covered by Konecranes maintehandling and heavy unitized cargo and bulk material unloadnance contracts, of which approximately 25 percent are manuing. factured by Konecranes. Annual production Thousands of standard cranes, tens of thousands of wire rope hoists and trolleys, and electric chain hoists, and hundreds of heavy-duty cranes. Hundreds of heavy-duty lift trucks. Konecranes in a snapshot KONECRANES 2012 3 2012 highlights sales AND operating profit GREW, ORDER FLOW SLOWED TOWARDS THE END OF THE YEAR AFTER A STRONG START • Demand for maintenance services continued to develop FOCUS ON PROFITABILITY AND SUCCESSFUL favorably throughout the year, although growth slowed INTEGRATION OF EARLIER ACQUISITIONS towards the end of the year due to softer macroeconom• Business Area Service prioritized profitability over growth, ic conditions. Demand for new equipment was strong while Business Area Equipment focused on integrating during the first half of the year; customer hesitancy in previously acquired companies, such as WMI Cranes in placing new orders increased in the autumn, which afIndia and Saudi Cranes in Saudi Arabia. fected order intake during the second half. Geographi• Konecranes made four small crane service-related boltcally, the Americas saw the strongest growth in demand, on acquisitions in Germany, the US, the Czech Republic, as in 2011; China and India were amongst the weakest and Sweden during 2012. markets year-on-year. Order intake totaled EUR 1,970.1 • Personnel numbered 12,147 as of the end of 2012, an million, an increase of 3.9 percent compared to 2011. increase of 496. • Konecranes’ order book as of the end of the year stood • R&D investments were 1.2 percent of net sales (2011: at EUR 942.7 million, 4.9 percent lower than in 2011. 1.6 percent), representing a year-on-year decrease of The order book peaked at an all-time high at the end of EUR 3.8 million or 1.2 percent. the second quarter. • Konecranes further developed its TRUCONNECT® Re• Net sales increased by 14.4 percent compared to 2011 mote Services offering, launching TRUCONNECT Remote and totaled EUR 2,170.2 million, thanks to the higher Monitoring and Reporting, together with TRUCONNECT order book at the beginning of the year on a year-on-year Remote Diagnostics and Technical Support. basis and solid order intake during the first half of the • A new-generation CLX chain hoist was launched. The year. new product offers faster operations and maintenance, • Operating profit before restructuring costs was EUR improved safety, and double the service life of the previ137.9 million, 17.7 percent above 2011. ous model. Oper­ating margin before restructuring costs was 6.4 percent of sales. Performance by Business Area • Net sales growth in the Service business remained strong at 11.0 percent in 2012, based on net sales of EUR 884.0 million. Positive developments in outsourced crane maintenance and new service products contributed to this growth. Operating profit was EUR 74.6 million, or 8.4 percent of net sales. Operating profit improved due to higher volumes and restructuring carried out during the first quarter of 2012. • Net sales in the Equipment business area were 17.5 percent higher than in 2011, at EUR 1,411.4 million. Net sales grew in all business units. Operating profit before restructuring costs was EUR 83.8 million or 5.9 percent of net sales. Compared to 2011, operating profit improved due to higher volumes but was held back by higher fixed costs, intense competition, and an adverse sales mix. 4 KONECRANES 2012 2012 Highlights sales/orders ebit/ebit margin Order Book MEUR MEUR/% MEUR 15% 10% 5% 2,102.5 2,067.1 1,671.3 1,348.9 1,546.3 1,536.0 1,896.4 1,896.1 2,170.2 1,970.1 248.7 118.8* 115.1* 117.2* 137.9* 836.3 607.0 756.2 991.8 942.7 0% 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Sales * Excluding restructuring costs Order intake earnings & dividend Return on Equity Return on Capital per sharE, EUR % EmployeD, % 2.83 0.90 1.08 0.90 1.35 1.00 1.11 1.00 1.47 1.05* 48.9 15.5 18.1 14.6 18.9 56.3 19.3 24.2 17.1 18.6 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Earnings per share, basic Dividend per share * The Board’s proposal to the AGM net working capital, net debt/gearing, YEAR-END Market MEUR MEUR/% Capitalization*, MEUR 219.8 181.8 11.3 -17.4 2.8 -3.8 50.5 39.5 263.8 138.8 191.6 320.0 297.9 1,122 1,821 1,464 -77.7 -19.1 714 832 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Net debt * Excluding own shares Gearing 2012 Highlights KONECRANES 2012 5 CEO’s review Dear shareholders, I am pleased with many aspects of our performance in 2012. growth in the equipment business in the same way that we In a marketplace where uncertainty and customers' hesitation did in the service business a year ago. We announced restrucin making decisions has become the new norm, a 14 percent turing measures at the beginning of the year, with the main growth in sales to a new record level of EUR 2,170 million objective of reallocating resources from Western markets to was a good achievement. Operating profit before restructuring emerging ones. costs rose by 18 percent to EUR 138 million and earnings per Geographically, the best performer was our Americas share 32 percent to EUR 1.46. Cash flow was strong, reducregion, which accounted for approximately one third of our ing our gearing to below 40 percent. All in all, 2012 was a global sales. Lower demand in China and India affected Asiagood year, but we are aiming higher. Pacific, despite good progress in South-East Asia. Demand in A year ago, we decided that our service business should most large European markets was low, but Eastern Europe, prioritize profitability over growth in the short term. The reason the Middle East, and Africa made good progress. was clear: heavy investments in growth, combined with execuKonecranes is all about lifting the safety and productivity of tion issues, had resulted in an EBIT margin of only 7 percent our customers’ operations. We have been a pioneer in shiftin 2011. The results of this prioritization are encouraging, as ing our customers from reactive to preventive maintenance, the 2012 EBIT margin improved to 8.4 percent. Things are helping them minimize downtime and maximize safety and moving in the right direction, but obviously we cannot be satisproductivity. Our preventive maintenance agreements already fied with this level yet. There is still profitability improvement cover almost 420,000 cranes, lift trucks, and machine tools. potential in numerous areas of our network, which currently But what we are doing today will not be sufficient in the future. includes over 600 service locations in 48 countries. In today’s world, it is no longer acceptable to use reThe profitability of the equipment business developed sources irresponsibly or inefficiently, be they people, natural satisfactorily in a challenging market environment during the resources, equipment, energy, or capital. This is becoming first three quarters of 2012, but the last quarter was weaker. the name of the game everywhere in the world, emerging There were both market structure issues, such as low indusmarkets included. This is the major underlying fact defining trial cranes demand in some Western markets, and various our future as a company. We are now in the early stages of operational issues. We are now prioritizing profitability over our next major strategic transformation. With the help of new 6 KONECRANES 2012 CEO’s review technology, we are making equipment intelligent and aware of Things are not black and white, however. I believe that we will its own condition and usage. Our technology platform enables continue to have good business possibilities in North Ameria host of new high value-added services for real-time remote ca, Western Europe, and Australia as well. Perhaps in relative condition monitoring, maximum safety, troubleshooting, and terms more in the service business, but not only there. As we production efficiency. have seen in the US in the last couple of years, for example, These developments are highly relevant to both our indusmany manufacturing companies are rethinking their global trial and port customers. In the area of ports, I would like to supply chains, which has led to new industrial investments in highlight two projects that we completed in 2012. We sucestablished markets. So achieving the right balance between cessfully delivered large-scale automated container yard sysestablished and emerging markets is important. tems to customers in Spain and Abu Dhabi. I am convinced Forecasting demand development has rarely been as difthat, with container yard automation becoming an increasing ficult as it is right now. In our Q3 report, we said that there megatrend in port development, these installations will act were signs of weakening demand after a strong first half of as valuable references for us in the future. the year. This was also evident in a slight weakness in Q4 It is clear that the lion's share of our future growth poorders. However, the number of new opportunities in our pipetential lies in Asia and other emerging markets. I made a line is still good and has actually slightly increased in some personal decision in 2012 to temporarily relocate my office units. This means that we are now a bit more optimistic about to Asia to be able to better understand the needs of customshort-term demand than we were after Q3 last year. ers in the region. While the basic rules of lifting are the same Finally, I would like to thank all Konecranes' customers, everywhere, it often takes more time to meet profit targets employees, and suppliers for their valuable support and in emerging markets. The operating environment is complex, efforts in 2012. and more patience is needed than in Western markets. Yet for companies that are willing to make this long-term investment, the potential is almost endless. Walk into almost any factory or port in Asia – or elsewhere for that matter – and you will Pekka Lundmark usually find safety and productivity improvement potential. President and CEO CEO’s review KONECRANES 2012 7 Chairman’s letter Dear Fellow Shareholders, 2012 was a good year for our company. In highly uncertain These problems are hitting established European-based market conditions in large parts of the world, conditions that companies, such as ours, hard. certainly did not support our business, we managed to find Several years ago, your Board, recognizing the difficulties growth in both sales and profits. in forecasting future trends, adopted an important goal and In his letter to shareholders, our CEO Mr. Pekka Lundmark, moved ‘Operational Agility’ to the top of our list of strategic covers the performance of our company in 2012. issues. Today, the benefit of this policy decision is evident. Our share price developed well. In fact, our share was Again, I would refer you to the CEO´s letter for details. among the best performers in the Helsinki Stock Exchange Today, your Board must pay special attention to matters in 2012, and fared very well in an international comparison related to our personnel. Corporate operational changes are as well. often experienced as heavy challenges in the personal lives However, we must remember that the share price started of our employees. Be they related to completely new tasks, the year at a low level. We are still some way from the levels relocations that lead to uprooting entire families, the need for of previous years. Our all-time-high share price, EUR 34.90 extensive training to learn new skill sets, or even redundanon July 13, 2007, is still to be beaten. cies, personal emotions must be dealt with. In his letter, our CEO describes the challenges of our busiA highly motivated workforce is always a critical factor for ness environment. If someone had thought that the financial corporate success, but in these times the importance of moturbulence that started in mid-2007 and accelerated through tivation is even greater. 2008 would be over in five years and done with by now, he Your Board has initiated a number of policies to support or she would have been badly mistaken. This financial turbuthe wellbeing and, by extension, the motivational levels of lence (a.k.a. crisis) now contains other profound problems, our people. notably here in ‘old Europe’. The first task is naturally to know where we stand. The Industrial growth is suffering from low global growth, we Board regularly monitors a large number of indicators related have an ageing population, our productivity is low, we have a to the ‘temperature’ among staff. It is my pleasure to report stale and inflexible labor market, etc. that these yardsticks show that Konecranes’ staff scores 8 KONECRANES 2012 Chairman's letter well by any international standard, all over the world. And our I must conclude that this has been one of the important scores are constantly improving, year-on-year. In this respect, factors behind the strong increase in overall motivational 2012 marked yet another all-time high. The Board’s thanks levels, as described above. goes to all our international managers who have learned from The long-term incentive plans for the top management of previous measurements and have improved our performance. the Group have also been altered. We noticed that traditional Your Board has also moved to better align incentive plans share-option plans do not function too well in today’s volatile with corporate goals and shareholder returns. During 2012, stock markets. Option plans can be better described as lotwe were the first group domiciled in Finland to introduce a teries. Option plans were therefore abandoned. Group-wide share savings plan for all employees. The plan is Top management incentive plans now resemble the plan simple: each participant sets aside a certain percentage of described above. Here, however, the number of bonus shares his or her monthly pay. This money is used to buy company to be awarded after the three-year period depends on the shares on behalf of the employees concerned. After three fulfillment of stringent EPS growth-related targets. years, and provided an employee still works for us, the Group Our highly motivated workforce and their willingness to will then give him or her one extra share for every two shares embrace change, together with our strategic moves described he or she has accumulated in his or her account. We believe by the CEO, are the cornerstones for my optimistic view of the that distributing a feeling of ownership among our employees future of our Group. is very important, especially in an organization as geographiThank you all for 2012 and welcome to our road into the cally scattered as ours. future. I would like to thank our shareholders for accepting the outlines of the plan at last year’s AGM. Although not overgenerous, the plan has been a great success. Participation Stig Gustavson varies country by country, but one employee in six is now a Chairman of the Board shareholder. Chairman's Letter KONECRANES 2012 9 The expertise and motivation of our employees are the keys to Konecranes’ success. Company cornerstones LIFTING BUSINESSES WORLDWIDE THROUGH HIGH-CLASS OPERATION Mission: Values: Not just lifting things, but entire Trust in People businesses. We want to be known for our great people. Vision: We know in real time how millions Total Service Commitment We want to be known for always keeping of lifting devices and machine tools our promises. perform. We use this knowledge around the clock to make our Sustained Profitability We want to be known as a financially customers’ operations safer and sound company. more productive. 10 KONECRANES 2012 Company cornerstones Strategy Differentiation through service and technology innovation We at Konecranes are committed to providing excellent, proactive serIn 2012 vice and to never letting our customers down – by always being there we launched several new product when our customers need us. To ensure that we are, we believe in the features, products and services importance of continuously developing our service offering and further around the world. enhancing the customer experience. Our other key differentiators are technology and innovation. We have continuously increased our R&D investments. Safety and quality remain high on our agenda and we are committed to incorporating these into every aspect of our mindset. Lifting People In 2012 Our employees, together with their expertise and their motivation, are we continued training our personcentral to our success. This is why we continually invest in training and nel and were the first Finnish comin developing people’s leadership skills. The more capable our people pany to launch an Employee Share are, the better both our service and our products will be. Savings Plan. Global footprint In 2012 Konecranes is committed to becoming an even more dynamic and global we continued expanding our netforce in the lifting business. While we already have a presence in almost work and opened new offices 50 countries, there are still many areas where Konecranes could offer in countries such as Indonesia, more, both in terms of products and service. We believe that we can ­China, Brazil and Bangladesh. achieve this through a combination of ongoing organic growth and acquisitions. Rapid expansion in emerging markets will be key here. Dual-channel strategy In 2012 Given the very fragmented nature of the markets that we serve, we sell we succeeded in increasing the both directly to end-users and to small independent crane-builders and market share of our power brands industrial distributors. This dual-channel approach enables Konecranes in North America and in Southeast to provide maximum market coverage, while retaining economies of Asia. scale through uniform product platforms. Global, demand-driven supply chain In 2012 Our global presence and our commitment to serving our customers, we improved customer demand wherever they are, means that we need a global supply chain and one transparency in different product that offers similar capabilities worldwide to provide us with the optimum areas, strengthened supplier inlevel of scalability. Our supply chain also needs to be flexible so that we tegration and punctuality through can adapt to fluctuations in demand, while offering competitive lead and a new cloud collaboration model. delivery times, and avoid excessively large inventory levels. Real-time information In 2012 To ensure that we can make rapid and well-informed decisions, we continued development and Konecranes believes in decentralized decision-making and the benefits roll-outs of Group-wide informaof taking decisions as close to the customer as possible. Giving our tion systems like CRM, ERP and people access to transparent, real-time information will be essential to People. improving our performance here, which is why we are investing in newgeneration information systems to give us new capabilities. Strategy KONECRANES 2012 11 Business environment STRENGTH IN THE AMERICAS OFFSET BY SOFT MARKETS IN EUROPE AND CHINA The global economic situation in 2012 was polarized by a strong US domestic economy and modest development in most other regions. The US ISM purchasing managers’ index exceeded expectations throughout most of the year and pointed to expanding American manufacturing activity, which was confirmed by industrial production statistics. PMI surveys for the Eurozone suggested that manufacturing activity contracted in Eurozone countries. Konecranes’ global market position 16% Market share #1 in crane maintenance services #1 in industrial cranes & components #3–5 in port cranes #3–4 in lift trucks Konecranes invests in newgeneration information systems to give employees access to transparent, real12 KONECRANES 2012 Business environment time information. Manufacturing capacity utilization rates in the US were higher Demand for lifting equipment services improved as outin the first half of 2012 than in 2011, but began to weaken sourced maintenance continued to gain ground. New types of towards the end of the year. Manufacturing capacity utilization services making use of the latest IT and measurement techin the EU has been down on a year-on-year basis since the nologies have proved increasingly attractive to customers. second quarter of 2012. Steel and copper prices in 2012 were lower than in 2011. China’s purchasing managers indexes – China Federation The EUR also weakened against the USD. of Logistics & Purchasing PMI and HSBC/Markit PMI – pointed to a contraction of industrial activity during most of the year. KEY BUSINESS DRIVERS However, some signs that this trend was bottoming out could The increasing economic power of emerging markets, such be observed in the fourth quarter of 2012. PMI surveys in as BRIC countries, continued to be clearly reflected in India and Russia pointed to an improvement in manufacturing Konecranes’ operations. Orders from emerging markets business conditions compared to the second half of 2011, accounted for approximately one-third of Group orders and while development in Brazil was uneven. almost 50 percent of orders in the Equipment business. Overall, the world’s manufacturing sector expanded at a Thanks to investments in organic growth and acquisitions, slow rate in the first half of 2012 and contracted slightly durKonecranes has built up very strong positions in China and ing the second half, according to the aggregated JPMorgan India in particular. Konecranes also strengthened its position Global Manufacturing PMI. in Brazil in 2012. Compared to 2011, the demand for lifting equipment imThe markets for services and lifting equipment differ sigproved among industrial customers in the Americas, but renificantly in developed and emerging economies. Outsourcmained stable in EMEA. Demand weakened in APAC, mainly ing continues to be concentrated in industrialized countries, due to China and India, which suffered from tight credit availwhile the concept of outsourced crane maintenance has only ability and a slowdown in economic growth. recently started to gain ground in emerging markets with the Global container traffic continued to grow year-on-year at growth in the installed base of Western-type equipment. The approximately 4 percent in 2012. Compared to 2011, the preventive maintenance concept, which is already well-estabrate of traffic growth improved only in Oceania, and slowed lished in developed countries, is gradually gaining a foothold in Europe and Asia, including China, after solid performance in emerging markets as well. in 2011. Automation, eco-efficiency, productivity, and safety are the Overall, project activity with container ports was satisfackey aspects of the new equipment business in developed tory. Demand was robust for automated solutions that procountries. While local products in emerging markets usually vide higher productivity and lower costs for large terminals. incorporate basic robust technology, there is a clear trend toDemand for container handling equipment using conventional wards similar features to those taken for granted in developed technology increased, particularly in Africa, while demand in markets – something that is clearly beneficial for technologideveloped markets slackened towards the end of the year. cally oriented companies such as Konecranes. Demand for shipyard cranes continued to be concentrated in Brazil. Texas, US Konecranes cranes for Chineseowned greenfield steel mill in Texas Konecranes was awarded a contract to supply all of the cranes for a Chinese-owned new seamless steel pipe manufacturing facility near Gregory, Texas. The turnkey order includes 24 cranes for the melt shop, rolling mill and finishing mill. Crane delivery will begin in October 2013 and the equipment will be operational by April 2014. This project represents the largest single investment by a Chinese company in a US manufacturing facility to date. Business environment KONECRANES 2012 13 Business Area Service Konecranes’ Business Area Service offers a full range of service products, maintenance programs, Expanding and modernization options for all brands and makes of industrial overhead cranes, port Konecranes’ equipment, and machine tools. Demand for lifting equipment services remained good through 2012; global presence in mature markets such as the US, Western Europe, and Australia this was fueled by the continued trend toward maintenance outsourcing. Proportion of Key figures Group total, % 2012 2011 Change, % Orders received, MEUR 35 735.0 694.6 5.8 Order book, MEUR 16 147.2 135.1 8.9 Net sales, MEUR 39 884.0 796.1 11.0 Operating profit (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 47 74.6 55.7 33.9 Operating margin (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, % 8.4% 7.0% Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 49 74.6 49.4 51.0 Operating margin (EBIT), % 8.4% 6.2% Personnel at the end of period 51 6,119 5,980 2.3 TRUCONNECT Remote Services represent the 14 KONECRANES 2012 Business area service latest innovation in Konecranes’ service business. With 626 locations in 48 countries, Konecranes has the largest nents. This results in higher efficiency, as maintenance can be service network in the industry. Service customers range from planned to match the actual usage and condition of cranes. repair shops and general manufacturing sites to paper and Development of TRUCONNECT advanced during 2012, steel mills, power plants, and ports, and cover a wide range highlighted by the start of a global commercial launch during of equipment and applications, including maintenance cranes, the fourth quarter, and will continue throughout 2013. Remote critical process cranes, port equipment, and machine tools. services are an important step in moving Konecranes closer Konecranes offers a full range of services designed to towards its vision of knowing in real time how millions of lifting improve the safety and productivity of customers’ businesses; devices and machine tools perform, and using this knowledge and provides specialized maintenance services ranging from around the clock to make customers’ operations safer and inspections of individual pieces of equipment to outsourcing more productive. entire maintenance operations. All programs can be tailored to suit the unique needs of each customer. Advances in emerging markets An in-depth commitment to condition/usage based mainteThe positive development of Konecranes’ service business in nance and real time service, combined with sustained investemerging markets continued in 2012. Significant advances ments in new technologies, is one of Konecranes’ strategic were made in South America, India, and South-East Asia, and priorities. Konecranes further reinforced its position in China. With a continued focus on Service in emerging markets Prioritizing profitability over growth is to support customers using Konecranes equipment. Global economic development during 2012 was sharply diKonecranes’ efforts are also focused on other customers in vided between a strong US domestic economy and modest these markets that could benefit from its preventive maintedevelopments in most other regions, with these regional difnance approach focused on safety and productivity improveferences mirrored in key indicators such as capacity utilizaments. tion. The economic environment further deteriorated during In today’s challenging economic environment, customers the second half of the year, and uncertainty increased in Euare open to exploring the possibility of outsourcing their mainrope and Asia, particularly in China. tenance needs. Outsourcing makes it possible for them to Following on from economic uncertainty in previous years, improve the productivity and safety of their operations while the focus of Business Area Service in 2012 was squarely on focusing on their own core business. With a continued conprofitability over growth: prioritizing business fundamentals centration on excellent customer service and a parallel effort and continuing the assimilation of previously acquired busito develop internal business processes, coupled with valuenesses. This was done successfully, and Service improved its added technologies, Konecranes is committed to maintaining overall performance. The maintenance contract base grew by its competitive advantage and expanding its strong presence 2.1%, providing a solid foundation for the Service business as worldwide. a whole. Konecranes’ Service orders grew in EMEA compared to 2011. However, the order growth in APAC was attributable to currency exchanges. Efforts to move the business toward a more knowledgebased offering and organization continued. The main initiatives here were the development and implementation of systems such as customer relationship management (CRM), as well as field service and asset management. Combined with innovation in products, services, and technologies, such as remote services, this helped lay the foundation towards a growing shift from preventive to real-time service. Orders received by Business Area Service in 2012 totaled EUR 735.0 million (694.6 million), an increase of 5.8 percent. The order book increased by 8.9 percent to EUR 147.2 South­ million (135.1 million) compared to the end of 2011. Sales east asia rose 11.0 percent, to EUR 884.0 million (796.1 million). The operating profit excluding restructuring costs was EUR 74.6 million (55.7 million) and the operating margin 8.4 percent (7.0). The number of units in the maintenance contract base increased to 418,560 from 409,877 at the end of 2011, with Konecranes continues an annual value of EUR 177.9 million (166.2 million). expanding it network Despite already having the world’s largest service Successful global launch of network in industry and being present in almost 50 TRUCONNECT® Remote Services countries, Konecranes has continued to expand its Konecranes piloted its new TRUCONNECT Remote Services in presence worldwide. Emerging markets are particularly interesting and Konecranes opened new offices 2011 in targeted markets in Europe. TRUCONNECT Remote in 21 locations in six countries in South-East Asia Services enable Konecranes to help its customers improve in 2012. the safe use of their equipment, provide the right maintenance at the right time, and assess the lifecycle of crane compoBusiness area service KONECRANES 2012 15 Business Area equipment Konecranes’ Business Area Equipment offers lifting equipment and material handling solutions BUILDING THE for industrial use, typically in general manufacturing, process industries, power plants, BASIS FOR industries handling heavy loads, ports, intermodal terminals, shipyards, and bulk material terminals. CONTINUED During 2012, Business Area Equipment focused on improving operational efficiency, integrating PROFITABLE companies acquired in 2011, and strengthening its presence in emerging markets. GROWTH Proportion of Key figures Group total, % 2012 2011 Change, % Orders received, MEUR 65 1,340.4 1,291.5 3.8 Order book, MEUR 84 795.6 856.7 -7.1 Net sales, MEUR 61 1,411.4 1,201.4 17.5 Operating profit (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 53 83.8 81.7 2.5 Operating margin (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs,% 5.9% 6.8% Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 51 78.0 77.7 0.4 Operating margin (EBIT), % 5.5% 6.5% Personnel at the end of period 49 5,973 5,621 6.3 Konecranes’ industry-leading technology is based on innovation power and the application of the most modern industrial 16 KONECRANES 2012 Business area equipment manufacturing technology. Business Area Equipment has an extensive and diverse global in Russia was strengthened and equipment sales there are customer base. General manufacturing represents the larggrowing. est single customer segment, while ports, oil & gas, mining, In a world of increasingly uncertain and more fragmented automotive, warehousing, entertainment, energy, steel, petromarkets, one of Konecranes’ focus areas in 2012 was to chemicals, shipyards, and paper are also important customer develop the agility of its organization and the speed of its industries. decision-making. As part of building the basis for future profKonecranes is the world’s largest supplier of lifting equipitable growth, Business Area Equipment also enhanced its ment for industrial use, with a product range that covers product portfolio. industrial cranes, wire rope and chain hoists, crane compoA new-generation CLX chain hoist was introduced and has nents, workstation lifting systems, manual hoists, and mebeen designed to speed up and facilitate operations, improve dium to heavy forklifts. safety, and double a unit’s service life. Konecranes’ container handling solutions include ship-toKonecranes completed its range of power options for RTGs shore (STS) cranes, rubber tired gantry (RTG) cranes, railduring 2012 by enhancing the Diesel Fuel Saver with the new mounted gantry (RMG) cranes, automated container yards Hybrid Power Pack, and by launching two new fully electric with stacking cranes, straddle carriers, reach stackers, and power options, Cable Reel and Busbar. masted lift trucks. The most significant new orders booked in 2012 for conKonecranes also offers a full range of cranes for shipyard tainer handling equipment included RTG cranes for customuse, high-capacity grab unloaders for large bulk terminals, ers in Slovenia, Indonesia, Ghana, Benin, Turkey, and the US. and a complete portfolio of material handling equipment for Straddle carriers for customers in Germany and the US also nuclear power plants. represented significant orders. An order of 20 automated stacking cranes (ASC) for a container terminal in the US was Coping well in volatile of particular importance, as automation is a growing megademand conditions trend in the industry. Goliath gantry cranes for shipyards were Macroeconomic developments were uneven in 2012 and ordered for sites in Norway, Azerbaijan, and Brazil. somewhat unexpected in different parts of the world. Despite Two important highlights during 2012 were the successful increasing activity in South-East Asia, the overall demand for delivery of two large automated stacking crane projects, one Konecranes’ equipment in APAC declined due to weaker tradin Spain and one in the United Arab Emirates. The project in ing conditions in China and India. In the Americas, demand the UAE also included the Terminal Operating System. The for lifting equipment remained strong throughout the year. In projects included a total of 66 ASCs, which were all delivered Europe, Eurozone problems began to accentuate during the on-time. second half of the year. Strong demand in Africa, especially In one of the largest orders it has ever received in the US, West Africa, kept demand levels stable in EMEA. Overall, deKonecranes was awarded a contract to supply 24 steel mill mand development showed signs of slowing down towards cranes for a Chinese-owned mill in Texas. Another significant the end of the year after a strong first half. industrial crane order was for a new shipyard in Brazil, where Global container traffic continued to grow in 2012, alKonecranes units will be used in shipbuilding processes. though at a slower rate compared to 2011. Project activity These large orders show that Konecranes has successfully with container ports was satisfactory, with a number of large won the trust of major international customers – thanks to projects during the first half of the year, while a clear slowits strong and seamless global organization, dynamic local down was evident in the second half. resources, and comprehensive range of service solutions. Demand for lift trucks for port and industrial use continued to be strong throughout the year. A growing number of orders were received from markets such as Africa, Germany, and Australia, where Konecranes has been building both its own organization and an efficient dealer network over the last few years. In a challenging environment, Business Area Equipment was able to improve its overall performance in 2012 compared to 2011. Orders received increased by 3.8 percent to EUR 1,340.4 million (1,291.5). Sales totaled EUR 1,411.4 million (1,201.4), an increase of 17.5 percent on 2011. Operating profit excluding restructuring costs was EUR 83.8 million The world’s largest (81.7) and operating margin 5.9 percent (6.8). Goliath gantry crane being delivered to Brazil Emerging markets Konecranes is delivering the world’s largest Goliath gangrowing in importance try crane to a Brazilian shipyard in Rio Grande do Sul. Konecranes continued to strengthen its presence in emergThe crane components were delivered in autumn 2012. ing markets, where economic growth is faster than in tradiThe crane, which will have a lifting capacity of 2,000 tional industrialized markets. With an established presence tons and a rail span of 210 meters, will be used for in China, India, and the Middle East, Konecranes focused on assembling Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) ships for offshore oil production projects. developing its operations in Africa, South America, and SouthEast Asia and achieved good results. The local organization Business area equipment KONECRANES 2012 17 Regional overview Konecranes is committed to becoming an even more global force in the lifting business. To Close to maximize its potential to understand the operations and needs of different industries and customers all build long-term customer relationships, Konecranes’ operations are divided into three over the world geographical regions – Americas (AME), Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Americas Konecranes holds a strong position in the Americas, particularly the US, and the Americas accounted for 33 percent of sales in 2012. The US is the most developed market in terms of outsourced crane services, and more than half of Konecranes’ sales in the Americas are service-related. Konecranes’ Service orders continued to grow in the Americas during 2012, thanks to the strength of the US domestic Konecranes has more economy and the significant advances made in South Amerthan 12,000 employees ica. The demand for lifting equipment also remained strong worldwide and is present in the US and improved throughout the Americas. General in almost 50 countries. manufacturing, together with steel and automotive, are the largest market segments. • Largest markets: the US, Canada, Brazil, Chile, and Mexico. • Operations: 2,724 employees, 134 locations. • Manufacturing: 8 plants manufacturing industrial and process cranes, including nuclear cranes, hoists, parts, and related components. • Key brands: Konecranes, P&H® (through Morris Material Handling), STAHL CraneSystems, R&M, and Crane Pro Parts. Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA is Konecranes’ largest region and accounted for 48 percent of sales in 2012. The region comprises both mature markets, with a high proportion of service sales, and fastgrowing economies where service is still small compared to equipment sales. In the mature Western and European and Nordic markets, the customer focus tends to be aimed at enhancing efficiency and productivity in material handling to offset high labor costs. In the Nordic countries, Konecranes’ market position is very strong and the Group has an extensive customer base in both Equipment and Service. In Eastern Europe, Konecranes has continued to improve its position in both Equipment and Service. Economic growth was slow in Western, Northern, and South-East Europe during 2012, and slowed in Russia as well towards the end of the year after initial growth. The most active customer segments are pulp & paper, petrochemicals, energy, metals, and general manufacturing. The Middle East continues to show high potential, with large investments taking place in infrastructure, petrochemicals, and general manufacturing. Demand remained at a reasonably good level throughout the year. 18 KONECRANES 2012 Regional overview Main production sites Sales and service locations Americas Europe, Middle East Asia-Pacific (AME) and Africa (EMEA) (APAC) sales personnel sales personnel sales personnel 33% 22% (721.0 MEUR) (2,724) 48% 52% (1,042.4 MEUR) (6,269) 19% 26% (406.9 MEUR) (3,154) Demand in Africa is growing, with many countries continuIndustrial production in China slowed due to the drop in the ing to invest in ports and other infrastructure. Equipment acdemand for Chinese exports. In Australia, investments contincounts for a high percentage of sales, primarily related to ued in the commodities sector but declined in the industrial logistics, metals, and mining. The African market was strong sector. Konecranes’ service offering in India is growing, and and continued to grow in 2012. its position as an equipment supplier is strengthening rapidly, • Largest markets: Germany, the UK, France, Finland, despite the slow-down seen in the country’s overall economic Sweden, Russia, Poland, Austria, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, development in 2012. In APAC, approximately 75 percent of Egypt, South Africa, Algeria, and Morocco. Konecranes’ sales still come from Equipment. In mature mar• Operations: 6,269 employees, 360 locations. kets, such as Australia, Service now exceeds the Equipment • Manufacturing: 13 plants manufacturing cranes and business. In 2012, further investments were made in human hoists, lift trucks, and steel structures for larger cranes. resources development, R&D, and production facilities in Chi• Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF, na, and new branches were opened in China and South-East and Verlinde. Asia. General manufacturing remains the largest customer segment; paper, power, steel, and ports are also important. Asia-Pacific • Largest markets: China, India, Australia, Indonesia Konecranes is recognized as the technology leader in APAC • Operations: 3,154 employees, 132 locations. and is the market leader in industrial cranes and crane ser• Manufacturing: 7 plants, including joint ventures, manuvice, with a strong position in lift trucks and ports. APAC acfacturing hoists, industrial and process cranes, steel counted for 19 percent of sales in 2012. structures, lift trucks, and port cranes. All South-East Asian countries experienced rapid growth • Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF, in 2012, which led to strong development for Konecranes. Verlinde, and Sanma Hoists & Cranes. Regional overview KONECRANES 2012 19 Research & development Konecranes is committed to continuously developing its equipment solutions and service Increased offering by making innovative use of the latest technology. Developing efficient products and emphasis on services that increase customers’ productivity while paying high attention to safety and the the needs environment is a particular priority. The needs of customers operating in emerging markets became of emerging an increasingly important focus area for Konecranes’ R&D during 2012. markets Konecranes’ R&D work aims to secure the Group’s competitiveness both in developed and emerging 20 KONECRANES 2012 R&D markets across the entire product offering. Key priorities of Konecranes’ R&D work Safety Productivity In addition to state-of-the-art technology, safety is Konecranes develops efficient products and servicalways a key area of focus for Konecranes. Prees that increase the productivity of its customers’ venting both injuries and damage to loads are top operations by delivering the best life cycle value. priorities in research and product development. Konecranes’ smart solutions make cranes much TRUCONNECT® Remote Services, active, sensoreasier to handle by simplifying difficult maneuvers, based safety features, shock load elimination, and eliminating load sway, and helping position loads sway control features are just some examples of in predefined locations. TRUCONNECT Remote Konecranes’ innovative solutions to improve safety. Services help optimize maintenance by enabling it to be based on actual crane usage. Environmental issues Industrial design Environmental issues are taken into account Industrial design forms an important part of throughout the life cycles of Konecranes’ products. Konecranes’ product design process and helps difParticular attention is given to things such as efferentiate the Konecranes brand. High standards of ficient material usage, recyclability, and energy efindustrial design also allow Konecranes to incorpoficiency. Over 98 percent of the material used in rate greater efficiency, user-friendliness, cost sava typical Konecranes crane is recyclable. Energyings, and new materials into its products. saving frequency converter technology is available with Konecranes equipment and enables up to 70 percent of braking energy to be fed back into the network. Konecranes’ service contract base covers almost 420,000 covered by smaller, local companies. Both the high-tech and items of equipment supplied by Konecranes and other manumid-market segments are growing rapidly, and Konecranes facturers, and is an important source of input for the comstrives to develop and offer suitable solutions for both. To pany’s product development work. Almost 4,000 service peraccomplish this, it has focused its R&D investments in emergsonnel around the world and close to 1.6 million customer ing markets and initiated local R&D operations in China and contacts every year give Konecranes a thorough understandIndia during 2012. ing of its customers’ needs. Konecranes’ R&D investments in 2012 were concentrated Konecranes continued to increase its investments in inon four main areas: software-based crane controls, Remote novation during 2012. Research and product development Services, further development of the product offering for spending totaled EUR 25.8 million (29.6), equivalent to 1.2 emerging markets with mid-segment products, and product percent (1.6) of net sales. reliability. Konecranes’ software-based crane control architecture has been further developed and standardized – and Focus on emerging markets extended to smaller wire rope hoists – to create a dynamic, The aim of Konecranes’ R&D work is to secure the Group’s long-term platform for crane electrics that enables remote competitiveness both in developed and emerging markets diagnostics and intelligent features to be added according across the entire product offering. Konecranes serves custo customer needs. With the help of TRUCONNECT® Remote tomers in different markets with common technological platServices, Konecranes is able to collect actual usage data forms and solution sets that are configured and tailored to from equipment on a continuous basis. meet local customer specifications and needs. As the number This results in improved safety and higher productivity and production volumes of customers operating in emerging for customers, as maintenance can be planned according markets are growing, Konecranes is giving increasing emto actual usage and condition. It also gives Konecranes an phasis to the needs of these customers in its R&D work. enhanced understanding of customers’ lifting needs and Emerging markets can be divided into three distinctly different lifting equipment use, and helps Konecranes develop prodsegments in terms of equipment and solution requirements. ucts and services that capture the real needs of customers Konecranes is active in advanced high-tech solution and mideven more effectively. market segments. The lower-specification segment is mainly R&D KONECRANES 2012 21 Global innovation community Pioneering work in developing Konecranes has been shifting from local and project-based a hybrid reach stacker innovation operations towards a global innovation organizaWork on a hybrid reach stacker progressed well and the new tion over the past few years. During 2012, this resulted in the unit commenced field-testing at the end of 2012. When decreation of an innovation community comprising more than livered to customers after the field-test period and a produc30 ‘innovation agents’. Coming from different parts of the tion engineering project, it will probably be the world’s first world, these ‘agents’ keep in active touch with customers fully mass-produced hybrid reach stacker. Unlike conventional to understand their needs and identify innovative ideas to reach stackers, which are powered by diesel engines and meet their needs. They act as a low-threshold channel in use mechanical transmissions, the new hybrid reach stacker their local organizations to capture ideas from the field, from employs an electrical system. For customers, this will provide sales people and service technicians, that can be utilized in significantly reduced operating costs, reduced maintenance, Konecranes’ global organization. and improved productivity. Due to its reduced fuel consumption and emissions, the new stacker will also be more ecoNew-generation chain hoist improves efficient than conventional models. efficiency and safety In 2012, Konecranes introduced a new-generation CLX chain hoist that speeds up the work cycle and maintenance and improves safety and energy efficiency. The sturdy design of the new unit provides a larger load capacity, while doubling the life cycle of the machine. The new hoist is particularly suitable for individual workstation applications, such as assembly cells. An important starting-point for the development of the newgeneration CLX chain hoist was the idea of using the same technical platform for different brands. This multibranding strategy makes it possible to differentiate products for various customer groups while also benefiting from economies of scale. Konecranes is increasingly applying this strategy to its other product groups as well. Jingjiang, china Jingjiang Reliability Center To complement its two Reliability Centers in Finland and Germany, and to further focus on emerging market products, Konecranes opened a new Reliability Center in Jingjiang, China in October 2012. Konecranes Reliability Centers are responsible for analyzing and testing the reliability of Konecranes’ products by simulating their entire life cycles. Identifying and understanding wear patterns provides valuable input for future product development and helps plan optimal maintenance schedules. With a network of three Reliability Centers today, Konecranes can now obtain statistically reliable test results quicker than before. 22 KONECRANES 2012 R&D product overview SERVICE Konecranes offers specialized maintenance and modernizadevelops its service offering by drawing on its extensive R&D tion services for all types of industrial cranes, lifting equipknow-how and over 60 years of maintenance expertise. ment, and machine tools. These services can cover everything Extensive maintenance programs based on harmonized from individual pieces of equipment to customers’ entire opprocesses are combined with a comprehensive range of sererations, boosting the productivity and safety of industrial vices, new modern maintenance tools, and online crane usage processes. information. A commitment to excellent, proactive, and real-time service is one of our strategic priorities. Konecranes continuously TRUCONNECT® REMOTE SERVICES TRUCONNECT® Remote Services represent the latest innovations in Konecranes’ service business, ranging from periodic data reporting to real-time diagnostics, technical support, and production monitoring. TRUCONNECT gives customers access to actual equipment usage data that can be used to enhance the safe use of cranes, optimize maintenance activities, and plan modernization needs. INDUSTRIAL CRANE WORKSTATION CRANES ATB AIRBALANCERS PRODUCTS offer ergonomic handling for loads can handle loads up to 350 kg. include standard cranes with liftup to 2,000 kg. Typical customers Thanks to their air-powered design ing capacities up to 80 tons. include manufacturing workshops, and floating load units, AirBalancKonecranes’ offering in this catautomotive manufacturers, and ers offer an invaluable aid for pickegory ranges from chain hoist renewable energy utilities. ing, lifting, moving, and placing cranes to wire rope hoists and items by hand. cranes – typically used in general manufacturing, automotive, steel, pulp & paper, construction, renewable energy, aerospace, and petrochemicals. product overview KONECRANES 2012 23 INDUSTRIAL CRANE SOLUTIONS are engineered for demanding lifting applications. The product range includes pre-engineered cranes capable of lifting up to 500 tons and tailored cranes for even more demanding lifting needs. Typical customers include the steel, aluminum, mining, general manufacturing, pulp & paper, petrochemical, cement, power, and energy from waste industries. FORKLIFT TRUCKS CONTAINER LIFT TRUCKS REACH STACKERS with lifting capacities ranging from can handle empty and laden conwith lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 65 tons are used in various tainers weighing 8–10 tons and 10 to 80 tons are used in containapplications and heavy industries 33–45 tons respectively at ports er handling, intermodal, and indussuch as steel, pulp & paper, oil & and intermodal terminals. trial applications. gas, and ports. GOLIATH GANTRY CRANES are used for heavy-duty assembly lifts at shipbuilding, offshore, and other heavy industrial sites. Loads weighing thousands of tons can be moved hundreds of meters horizontally and over a hundred meters vertically and positioned to assembly tolerances of just a few millimeters. 24 KONECRANES 2012 Product overview STRADDLE CARRIERS are multi-purpose container handling machines used in small to medium-sized container terminals. They typically have a lifting capacity of 50 tons and can stack containers one over three high. The BOXRUNNER® straddle carrier keeps containers flowing between STSs and yard container stacks, enabling fast ship turnaround times. It can also load and unload trucks, as it stacks two containers high. YARD CRANES SHIP-TO-SHORE CRANES are used in larger container terminals, and include RTGs are used for loading and unloading containers from ships. and RMGs and Automated Stacking Cranes (ASCs). These Konecranes’ STS cranes have a lifting capacity of up to 65 cranes usually have a lifting capacity of around 50 tons tons and an outreach of up to 70 meters. and can stack one over six containers high and eight plus truck lanes wide at ports and intermodal terminals. RTGs can be powered by diesel or electricity fed through a cable or a busbar. NUCLEAR CRANES and specialized lifting equipment are used throughout the industry for a wide range of operations, from lifting reactor heads to handling nuclear fuel, at nuclear power plants, radioactive waste facilities, and nuclear fuel production sites. Our SUPERSAFE™ single failure proof cranes and hoists are used to handle critical lifts. Konecranes’ nuclear quality control program meets strict regulatory requirements such as 10CFR50 Appendix “B” and NQA. Brands The Group’s brand strategy is based on the corporate Konecranes master brand, complemented with a portfolio of freestanding power brands. Konecranes-branded products are sold directly to end-users, while power-branded products are sold to distributors and independent crane builders. Konecranes’ power brands include R&M, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF, Verlinde, and Sanma Hoists & Cranes. product overview KONECRANES 2012 25 Corporate Konecranes is committed to continuous improvement in lifting our customers’ businesses responsibility and increasing the value of our shareholders’ investment. Respecting our employees, the environment, and our stakeholders is fundamental for sustainable development. Update on development areas from 2011 Reported in 2011 Status in 2012 Safety risk management and environmental management Training in both areas was continued, with sessions held in training will continue during 2012. India and China for example. Konecranes’ environmental incident reporting was developed The new functionality can now be accessed by the majority of and the new functionality will be rolled out in 2012. Konecranes units. We announced our target for 2015, which is to have HSEQ We started following up on this target during 2012 by environmental management systems in place at our top 250 conducting an as-is study for our top suppliers. suppliers. Environmental product declarations are under development. We expect to publish new environmental product declarations during 2013. Value-based behavior process to be implemented in measuring Process is implemented; both the ‘what’ and ‘how’ are performance during development discussions. included and values are discussed as part of the ‘how’. Konecranes continually invests in developing 26 KONECRANES 2012 Corporate responsibility its employees expertise and leadership skills. KONECRANEs’ StAKEHOLDERS Konecranes aims to recognize and meet different stakeholders’ needs and expectations in the area of corporate responsibility as elsewhere. In this chart, we have listed some examples of stakeholder groups and how we engage in dialogue with them. Customers Personnel Continuous dialogue as part of normal business and There are multiple channels for employee dialogue, for through customer satisfaction indicators and surveys. example the Konecranes employee satisfaction survey and various feedback channels. Suppliers and subcontractors Students, universities, and • Continuous dialogue as part of normal business research institutes and Supplier Days event. • Student cooperation in the form of trainee and • Environmental and ethical requirements included thesis work opportunities. in general terms and conditions. • Cooperation in different kinds of research programs with universities and research institutes. Shareholders There are also many other stakeholder groups, such The Annual Report is one way of providing information as local communities, the authorities, media, interest on Konecranes’ corporate responsibility performance groups, trade unions, and non-governmental organizaand actions for investors and engaging in dialogue. tions. We use multiple dialogue channels for communicating with these groups. Corporate responsibility is an integral part of what we do. Our vision statement describes our aim for increasing the safety Konecranes’ corporate of our customers’ operations, while our commitments to inresponsibility focus areas ternational initiatives and conventions, such as the United Nation’s (UN) Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global Compact, and our Code of Conduct and Values define how we SMA RT manage our supply chain and our own operations responsibly. TY ER Konecranes operates in almost 50 countries; everywhere FE OF S A we operate, we abide by good corporate governance practices. NG RI Our operations support the development of local communities FE through the creation of local jobs. Konecranes’ corporate responsibility focus areas are corporate Safety, Smarter Offering, Fair Play, the Environment, and responsibility People. To oversee the management of these focus areas, E FAIR P and other corporate responsibility issues, Konecranes has OPL LA PE Y formed the Konecranes Corporate Responsibility Steering Group. This includes senior managers and representatives from our business areas, production, product development, human resources, legal affairs, and the European Works ENV IRO N M ENT Council. The Steering Group met twice during 2012. The Extended Management Team also had a corporate responsibility session in 2012, where it discussed guidelines for the 2013 HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) annual plan, the Group’s safety policy, and fair labor issues in emerging marmeet the expectations of its stakeholders – such as customkets. ers, owners, and current and future personnel – and build Konecranes follows Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) prina solid foundation for engaging stakeholders on corporate ciples in its reporting on corporate responsibility, and aims to responsibility issues. Reporting complies with GRI Level C Corporate responsibility KONECRANES 2012 27 requirements, based on our self-assessment. A table of GRI compliance can be found on pages 32–33. Corporate responsibility reporting follows the same timeAPAC Safety summit frame as our financial reporting, the calendar year, and curA group of 20 Konecranes people – representing Australia & New Zealand, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, rently covers all our major production units and operations. Indonesia, and China – gathered in Shanghai for the However, businesses acquired during 2012 are not included. inaugural Konecranes APAC Safety Summit. The reported indicators have been chosen because they are The purpose of the two-day summit was to align the most relevant for our operations and our stakeholders. common safety practices across the region and set The data has been gathered via internal information systems unified targets for continuous improvement. and has been supplemented with information sourced sepaThe group committed itself to action plans to implerately. Some of the data included has been scaled up to proment full coverage of point of work risk assessment, vide an overall view of our performance, which could result in auditing, consultation, and training in the region – to inaccuracies in some figures. develop and improve safety culture and create a betKonecranes’ most important stakeholders have not ter working environment. changed since 2012. Stakeholders include shareholders, customers, personnel, suppliers and other partners, the authorities, local communities, and the media. During 2012, we continued improving various aspects of our reporting and stakeholder engagement, by inviting a representative from the frequency of accidents. In both business areas, fingers and European Works Council to join the Corporate Responsibility hands were the areas of the body most frequently injured. Steering Group, for example. Two serious injuries were incurred by our subcontractors in China and in Brazil in 2012, but no fatal accidents occurred. Safety is a top priority Lost time accident frequency (LTA) figures are detailed in the Safety is imperative for a company such as Konecranes, worktable below. ing in a multitude of different working conditions, geographical areas, and cultures. We strive to ensure the safety of our ENSURING A POSITIVE TREND IN personnel as well as our customers’ personnel throughout ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT the life-cycle of a crane. We want everyone to arrive home in We work hard to develop our environmental management and good health after the working day – and we want to be the apply the continuous improvement model in our environmental safety leader in our industry. management. The key issues of our environmental manageDuring 2012, our global HSE network continued expanding ment are energy efficiency, recycling, waste disposal, and to new units and countries. Cooperation also continued via chemical management. online meetings, and a face-to-face meeting was held with We continued developing our environmental competencies Konecranes’ quality professionals in Shanghai, China. across the global HSE network via face-to-face and online The Konecranes Safety Steering team, with over 100 years training sessions, information sharing, and online meetings of combined HSE experience, prepared a new set of corporate during 2012. We launched an environmental management Safety Minimum Requirements that will be implemented dure-learning tool during the third quarter of the year outlining ing 2013 in all of Konecranes’ operations. To ensure proacthe fundamentals of Konecranes’ environmental issues and tive safety management, we switched management incentive how we manage our environmental impact. settings from reactive KPIs to leading KPIs in 2013. During 2012, several Konecranes units implemented enerProactive safety management was reflected in a significant gy efficiency programs aimed at reducing the use of different rise in the number of safety observations and near hit reports forms of energy. Progress made here included our manufacturfiled by Konecranes personnel during 2012. The main reasons ing unit in Shanghai, China, where a switch to energy-efficient for safety observations and near hits relate to the loss of lighting had an immediate impact on electricity consumption, control of equipment, such as hand-held power tools, equipand our manufacturing unit in Ukraine, where we invested in ment failures, and housekeeping. Near hit data is helping us improved insulation. focus on injury prevention and awareness-raising activities. Business area Service had a slight drop in the number of Environmental issues accidents, and an approx. 10 percent reduction in accident Konecranes’ two business areas face quite different environfrequency. Despite proactive safety measures, 2012 was a mental issues. For Business Area Service, the most important challenging year for Business Area Equipment in terms of environmental issues are fuel consumption and vehicle emisLost time Accident Frequency BUSINESS AREAS LTA1, 2012 LTA1, 2011 LTA1, 2010 Konecranes total 9.5 9.5 11.7 Equipment 9.9 8 13 Service 10.3 11.7 12 LTA1 = (number of accidents/working hours performed) * 1,000,000 Including operatives and office staff 28 KONECRANES 2012 Corporate responsibility sions. For Business Area Equipment, the most important environmental issues include energy usage, waste handling, and SHARING OUR WAY chemical storage and usage. Environmental indicators related As of July 1, 2012, Konecranes launched a new to the most important environmental issues are reported in Employee Share Savings Plan for all employees except the Environmental Data Table on page 30. those in countries where, for legal or administrative Although water-related questions are becoming more and reasons, the Plan cannot be offered. Participation is more prominent in sustainability enquiries and indexes, they completely voluntary. are not very significant for Konecranes, as we use very little The Plan is based on participants saving a monthly water in our own production or in our services. Small amounts sum of up to 5 percent of their gross salary. The monof water-based cooling emulsions are used, but overall water ey saved in this way is used to buy Konecranes shares usage is mainly limited to wash rooms and drinking water. from the market on behalf of participants. Savings However, we may start reporting on water issues to ensure are made from July 1, 2012 until June 30, 2013. If a that we also provide public coverage of this area. participant is still in possession of the shares at the end of February 2016, he/she will receive one matchPEOPLE – POSITIVE RESULTS FROM ESS AND ing share for every two initially purchased. ANNUAL DEVELOPMENT DISCUSSIONS We believe that the Plan will boost people’s mutual The purpose of the annual Employee Satisfaction Survey sense of being part of Konecranes, around the world (ESS) is to assess the level of satisfaction, motivation, and and at all levels of the organization. commitment of Group personnel. It is also a channel for employees to express their views regarding their work and workplace. The response rate to ESS 2012 was similar to that for the 2011 survey: 86 percent for the Group as a whole. The survey. In particular, orientation training for new tasks and total number of responses was 10,383. The 2012 Employee recognition of work well-done received more positive feedback Satisfaction Survey was the sixth to be organized to date. than before. As an example of good induction practices, a When compared to benchmark data, our overall results are global onboarding e-learning package has been prepared to very positive, especially in areas such as managerial work, ensure that all new employees receive comprehensive basic employer image, and leadership culture. Managerial work reinformation on Konecranes. Based on feedback, the package ceived very good overall feedback compared to the previous was further developed at the end of 2012. NUMBER OF PERSONNEL, NUMBER OF PERSONNEL, End of the year Average 9,904 9,782 10,042 11,651 12,147 9,222 9,811 9,739 10,998 11,917 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 workforce gender age structure by region structure 5% 16% 22% 26% 19% 52% 22% 24% 30% 84% APAC Male < 30 30–39 AME Female 40–49 50–59 EMEA > 59 Corporate responsibility KONECRANES 2012 29 CRANE LED LIGHTS The Environmental Product Declaration for the CXT electric wire rope hoist released in 2011 resulted in further development of the crane’s energy efficiency and a LED light solution that reduces power consumption. LED lights use less than a third of the energy consumed by conventional lights. LED lights have also quadrupled the lifespan of conventional floodlights. The solution is already in use in some of the cranes produced by our manufacturing units. Konecranes’ leadership culture received a high ranking in elsewhere has declined, which is also reflected in the high the ESS. A set of Managerial Communication Guidelines was employee retention rate of 90 percent. Fairness in terms of reprepared in 2012 to clarify managers’ communication-related muneration and involving employees in decision-making were responsibilities to further promote good company culture and also evaluated more positively in the 2012 ESS than before. fair management. These guidelines, together with our CorpoInformation flow within departments and access to inforrate Platform Book, were delivered to all managers to support mation are still areas for improvement. Stress levels have them in implementing Konecranes’ strategy. also increased. Despite this, employees typically consider The Managerial Communication Guidelines also included their work interesting and challenging. a section devoted to ‘Konecranes Leadership Principles’. Annual development discussions are one-to-one meetings These principles are based on Konecranes’ values and key between managers and employees, during which people’s leadership competencies. A virtual Manager’s Guide was also goals and personal development plans are discussed and published in 2012, featuring three modules: Corporate essensystematically documented. Development discussions are a tials, Employee lifecycle, and Communication tools. key part of performance management and help ensure that ESS respondents also felt that Konecranes focuses on Konecranes and all its employees have the necessary compeemployees’ wellbeing. People see their workload as reasontencies and motivation to meet current and future business able and believe that employees share know-how with each challenges. The target is to hold annual development discusother more than elsewhere. Employees’ sense of team spirit sions with all employees; due to employee turnover reasons, has improved and their interest in looking for employment the actual rate was about 80 percent in 2012. EnVIrOnmental data for 2012 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS 2012 2011 2010 Total emissions/sales 1) tCO2e /MEUR 52 73 109 Total energy consumption/sales1) MWh / MEUR 175 224 332 Scope 1, energy consumption and direct Vehicle fleet fuel consumption, MWh 119,700 151,000 220,200 emissions Natural gas consumption, MWh 63,000 65,300 54,000 Direct emissions, tCO2e 42,700 53,400 85,000 Scope 2, energy consumption and indirect Electricity consumption, MWh 129,800 135,000 158,000 emissions District heat consumption, MWh 66,800 74,000 80,500 Indirect emissions, tCO2e 70,300 73,000 73,000 Scope 3, other indirect emissions Business travel, tCO2e 11,100 11,100 10,000 WASTE (TONS) Metal scrap2) 14,200 13,500 12,500 Cardboard, paper, and wood2) 5,800 3,500 5,500 Hazardous and electronic, and electrical waste 3) 3,000 2,800 1,100 Mixed waste4) 900 1,150 950 Total numbers extrapolated based on data collected from the majority of manufacturing locations and major service units. 1) Total emissions and total energy consumption per sales have been adjusted according to reporting change in Scope 3. 2) Waste streams go for recycling 3) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration, and other adequate treatment depending on location 4) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration, and landfill depending on location 30 KONECRANES 2012 Corporate responsibility It is important to note that in 2012 we emphasized the The Konecranes Hybrid Power Pack turns a diesel-electric HOW part of performance alongside the WHAT. The overall equipment into a diesel-electric hybrid system. Whenever long-term performance, success, and image of Konecranes possible, deceleration energy is stored and electric power and its employees will depend on understanding and living re-used. our common values. The importance of development discussions was also reFAIR PLAY flected in the ESS results, and there was a clear correlation As we are a part of a complex business ecosystem, we want between annual development discussions and the general to ensure that we act as transparently as possible and are job satisfaction of all Konecranes employees worldwide in always fully accountable. the 2012 results. We pay special attention to cooperation with our suppliers, and completed 20 supplier audits in 2012 and organized a SMARTER OFFERING Supplier Day for 70 of our suppliers, where corporate responUsability, eco-efficiency, and safety are the guiding principles sibility was one of the topics covered. in the lifecycle of Konecranes’ lifting equipment and service Our Code of Conduct is publicly available on our website, offering. We are proud of the eco-efficiency and safety feaand we also offer our personnel and other stakeholders a tures of our equipment and service offering, and of the overall confidential e-mail channel (compliance@konecranes.com) for user experience, both tangible and intangible, that we are able reporting misconduct. All reports are investigated and action to give customers. Many cutting-edge features have been part taken if needed. of our offering for years. We started rolling out online training for the Code of ConThe new Reliability Center opened in China in 2012 will duct during 2012. This reviews the contents of the Code and help further enhance work on product and service reliability. includes test questions which users have to pass to complete All three Reliability Centers are committed to ensuring that the training. The roll-out will be finalized during 2013. Online Konecranes produces safe, reliable, and high-quality products, training is mandatory for all Konecranes employees. and provide testing services and technical services to internal Konecranes understands that different customers and customers to help achieve this goal. industries have different requirements, and aims to develop Konecranes’ Smarter Cabin, launched in 2011, received strong, long-term customer relationships. Our existing custhe Fennia Prize 2012 award. The Smarter Cabin, designed tomer partnerships, together with our service contract base, in close cooperation with key customers, provides crane opoffer us an excellent foundation for growth, by expanding coerators with an ergonomic and comfortable work place with operation and selling additional services. improved visibility of the work area. In addition to a high Please contact corporate-responsibility@konecranes.com standard of design, the evaluation criteria included usability, on corporate responsibility matters. environmental and social responsibility, and business impact. Another example of our smarter offering is the new hybrid power pack launched for RTGs and straddle carriers in 2012. ABU DHABI, united arab emirates KONECRANES AUTOMATION IN ABU DHABI Konecranes delivered 30 automated stacking cranes (ASC) and a container terminal operating system (TOS) to a customer in Abu Dhabi in 2012. The TOS integrates the entire terminal operation from gate to quay. The graphical interface gives improved visibility and better control of container movement within the terminal. The adaptive yard automation system enables efficient container handling and saves energy. The ASCs are equipped with Konecranes’ Active Load Control system with active Sway Prevention and Horizontal Fine Positioning systems for enhanced customer safety. Corporate responsibility KONECRANES 2012 31 GRI content index Global reporting initiative content index Page Comment Profile 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO's statement 6 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 35 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 23–25 2.3 Operational structure 3, 35 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 2 2.5 Number of countries and location of operations 2 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2 2.7 Markets served 2 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 2 2.9 Significant changes 4 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 31 3 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 28 3.2 Date of most recent report 28 3.3 Reporting cycle 28 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report 31, 126–129 3.5 Process for defining report content 28 3.6 Boundary of the report 28 3.7 Limitations on the report's scope or boundary 28 3.8 Basis for reporting subsidiaries and joint ventures 28 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases for calculations 28 3.10 Explanation of re-statements Not applicable 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 4 3.12 GRI content index 32–33 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure 35 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Board 37 4.3 Independence of the Board members 37, 54–55 4.4 Mechanism for shareholder and employee consultation 29, 36 4.5 Executive compensation and linkage to organization's performance 40–43 4.7 Processes for determining expertise 37 4.8 Values, mission and business conduct principles 10, 27 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing risk management 44 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board's performance 37 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 27 4.15 Identification of stakeholders 27, 28 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 27, 28, 36 32 KONECRANES 2012 GRI content index Global reporting initiative content index Page Comment Management approach and performance indicators (core indicators, unless marked to be additional) Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating 67–106 Financial review part costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligation 101–102 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 85 Labor practices LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 19, 29 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 29 Partly covered LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number 28 of workrelated fatalities by region LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 31 reviews (additional indicator) Human rights HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone 31 Partly covered screening on human rights and actions taken. Society SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to 47 Partly covered corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and 31 Partly covered procedures Product responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are 20–22 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Environmental EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 30 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 30 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and 21–22, 31 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives (additional) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 28 Partly covered (additional) EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 30 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 30 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 28 Partly covered (additional) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 30 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent 21–22, 28–29 of impact mitigation GRI content index KONECRANES 2012 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As Konecranes is a part of a complex business ecosystem, it wants act as transparently as possible and always be fully 34 KONECRANES 2012 Corporate governance accountable. Konecranes Plc (Konecranes, Company) is a Finnish public GENERAL MEETING limited liability company, which complies with the Finnish ComThe General Meeting of Shareholders is the Company’s highpanies and Securities Market Acts, the rules of NASDAQ OMX est decision-making body, through which shareholders exerHelsinki, and other regulations concerning public companies, cise their decision-making power and right of supervision and as well as Konecranes’ Articles of Association, in its decisioncontrol over the Company’s business. making and administration. An Annual General Meeting (AGM) must be held within Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate Goversix months after the end of a financial year. An Extraordinary nance Code 2010 that came into force on October 1, 2010 General Meeting (EGM) must be held if shareholders with at and was approved by the Board of the Securities Market least 10 percent of shares so demand in writing to consider Association. The Code can be found at www.cgfinland.fi. a specific issue. Konecranes complies with all the recommendations of the Matters to be discussed at the AGM are defined in Article Code with no exceptions. Konecranes has issued a Corporate 10 of Konecranes’ Articles of Association and in Chapter 5, Governance Statement based on Recommendation 54 of the Paragraph 3 of the Companies Act. These matters include Code and a Remuneration Statement based on Recommendathe adoption of the financial statements, distribution of proftion 47. See www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate its, discharging Board members and the Managing Director Governance for details. from personal liability, the election of Board members and Corporate governance structure of the Konecranes Group in 2012 KONECRANES GROUP Konecranes Plc Articles of Association General Meeting Auditor (Shareholders) Code of Conduct Group’s internal rules, regulations and Group Board of Directors Policies Laws, Audit Committee Internal rules and Audit regulations Nomination and Compensation Committee President and CEO Group Administration and Support Group Executive Board Functions Extended Management Team BA Equipment Market Operations BA Service Business Component manufacturing Business Units and strategic sourcing Units Corporate governance KONECRANES 2012 35 auditors, and the fees payable to them. Konecranes’ Articles at the Meeting. When a shareholder participates in a General of Association can be consulted at the Company’s website at Meeting through several proxy representatives representing www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Governance. the shareholder’s shares held in different securities accounts, the shares by which each proxy representative represents the Information on General Meetings for shareholder shall be identified in connection with the regisshareholders tration. The Board of Directors (Board) shall convene an AGM or EGM Shareholders are requested to inform the Company of any by publishing a notice on the Company’s website or in one proxies for a General Meeting when they notify their participaor more national newspapers or by sending a written notice tion. A shareholder and his/her representative may bring an to shareholders by mail no more than three (3) months and assistant to a meeting. no less than three (3) weeks before the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Notice of the General Meeting shall include Shareholder’s right to ask questions and make the proposed agenda. proposals for resolutions The Company will disclose on its website the date by which Every shareholder at a General Meeting has the right to ask a shareholder shall notify the Board of Directors of an issue questions related to an item on the Meeting’s agenda. A that he or she requests be included in the agenda. shareholder may send his or her question to be submitted to The Company will publish the decisions made at General the Meeting to the Company in advance. A shareholder also Meetings as stock exchange releases and on the Company’s has the right to table draft resolutions at a Meeting in matters website without delay after meetings. The minutes of the Genthat fall within the competence of the General Meeting and eral Meeting, including those appendices of the minutes that that are on the agenda. are part of decisions made by the Meeting, will be posted on the Company’s website within two weeks of a General Attendance of Board members, the Managing Meeting. Director, and Auditors at the General Meeting The President and CEO, holding the position of Managing Attendance of shareholders Director under the Companies Act, the Chairman of the Board, Holders of nominee-registered shares are advised to request and a sufficient number of directors shall attend General their custodian bank to provide them with instructions reMeetings. In addition, the Company’s Auditor shall be presgarding registration in the Company’s shareholders’ register, ent at Annual General Meetings. the issuing of proxy documents, and registration for the GenA person proposed as a director for the first time shall eral Meeting well in advance of a Meeting. Custodian banks’ participate in the General Meeting that decides on his/her account management organization will register a holder of election unless there is good reason for not attending. nominee-registered shares wishing to participate in the GenThe Annual General Meeting for 2012 was held on March eral Meeting to be temporarily entered in the Company’s 22, 2012 in Hyvinkää, Finland. A total of 315 shareholders shareholders’ register. In order to be entitled to attend an representing approximately 34.5 percent of votes participated AGM or EGM, a shareholder must be registered as a shareeither in person or by proxy. holder in the Company’s shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record day for the Meeting. A Documents relating to General Meetings shareholder whose shares are registered in his/her personal The Notice of a General Meeting, the documents to be subFinnish book-entry account is registered in the Company’s mitted to the Meeting, and draft resolutions will be available shareholders’ register. Changes in shareholdings that occur on the Company’s website at least three weeks before the after the record date of a General Meeting do not affect a Meeting. shareholder’s right to participate in a General Meeting or a shareholder’s number of votes. BOARD OF DIRECTORS A registered shareholder wishing to participate in a General Meeting must notify the Company of his/her intention in Charter of the Board of Directors the order and during the period prescribed in the Notice of the The Board of Directors of the Company has approved a writShareholders’ Meeting. A notification by a holder of nomineeten Charter governing its work. The Charter supplements the registered shares for temporary inclusion in the Company’s provisions of the Finnish Companies Act and the Company’s shareholders’ register is understood as prior notice of particiArticles of Association. Information in the Charter is intended pation in the General Meeting. to enable shareholders to evaluate the operation of the Board. The Charter can be consulted on the Company’s website at Proxy representative and powers of attorney www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Governance. A shareholder may participate in a General Meeting in person or through proxy representation. A proxy representative shall Responsibilities produce a dated proxy document or otherwise demonstrate in The Board is responsible for the administration and propa reliable manner his/her right to represent the shareholder er organization of the Company’s operations. The Board is 36 KONECRANES 2012 Corporate governance vested with powers and duties to manage and supervise the Biographical details of the Board of Directors are preCompany’s administration and operations as set forth in the sented on pages 54–55 and can also be found at Companies Act, the Articles of Association, and other appliwww.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Governance. cable Finnish laws and regulations. The Company aims to comply with all applicable rules and regulations affecting the Independence of the Board of Directors Company or its affiliates (Group Companies) outside Finland, Under the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2010, the maprovided that such compliance does not constitute a violation jority of directors shall be independent of the Company. In adof Finnish law. dition, at least two directors of this majority shall be indepenThe Board has a general obligation to pursue the best dent of the Company’s major shareholders. The Board shall interest of the Company and all of its shareholders, and is evaluate the independence of directors and reports which accountable to the Company’s shareholders. Board members directors it determines to be independent of the Company shall act in good faith and with due care, exercising their and which directors it determines to be independent of major business judgment on an informed base in what they believe shareholders. to be the best interest of the Company and its shareholder All other members elected to Konecranes’ Board of Direccommunity as a whole. tors, except Mr. Stig Gustavson, are deemed independent of The Board shall decide on the business strategy of the the Company. Mr. Gustavson is deemed dependent of the Company, the appointment and dismissal of the President and Company based on the Board’s overall evaluation relating to CEO, the deputy to the President and CEO, and other senior his former and current positions in Konecranes, combined management, Group structure, acquisitions and divestments, with his substantial voting rights in the Company. financial matters, and investments. It shall also continuously All other Board members are independent of the Compareview and monitor the operations and performance of Group ny’s major shareholders except Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld, who Companies, risk management, and the Company’s compliance is deemed to be dependent on major Company shareholders with applicable laws, as well as any other issues determined based on his current position as the Managing Director of by the Board. The Board shall keep itself informed of issues Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab holds more and business activities of major strategic importance to the than 10 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. HTT Company on an ongoing basis. KCR Holding Oy Ab is a subsidiary of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. The Board shall appoint a secretary to be present at all More detailed criteria for independence are listed in Board meetings. Recommendation 15 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2010. The Code is available online at www.cgfinland.fi. Election and term of office The AGM elects Konecranes’ Board of Directors for a term Meeting procedure and self-assessment of one (1) year. According to the Articles of Association, the In addition to the Board and its secretary, the Company’s Board shall have a minimum of five (5) and a maximum of President and CEO and CFO shall attend Board meetings. eight (8) members. The Board elects a Chairman from among The agenda of Board meetings and background material will its members. There is no provision in the Articles of Associabe delivered to Board members prior to meetings. The Board tion to appoint Board members according to a specific order. shall meet as often as necessary to properly discharge its Candidate Board members will be announced in invitations responsibilities. There shall be approximately eight regular to General Meetings, provided that the proposal has been meetings a year; the Board may convene whenever necessary made by the Nomination and Compensation Committee, or if in addition to these meetings. the candidate is supported by at least 10 percent of the total The Board convened nine (9) times during the 2012 finanvotes of all Company shares and the candidate has given cial year. The attendance of members at meetings is shown his/her consent. Any candidates proposed after the invitation in the table on Board Meetings 2012 on page 38. has been sent shall be announced separately. The Company The Board and its Committees shall conduct an annual will publish the biographical details of the candidates on the performance evaluation to determine whether the Board and Company’s website. its Committees are functioning effectively. The Board shall esIn 2012, the Board of Directors consisted of eight (8) tablish the criteria to be used in these evaluations, which will members: be conducted as internal self-evaluations. The performance • Mr. Svante Adde review shall be discussed with the entire Board after the end • Mr. Kim Gran (until March 22, 2012) of each fiscal year. • Mr. Stig Gustavson (Chairman) • Mr. Tapani Järvinen BOARD COMMITTEES • Mr. Matti Kavetvuo The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee and the Nomi• Ms. Nina Kopola nation and Compensation Committee. Both Committees were • Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld (as of March 22, 2012) first formed in 2004. • Ms. Malin Persson • Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen Corporate governance KONECRANES 2012 37 board meetings in 2012 Nomination and Compensation Board Meetings Audit Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Member Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage Stig Gustavson 9/9 100% 4/4 100% Svante Adde 9/9 100% 4/4 100% Kim Gran 1/1 100% 1/1 100% Tapani Järvinen 9/9 100% 4/4 100% Matti Kavetvuo 8/9 89% 4/4 100% Nina Kopola 9/9 100% 4/4 100% Bertel Langenskiöld 7/8 88% 3/3 100% Malin Persson 9/9 100% 3/3 100% 1/1 100% Mikael Silvennoinen 9/9 100% 4/4 100% The average attendance of members at Board meetings was 97.2 percent. Audit Committee its members. The Nomination and Compensation Committee The Board shall appoint the members and the Chairman of shall have 3–4 non-executive Board members, the majority of the Audit Committee from among its members. The Audit whom shall be independent of the Company. Committee shall have at least three (3) non-executive Board The Committee shall prepare matters related to things members that are independent of and not affiliated with the such as the appointment of the members of the Board of Company. At least one member must be independent of major Directors, the President and CEO and other senior manageshareholders. ment, evaluate the President and CEO’s performance and reThe Audit Committee assists the Board in its responsibilimuneration, and make recommendations on the Company’s ties relating to the appropriate arrangement of the control of incentive compensation plans. The Committee’s tasks and Company accounts and finances pursuant to the Companies responsibilities are defined in its Charter, which is based Act. The tasks and responsibilities of the Committee are deon a Board resolution. The Charter of the Nomination and fined in its Charter, which is based on a Board resolution. The Compensation Committee is available on the Company’s Charter of the Audit Committee is available on the Company’s website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Governance. Governance. The Nomination and Compensation Committee shall meet Under its charter, the Audit Committee shall meet at least at least once a year. The Chairman shall present a report on four (4) times a year. The Chairman shall present a report on each Nomination and Compensation Committee meeting to each Audit Committee meeting to the Board. the Board. As of March 22, 2012, the Board’s Audit Committee comAs of March 22, 2012, the Board’s Nomination and prised the following four (4) members: Compensation Committee comprised the following four (4) • Mr. Svante Adde (Chairman), members: • Mr. Tapani Järvinen (member), • Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld (Chairman), • Ms. Malin Persson (member), • Mr. Stig Gustavson (member), • Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen (member). • Mr. Matti Kavetvuo (member), • Ms. Nina Kopola (member), All the members of the Audit Committee are deemed to be independent of the Company and its significant shareholders. Mr. Stig Gustavson is deemed to be dependent on the CompaAll members have sufficient corporate management expertise. ny, while all other members are independent of the Company. In addition, Mr. Svante Adde, and Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen All other members are deemed independent of the Company’s have a degree in business administration and/or economics. major shareholders, except Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld. The Audit Committee convened four (4) times in 2012, and The Nomination and Compensation Committee convened the average attendance of members at meetings was 100 four (4) times in 2012, and the average attendance of mempercent. The attendance of members at meetings is shown bers at meetings was 100 percent. The attendance of memin the table on Board meetings. bers at meetings is shown in the table on Board meetings. Nomination and Compensation Committee Fees paid to the Board of Directors The Board shall appoint the members and the Chairman of The remuneration paid to Board members is resolved by the the Nomination and Compensation Committee from among Annual General Meeting. More information on the Board’s 38 KONECRANES 2012 Corporate governance remuneration can be found on page 40 under Remuneration • Mr. Mikko Uhari, Executive Vice President and Head of of the Board of Directors. Market Operations • Mr. Teo Ottola, Chief Financial Officer PRESIDENT AND CEO • Mr. Ari Kiviniitty, acting Chief Technology Officer. Konecranes’ President and CEO holds the position of Managing Director under the Companies Act. The Board decides on The biographical details of the Group Executive Board memthe appointment and dismissal of the President and CEO. The bers can be found on pages 50–51. President and CEO may be a member of the Board of DirecThe Group Executive Board assists the President and CEO, tors, but may not act as its Chairman. The current President but has no official statutory position based on legislation or and CEO, Mr. Pekka Lundmark, is not a member of the Board the Articles of Association. In practice, however, it plays a sigof Directors. nificant role in the Company’s management system, strategy preparation, and decision-making. Responsibilities Under the Companies Act, the President and CEO is responExtended Management Team* sible for the day-to-day management of the Company in acIn addition to Group Executive Board members, the members cordance with instructions and orders given by the Board. The of the Extended Management Team include the Senior Vice President and CEO may undertake actions which, considering Presidents of the Company’s regional organizations; the Vice the scope and nature of the Company’s operations, are unusuPresident, General Counsel; the Vice President, Human Real or extensive, only with the authorization of the Board. The sources; the Vice President, Marketing & Communications; President and CEO shall ensure that the Company’s accountthe Chief Information Officer; the Head of Product Manageing practices comply with the law and that its financial affairs ment and Engineering, the Chief Supply Chain Officer; the have been arranged in a reliable manner. The President and Deputy Head of Business Area Equipment; and the Deputy CEO is also responsible for preparing matters presented to Head of Business Area Service. the Board and for the Company’s strategic planning, finance, The Extended Management Team consists of the following financial planning, reporting, and risk management. members: • Mr. Pekka Lundmark, President and CEO President and CEO’s contract • Mr. Hannu Rusanen, Executive Vice President and Head The terms and conditions of the President and CEO’s conof Business Area Equipment tract of employment are specified in writing in a document • Mr. Fabio Fiorino, Executive Vice President and Head of approved by the Board. Business Area Service The President and CEO’s contract of employment may be • Mr. Mikko Uhari, Executive Vice President and Head of terminated with six months’ notice at any time by either the Market Operations President and CEO or the Company. In the event that the Com• Mr. Teo Ottola, Chief Financial Officer pany terminates the contract without due cause, the Company • Mr. Pekka Lettijeff, Chief Supply Chain Officer, Head of shall pay the President and CEO compensation corresponding Supply Chain Management (as of January 1, 2012) to 18 months’ salary and fringe benefits, in addition to the • Mr. Ari Kiviniitty, Head of Product Management and Engisalary for the notice period. When the President and CEO neering and Deputy Head of Business Area Equipment reaches the age of 63 years, both he and the Company may (as of January 1, 2012) request his retirement. He participates in an additional de• Mr. Aku Lehtinen, Senior Vice President and Head of fined contribution plan with an annual payment set at 18.6 Region WEMEA (Western Europe, Middle East and Africa) per cent of his annual salary excluding performance-based • Mr. Tomas Myntti, Senior Vice President and Head of compensation (annual or long-term incentives). Region NEI (Nordic, Eastern Europe and India) • Mr. Tom Sothard, Senior Vice President and Head of ReGROUP MANAGEMENT gion Americas Konecranes has a two-tier operative management struc• Mr. Ryan Flynn, Senior Vice President and Head of Reture consisting of the Group Executive Board (GXB) and the gion APAC (Asia-Pacific) Extended Management Team (EMT). • Ms. Sirpa Poitsalo, Vice President, General Counsel • Ms. Jaana Rinne, Vice President, Human Resources Group Executive Board • Mr. Mikael Wegmüller, Vice President, Marketing and The Group Executive Board consists of the following members: Communications • Mr. Pekka Lundmark, President and CEO (Chairman of • Mr. Antti Koskelin, Chief Information Officer Group Executive Board) • Mr. Marko Äkräs, Vice President, Deputy Head of Busi• Mr. Hannu Rusanen, Executive Vice President and Head ness Area Service. of Business Area Equipment *As of February 1, 2013, the EMT has been replaced by the Konecranes • Mr. Fabio Fiorino, Executive Vice President and Head of Senior Management Team. For more details visit www.konecranes.com > Business Area Service Investors > Corporate Governance > Group Management Corporate governance KONECRANES 2012 39 The biographical details of Extended Management Team memCompany and contribute to the favorable development of bers can be found on pages 50–53. shareholder value. The Extended Management Team focuses on a systematic The objective is that all Konecranes employees have a varireview of the progress of strategy implementation. able component based on their performance as a part of their Business Areas’ operations are interlinked and synergyoverall remuneration. The size of this variable component vardriven. Business Area Executive Vice Presidents are responies according to the person’s position in the organization. Typisible for the day-to-day management of their Business Areas, cally, these variable components are based on the financial which in turn are ultimately responsible for the Group’s finanresults of the Group and/or the unit in question and personal cial performance. achievements. Remuneration schemes are drawn up in writing Four Regional Senior Vice Presidents are responsible for and numerical evaluation is used whenever possible. managing the Group’s activities in geographical areas under All remuneration schemes are designed to meet both Market Operations. The Regional organization brings together global and local needs, and may differ between locations as Business Areas to form a uniform customer interface for the a result. Group, with the primary goal of maximizing the Group’s position within each Region. Regional Senior Vice Presidents have Decision-making process line responsibility for equipment sales and service, within The Annual General Meeting adopts resolutions and decides the guidelines given by the Business Areas. Additionally, they the remuneration of the Board of Directors and the Board’s are responsible for coordinating and providing administrative Committees annually. services for operations not directly reporting to them, such The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the as manufacturing. President and CEO’s performance. Based on the review and Group Staff forms a common resource for handling matters other relevant facts, the Board determines the total remuneraof importance for the whole Group. tion package of the President and CEO. The Nomination and Compensation Committee also evaluMeeting Practices ates and prepares for Board decision the remuneration packThe GXB convenes as frequently as necessary, normally on a ages of Group Executive Board members who report directly monthly basis. The EMT shall convene regularly twice a year. to the President and CEO. Remuneration packages for other In addition, Group-level results are reviewed monthly under Extended Management Team members are decided on by the the chairmanship of the President and CEO. Business Areas President and CEO. and Regions have their own management teams that convene All Konecranes remuneration issues are decided by the on a regular basis. ’one above’ principle, i.e. a manager’s superior must always confirm the remuneration of an employee. REMUNERATION Remuneration of the Board of Directors Principles applied to remuneration schemes The remuneration of Board members is resolved by the AGM. All Konecranes remuneration schemes are designed to proFees payable to Board members as confirmed by the latest mote high performance and emphasize focus and commitAGM are shown in the Fees paid to the Board of Directors ment to business targets. Remuneration schemes promote table. competitiveness and the long-term financial success of the Total compensation paid to the Board of Directors in 2012 Committee Cash, EUR Shares, EUR Shares, # meetings EUR Total, EUR Gustavson Stig, Chairman of the Board 53,328.58 52,511.42 2,276 6,000 111,840.00 Adde Svante, Board member 21,339.66 20,995.34 910 10,500 52,835.00 Järvinen Tapani, Board member 21,339.66 20,995.34 910 6,000 48,335.00 Kavetvuo Matti, Board member 21,339.66 20,995.34 910 6,000 48,335.00 Kopola Nina, Board member 21,339.66 20,995.34 910 6,000 48,335.00 Langenskiöld Bertel, Board member 21,339.66 20,995.34 910 4,500 46,835.00 Persson Malin, Board member 21,339.66 20,995.34 910 6,000 48,335.00 Silvennoinen Mikael, Board member 21,339.66 20,995.34 910 6,000 48,335.00 Gran Kim, Board member until 3/2012 0 0 0 1,500 1,500 Total 202,706.22 199,478.78 8,646 52,500 454,685.00 40 KONECRANES 2012 Corporate governance Fees paid to the Board of Directors, € Remuneration of the President and CEO Annual fee, 2012 The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the Chairman of the Board 105,000.00 President and CEO’s performance. Based on this review and other relevant facts, the Board determines the total compenVice Chairman 67,000.00 sation package paid to the President and CEO. Board member 42,000.00 The compensation package includes base salary, fringe Fee per Board Committee meeting 1,500.00 benefits, a pension scheme, a performance-related annual Chairman of the Audit Committee per AC 3,000.00 bonus scheme and a long term performance related share meeting plan. The President and CEO’s bonus scheme is based on Board members are also reimbursed for their travel expenses. Group Profitability and Growth and the maximum bonus is 50 percent of the President and CEO’s annual base salary. 50 percent of annual remuneration is paid in Konecranes Additionally, the Board of Directors can, but is not required to, shares purchased on the market on behalf of Board memset certain strategic targets that can trigger an additional bobers. Remuneration may also be paid by transferring treasury nus, which can be a maximum of 50 percent of the President shares based on the authorization given to the Board of Diand CEO's annual base salary. rectors by the General Meeting. In the event that payment in The new 2012 pension scheme for the President and CEO shares cannot be carried out due to reasons related to either sets his retirement age at 63 and the defined contribution the Company or a Board member, annual remuneration shall at 18.6 percent of his annual salary, excluding performancebe paid entirely in cash. based compensation (annual or long-term incentives). The Compensation paid to the President and CEO Salary, bonus and other benefits 2012 2011 1 Salary and benefits 468,196 EUR 440,140 EUR 2 Bonus 262,800 EUR 330,066 EUR 3 Option rights owned (# of options 31 Dec.) 80,000 174,000 4 Shares owned (# of shares 31 Dec.) 263,749 180,000 5 Additional shares as result of the KCR Management Oy Share 0 83,606 Swap (# of shares, transfer restriction until November 1, 2012) 6 Total shares owned (# of shares) 263,749 263,606 7 Retirement age 63 years 60 years 8 Target pension level Defined contribution plan 60% 9 Period of notice 6 months 6 months 10 Severance payment 18 months salary and 18 months salary and (in addition to notice period compensation) fringe benefits fringe benefits new scheme replaces the earlier one, which set the retireand CEO in 2006. There is a tax appeal pending against the ment age at 60 and a target pension level of 60%. imposed payment and the loan is effective until the appeal The annual salary and benefits paid to the President and process is concluded. CEO in 2012 and 2011 are shown in the following table. The Konecranes executives established a company named As part of his temporary relocation to Singapore, the PresiKCR Management Oy in May 2009. KCR Management Oy dent and CEO's monthly base salary was amended to EUR acquired 517,696 Konecranes Plc shares from the market. 40,000 a month as of 1 August 2012. In addition to his The acquisition was financed by capital investments by the monthly salary, he has standard work-related benefits (e.g executives, in the total approximate amount of EUR 1.3 milmobile phone) and is compensated for his housing and lion, as well as by a loan in the approximate amount of EUR traveling expenses. 7.1 million provided by Konecranes Plc. KCR Management Konecranes has a loan receivable of EUR 221,725.43 Oy was owned by the executives who belonged to the Group from President and CEO Pekka Lundmark with an interest Extended Management Team upon the establishment of KCR rate of 12 month euribor + 1 percentage point. The interest Management Oy. rate is adjusted annually on the 5th of November or the reAccording to the agreements governing KCR Management spective next banking day. The loan relates to a tax payment Oy, KCR Management Oy had an obligation to repay the loan resulting from the incentive scheme directed to the President granted by Konecranes Plc prematurely in case the share Corporate governance KONECRANES 2012 41 Remuneration to Management: Extended Management Team, excluding the President and CEO 2012 2011 1 Salary and benefits 3,121,537 EUR 2,705,215 EUR 2 Bonuses 524,691 EUR 667,241 EUR 3 Option rights owned (# of options 31 Dec.) 493,635 777,500 4 Shares owned (# of shares 31 Dec.) 279,132 258,948 5 Additional shares as a result of the Share Swap 0 164,888 (# of shares) 6 Total shares owned (# of shares) 279,132 423,836 price of Konecranes Plc other than temporarily exceeds a cerOy acquired 517,696 Konecranes Plc shares from the market. tain level determined in the agreements. This condition was The acquisition was financed by capital investments by the met in December 2010. The Board of Directors of ­Konecranes executives, in the total approximate amount of EUR 1.3 milPlc decided that the loan would be repaid through a share lion, as well as by a loan in the approximate amount of EUR swap whereby Konecranes Plc acquired all the shares in KCR 7.1 million provided by Konecranes Plc. KCR Management Management Oy. President and CEO Pekka Lundmark had a Oy was owned by the executives who belonged to the Group 27.9 percent share in KCR Management Oy and as a result of Extended Management Team upon the establishment of KCR the share swap he received 83,606 Konecranes shares (item Management Oy. 5 in the table on page 41). KCR Management Oy had an obligation to repay the loan KCR Management Oy was merged into Konecranes Plc granted by Konecranes Plc prematurely in case the share effective on December 31, 2011. price of Konecranes Plc other than temporarily exceeds a certain level determined in the agreements. This condition was Remuneration of Group Management met in December 2010. The Board of Directors of Konecranes (Extended Management Team) Plc decided that the loan will be repaid through a share swap The Nomination and Compensation Committee evaluates and as a result of the share swap the Extended Management and prepares for Board decision the remuneration packages Team received in total 164,888 Konecranes shares (item of Group Executive Board members who report directly to 5 in the table above). KCR Management Oy was merged to the President and CEO. Remuneration packages for other Ex­Konecranes Plc effective on December 31, 2011 tended Management Team are confirmed by the President There were no loans issued by the Company to the Exand CEO. Compensation packages normally include basic tended Management Team (excluding the President and CEO) salary, fringe benefits (typically use of a company car and at the end of December 2012. mobile phone), contribution-based pension schemes, and performance-related bonus schemes. Performance Share Plan 2012 Bonus schemes are always based on written contracts. As of the beginning of 2012, Konecranes launched a new Bonus criteria vary, but are usually based on the Group’s five Long Term Incentive Plan for key employees and discontinued Key Performance Areas: Safety, Customer, People, Growth, the use of stock option plans. and Profitability. Bonuses are related to an individual’s perThe purpose of the Performance Share Plan is to motiformance and to the performance of the unit that he/she vate key personnel to contribute to the long-term success belongs to. Numerical performance criteria are used rather of the Company and to create shareholder value. A further than personal assessments, whenever possible. The maxipurpose is to create a joint sense of common ownership mum bonus percentage is based on the individual’s responsiamong managers, which is seen as valuable for a company bilities and in 2012 was 50 percent of an individual’s annual like K ­ onecranes with operations covering many countries, culbase salary. tures, and customer industries. The Finnish members of the Extended Management Team The Board decides on the allocation of shares to key perparticipate in a defined contribution-based group pension insonnel under a proposal made by the President and CEO. In surance scheme, which can be withdrawn from the age of 60. allocating shares to the President and CEO, the Board acts However, the retirement age of the members of the EMT is set independently. according to the Finnish Employees Pensions Act (TyEL). The The actual number of shares earned is triggered by criteria Finnish EMT members have life insurance and disability insurset by the Board annually. The 2012 Plan has one criterion for ances. Non-Finnish members of the EMT also participate in fiscal year 2012 performance and one for 2012 – 2014 perdefined contribution pension plans and have local insurance. formance. Earned shares will be paid out in the first quarter of The Konecranes Group executives established a company 2015. Under the 2012 – 2014 Plan, if maximum performance named KCR Management Oy in May 2009. KCR Management is achieved for both criteria, the President and CEO will be 42 KONECRANES 2012 Corporate governance eligible for 48,000 shares and the Extended Management Konecranes’ Public Insider Register includes the members Team in total for 240 000 shares (the maximums are gross of the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, the Secrenumbers). tary to the Board, the Auditor, the members of the Extended The members of the Extended Management Team, includManagement Team, as well as other persons holding a coming the President and CEO, have an obligation to continue ownparable position in the Group, as decided by the Company. In ing at least 50% of the shares that they earn annually through addition, Konecranes’ Company-Specific Permanent Insiders the Performance Share Plan until they own Company shares includes persons defined by the Company, who regularly poswith a value equal to their annual salary including benefits. sess insider information due to their position in the Company. Persons registered in the Public Insider Register and Stock Option Plans the Permanent Insider Register are not allowed to trade in The Company has in the past issued stock option plans for its Konecranes securities during a period commencing on the key employees, including top and middle management, and first day after the end of each calendar quarter and ending employees in certain expert positions. All plans have been upon the publication of the Company’s corresponding interim adopted by the relevant General Meetings. The Board has report or financial statement bulletin. Furthermore, trading is decided to discontinue the use of these plans until further not allowed during the entire publication day. The Company notice. also maintains Project-Specific Insider Registers for all insider Konecranes Plc’s remaining outstanding stock option plans projects. People listed in these registers are prohibited from are Option Series 2009A, 2009B and 2009C. trading in Konecranes’ shares until termination of the project The subscription periods for these plans are as follows: concerned. Stock Option 2009A: 1 April 2012 – 30 April 2014 The General Counsel maintains Konecranes’ register of Stock Option 2009B: 1 April 2013 – 30 April 2015 insider holdings and is responsible for monitoring compliStock Option 2009C: 1 April 2014 – 30 April 2016 ance with insider guidelines and declaration requirements. The Company maintains its public insider register in Euroclear The terms and conditions of Konecranes' stock option plans Finland Ltd.’s SIRE system. and the number of unsubscribed stock options, based on Konecranes Public Insiders’ share and option holdings can existing stock options plans and the number of employees be consulted using the NetSire register. concerned, can be consulted at the Company’s website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Share information > AUDIT Stock option plans. The main function of statutory auditing is to verify that As of the end of 2012, approximately 200 employees were Konecranes’ financial statements represent a true and fair part of the Group’s stock option plans. More information on view of the Group’s performance and financial position for the stock options can be found on page 96 of the 2012 Financial financial year, which is the calendar year. The Auditor reports Statement, note 29. to the Board’s Audit Committee on a regular basis, and is obliged to audit the validity of the Company’s accounting and Employee Share Savings Plan 2012 closing accounts for the financial year and to give the General Konecranes launched a new Employee Share Savings Plan Meeting an auditor’s report. Konecranes’ Auditors are elected on July 1, 2012 for all employees except those in countries by the AGM and hold office until further notice. The same audiwhere the Plan cannot be offered for legal or administrative tor with principal responsibility may not serve for more than reasons. seven financial years. A proposal for the election of external The Plan also covers top managements and the President auditors made by the Audit Committee shall be included in and CEO. Participation is voluntary for all concerned. the invitation to the AGM. The Audit Committee strives to put The Plan is based on the idea that participants save a the selection of the external auditor out to tender at regular monthly sum of up to 5% of their gross salary. This money intervals. is then used to buy Konecranes shares from the market on Ernst & Young Oy, Authorized Public Accountants, has been behalf of participants. Savings can be made from July 1, 2012 the Company’s external auditor since 2006. Mr. Heikki Ilkka to June 30, 2013. If participants are still in possession of served as Principal Auditor in 2012. Ernst & Young Oy and its these shares on February 15, 2016, they will receive one affiliated audit companies received EUR 1,640,000 in fees matching share for every two initially purchased. for auditing Konecranes Group Companies in 2012, and fees of EUR 877,000 for non-audit services. INSIDER ADMINISTRATION The Board has approved a set of Insider Rules for Konecranes based on the Finnish Securities Markets Act, standards issued by the Financial Supervision Authority, and the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Guidelines for insiders in force as of October 9, 2009. Corporate governance KONECRANES 2012 43 RISK MANAGEMENT, Konecranes’ Board of Directors has defined and adopted a set of risk management principles INTERNAL CONTROL, based on widely accepted international good management practices. The Audit Committee AND INTERNAL evaluates and reports on the adequacy and appropriateness of internal controls and risk AUDITING management to the Board. Konecranes’ spare part services cover any brand of crane 44 KONECRANES 2012 Risk management and hoist, other lifting equipment or machine tools. Risk management principles Customer credit risks Risk is anything that will clearly affect Konecranes’ ability to Challenges related to customer payments could adversely achieve its business objectives and execute its strategies. affect Konecranes’ financial situation. To limit this risk, we Risk management is part of Konecranes’ control system and apply a conservative credit policy towards our customers. It is designed to ensure that any risks related to the company’s is Konecranes’ practice to review customers carefully before business operations are identified and managed adequately entering into a formal business relationship and to require and appropriately to safeguard the continuity of Konecranes’ credit reports on new customers. The credit risks of our cusbusiness at all times. tomers are mitigated with advance payments, letters of credit, The Group’s risk management principles provide a basic payment guarantees, and credit insurance where applicable. framework for risk management across Konecranes, and each Using these tools and by carefully monitoring customer payGroup company or operating unit is responsible for its own ments we have successfully limited our credit risks. During risk management. This approach guarantees the best possi2012, Konecranes further developed its Credit Management ble knowledge of local conditions, experience, and relevance. function and the Konecranes Global Credit Policy was upThe Group’s risk management principles define risk mandated. agement as a continuous and systematic activity aimed at protecting employees from personal injury, safeguarding the Technology risks assets of all Group companies and the Group as a whole, and Konecranes recognizes that there are various threats and opensuring stable and profitable financial performance. By miniportunities related to the development of new products and mizing losses due to realized risks, and optimizing the cost services in its business. Active management of intellectual of risk management, Konecranes can safeguard its overall property rights is essential in the global marketplace. long-term competitiveness. Konecranes monitors market developments and its competitors continuously to identify signs of potential changes Significant risks for Konecranes in products, markets, and customer needs at an early stage. Konecranes has assessed its strategic, operational, financial, Dedicated, process-driven product development operations and hazard risks. The list of risks below and the risk managehave sustained Konecranes’ leadership in offering advanced ment methods described here are intended to be indicative technologies, products, and services to lift its customers’ only and should not be considered exhaustive. businesses. Acquisitions have and will continue to be made to gain access to advanced technologies where appropriate. Market risks Konecranes ensures that its innovations are protected by Demand for Konecranes’ products and services is affected by international patents wherever applicable, and protects its the development of the overall global economy, regional and trademarks as well. country-specific political issues, as well as the business cyDuring 2012, Konecranes continued increasing its activicles of Konecranes’ customer industries. Capital expenditure ties in developing markets. R&D activities in China and India on industrial cranes varies with the development of industrial focused on products that improve our opportunities in these production and production capacity, while demand for port growing markets. In developed markets, Konecranes invested equipment follows trends in global transportation and, over in automation, software products, and connectivity solutions the shorter term, port investment cycles. The lift truck cycle to improve customers’ added value and support the Group’s follows the development of other product segments. Demand new vision. for maintenance services is driven by customers’ capacity The number of TRUCONNECT Remote Services products utilization rates. In addition to risks related to sales volumes, increased strongly during 2012, improving our knowledge of adverse changes in demand can also result in overcapacity installed products. and affect market prices, as can competitors’ other actions. Konecranes’ aim is to increase the proportion of its serConducting business in emerging and developing vice revenue in its total revenue stream and thereby reduce markets its exposure to economic cycles. In general, the demand for Konecranes sells to many developing countries and has its service is less volatile than that for equipment. own personnel, manufacturing, and supplier networks in As part of its strategy, Konecranes strives to maintain a these areas. Sudden changes in the political environment, wide geographical presence to balance out economic trends economic, or regulatory framework of these areas can have in different market areas. Konecranes also aims to limit the an adverse effect on Konecranes’ business. By having its own risks resulting from changes in demand in different customer presence in some of these countries, Konecranes gains direct segments and demand for certain products by maintaining a information on changes affecting the prevailing local business diverse customer base and offering a wide range of products environment. Konecranes also conducts careful evaluations and services. By active product development, Konecranes of the political, social, and economic environment in relevant also strives to differentiate itself from competitors and reduce countries to ensure that it is aware of developments there. the pressures caused by competition. The risks related to emerging and developing markets are In 2012, Konecranes continued to develop its operations balanced by Konecranes’ strong global presence and stable through a broad geographical and industry segment presence, service operations in developed countries in Europe and with a strong focus on active areas and segments. Continued North America. brand-building made a positive contribution to helping further Emerging countries represent a significant continuous mardifferentiate Konecranes from its competitors. ket opportunity, as economic growth is expected to be faster in developing areas than the global average; and Konecranes Risk management KONECRANES 2012 45 will continue its efforts to expand its presence in these areas stock values. Inefficiencies in these areas could affect the both via organic growth and acquisitions. performance of Konecranes adversely. Konecranes manages During 2012, the focus was largely on developing existing its purchases and the logistics of materials and components operations. of substantial importance for its operations on a centralized basis. Contracts with key suppliers are designed to optimize Personnel these purchases globally. Konecranes’ ability to operate is dependent on the availability, During 2012, Konecranes continued to develop the quality expertise, and competence of professional personnel. and scope of supplier cooperation and its audit process. Work Konecranes is continuing to develop its employer brand, continued on improving demand-supply monitoring, balancing, on-boarding, recruiting, and resourcing practices to ensure and forecasting to improve the Group’s ability to respond to that it has access to professional and engaged employees, customer needs rapidly. especially as the competition for talented people is growing all the time. Quality risks During 2012, Konecranes continued to invest in training High-quality products, business procedures, processes, and and development, and feedback received from the Group’s services play a key role in minimizing Konecranes’ business latest employee satisfaction survey indicates that many risks. Most companies in the Group and all major Group opareas have developed well. Managerial work received very erations use certified quality procedures. Several existing good overall feedback compared to the previous survey. Inquality certificates were updated and various new ones were duction for new tasks and the recognition given to good work received in 2012. Determined certification work is continuing received more positive feedback than in previous surveys. in line with Konecranes’ principles. Konecranes’ overall leadership culture is also perceived During 2012, Konecranes continued to develop both local very well. Fairness in rewarding and involving employees in and global quality improvement processes by utilizing local decision-making was evaluated more positively than before. quality improvement teams and a global quality task force During 2012, performance management practices were to support local efforts. As part of continuous improvement strengthened with the help of a harmonized performance apefforts, a product line-based factory acceptance test system praisal and development discussion process and documentawas introduced. Supplier quality has been developed in the tion tool. same way. Harmonized people processes and systems now cover 96 percent of employees within Konecranes and support factSupplier risks based decision-making. Konecranes recognizes that price and continuity risks are associated with some of its key suppliers, as they could be difAcquisitions ficult to replace. In the event of major production problems, Unsuccessful acquisitions or the failure to successfully inthis could undermine Konecranes’ delivery capability. Quality tegrate an acquired company could result in reduced profitrisks and defects associated with subcontracted components ability or hamper the implementation of corporate strategy. are quality risks for Konecranes. Konecranes reduces the risks associated with acquisitions by To reduce subcontracting risks, Konecranes constantly carrying out thorough due diligence analyses, using external seeks competitive and alternative suppliers while improvadvisors when needed. ing cooperation with existing suppliers. When available, alDuring 2012, the emphasis of work in the acquisition ternative suppliers enhance price competitiveness, increase process development area remained on the integration of production capacity, and reduce Konecranes’ risk of single acquired companies. supplier dependency. During 2012, Konecranes focused on ensuring a high stanProduction risks dard of cooperation with its critical suppliers to generate muKonecranes’ strategy is to maintain in-house production of key tual benefits. Improvements to Konecranes’ quality processes components that have high added value and/or provide core enhanced Konecranes’ supplier quality and customers’ quality competitive advantages. There are specific risks involved with experience. different aspects of production, such as production capacity management, operational efficiency, continuity, and quality. IT risks Efforts have continued to further develop production operaKonecranes IT is responsible for all IT services, applications, tions. Continuous replacement investments and enhanced and assets used by Group companies. Konecranes’ operamaintenance of production equipment have been carried out. tions depend on the availability, reliability, quality, confidenThe additional capacity provided by acquired companies has tiality, and integrity of information. Any and all information become an integral part of Konecranes’ global production security risks and incidents may affect business performance network on a phased basis. Risk management is an essential adversely. element of production strategy. The safety and security of key Konecranes uses reliable IT solutions and employs effifacilities continued to improve during 2012. cient information security management to avoid data loss and prevent the confidentiality, availability, or integrity of data Material management and procurement risks from being compromised. User care and support is exercised Material management and procurement operations require a with internal and outsourced IT services to ensure the high proactive approach and development to avoid risks related availability, resiliency, and continuity of services, and rapid to issues such as pricing, quality, capacity, availability, and recovery in the event of any temporary loss of key services. 46 KONECRANES 2012 Risk management Konecranes IT successfully insourced the Group’s IT Help ous insurance programs and by continuously improving its Desk and end-user support to improve the quality of the serpreparedness to deal with various potential crisis situations. vice provided to employees. During 2012, Konecranes paid special attention to occuDuring 2012, Konecranes started the implementation of pational safety by clarifying the global corporate minimum new global IT applications, following business process harmorequirements of safety in electrical work, working at height, nization work. These implementations include risks related and the use of personal protective equipment. This continued to schedules, costs, and content. Realization of schedulethe harmonization of safety procedures that has taken place related risk may lead to delays in business benefit realizafor several years. Other occupational safety minimum requiretion. Content risk could be realized if the designed business ments will be drawn up and introduced globally in 2013. model cannot be implemented as planned using the selected applications. Delays in schedules and challenges with impleFinancial risks mentations may lead to a rise in total project costs. Konecranes manages most of its financial risk on a centralKonecranes IT was operated as a business support funcized basis through its Group Treasury. Group Treasury function with a presence in around 20 countries in 2012. tions within Konecranes Finance Corporation, operating as a financial vehicle for the Group at Corporate Headquarters. Contract and product liability risks Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit center that Konecranes can be subject to various legal actions, claims, strives to maximize its profits, but rather its role is to help and other proceedings in various countries typical for a comthe Group’s operating companies reduce the financial risks pany in this industry and consistent with a global business associated with global business operations, such as market, that encompasses a wide range of products and services. credit, and liquidity risks. The most significant market risk These matters may involve contractual disputes, warranty relates to foreign currency transaction risk. claims, product liability (including design defects, manufacThe responsibility for identifying, evaluating, and controlling turing defects, failure to post appropriate warnings, and asthe financial risks arising from the Group’s global business bestos legacy), employment, auto liability, and other matters operations is divided between business units and Konecranes involving claims related to general liability. These risks are Finance Corporation. managed by continuously monitoring operations, improving Units hedge their risks internally with Group Treasury. The product safety, training customers, and making use of demajority of the Group’s financial risks are channeled through tailed sales terms. Konecranes also issues written policies Konecranes Finance Corporation, where they can be evaluated in some cases to ensure compliance with legislation, regulaand controlled efficiently. tions, and Konecranes’ own principles across the Konecranes Almost all funding, cash management, and foreign exGroup. Particular emphasis is placed on training to ensure change transactions with banks and other external counterthat employees are aware of and comply with the applicable parties are carried out centrally by Konecranes Finance Corlegislation, regulations, and principles relating to their work. poration in accordance with the Group’s Treasury Policy. Only Konecranes’ Legal Department retains outside experts to asin a few special cases, where local central bank regulations sist here when necessary. prohibit the use of Group services for hedging and funding, is this carried out directly between an operating company and a Illegal activities bank under the supervision of Group Treasury. Konecranes aims to comply with all applicable laws and reguKonecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury system lations, but breaches of the company’s policies resulting in that enables transactions to be processed in real time and illegal activities can threaten the company. Konecranes conprovides in-depth records of activities and performance. Stansiders the potential risks involved to be limited, however, aldard reporting is done on a weekly basis and covers Groupthough it recognizes that even small-scale illegal activity could level commercial and financial cash flows, foreign currency damage its reputation and affect its financial condition and transaction exposure, debt positions, derivatives portfolios, results adversely. Internal procedures, supervision, audits, and counterparty credit exposure for financial transactions. In and practical tools are used to reduce Konecranes’ exposure addition, all Group companies participate in monthly manageto these types of risks. rial and statutory reporting. During 2012, Konecranes continued to improve and deploy See Note 3 to the Financial Statements and the Board tools and processes related to good governance and manageof Directors’ Report for a detailed overview of financial risk ment practices. management. Damage risks Insurance Damage risks include business interruption risks, occupaThe Group reviews its insurance policies as part of its overall tional health and safety-related risks, environmental risks, fire risk management on a continuous basis. Insurance policies and other disasters, natural events, and premises security are used to cover all risks that are economically feasible or risks. Konecranes identifies and assesses these risks conotherwise reasonable to insure. tinuously as part of its business processes. To mitigate these risks, we have adopted a number of occupational health and Internal Auditing safety guidelines, certification principles, rescue planning, and Konecranes’ Internal Audit function is an independent, obpremises security instructions. Konecranes has also sought jective assurance and consulting unit, which assists the to prepare for the materialization of these risks through variorganization in achieving its objectives. The unit evaluates the efficiency of risk management, control, and governance Risk management KONECRANES 2012 47 Control Main features of Internal Control related to financial reporting. Environment Board of Directors Review of financial performance Overview of financial Audit Committee reporting process External Audit Business supervision CEO and Group management Feedback and monitoring Internal Audit Management teams in Business supervision Feedback Business Areas and Regions and monitoring Reporting units Business Controlling Konecranes Financial Reporting manual (Controller’s Manual) FUNCTION CONTROL ACTIVITIES processes and investigates all reports of suspected incidents. Service and Equipment. Both business areas were further The latter can be made in person or through a new confidendivided into several business units, supply units, and various tial e-mail reporting channel. support functions. Business areas were responsible for isThe Internal Audit unit operates according to an audit plan sues such as product/service offering and global profitability. approved by the Board’s Audit Committee. The unit’s working The other dimension of the matrix organization was Marmethods are based on the professional standards laid down ket Operations. These front-line operations were managed by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA). The approach of Inand controlled through four regions: Americas, APAC, WEMEA ternal Audit focuses on process-oriented engagement, rather (Western Europe, Middle East and Africa), and NEI (Nordic, than purely entity-based auditing. Eastern Europe and India). Market operations were responAdministratively, Internal Audit reports to the Group CFO; sible for areas such as Konecranes’ regional and country orand Internal Audit activities are reported to the Board’s Audit ganizations including sales activities and service operations. Committee on a regular basis. Financial targets are set and planning/follow-up activities are executed along both dimensions of the matrix organizaInternal control and risk management tion in accordance with the overall business targets of the related to financial reporting Konecranes Group. The operations of the Service business Internal control related to financial reporting is designed to are typically monitored based on profit-responsible service provide reasonable assurance concerning the reliability of fibranches (on average 368 in 2012), which are further consolinancial reporting and the preparation of financial statements dated to country and regions levels, and business units (5 in for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 2012). Equipment business is mainly monitored via business accounting principles, applicable laws and regulations, and units (5 in 2012), which are divided into business lines. other requirements covering listed companies. Risk manageCorporate Governance and business management at ment is considered an integral part of running the Konecranes Konecranes are based on the company’s values of trust in business. Konecranes’ corporate risk management principles people, total service commitment, and sustained profitability. provide a basic framework for risk management, while each The control environment is the foundation for all the other Group company or operating unit is responsible for its own components of internal control and for promoting employees’ risk management. This principle is also followed in risk manawareness of key issues. It supports the execution of strategy agement related to financial reporting. and regulatory compliance. The Board of Directors and Group Management of financial risks is described in the Note 3 Management are responsible for defining the Konecranes of Konecranes’ Financial Statements 2012. Group’s control environment through corporate policies, instructions, and financial reporting frameworks. These include Control environment the Konecranes Code of Conduct and the Konecranes ConIn 2012, the Group operated in a matrix organization, one troller’s Manual, which constitutes the main tool for accountdimension of which was formed by the two business areas, ing and financial reporting principles in respect of providing 48 KONECRANES 2012 Risk management information, guidelines, and instructions. The interpretation Communication and application of accounting standards is the responsibility The Controller’s Manual, together with reporting instructions of the Global Finance function. Guidelines and instructions and policies, are stored in the Konecranes intranet for access for reporting are updated when necessary and are reviewed by personnel. The Group, Business Areas, and Regions also at least once a year. arrange meetings to share information on financial processes and practices. Information for the Group’s stakeholders is Control activities regularly communicated via the Konecranes Group’s website. Konecranes Group management has operational responTo ensure that the information provided is comprehensive sibility for internal controls. Financial control activities are and accurate, the Group has established a set of external integrated into the business processes of the Konecranes communications guidelines. These define how, by whom, and Group and management’s business supervision and monitorwhen information should be issued; and are designed to ening procedures. The Group has identified and documented sure that Konecranes meets all its information obligations the significant internal controls that relate to its financial and to further strengthen internal controls related to financial processes either directly or indirectly through other process. reporting. The total number of identified financial internal controls is approximately 100. All legal entities and business units have During 2012 their own defined controller functions. Representatives from Konecranes continued its IT system project (ERP for both controller functions participate in planning and evaluating unit the Service and Equipment business areas, CRM and People performance, and ensure that monthly and quarterly financial system) to further develop and implement harmonized proreporting follows the Group’s policies and instructions and cesses, increase operational visibility and improve decisionthat all financial reports are delivered on time in accordance making, and reduce the overall number of various IT systems. with schedules set by the Group. The pilot unit of the ERP system was launched at the end Management follow-up is carried out through monthly manof September 2011, five new companies rolled out during agement reporting routines and performance review meetings. 2012, and roll-outs will continue in other units over the next These meetings are conducted by business units / business few years. Konecranes has developed the Financial Shared areas, on country and regional, as well as Group level, and Service Center (FSSC) concept to offer mainly transaction cover a review of the competitive situation, market sentiment, handling services, financial master data maintenance, and order intake and order book, monthly financial performance, some financial accounting services from regional centers quarterly and rolling 12-month forecasts, as well as safety, to individual Konecranes companies. The Financial Shared people, and customer topics. The Group management folService Center concept became operational during 2012 in lows up separately most important development activities; Europe and North America. for example major IT development activities are monitored in The internal control environment will be improved using Business Infrastructure Board and R&D projects in Technolcommon, unified processes and a common system platform. ogy Board. These Management Boards convene typically on Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls will become a quarterly basis. more transparent following the implementation of the ERP system. Financial Shared Service Centers created a unified Monitoring framework for transactional processing and provide an enThe Group conducts an annual self-assessment through its hanced segregation of duties. controllers to monitor the effectiveness of selected financial internal controls. The Group also has an Internal Audit function, which is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of Konecranes’ risk management and internal control system. Internal Audit plans its work in cooperation with the Audit Committee, which approves an annual internal audit plan. The Audit Committee receives direct reports from external auditors and discusses and follows up their viewpoints. External auditors are also represented at Audit Committee meetings. The Group’s financial performance is reviewed at every Board meeting, and the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee review all external financial reports before they are made public. The Group has a confidential e-mail reporting channel (Whistleblower channel) through which matters related to suspected misconduct can be reported. All notices of suspected incidents are investigated by Internal Audit and findings are reported to the Audit Committee. We received three reports of suspected misconduct via the Whistleblower channel in 2012; these cases did not have a material impact on the Group's financial results. Risk management KONECRANES 2012 49 Group executive board in 2012 b. 1963 President and CEO Member of the Group Executive Board since 2004 Employed since 2004 M.Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes 2004 – 2005: Group Executive Vice President; Hackman Abp 2002 – 2004: CEO; Startupfactory 2000 – 2002: Managing Partner; Nokia Corporation 1990 – 2000: various executive positions Other current key positions of trust: Marimekko Ltd.: Chairman of the Board; Federation of Finnish Technology Industries: Chairman of the Board; Confederation of Finnish Industries EK: Vice Chairman of Pekka the Board Shares: 263,749 Lundmark Options to acquire: 80,000 shares b. 1968 Chief Financial Officer Member of the Group Executive Board since 2007 Employed since 2007 M.Sc. (Econ.) Primary working experience: Elcoteq SE 2004 – 2007: CFO; Elcoteq Network Oyj 1999 – 2004: Senior Vice President (Business Control and Accounting); Elcoteq Network Oyj 1998 – 1999: Group Business Controller; Elcoteq Lohja Oy 1996 – 1998: Business Controller; Rautaruukki Oy 1992 – 1996: Financial Planner Teo Shares: 24,385 Options to acquire: 60,000 shares Ottola b. 1957 Executive Vice President, Head of Business Area Equipment Member of the Group Executive Board since 2004 Employed since 2003 M.Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: Konecranes 2007 – 2011 : Executive Vice President, Head of Business Area Service; KCI Konecranes/ Konecranes 2003 – 2006: Country Executive Nordic; ABB Finland 1995 – 2002: Vice President, Service; Tampella Oy 1982 – 1995: various management positions in Finland and in the USA Shares: 56,957*) Hannu Options to acquire: 50,000 shares Rusanen *) The number of shares does not include 12,500 exercised option rights for which the transfer of treasury shares occurs in 2013. 50 KONECRANES 2012 Group executive board 2012 b. 1967 Executive Vice President and Head of Business Area Service Member of the Group Executive Board since 2012 Employed since 1995 B. Eng. P.Eng. MBA Primary working experience: Konecranes Americas 2010 – 2011: VP, Head of Service, Region Americas; Morris Material Handling, Inc. 2006 – 2009: President; R&M Materials Handling, Inc. 1999 – 2006 /Drivecon, Inc. 2002 – 2006: President; Konecranes Americas 1998 – 1999: VP Business Development, Latin America; Konecranes Canada, Inc. 1995 – 1998: Marketing Manager; AECL 1989 – 1994: Mechanical/Project Engineer fabio Shares: Options to acquire: 20,000 shares fiorino b. 1957 Executive Vice President, Head of Market Operations Member of the Group Executive Board since 1997 Employed since 1997 Lic. Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2010 – 2011: Executive Vice President, Head of Business Area Equipment; 2005 – 2009: President, New Equipment Business Areas; 2004 – 2005: President, Special Cranes (Heavy Lifting); 1997 – 2003: President, Harbor and Shipyard Cranes; KONE Corporation 1982 – 1997: various managerial positions at Wood Handling Division (Andritz as of 1996 –) in Finland, Sweden and in Mikko the USA, including: 1996 – 1997 Group Vice President, Marketing; 1992 – 1996: Group Vice President, Project Business; 1990 – 1992: Uhari Director, Wood Handling Unit, Finland Shares: 110,024 Options to acquire: 64,135 shares b. 1957 Acting Chief Technology Officer Senior Vice President, Head of Product Management and Engineering, deputy to Head of Business Area Equipment Member of the Group Executive Board since 2005 Member of Extended Management Team since 2012 Employed since 1983 M.Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes 2004 – 2005: Vice President, Standard Lifting Equipment; KCI Konecranes 2002 – 2004: Managing Director, Hoist factory; KCI Konecranes Ari 1999 – 2001: R&D Manager; KCI Konecranes 1996 – 1998: Technical Director, Components, Singapore Kiviniitty Other current key positions of trust: Member FEM (The European Federation of Materials Handling Equipment Manufacturers), Member of Technology Industries of Finland Business and Technology Working Group Shares: 17,670 Options to acquire: 45,000 shares Group executive board 2012 KONECRANES 2012 51 Extended Management team in 2012 Aku Tomas Tom Lehtinen Myntti Sothard b. 1969 b. 1963 b. 1957 Senior Vice President, Head of Region Senior Vice President, Head of Region NEI Senior Vice President, Head of Region WEMEA (Western Europe, Middle East and (Nordic, Eastern Europe and India) Americas Africa). Member of the Extended Management Team Member of the Extended Management Team Member of the Extended Management Team since 2011 since 2009 since 2010 Employed since 2008 Member of the Group Executive Board Employed since 1994 M.Sc. (Eng.) 1995 – 2009 M.Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: Konecranes Employed since 1983 Primary working experience: Konecranes 2010 – 2011: Vice President, Head of B.Sc. (Marketing) 2008 – 2010: Director, South East Europe, Industrial Cranes, Region NEI; Konecranes Primary working experience: Austria; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2008 – 2009: various managerial positions; KCI Konecranes 2001 – 2006: President, 2006 – 2008: Director, RTG Cranes; KCI TietoEnator Oyj 2007 – 2008: Chief Global Maintenance Services; 1995 – 2002: Konecranes 2005 – 2006: Sales Director, Marketing Officer, Business Area Telecom Group VP, North America; KONE Corporation/ Yard Cranes; 2001 – 2004: various sales, and Media; Hantro Products Oy KCI Konecranes 1989 – 2001: President, project & product management positions in 2000 – 2007: Senior VP, Sales and Maintenance Services, North America; Asia, Middle East and Europe. Marketing; Cadence Design Systems KONE Corporation 1984 – 1988: VP, Shares: 60 1996 – 2000: Global Account Director; Intel Maintenance Services, North America; Options to acquire: 33,000 shares Corporation 1994 – 1996: Global Account Robbins and Myers 1980 – 1984: District Manager. Manager Shares: 74 Shares: 23,865 Options to acquire: 12,500 shares Options to acquire: 45,000 shares Ryan Pekka Antti Flynn Lettijeff Koskelin b. 1971 b. 1961 b. 1970 Senior Vice President, Head of Region Chief Supply Chain Officer, Head of Supply Chief Information Officer, CIO APAC (Asia-Pacific) Chain Management Member of the Extended Management Team Member of the Extended Management Team Member of the Extended Management since 2009 since 2009 Team since 2012, Employed since 2008 Employed since 2009 Employed since 2005 Member of the Group Executive Board B.Sc. (Information Technology) MBA, BCom 2008 – 2011 Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Konecranes University Degree in Business Nokia Corporation 1994 – 2008: several Plc., China 2005 – 2009: Director, Ports & Administration, University of Växjö, Sweden global leadership positions in the USA and Lift trucks; NFS Industrial Machinery, South Primary working experience: in Finland. Africa 2003 – 2005: General Manager; Nokia Siemens Networks 2007 – 2008: Shares: 340 Afinta Motor Corporation, South Africa Head of Global Purchasing, Nokia Networks Options to acquire: 25,000 shares 1996 – 2000: Director; Standard Bank, 2001 – 2008: VP, Supply Network South Africa 1990 – 1996: Business Management and VP, Sourcing; Astra Manager Zeneca 2000 – 2001: VP, Global Supply and Shares: 1,000 Purchasing; 1986 – 1999: various executive Options to acquire: 30,000 shares purchasing positions in automotive companies in USA, Sweden and Germany Current key position of trust: Sanitec Corporation: Member of the Board Shares: Options to acquire: 30,000 shares 52 KONECRANES 2012 Extended management team 2012 Sirpa Marko Jaana Poitsalo Äkräs Rinne b. 1963 b. 1967 b. 1962 Vice President, General Counsel Vice President, Head of Field Service and Vice President, Human Resources Member of the Extended Management Team Technology. Deputy Head of BA Service Member of the Extended Management Team since 2009 Member of the Extended Management Team since 2009 Member of the Group Executive Board since 2012 Member of the Group Executive Board 1999 – 2009 Employed since 1992 2007 – 2009 Employed since 1988 M.Sc. (Eng.) Employed since 1986 LL.M. Primary working experience: M.Sc. (Econ.) Primary working experience: Konecranes 2009 – 2011: Vice President, Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes 1997 – 1998: Assistant Head of Service West-Europe, Middle East KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2004 – 2006: General Counsel; KCI Konecranes/KONE and Africa; Konecranes 2001 – 2009: Director, Human Resources for Service; KCI Corporation, 1988 – 1997: Legal Counsel various executive positions in Service Konecranes 1997 – 2004: different Shares: 30,451 business area; Kone/KCI Konecranes positions within human resources in Options to acquire: 20,000 shares 1993 – 2001: Various positions in service Standard Lifting; KONE Corporation/KCI and product management. Konecranes 1986 – 1997: different Shares: 336 positions in finance Options to acquire: 19,000 shares Shares: 7,003 Options to acquire: 20,000 shares Mikael Wegmüller b. 1966 Vice President, Marketing and Communications Member of the Extended Management Team since 2009 Member of the Group Executive Board 2006 – 2009 Employed since 2006 M.Sc. Primary working experience: Publicis Helsinki Oy 2003 – 2006: Chief Operating Officer; SEK & GREY Oy 2000 – 2003: Planning Group Director; Publicis Törmä Oy 1997 – 2000: Planning Group Director; Finelor Oy (now L’Oreal Finland Oy) 1993 – 1997: Sales and Marketing Manager; Chips Abp 1991 – 1993: Product Group Manager Shares: 6,967 Options to acquire: 20,000 shares Extended management team 2012 KONECRANES 2012 53 board of directors in 2012 Stig Gustavson Matti Kavetvuo Nina Kopola bertel b. 1945 b. 1944 b. 1960 Langenskiöld Chairman of the Board since Board Member since 2001. Board Member since 2011 and b. 1950 2005. Board Member since 1994 Chairman of the Nomination and Member of the Nomination and Board Member since 2012 and and Member of the Nomination Compensation Committee 2009– Compensation Committee since Chairman of the Nomination and and Compensation Committee 2011 and Member 2012– . 2011. Compensation Committee since since 2006. Member of the Audit Committee M.Sc. (Chemical Eng.), Lic. Sc. 2012. M.Sc. (Eng.), Dr.Tech. (hon.) 2004 – 2008. (Tech.) M.Sc. (Eng.) Principal occupation: Board M.Sc. (Eng.), B.Sc. (Econ.) Principal occupation: President Principal occupation: Managing memberships Principal occupation: Board and CEO, Suominen Corporation Director, Hartwall Capital Oy Ab Primary working experience: KCI memberships Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Konecranes Plc 1994 – 2005: Primary working experience: Dynea Oy 2008 – 2011: Executive Metso Paper and Fiber Technology President and CEO; KONE Cranes Pohjola Group Plc 2000 – 2001: Vice President, President Europe; 2009 – 2011: President; Metso division 1988 – 1994: President; CEO; Valio Ltd 1992 – 1999: CEO; Dynea Oy 2006 – 2008: Executive Paper 2007 – 2008: President; KONE Corporation 1982 – 1988; Orion Corporation 1985 – 1991: Vice President, Global Market Metso Paper's Fiber Business Sponsor Oy 1978 – 1982; RAY CEO; Instrumentarium Corp. Applications; Dynea Oy Line 2006 – 2007: President; (Raha-Automaattiyhdistys) 1979 – 1984: President 2005 – 2006: Group Vice Metso Minerals 2003 – 2006: 1976 – 1978 and Wärtsilä Oy Ab Current key positions of trust: President, Marketing; Dynea Oy President; Fiskars Corporation 1970 – 1976: Holder of various 2000 – 2005: various 2001 – 2003: President and CEO; executive positions Independent of the company and management positions in Tampella Power/Kvaerner Pulping, Current key positions of trust: its significant shareholders. Marketing, Controlling and Power Division 1994 – 2000: Ahlström Capital Oy: Chairman of Shares: 10,000 Business Analysis President the Board; Cramo Plc: Chairman Current key position of trust: The Current key positions of trust: of the Board; Dynea Oy: Vice Chemical Industry Federation of Karelia-Upofloor Oy: Chairman of Chairman of the Board; Finland: Member of the Board the Board; Luvata Oy: Member of Handelsbanken Regional Bank Independent of the company and the Board Finland: Chairman of the Board; its significant shareholders. Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld is Oy Mercantile Ab: Vice Chairman Shares: 1,626 independent of the Company. Mr. of the Board; ÅR Packaging AB: Langenskiöld is deemed to be Chairman of the Board; IK dependent of significant Investment Partners: Senior shareholders of the Company Regional Advisor; Technology based on his current position as Academy Foundation: Chairman of the Managing Director of Hartwall the Board Capital Oy Ab. HTT KCR Holding Oy Stig Gustavson is deemed to be Ab holds more than 10 percent of dependent of the company based Konecranes Plc’s shares and on the Board’s overall evaluation votes. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab is a relating to his former and current subsidiary of Hartwall Capital Oy positions in Konecranes combined Ab. In addition, HTT KCR Holding with his substantial voting rights in *) Konecranes Plc has on December 28, 2011 received information Oy Ab, K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, the company. *) He is independent according to which the Chairman of the Board of Directors Stig Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab and Ronnas of any significant shareholder. Gustavson has donated all of his shares in Konecranes Plc to his Invest AG will in practice conear relatives, retaining himself for life the voting rights and right to Shares: 2,276 operate in matters concerning dividend attached to the donated shares. The donation encompassed in total 2,069,778 shares which corresponds to approximately 3.27 their ownership in Konecranes Plc. percent of all of the company's shares and voting rights. Shares: 910 54 KONECRANES 2012 Board of directors 2012 Tapani Järvinen Svante Adde Malin Persson Mikael b. 1946 b. 1956 b. 1968 Silvennoinen Board Member since 2009 and Board Member since 2004, Board Member since 2005 and b. 1956 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee Board member since 2008 and since 2009. since 2004 and Chairman of the since 2012. Member of the Member of the Audit Committee M.Sc. (Eng), Lic. Sc. (Tech.) Audit Committee since 2008. Nomination and Compensation since 2008. Principal occupation: Board B.Sc. (Econ. and Business Committee 2005 – 2011. M.Sc. (Econ.) memberships Administration) M.Sc. (Eng.) Principal occupation: President Primary working experience: Principal occupation: Managing Principal occupation: Industrial and CEO, Pohjola Bank Plc Outotec Oyj 2006 – 2009: Director, Pöyry Capital Limited, Advisor Primary working experience: President and CEO; Outokumpu London Primary working experience Pohjola Group 1989 – 1997: Technology, Finland 2003 – 2006: Primary working experience: Volvo Group: Holder of various Holder of various executive President and CEO; Outokumpu Compass Advisers, London executive positions including: positions; Wärtsilä Group Oyj, Finland 2000 – 2005: 2005 – 2007: Managing Director; Volvo Technology Corporation: 1986 – 1989: Group Treasurer Executive Vice President and Ahlstrom Corporation President and CEO; AB Volvo: Current key positions of trust: Member of the Group Executive 2003 – 2005: Chief Financial Vice President, Corporate Unico Banking Group: Member Committee; Compañía Minera Officer; Lazard London and Strategy and Business of the Board Zaldívar, Chile 1994 – 2000: Stockholm 2000 – 2003: Development; Volvo Transport Independent of the company and General Manager and CEO Managing Director; Lazard London Corporation: Vice President, its significant shareholders. Current key positions of trust: 1989 – 2000: Director; Citibank Business & Logistics Shares: 3,953 Okmetic Oyj: Vice Chairman of the 1979 – 1989: Director Development Board; Outotec Oyj: Member of Current key positions of trust: Current key positions of trust: the Board; Normet Oy: Member Meetoo AB: Chairman of the Hexpol AB: Member of the Board; of the Board; Talvivaara Mining Board Beckers Group: Member of the Company Plc: Member of the Independent of the company and Board Board; Dragon Mining Ltd, its significant shareholders. Independent of the company and Australia: Member of the Board; Shares: 6,021 its significant shareholders. Finpro ry: Vice Chairman of the Shares: 5,169 Board Independent of the company and its significant shareholders. Shares: 3,514 Board of directors 2012 KONECRANES 2012 55 56 KONECRANES 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS contents 58 Report of the 72 NotEs to the 116 NotEs to the Board of Directors consolidated parent company financial statements financial statement 67 Consolidated 107 120 statement Konecranes Board of Director’s of income – IFRS Group 2008–2012 proposal to the AGM 68 Consolidated 108 Calculation of 121 Auditor’s balance sheet – IFRS key figures report 70 Consolidated 109 Company 122 Shares & statement of changes list shareholders in equity – IFRS 71 112 Parent company 126 Investor Consolidated cash statement information flow statement – IFRS of income – FAS 113 128 Contact Parent company details cash flow statement – FAS 114 Parent company balance sheet – FAS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KONECRANES 2012 57 Report of the Board of Directors MARKET REVIEW ORDERS RECEIVED In 2012, the global economic data was polarized by the In 2012, the orders received grew by 3.9 percent to EUR strength in the U.S. domestic economy and the modest 1,970.1 million (1,896.1). Orders received grew by 5.8 perdevelopment in the most of other regions. The U.S. ISM cent in Service and by 3.8 percent in Equipment. Orders purchasing managers’ index surpassed expectations during received increased in the Americas and EMEA regions, while most months and pointed to expanding American manufacthey declined in Asia-Pacific, mainly due to the lower demand turing activity, which was confirmed by the industrial producin China and India. Acquisitions contributed about 1 percent tion statistics. PMI surveys for the Eurozone suggested that to the orders received in January–December. the manufacturing activity contracted in the region. The fourth quarter order intake decreased by 10.6 perU.S. manufacturing capacity utilization rate exceeded the cent from a year before to EUR 423.8 million (473.9). Order previous year’s level in the first half of 2012, but it began to intake fell by 1.1 percent in Service and by 14.7 percent in weaken toward the end of the year. The manufacturing capacEquipment. Orders received declined in all regions. ity utilization in the European Union has been down on the year-on-year basis since the second quarter of 2012. ORDER BOOK China’s purchasing managers indexes China FederaThe value of the order book at year-end 2012 totaled EUR tion of Logistics & Purchasing PMI and HSBC/Markit PMI – 942.7 million (991.8), which is 4.9 percent lower than at pointed to a contraction of industrial activity for the most part the end of 2011. The order book decreased by 13.1 percent of the year. However, the signs of industrial activity bottoming from the third quarter when it stood at EUR 1,085.1 million. out could be observed in the fourth quarter of 2012. PMI Service accounted for EUR 147.2 million (16 percent) and surveys in India and Russia pointed to an improvement in the Equipment for EUR 795.6 million (84 percent) of the total manufacturing business conditions compared to the second end-December order book. half of 2011, while the development in Brazil was uneven. Overall, the world’s manufacturing sector expanded at a SALES slow rate in the first half of 2012, while it contracted slightly Group sales in the full-year 2012 increased by 14.4 percent in the second half according to the aggregated JPMorgan and totaled EUR 2,170.2 million (1,896.4). Sales in Service Global Manufacturing PMI. increased by 11.0 percent and in Equipment by 17.5 perCompared to the previous year, the demand for lifting cent. Acquisitions contributed about 1 percent to sales in equipment improved among industrial customers in the January–December. Americas, whereas it remained stable in EMEA. The demand Fourth-quarter sales rose by 1.2 percent from the correweakened in APAC, mainly due to China and India, which sufsponding period in 2011 to EUR 605.1 million (598.2). Sales fered from the tight availability of credit and a slowdown in in Service increased by 1.8 percent and in Equipment by 1.8 the economic growth. percent. In 2012, the global container traffic continued to grow In 2012, the regional breakdown was as follows: EMEA 48 year-on-year at the rate of approximately 4 percent. Com(50), Americas 33 (29) and APAC 19 (21) percent. pared to the previous year, the rate of traffic growth improved only in Oceania, while it decelerated the most in Europe and CURRENCY RATE EFFECT Far East including China after the solid performance in 2011. In a year-on-year comparison, the currency rates had a posiOverall, the project activity with container ports was satistive effect on the orders and sales in January–December. The factory. The demand was robust for automated solutions that reported order intake rose by 3.9 percent but it declined by provide higher productivity and lower costs for large termi0.3 percent at comparable currency rates. Reported sales nals. As for container handling equipment using conventional increased by 14.4 percent and by 9.9 percent at comparable technology, the demand has increased notably in Africa, while currency rates. the demand in developed markets slackened towards the In Service, the reported January–December order intake end of the reporting period. The demand for shipyard cranes growth of 5.8 percent was above the growth of 0.8 percent at continued to be concentrated in Brazil. comparable currencies. In Equipment, the orders increased The demand for lifting equipment services improved as by 3.8 percent in reported terms, but were stable at comthe outsourced maintenance continued to gain ground. New parable currencies. Service sales grew by 11.0 percent in types of services using the latest IT and measurement techreported terms and by 5.8 percent at comparable currencies. nologies have proved increasingly attractive. In Equipment, the corresponding figures were +17.5 percent In 2012, the prices of steel and copper were lower than in and +13.4 percent. the previous year. The EUR weakened against the USD in the The currency rates continued to have a positive effect on same comparison period. the orders and sales in the fourth quarter in a year-on-year Note: Unless otherwise stated, the figures in brackets in comparison. In the fourth quarter, the reported order intake the sections below refer to the same period in the previous fell by 10.6 percent, whereas the decline at comparable curyear. rencies was 12.9 percent. The reported sales increased by 58 KONECRANES 2012 Report of the Board of Directors Net sales by region, MEUR Change % at Change Change comparable 10–12/2012 10–12/2011 percent 1–12/2012 1–12/2011 percent currency rates EMEA 289.4 294.0 -1.6 1,042.4 950.9 9.6 7.9 AME 204.5 174.8 17.0 721.0 549.1 31.3 22.5 APAC 111.2 129.4 -14.0 406.9 396.4 2.6 -3.1 Total 605.1 598.2 1.2 2,170.2 1,896.4 14.4 9.9 1.2 percent but decreased by 2.1 percent at comparable curprice allocations for acquisitions represented EUR 14.8 milrencies. lion (14.4) of the depreciation and impairments. In the fourth quarter, the reported order intake in Service In 2012, the share of the result of associated companies fell by 1.1 percent and by 4.5 percent at comparable currency and joint ventures was EUR 3.8 million (3.8). rates. In Equipment, the reported order intake decreased by Net financial expenses in January–December totaled EUR 14.7 percent and by 16.5 percent at comparable currency 11.9 million (14.9). Net interest expenses accounted for rates. In Service, the reported sales increased by 1.8 perEUR 10.8 million (6.1) of of the above, and the remainder cent but decreased by 2.0 percent at comparable currency was mainly attributable to the unrealized exchange rate difrates. The corresponding figures in Equipment sales were ferences related to the hedging of future cash flows that are +1.8 percent and -1.2 percent. not included in the hedge accounting. The January–December profit before taxes was EUR FINANCIAL RESULT 124.0 million (95.8). The consolidated operating profit in full-year 2012 totaled The income taxes in January–December were EUR 39.3 EUR 132.1 million (106.9), increasing in total by EUR 25.2 million (30.8). The Group’s effective tax rate was 31.7 permillion. The operating profit includes restructuring costs of cent (32.2). EUR 5.8 million (10.3) booked in the fourth quarter due to The January–December net profit was EUR 84.7 million the restructuring of operations within the Business Area (64.9). Equipment. Previous year’s restructuring costs related to In 2012, the basic earnings per share were EUR 1.47 both Business Area Service and Business Area Equipment. (1.11) and diluted earnings per share were EUR 1.46 (1.10). The consolidated operating margin improved to 6.1 percent In 2012, the return on capital employed was 18.6 percent (5.6). The operating margin in Service increased to 8.4 per(17.1) and return on equity 18.9 percent (14.6). cent (6.2) but it fell in Equipment to 5.5 percent (6.5). The consolidated operating profit in the fourth quarter BALANCE SHEET totaled EUR 36.4 million (37.2). The consolidated operating The year-end 2012 consolidated balance sheet amounted to margin in the fourth quarter fell to 6.0 percent (6.2). The EUR 1,563.8 million (1,447.5). Total equity at the end of the operating margin in Service improved to 10.0 percent (6.2) reporting period was EUR 460.1 million (435.4). Total equity but it fell in Equipment to 4.4 percent (7.0). attributable to equity holders of the parent company at yearBoth business areas benefited from the higher volumes end 2012 was EUR 453.9 million (429.9) or EUR 7.92 per compared to the last year. Service’s profitability was further share (7.52). supported by the restructuring actions executed in the first Net working capital at year-end 2012 totaled EUR 297.9 quarter of 2012. The Equipment operating margin was held million, which was EUR 43.5 million less than at the end of back by higher fixed costs and intense competitive situation. the third quarter and EUR 22.1 million less than at the yearIn addition, the sales mix had a negative effect on the Equipend 2011. Compared to previous year, net working capital fell ment operating margin. In the fourth quarter of 2012, the due to the higher advance payments received. Equipment operating margin was further burdened by the challenges with certain crane deliveries. CASH FLOW AND FINANCING In 2012, the depreciation and impairments totaled EUR Net cash from the operating activities in full-year 2012 was 43.5 million (41.3). Impairments related to the restructuring EUR 159.2 million (-20.8) representing EUR 2.78 per share of operations amounted to EUR 2.9 million (4.2) of the above (-0.35). In the fourth quarter, net cash flow from operating amount. In 2012, the amortization arising from purchase activities was EUR 84.9 million (10.4). Report of the Board of Directors KONECRANES 2012 59 Cash flow from capital expenditures amounted to EUR PERSONNEL -59.3 million (-53.3). In January–December, the Group employed an average of Cash flow before financing activities was EUR 95.4 million 11,917 people (10,998). On December 31, the headcount (-146.5). Cash flow before financing activities in the fourth was 12,147 (11,651). At year-end 2012, the number of quarter was EUR 69.2 million (-12.5). personnel by Business Area was as follows: Service 6,119 Interest-bearing net debt was EUR 181.8 million (219.8) employees (5,980), Equipment 5,973 employees (5,621) at the end of 2012. Solidity was 34.2 percent (34.2) and and Group staff 55 (50). The Group had 6,269 employees gearing 39.5 percent (50.5). (6,144) working in EMEA, 2,724 (2,513) in the Americas and The Group’s liquidity remained healthy. At the end of the 3,154 (2,994) in the APAC region. fourth quarter, cash and cash equivalents amounted to EUR Konecranes’ ‘Lifting People’ strategy focuses on the good 145.1 million (72.7). None of the Group’s EUR 200 million company culture, true leadership, performance management committed back-up financing facility was used at the end of and ensuring competent resources. The global job satisfacthe period. tion survey was carried out for the sixth time with a response In the second quarter, Konecranes issued a EUR 75 milrate of 86 percent. The overall results showed an improvelion senior unsecured domestic bond. The bond has a matument; particularly managerial work and leadership culture rity of 2 years and maturity date on June 27, 2014. received good remarks, which show that our investment in Konecranes paid dividends to its shareholders that leadership development on all organization levels is paying amounted to EUR 57.2 million or EUR 1.00 per share in April off. 2012. Competence development continued on a broad basis. Konecranes Champion and Konecranes Academy programs CAPITAL EXPENDITURE targeted at top and middle management, respectively, conIn 2012, the capital expenditure, excluding acquisitions and tinued. We introduced a new Employee Share Savings Plan, investments in associated companies, amounted to EUR which was very well received and we believe that it will boost 41.7 million (32.4). Capital expenditure including acquisiour mutual sense of being part of the company all over the tions was EUR 43.3 million (112.5). world, on all levels of the organization. Konecranes continued its IT system project (ERP for both In 2012, the Group’s personnel expenses totaled EUR Service and Equipment business areas, CRM and People 594.6 million (530.3). system) to further develop and implement harmonized processes, increase operational transparency and improve decision-making, as well as reduce the overall IT system fragmentation. The pilot unit of the ERP system was launched at the end of September 2011, 5 new companies rolled out during 2012 and the implementation roll-outs will continue in other units over the next few years. Production capacity investments has been made to support the growth in emerging markets, to open capacity bottlenecks in growing markets like Americas and to replace the selected factory equipment. The biggest ongoing production capacity investment is a new crane manufacturing plant in Jejuri near Pune, India. All manufacturing operations in India will be consolidated into the new facility. The plant is estimated to be fully operational by the end of the second quarter in 2013. The fourth quarter capital expenditure excluding acquisitions was EUR 18.1 million (9.9) and including acquisitions was EUR 18.1 million (12.3). ACQUISITIONS In 2012, the capital expenditure on acquisitions and investments in associated companies was EUR 1.6 million (80.1). During January–December, Konecranes made four small crane service-related bolt-on acquisitions in Germany, USA, Czech Republic and Sweden. The net assets of the acquisitions were recorded at EUR 1.6 million. No goodwill was booked from the acquisitions. 60 KONECRANES 2012 Report of the Board of Directors BUSINESS AREAS Service The orders in full-year 2012 totaled EUR 735.0 million they remained stable in the Americas due to the favorable (694.6) showing an increase of 5.8 percent. New orders grew currency changes. Fourth-quarter sales totaled EUR 239.0 in the Americas and APAC, while they remained stable in the million (234.9) representing a year-on-year increase of 1.8 EMEA. However, the order growth in APAC was attributable to percent. The fourth quarter operating profit was EUR 23.8 the currency changes. Among the business units, Crane Sermillion (14.6) and 10.0 percent of the sales (6.2). Previous vice and Parts performed best. The order book rose to EUR year’s operating profit included restructuring costs of EUR 147.2 million (135.1) at year-end representing an increase 6.3 million. Operating profit improved due to the higher volof 8.9 percent. Sales rose by 11.0 percent to EUR 884.0 ume and the restructuring actions executed in the first quarmillion (796.1). Operating profit was EUR 74.6 million (49.4) ter of 2012. and 8.4 percent of sales (6.2). Previous year’s operating The annual value of the contract base increased to EUR profit included restructuring costs of EUR 6.3 million. Operat177.9 million (166.2) at year-end 2012. At year-end 2012, ing profit improved due to the higher volume and the restructhe total number of items of equipment included in the mainturing actions executed in the first quarter of 2012. tenance contract base was 418,560 (409,877). The fourth quarter order intake fell by 1.1 percent from The number of service technicians at year-end 2012 was the previous year and totaled EUR 181.3 million (183.3). 3,935 (3,796), which is 139 or 3.7 percent more than at the Orders were lower than a year ago in EMEA and APAC, while year-end 2011. Change Change Service 10–12/2012 10–12/2011 percent 1–12/2012 1–12/2011 percent Orders received, MEUR 181.3 183.3 -1.1 735.0 694.6 5.8 Order book, MEUR 147.2 135.1 8.9 147.2 135.1 8.9 Contract base value, MEUR 177.9 166.2 7.0 177.9 166.2 7.0 Net sales, MEUR 239.0 234.9 1.8 884.0 796.1 11.0 EBITDA, MEUR 27.3 19.9 37.4 87.3 63.3 37.8 EBITDA, % 11.4% 8.5% 9.9% 8.0% Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -3.5 -3.1 13.4 -12.7 -11.7 8.2 Impairments, MEUR 0.0 -2.2 0.0 -2.2 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 23.8 14.6 63.2 74.6 49.4 51.0 Operating profit (EBIT), % 10.0% 6.2% 8.4% 6.2% Restructuring costs, MEUR 0.0 -6.3 0.0 -6.3 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 23.8 20.9 13.8 74.6 55.7 33.9 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 10.0% 8.9% 8.4% 7.0% Capital employed, MEUR 166.6 190.9 -12.7 166.6 190.9 -12.7 ROCE% 41.8% 27.9% Capital expenditure, MEUR 5.5 3.5 59.2 12.5 9.3 35.4 Personnel at the end of period 6,119 5,980 2.3 6,119 5,980 2.3 Report of the Board of Directors KONECRANES 2012 61 Equipment The orders in full-year 2012 totaled EUR 1,340.4 million pared to the previous year, the operating profit improved due (1,291.5) showing an increase of 3.8 percent. Orders grew in to the higher volume but it was held back by the higher fixed the Americas and EMEA but fell in Asia-Pacific due to the marcosts, intense competitive situation and the adverse sales ket weakness, mainly experienced in China and India. Orders mix effect. for industrial cranes accounted for approximately 45 percent The fourth quarter order intake fell by 14.7 percent and of the orders received and were higher than a year ago. Comtotaled EUR 269.7 million (316.1). The fourth quarter order ponents and light lifting systems generated approximately 25 intake decreased in all regions. Orders were lower year-overpercent of the new orders and were above last year’s level. year in all business units, but the decline was the largest in The combined orders for port cranes and lift trucks amounted Port Cranes. to approximately 30 percent of the orders received and were The fourth quarter sales totaled EUR 401.6 million (394.4) lower than a year ago. and were 1.8 percent higher than a year ago. The fourth quarThe order book decreased by 7.1 percent from the previter operating profit before restructuring costs was EUR 23.5 ous year to EUR 795.6 million (856.7). Sales increased by million (31.5), and the operating margin 5.9 percent (8.0). 17.5 percent to EUR 1,411.4 million (1,201.4). Operating The fourth quarter operating profit after restructuring costs profit before restructuring costs of EUR 5.8 million (4.0) was was EUR 17.8 million (27.5), and the operating margin 4.4 EUR 83.8 million (81.7) and the operating margin was 5.9 percent (7.0). In the fourth quarter, the Equipment operating percent (6.8). Operating profit after restructuring costs was margin was further burdened by the challenges with certain EUR 78.0 million (77.7) and 5.5 percent of sales (6.5). Comcrane deliveries. Change Change Equipment 10–12/2012 10–12/2011 percent 1–12/2012 1–12/2011 percent Orders received, MEUR 269.7 316.1 -14.7 1,340.4 1,291.5 3.8 Order book, MEUR 795.6 856.7 -7.1 795.6 856.7 -7.1 Net sales, MEUR 401.6 394.4 1.8 1,411.4 1,201.4 17.5 EBITDA, MEUR 27.8 36.1 -23.0 108.5 104.8 3.6 EBITDA, % 6.9% 9.2% 7.7% 8.7% Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -7.2 -6.7 7.5 -27.6 -25.0 10.3 Impairments, MEUR -2.9 -2.0 -2.9 -2.0 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 17.8 27.5 -35.3 78.0 77.7 0.4 Operating profit (EBIT), % 4.4% 7.0% 5.5% 6.5% Restructuring costs, MEUR -5.8 -4.0 -5.8 -4.0 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 23.5 31.5 -25.2 83.8 81.7 2.5 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 5.9% 8.0% 5.9% 6.8% Capital employed, MEUR 406.2 426.1 -4.7 406.2 426.1 -4.7 ROCE% 18.8% 23.2% Capital expenditure, MEUR 12.6 6.5 95.0 29.1 23.2 25.7 Personnel at the end of period 5,973 5,621 6.3 5,973 5,621 6.3 62 KONECRANES 2012 Report of the Board of Directors Group overheads until September 22, 2013. However, the authorization for Unallocated Group overhead costs in 2012 were EUR 20.5 incentive arrangements is valid until June 30, 2015. The million (20.3), representing 0.9 percent of sales (1.1). Board of Directors did not use this authorization in 2012. The General Meeting decided that an Employee Share ADMINISTRATION Savings Plan (the Plan) will be launched in the Konecranes Group. The General Meeting authorized the Board of DirecDecisions of the Annual General Meeting tors to decide on the detailed terms and conditions of the The Annual General Meeting of Konecranes Plc was held Plan, on the Plan Periods and on their detailed terms and on Thursday, March 22, 2012. The Meeting approved the conditions, and to implement the Plan at its discretion taking Company’s annual accounts for the fiscal year 2011 and disspecifically in consideration the legislation and other regulacharged from liability the members of the Board of Directors tions applied to the Plan in each country where the Group and Managing Director. The AGM approved the Board’s prooperates. posal that a dividend of EUR 1.00 per share will be paid from The Board of Directors was authorized to decide on the the distributable assets of the parent company. issue of new shares or on the transfer of own shares held by The AGM approved the proposal for the Nomination and the Company to such participants of the Plan who, accordCompensation Committee that the number of the members ing to the terms and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to of the Board of Directors shall be eight (8). The Board memreceive free shares, as well as to decide on the share issue bers elected at the AGM in 2012 are Mr. Svante Adde, Mr. without payment also to the Company itself. In this Plan, the Stig Gustavson, Mr. Tapani Järvinen, Mr. Matti Kavetvuo, Ms. authorization includes a right to transfer own shares held by Nina Kopola, Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld, Ms. Malin Persson and the Company, the use of which has earlier been limited to Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen. the purposes other than the incentive plans. The number of The AGM confirmed that Ernst & Young Oy will continue as new shares to be issued or own shares held by the Comthe Company’s external auditor. pany to be transferred may be in total up to a maximum of The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on 500,000 shares, which corresponds to 0.8 percent of the the repurchase of the Company’s own shares and/or on the all Company’s shares. The Board of Directors are entitled to acceptance as pledge of the Company’s own shares. The decide on the other matters concerning the share issue. The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted authorization concerning the share issue is valid until March as pledge based on this authorization shall not exceed 1, 2017. The Board of Directors did not use this authoriza6,000,000 shares in total, which corresponds to approxition in 2012. mately 9.5 percent of all shares of the Company. The authoThe decisions are explained in more detail in the release rization is effective until the end of the next Annual General covering the resolutions of the AGM, which is available on the Meeting, however, no longer than until September 22, 2013. company’s website at www.konecranes.com. The Board of Directors did not use this authorization in 2012. At its first meeting held after the Annual General Meeting, The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the Board of Directors elected Mr. Stig Gustavson to continue the issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of special as the Chairman. Mr. Svante Adde was elected Chairman rights entitling to the shares referred to in Chapter 10, Secof the Audit Committee and Mr. Tapani Järvinen, Ms. Malin tion 1 of the Finnish Companies Act. The number of shares Persson and Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen as the members of the to be issued based on this authorization shall not exceed Committee. Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld was elected Chairman of 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approximately 9.5 the Nomination and Compensation Committee, and Mr. Stig percent of all shares of the Company. The authorization can Gustavson, Mr. Matti Kavetvuo and Ms. Nina Kopola were also be used for incentive arrangements, however, not more elected as the members of the Committee. than 700,000 shares in total together with the authorization With the exception of Mr. Stig Gustavson, the Board memin the following paragraph. The authorization is effective until bers are deemed to be independent of the company under the end of the next Annual General Meeting, however, no lonthe Finnish Corporate Governance Code. Mr. Gustavson is ger than until September 22, 2013. However, the authorizadeemed dependent of the company based on the Board’s tion for incentive arrangements is valid until June 30, 2015. overall evaluation related to his former and current positions The Board of Directors did not use this authorization in 2012. in Konecranes combined with his substantial voting rights in The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the Company. the transfer of the Company’s own shares. The authorization With the exception of Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld, the Board is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which cormembers are independent of significant shareholders of the responds to approximately 9.5 percent of all shares of the company. Mr. Langenskiöld is not independent of significant Company. The authorization can also be used for incentive shareholders of the company based on his current position arrangements, however, not more than 700,000 shares in as the Managing Director of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. HTT KCR total together with the authorization in the previous paraHolding Oy Ab holds more than 10 percent of Konecranes graph. This authorization is effective until the next Annual Plc’s shares and votes. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab is a subsidGeneral Meeting of Shareholders, however, no longer than iary of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. In addition, HTT KCR Holding Report of the Board of Directors KONECRANES 2012 63 Oy Ab, K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab and percent of the total number of shares having a market value Ronnas Invest AG will in practice co-operate in matters conof EUR 152.8 million on that date. cerning their ownership in Konecranes Plc. All shares carry one vote per share and equal rights to dividends. Changes in the Group Management The Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc made the following SHARES SUBSCRIBED FOR appointments effective January 1, 2013: UNDER STOCK OPTION RIGHTS Market Operations and Business Area Service organizaPursuant to the Konecranes Plc’s stock options 2009A, tions are consolidated under a single executive in the Group 30,915 new shares were subscribed and registered in the Executive Board. To head up this new organization, Fabio Finnish Trade Register in January-June 2012. As a result of Fiorino has been appointed Executive Vice President, Busithese subscriptions, the total number of Konecranes Plc’s ness Area Service & Chief Customer Officer. shares, including treasury shares, rose to 63,272,342. A new function, Strategy and Technology, is being created In accordance with the terms and conditions of the stock in the Group Executive Board. To head up this function, Mikko options 2009, Konecranes Plc’s Board of Directors resolved Uhari has been appointed Executive Vice President, Strategy that instead of issuing new shares in the company, the and Technology. shares held by the company (treasury shares) can be offered The heads of the Human Resources and Information Systo the subscribers in the share subscription. Treasury shares tems functions will become members of the Group Executive have been used for the share subscriptions made after June Board and report directly to the President & CEO. 8, 2012. In July-December, 61,424 treasury shares were As of January 1, 2013, the Group Executive Board will transferred to the subscribers pursuant to the Konecranes comprise the following members: Plc’s stock options 2009A. • Pekka Lundmark, President and CEO (Chairman of the At end-December 2012, Konecranes Plc’s stock options Group Executive Board) 2009 entitled the holders to subscribe to a total of • Fabio Fiorino, Executive Vice President, Business Area 2,090,661 shares. The option programs include approxiService, Chief Customer Officer mately 200 key persons. • Hannu Rusanen, Executive Vice President, Business Area The terms and conditions of the stock option proEquipment grams are available on the Konecranes’ website at • Teo Ottola, Chief Financial Officer www.konecranes.com. • Mikko Uhari, Executive Vice President, Strategy and Technology SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE PLANS • Antti Koskelin, Chief Information Officer In April, the Board of Directors approved the detailed terms The recruitment process for the new Head of Human and conditions of the Konecranes Employee Share Savings Resources is ongoing. Plan (the Plan) and the starting period of the Plan. The Plan was offered in about 40 countries to approximately 9,000 Other issues employees. The commencing Plan period began on July 1, At the end of the year 2012, Konecranes had a loan receiv2012 and will end on June 30, 2013. able of EUR 221,725 from the President & CEO Pekka LunThe maximum monthly saving is 5 percent of each particidmark with the interest rate of 1.615 percent. The loan pant’s monthly gross salary and the minimum monthly saving relates to a tax payment resulting from the incentive scheme per employee is EUR 10. Each participant will receive one directed to the President & CEO in 2006. There is a tax free matching share for every two acquired savings shares. appeal pending against the imposed payment, and the loan Matching shares will be delivered to a participant if the paris valid until the appeal is resolved. ticipant holds the acquired shares from the Plan period until Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate Goverthe end of the designated holding period, February 15, 2016, nance Code 2010 approved by the Board of the Securities and if his or her employment with the company has not been Market Association. Konecranes has issued a Corporate terminated on bad leaver terms on the last day of the holding Governance Statement based on the recommendation 54 of period. the Code, which can be reviewed on the corporate website of Approximately 1,500 Konecranes employees signed up Konecranes at www.konecranes.com. for the Plan starting on July 1, 2012. According to the decision of Konecranes Plc’s Annual General Meeting of ShareSHARE CAPITAL AND SHARES holders, the total amount of all savings from the first Plan The company’s registered share capital totaled EUR 30.1 milPeriod may not exceed EUR 8.5 million. lion on December 31, 2012 and the number of shares includIn March, the Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc ing treasury shares was 63,272,342. resolved to implement a performance share plan, according On December 31, 2012, Konecranes Plc was in the posto which the earning reward is based on the achievement session of 5,981,032 own shares, which corresponds to 9.5 of targets determined by the Board of Directors. The plan 64 KONECRANES 2012 Report of the Board of Directors consists of three one-year discretionary periods, as well as RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT three approximately three-year discretionary periods. The disIn 2012, Konecranes’ research and product development cretionary periods will begin at the beginning of 2012, 2013 expenditure totaled EUR 25.8 (29.6) million, representing and 2014. The Board of Directors of the Company will decide 1.2 (1.6) percent of sales. R&D expenditure includes prodon the Plan’s performance criteria and on their targets at the uct development projects aimed at improving the quality and beginning of each discretionary period. cost efficiency of both products and services. Earning during the one-year discretionary period beginning Konecranes serves customers in different markets with on 1 January 2012 is based on the Konecranes Group´s EBIT common technological platforms and solution sets that are margin, and during the three-year discretionary period beginconfigured and tailored to meet local customer specifications ning on 1 January 2012 on the Total Shareholder Return of and needs. In 2012, the specific needs of customers operatthe Company’s share (TSR). The potentially earned reward ing in emerging markets were an increasingly important focus will be paid in spring 2015. If a key employee’s employment area for Konecranes’ R&D. As a result, the Group initiated or service ends before the end of a discretionary period, no local R&D operations in China and India during 2012. reward will be paid on the basis of such discretionary period. In 2012, Konecranes’ R&D investments were directed to The target group of the Plan consists of approximately four main areas: software based crane controls, Remote Ser150 people. The rewards to be paid on the basis of the vices, further development of the mid-segment products for discretionary periods beginning on January 1, 2012 correemerging markets and product reliability. The software-based spond to the value of an approximate total of a maximum of crane control architecture is further developed and standard700,000 Konecranes Plc’s shares. If the targets determined ized – also for smaller wire rope hoists to create the future by the Board of Directors are achieved, the reward payout will long-lasting platform for the crane electrics where remote be a half of the maximum reward. The maximum reward paydiagnostics and intelligent features can be added according out requires that the targets are clearly exceeded. to the customer needs. With the help of its TRUCONNECT® Remote Services, Konecranes is able to continuously collect MARKET CAPITALIZATION the actual usage data from the equipment. AND TRADING VOLUME In 2012, Konecranes introduced a new-generation CLX The closing price for the Konecranes Plc’s shares on the chain hoist that speeds up the work cycle and maintenance NASDAQ OMX Helsinki was EUR 25.55 on December 31, and improves safety and energy efficiency. The sturdy struc2012. The volume-weighted average share price in Januture of the hoist enables a larger load capacity while doubling ary–December was EUR 21.39, the highest price being EUR the life cycle of the machine. The new chain hoist is particu26.67 in December and the lowest EUR 14.34 in January. In larly suitable for individual workstation applications, such as January–December, the trading volume on the NASDAQ OMX assembly cells, in the workshop industry. Helsinki totaled 121.6 million of Konecranes Plc’s shares, Konecranes has developed an electrified hybrid reach corresponding to a turnover of approximately EUR 2,602 milstacker that commenced field-testing at the end of 2012. lion. The average daily trading volume was 486,551 shares, When delivered to customers after the field test period and representing an average daily turnover of EUR 10.4 million. production engineering project, it is likely to be the world’s In addition, approximately 84.4 million Konecranes’ first fully serially produced hybrid reach stacker. For customshares were traded on the other trading venues (e.g. mulers, the hybrid reach stacker will provide significantly reduced tilateral trading facilities and bilateral OTC trades) in 2012, operating costs with lower fuel consumption and improved according to Fidessa. productivity. On December 31, 2012, the total market capitalization of the Konecranes Plc’s shares on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY was EUR 1,617 million including treasury shares. The market Corporate responsibility work continued during 2012 in all of capitalization was EUR 1,464 million excluding the treasury our focus areas: safety, people, environment, smarter offering shares. and fair play. The topics were discussed in major K ­ onecranes events, such as the Konecranes conference, as well as in top FLAGGING NOTIFICATIONS AND OTHER executive meetings. During 2012 the global HR network took ANNOUNCEMENTS BY SHAREHOLDERS a larger role in implementing in previously established fair On October 26, 2012, Konecranes received a discloplay practices. We also continued to work with our suppliers sure, according to which the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in during 2012 by, for example, conducting studies and audits Konecranes Plc has exceeded 5 percent. BlackRock, Inc. ­ of our top suppliers’ performance. held 3,250,867 Konecranes Plc’s shares on October 22, Our product offering continues to improve in both environ2012, which is 5.14 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and ment and safety. The life-cycle analysis for our product offervotes. ing is showing good results and we are committed in lowerNo other disclosures concerning changes in holdings were ing the environmental impacts of our products. Our service received in 2012. business is also committed to lengthening the life-cycle of all cranes, as well as machine tools under service. When it Report of the Board of Directors KONECRANES 2012 65 comes to safety, we had a higher number of accidents comare consistent with the global business offering that encomparing to 2011. We are working hard to change this in 2013. passes a wide range of products and services. These matters involve contractual disputes, warranty claims, product EVENTS AFTER THE END liability (including design defects, manufacturing defects, failOF THE REPORTING PERIOD ure to warn and asbestos legacy), employment, auto liability On January 3, 2013, Konecranes announced that, and other matters involving general liability claims. ­Konecranes Business Area Equipment has initiated actions While the final outcome of these proceedings cannot to align operations closer to customers as a result of the be predicted with certainty, Konecranes’ opinion is, based new equipment demand moving towards emerging markets. on the information available to date and considering the These actions will affect globally approximately 140 grounds presented for such claims, the available insurance employees. Konecranes expects to incur restructuring costs coverage and the reserves made, that the outcome of such of approximately EUR 10 million due to these actions, EUR actions, claims and other proceedings, if unfavorable, would 5.8 million of which were recognized in the fourth quarter of not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition 2012 and approximately EUR 4 million of which will be recogof the Group. nized in the first quarter of 2013. The total cash flow impact of these restructuring costs will be approximately EUR 5 milMARKET OUTLOOK lion. With these planned actions, Konecranes targets annual Demand forecasting continues to be challenging due to maccost savings of approximately EUR 10 million starting from roeconomic uncertainties. Our current offer base indicates a the second half of 2013 onward. stable or slightly higher near-term demand compared to the fourth quarter of 2012. However, due to the timing of large RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES crane projects, the quarterly Equipment order intake will flucPrincipal short-term risks and uncertainties of the Group tuate. derive from a possible renewed downturn in the world economy due, for example, to the sovereign credit crisis. A FINANCIAL GUIDANCE decrease in the demand for Konecranes’ products and serBased on the offer base and the near-term demand outlook, vices may have a negative effect on the Group’s pricing power the year 2013 sales is expected to be stable or slightly and may result in a decrease in profits, possible impairment higher than in 2012. We expect the 2013 operating profit to of goodwill and other assets, or in inventory obsolescence. improve from 2012. A renewed shortage of credit may cause difficulties for Konecranes’ customers, suppliers and financial and other BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROPOSAL FOR counterparties. The risk may be realized as a shortage of supDISPOSAL OF DISTRIBUTABLE FUNDS plies or defaulting liabilities. A growing share of ­Konecranes’ The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR business is derived from the emerging markets. This has had 193,194,781.05, the net income of which for the year is a negative impact on the aging structure of accounts receivEUR 111,298,139.92. The Group’s non-restricted equity is able, and may increase the need for higher provisions for EUR 385,938,000. doubtful accounts. According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable Challenges in financing may force customers to postpone funds of the company are calculated based on the parent projects or even to cancel existing orders. A renewed downcompany’s non-restricted equity. For the purpose of determinturn in the world economy could increase postponement of ing the amount of the dividend, the Board of Directors has deliveries and cancellations of orders. Advance payments assessed the liquidity of the parent company and the ecoare an integral part of the Konecranes’ project business nomic circumstances subsequent to the end of fiscal year. and they have played a crucial role in mitigating the adverse Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proeffects from postponements of certain deliveries and minor poses to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR cancellations. Konecranes intends to avoid incurring costs 1.05 be paid on each share and that the remaining nonof major projects under construction in excess of advance restricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. payments. However, it is possible that in some projects costrelated commitments may temporarily exceed the amount of advance payments. Helsinki, January 31, 2013 Group’s other risks have remained unchanged and the Konecranes Plc pivotal risks are presented in the Annual Report. Board of Directors LITIGATION Various legal actions, claims and other proceedings are pending against the Group in different countries. These actions, claims and other proceedings are typical for this industry and 66 KONECRANES 2012 Report of the Board of Directors Consolidated statement of income – IFRS 1 Jan–31 Dec 1 Jan–31 Dec (1,000 EUR) 2012 2011 Note: 4, 6, 7 Sales 2,170,180 1,896,376 8 Other operating income 2,249 4,104 10 Depreciation and impairments -43,534 -41,281 11–13 Other operating expenses -1,996,768 -1,752,332 Operating profit 132,127 106,867 20 Share of associates' and joint ventures' result 3,845 3,823 14 Financial income and expenses -11,944 -14,921 Profit before taxes 124,028 95,769 15 Taxes -39,342 -30,842 Net profit for the period 84,686 64,927 Net profit for the period attributable to Shareholders of the parent company 84,023 65,477 Non-controlling interest 663 -550 16 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 1.47 1.11 16 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 1.46 1.10 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 1 Jan–31 Dec 1 Jan–31 Dec (1,000 EUR) 2012 2011 Net profit for the period 84,686 64,927 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax Exchange differences on translating foreign operations -1,056 3,454 Cash flow hedges 2,036 -4,607 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans -11,710 1,086 Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 2,602 753 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax -8,128 686 Total comprehensive income for the period 76,558 65,613 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Shareholders of the parent company 75,950 65,674 Non-controlling interest 608 -61 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS KONECRANES 2012 67 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS (1,000 EUR) ASSETS 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Note: Non-current assets 17 Goodwill 112,806 115,342 18 Other intangible assets 76,241 81,615 19 Property, plant and equipment 133,563 125,436 Advance payments and construction in progress 57,584 40,019 20 Investments accounted for using the equity method 37,519 34,567 21 Available-for-sale investments 1,383 1,382 Long-term loans receivable 228 239 32 Deferred tax assets 53,798 49,118 Total non-current assets 473,122 447,718 Current assets 22 Inventories 362,868 347,468 24 Accounts receivable 441,959 405,850 Loans receivable 79 341 25 Other receivables 29,168 44,763 Current tax assets 11,339 10,174 26 Deferred assets 100,089 118,507 27 Cash and cash equivalents 145,136 72,668 Total current assets 1,090,638 999,771 TOTAL ASSETS 1,563,760 1,447,489 68 KONECRANES 2012 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS (1,000 EUR) EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Note: Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Share capital 30,073 30,073 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 38 Fair value reserves -1,399 -2,936 Translation difference 2,480 3,481 Paid in capital 44,787 43,711 Retained earnings 254,648 250,767 Net profit for the period 84,023 65,477 28 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 453,919 429,880 Non-controlling interest 6,150 5,542 Total equity 460,069 435,422 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 30, 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 205,593 129,116 31 Other long-term liabilities 75,123 63,225 32 Deferred tax liabilities 22,326 26,626 Total non-current liabilities 303,042 218,967 33 Provisions 44,451 54,104 Current liabilities 30, 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 121,700 163,883 7 Advance payments received 217,162 174,077 Progress billings 2,498 4,736 Accounts payable 158,131 152,301 34 Other short-term liabilities (non-interest bearing) 19,912 25,520 Current tax liabilities 21,076 8,781 34 Accruals 215,719 209,698 Total current liabilities 756,198 738,996 Total liabilities 1,103,691 1,012,067 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,563,760 1,447,489 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS KONECRANES 2012 69 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Share Cash Non-conShare premium Share flow Trans­lation Paid in Retained trolling Total (1,000 EUR) capital account issue hedges difference capital earnings Total interest equity Balance at 1 January, 2012 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 0 -2,936 3,481 43,711 316,244 429,880 5,542 435,422 Options exercised 1,076 1,076 1,076 Dividends paid to equity holders -57,199 -57,199 -57,199 Share based payments recognized against equity 4,296 4,296 4,296 Business combinations -84 -84 -84 Total comprehensive income 1,537 -1,001 75,414 75,950 608 76,558 Balance at 31 December, 2012 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 0 -1,399 2,480 44,787 338,671 453,919 6,150 460,069 Balance at 1 January, 2011 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 8,739 542 516 10,473 360,843 450,493 5,722 456,215 Change in accounting principles (IAS 19) -4,041 -4,041 -4,041 Balance at 1 January, 2011 restated 30,073 39,307 8,739 542 516 10,473 356,802 446,452 5,722 452,174 Options exercised 24,647 24,647 24,647 Share issue -8,739 8,590 -149 -149 Dividends paid to equity holders -60,035 -60,035 -60,035 Share based payments recognized against equity 4,804 4,804 4,804 Purchase of treasury shares -51,271 -51,271 -51,271 Business combinations -243 -243 -119 -362 Total comprehensive income -3,478 2,965 66,187 65,674 -61 65,613 Balance at 31 December, 2011 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 0 -2,936 3,481 43,711 316,244 429,880 5,542 435,422 70 KONECRANES 2012 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS 1 Jan–31 Dec 1 Jan–31 Dec (1,000 EUR) 2012 2011 Note: Cash flow from operating activities Net income 84,686 64,927 Adjustments to net profit for the period Taxes 39,342 30,842 Financial income and expenses 12,154 15,273 Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ result -3,845 -3,823 Dividends income -210 -352 Depreciation and impairments 43,534 41,281 Profits and losses on sale of fixed assets -134 -98 Other adjustments 3,468 2,606 Operating income before change in net working capital 178,995 150,656 Change in interest-free short-term receivables -4,940 -92,007 Change in inventories -16,736 -56,797 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities 51,666 29,603 Change in net working capital 29,990 -119,201 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 208,985 31,455 14 Interest received 5,875 6,467 14 Interest paid -15,065 -10,712 14 Other financial income and expenses -5,433 -6,634 15 Income taxes paid -35,150 -41,422 Financing items and taxes -49,773 -52,301 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 159,212 -20,846 Cash flow from investing activities 5 Acquisition of Group companies, net of cash -7,097 -73,593 Capital expenditures -59,347 -53,323 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 2,400 948 15 Dividends received 210 352 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES -63,834 -125,616 Cash flow before financing activities 95,378 -146,462 Cash flow from financing activities 28.1 Proceeds from options exercised and share issues 1,076 24,498 28.3 Purchase of treasury shares 0 -51,271 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 79,829 162,395 Repayments of long-term borrowings 0 -64,634 Proceeds from (+), payments of (-) short-term borrowings -46,879 107,093 Change in long-term receivables 0 17 Change in short-term receivables 272 1,587 Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent -57,199 -60,035 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -22,901 119,650 Translation differences in cash -9 1,027 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 72,468 -25,785 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 72,668 98,453 27 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 145,136 72,668 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 72,468 -25,785 The effect of changes in exchange rates has been eliminated by converting the beginning balance at the rates current on the last day of the year. Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS KONECRANES 2012 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION ventures is shown in the consolidated statement of income Konecranes Plc (“Konecranes Group” or “the Group”) is a as a separate item. Finnish public limited company organized under the laws of Non-controlling interest is presented separately under Finland and domiciled in Hyvinkää. The company is listed on equity in the balance sheet. the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. Intracorporate transactions and internal margins in inventories have been eliminated in the consolidated financial 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES statements. 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Konecranes Plc 2.2 Use of estimates and judgments have been prepared in accordance with International FinanThe preparation of the financial statements in accordance cial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. with IFRS requires management to make estimates and The consolidated financial statements have been prejudgments that affect the valuation of reported assets and pared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative finanliabilities and other information, such as contingent liabilities cial instruments and available-for-sale investments that have and recognition of income and expenses in the statement of been measured at fair value. The carrying values of recogincome. Although these estimates and judgments are based nized assets and liabilities that are hedged items in fair on the management’s best understanding of current events value hedges, and are otherwise carried at cost, are adjusted and circumstances, actual results may differ from the estito record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks mates. that are being hedged. The consolidated financial statements are presented in 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies thousands of euros; notes to the financial statements in millions of euros and all values are rounded to the nearest thouForeign currency items and sand (€000) except when otherwise indicated. exchange rate differences Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies have been valued Principles of consolidation at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Realized The consolidated accounts include the parent company exchange rate differences, as well as exchange rate gains or Konecranes Plc and those companies in which the parent losses resulting from the valuation of receivables and liabilicompany holds directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of ties, have been included in the Statement of income. Unrealthe voting power at the end of the year. ized exchange rate differences relating to hedging of future An associated company is a company in which the Group cash flows, for which hedge accounting is applied and the holds 20–50 percent of the voting power and has significant hedge is determined to be effective, are recognized in other influence over the company but not control over its financial comprehensive income. In consolidation, the statements of and operating policies. A joint venture is a company where income of foreign entities are translated into euros at the the group has a joint control over the entity. average exchange rate for the accounting period. The balAcquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the ance sheets of foreign entities are translated at the year-end purchase method according to which the acquired company’s exchange rate. Translation differences resulting from conidentifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are verting the shareholders’ equity of foreign subsidiaries have measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess been included in equity. of the consideration transferred (as measured according to IFRS3) for the business combination over the acquirer’s interDerivative financial instruments est in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and hedge accounting and contingent liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Global operations expose the Group to currency risk and to a Investments in associated companies and joint ventures less significant interest rate risk. have been accounted for in the consolidated financial stateThe Group uses derivative financial instruments (primarily ments using the equity method. These interests are consolforward contracts) to hedge its risks associated with foreign idated in accordance with the equity method, under which currency fluctuations relating to certain commitments and they are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the forecasted transactions. Group’s share of the company’s net assets. Goodwill arisDerivative financial instruments are used for hedging puring on acquisition is included in the carrying amounts of the poses in accordance with the Group’s hedging policy and investments and tested for impairment as part of the investnot for speculative purposes. These instruments are initially ments. Goodwill is not amortized. The Group’s share of the measured at fair value at the contract date, and are re-mearesults of operations of the associated companies and joint sured to fair value based on the market value quoted at subsequent reporting dates. 72 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For certain large crane projects the Group applies hedge Employee benefits (pensions) accounting compatible with IAS 39. Changes in the fair value The Konecranes companies have various pension plans in of derivative financial instruments that are designated as accordance with local conditions and practices. Pensions are effective hedges of future cash flows are recognized directly generally managed for the Group companies by outside penas other comprehensive income in cash flow hedges, while sion insurance companies or by similar arrangements. ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income Under defined contribution plans, expenses are recognized statement. The Group’s policy with respect to hedging the for the period the contribution relates to. The K ­ onecranes foreign currency risk of a firm commitment and highly probGroup accounts for the Finnish system under the Employees’ able forecasted transaction is to designate it as a cash flow Pensions Act (TyEL) within insurance system as a defined hedge. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or highly contribution plan. probable forecasted transaction results in the recognition of Under defined benefit plans, a liability recognized in the balan asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability ance sheet equals the net of the present value of the defined is recognized, the associated gains or losses on the derivabenefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets at the tive that had previously been recognized in the equity will be balance sheet date. The Group resiled in the current year recorded to the statement of income. deferring recognition of actuarial gains and losses (“corridor Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging approach”) for defined benefit plans in accordance with IAS instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or 19. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in the consolino longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, for dated statement of comprehensive income when they occur. forecasted transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on the The opening statement of financial position of the earliest hedging instrument recognized in the equity is retained in the comparative period and other comparative figures has been equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged restated accordingly. In 2011 the change effected the actutransaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulaarial gains in consolidated statement of comprehensive tive gain or loss recognized in the equity will be transferred to income by EUR +1.1 million and taxes by EUR +0.4 million. In profit or loss for the period. balance sheet the change decreased the retained earnings Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruof 2011 by EUR -3.3 million (EUR -4.0 million in 2010), and ments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recogincreased the other long term liabilities by EUR +4.5 million nized in the statement of income as they arise. and deferred tax assets by EUR +1.2 million. Independent actuaries calculate the defined benefit obliRevenue recognition gation by applying the Projected Unit Credit Method. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized after the risks and rewards connected with ownership of the goods sold Leases have been transferred to the customer. Normally, revenue Lease contracts, in which the Group assumes an essenrecognition takes place when the goods have been handed tial part of risk and rewards of ownership, are classified as over to the customer according to the contractual terms. finance leases. In finance leases, the assets and accumuRevenues from services are recognized when the services lated depreciation are recognized in fixed assets and the corhave been rendered. responding lease obligations are included in interest-bearing Large crane projects revenue is recognized according to liabilities. the percentage of the completion (POC) method. Most signifiOther lease contracts are classified as operating leases cant projects relate to harbor and shipyard cranes. The stage and the lease payments of these leases are recognized as of completion of a contract is determined by the proportion rental expenses in statement of income. that the contract costs incurred for the work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs. Valuation of inventories Raw materials and supplies are valued at the acquisition Research and development costs cost or, if lower, at the net realizable value. Semi-manufacResearch and development costs are charged as expenses tured goods have been valued at variable production costs during the year in which they are incurred, since future potenwith addition of allocated variable and fixed overheads. Work tial economic benefits of new products can only be proven in progress of uncompleted orders includes direct labor and after their introduction to the market. material costs, as well as a proportion of overhead costs related to production and installation. Government grants Government grants are recognized when there is reasonable Goodwill and other intangible assets assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching Goodwill arising from an acquisition represents the excess of conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to the consideration transferred for the acquisition over the fair an expense item, it is recognized as income over the period value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the amortized but is tested for impairment annually. costs that it is intended to compensate. When the grant Other intangible assets include service contracts, patents relates to an asset, it is deducted from the acquisition cost and trademarks and software licenses. They are stated at of the asset. cost and amortized on the straight-line basis over expected useful lives, which may vary from 4 to 20 years. Intangible assets with indefinite useful life are not amortized, but they are tested annually for impairment. Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 73 Impairment testing of goodwill vesting period with corresponding entry in retained earnings Goodwill acquired in a business combination is tested for of the equity. The liability resulting from the cash-settled impairment annually or whenever events or changes in cirtransactions is measured based on the market price of the cumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be ­Konecranes share at the balance sheet date and is recorded recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodas an employee benefit with corresponding entry in non-curwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units (CGU) by rent and current liabilities until the settlement date. using the Group’s management reporting structure. If the carMarket conditions, such as the total shareholder return rying amount for a CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, an upon which vesting is conditioned, is taken into account impairment loss equal to the difference will be recognized. when estimating the fair value of the equity instruments granted. The expense relating to the market condition of the Property, plant and equipment equity settled share-based payment is recognized irrespecProperty, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accutive of whether that market conditioning is satisfied. Nonmulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Depreciamarket vesting conditions such as EBIT margin are included tion is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated in assumptions about the amount of share based payments useful economic life of the assets as follows: that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date • Buildings 5–40 years ­Konecranes revises its estimates on the amount of share• Machinery and equipment 4–10 years based payments that are expected to vest. The impact of No depreciation is recorded for land. the revision to previous estimate is recognized through statement of income with corresponding adjustments to equity Impairment of assets subject and non-current and current liabilities, as appropriate. to amortization and depreciation Group has launched an employee share savings plan in The carrying values of intangible assets subject to amortiwhich each participant will receive one free matching share zation and property, plant and equipment is reviewed for for every two acquired savings shares. Matching shares impairment whenever events and changes in circumstances will be delivered to a participant if the participant holds the indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be acquired shares from the plan period until the end of the recoverable. designated holding period. The matching shares will be paid If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount of the in Konecranes shares and partly in cash. The expenses of assets will be estimated. An impairment loss is recognized in the plan are recognized over the vesting period based on the the statement of income when the recoverable amount of an quarterly acquired savings share amounts and fair value of asset is less than its carrying amount. Konecranes share as of the closing date. Account and other receivables Provisions Account and other receivables are initially recorded at cost. Provisions are recognized in the balance sheet when the Provisions are made for doubtful receivables on individual Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a assessment of potential risks, and are recognized in the result of a past event and it is considered certain or likely to statement of income. occur. Provisions arise from restructuring plans, onerous contracts, guarantee and claim works. Obligations arising from Cash and cash equivalents restructuring plans are recognized when the detailed and forCash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call mal restructuring plans have been established, the persondeposits with banks and other liquid investments with maturinel concerned have been informed and when there is a valid ties of less than three months. Bank overdrafts are included expectation that the plan will be implemented. in short-term interest-bearing borrowings under current liabilities. Income tax Taxes shown in the consolidated statement of income include Share-based payments income taxes to be paid on the basis of local tax legislations, The Konecranes Group has issued equity-settled stock tax adjustments from previous years as well as the effect of options to its key personnel. The stock option holder is entithe annual change in the deferred tax liability and deferred tled to subscribe shares in Konecranes Plc in accordance tax assets. with the terms of the stock option programs. The fair value Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are calcuof the stock options is measured at the grant date and the lated on all temporary differences arising between the tax options are recorded as expense in the statement of income basis and the book value of assets and liabilities. Deferred during the vesting period in accordance with IFRS 2. The valutax is not recognized for non-deductible goodwill on initial ation of the options is based on the Black & Scholes formula. recognition and temporary differences in investments in subWhen the options are exercised, the equity is increased by sidiaries to the extent that they probably will not reverse in the amount of the proceeds received. the foreseeable future. The main temporary differences arise The Group has issued also a performance share plan for from unused tax losses, depreciation differences, provisions, its key personnel. The plan is treated partly as an equitydefined benefit pension plans, inter-company inventory marsettled, and partly as a cash-settled share-based payment gin and fair valuation of derivative financial instruments. In transaction. The equity-settled share rewards are valued connection with an acquisition, the Group records provisions based on the market price of the Konecranes share at the for deferred taxes on the difference between the fair values grant date, and recognized as personnel expense over the of the net assets acquired and their tax bases. A deferred 74 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements tax asset is recognized to the extent that it is probable that 11 will reclassify one company as joint operation and does it can be utilized. not have material impact on financial statements. The other new and amended standards in 2013 will have 2.4 Application of new and amended IFRS immaterial impact on future financial statements. standards and IFRIC interpretations The following new and amended standards and interpreta3. Management of financial risks tions became effective in the year 2012: The Group uses an approach in which most of the manage• IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial ment of financial risks is centralized to Konecranes Group Reporting Standards (Amendment) – Severe HyperinflaTreasury. Group Treasury functions within the legal entity tion and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters Konecranes Finance Corporation, operating as a financial • IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures (Amendment) vehicle for the Group in Corporate Headquarters. With cen• IAS 12, Income Taxes (Amendment) – Deferred Taxes: tralization and netting of internal foreign currency cash flows, Recovery of Underlying Assets the external hedging needs can be minimized. The above mentioned year 2012 new and amended stanKonecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit center in dards have immaterial impact on financial statements. the sense that it would pursue to maximize its profits. The company aims to service the operative companies of the The following new and amended standards and interpretaGroup in reducing their financial risks. tions are effective in the year 2013: The Group’s global business operations involve financial • IAS19, Employee Benefits (Revised) risks in the form of currency, interest rate, commodity, credit • IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements and liquidity risks. The Group’s objective is to increase the • IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements short-term stability of the financial environment for the busi• IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities ness operations by reducing the negative effects caused by • IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement price fluctuations and other uncertainties in the financial • Improvements to International Financial Reporting Stanmarkets. dards – 2009–2011 The responsibility of identifying, evaluating and controlling the financial risks arising from the Group’s global busiThe amendments to IAS 19 change the accounting for defined ness operations is divided between the business units and benefit plans and termination benefits. The most significant ­Konecranes Finance Corporation. change relates to the accounting in defined benefit obligaUnits hedge their risks internally with Group Treasury. As a tions and plan assets. The amendments require the recogniresult of this, most of the financial risks of the Group are contion of changes in defined benefit obligations and in fair value centrated into one company, Konecranes Finance Corporaof plan assets when they occur, and hence eliminate the tion and can be evaluated and controlled in an efficient way. “corridor approach” permitted under the previous version of Almost all funding, cash management and foreign IAS 19. All actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediexchange with banks and other external counterparties are ately through other comprehensive income. Furthermore, the centralized to Konecranes Finance Corporation in accordance interest cost and expected return on plan assets used in the with the Group’s Treasury Policy. Only in a few special cases, previous version of IAS 19 are replaced with a net-interest when the local central bank regulation prohibits using group amount under revised IAS 19, which is calculated by applyservices in hedging and funding, this must be done directly ing the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or between an operative company and a bank under the superviasset. The revised IAS 19 introduces also certain changes sion of the Group Treasury. in the presentation of the defined benefit cost and obligaKonecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury system, tion including more extensive disclosures. The effect of the which enables practically a real-time processing of transacamended standard has immaterial impact on financial statetions and in-depth records of activities and performance. The ments since Konecranes adopted the possibility to recognize standard reporting is done on a weekly basis and it covers actuarial gains and losses in other comprehensive income group-level commercial and financial cash flows, foreign curalready in 2012 (prior periods restated). rency transaction exposure, debt positions, portfolio of derivIFRS 11 uses the principle of control as described in IFRS atives and counterparty credit exposure for financial trans10 to define joint control. Joint Arrangements are classified actions. In addition, all group companies participate in the into Joint Operations and Joint Ventures. In Joint Operations monthly managerial and statutory reporting. the parties with joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement. Joint OperaCurrency rate risk tions are accounted for showing each party’s interest in the The Group’s global business operations generate exchange assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and / or its relarate risk. However, most of the business units only have transtive share of jointly controlled assets, liabilities, revenue and actions in their own currency, i.e. these units have their sales expense, if any. In Joint Ventures the parties with joint con& costs as well as internal funding from Konecranes Finance trol have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. Joint Corporation in their local home currency. Only 23 out of some Ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The 100 Group companies operate regularly in a foreign currency. proportionate consolidation method is prohibited under IFRS These companies hedge their currency rate risk with Group 11. IFRS 12 requires extensive qualitative and quantitative Treasury. Depending on the business area and the probability disclosures of interests held in other entities and how control of the cash flows, the hedging covers operative cash flows for was determined. The Group expects that introduction of IFRS the next 1–24 months and is done by using internal foreign Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 75 exchange forward contracts. This way, Konecranes Finance The following table shows the translation exposure of the Corporation can manage the currency rate risk of the whole Group as of 31.12.2012 and 31.12.2011 (in EUR millions): Group. The foreign currency funding of the other Group companies and possibly some external foreign currency funding 31.12.12 31.12.11 can net some of these foreign currency items. The residual AED 6 4 net exposure can be covered with commercial banks using AUD 5 6 foreign exchange forward contracts or currency options. Only BRL -2 0 the items belonging to hedge accounting cannot be netted CAD 28 26 out against other internal items. These instruments are used CHF 0 1 when the hedging effect cannot be obtained through internal CLP 7 4 netting and matching of cash flows within the Group. CNY 102 94 The business units’ commercial bids in a foreign currency DKK 1 1 can be hedged by using currency options, but, in general, GBP -1 5 using currency clauses covers the risk. HUF 4 2 INR 8 12 For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge IDR -1 -1 accounting compatible with IAS 39. Hedges are done by JPY -3 -3 using foreign exchange forward contracts. Currently, only USD MXN 2 3 denominated projects are included in the hedge accounting. MYR 2 2 The hedge accounting portfolio comprises both USD sales NOK -4 -4 and purchases. At the end of 2012, the hedge accounting PEN 1 0 net cash flows totaled USD 100 million (USD 143 million in PLN 1 1 2011). RON 1 1 The following table shows the transaction exposure of RUB 6 4 Konecranes Finance Corporation as of December 31, 2012 SAR 9 1 and December 31, 2011 (in EUR millions): SGD 20 13 31.12.12 31.12.11 SEK -17 -13 AUD 2 8 THB -1 0 CAD -10 1 TRY 4 4 CHF 5 5 UAH -14 -12 GBP -2 -4 USD 61 66 JPY -1 0 NOK 2 1 Currently, none of the non-euro denominated shareholders’ SEK -36 -32 equity of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries (i.e., the translation USD 126 151 exposure) is hedged. Please see Note 37 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the notional and fair values of derivative financial instruments. Changes in currency rates can affect the profitability and equity of the Group. The U.S. dollar has clearly the biggest impact, as many of large crane projects are denominated in USD and the Group has a lot of local business operations in the United States. A depreciation of the USD has a negative impact. The following table shows the magnitude of the effects that changes in the EUR/USD exchange rate would have on the Group’s annual EBIT and equity. An appreciation of the US dollar against Euro for ten percent increases the operating profit by EUR 22.9 million (19.6 million in 2011) and equity by EUR 6.7 million (6.7 million in 2011). Table figures in EUR million, the USD effect simulated: Change in EUR/USD 2012 2012 2011 2011 rate EBIT Equity EBIT Equity +10% -20.8 -6.1 -17.7 -6.1 -10% +22.9 +6.7 +19.6 +6.7 The transaction position is estimated for the calendar year and the estimate of the effects is based on the assumption 76 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements that the USD denominated transactions are not hedged. debt portfolio. The effect of a one percentage point decline In practice, however, all large projects with long maturities in interest rates is theoretical, since it would mean negative generating substantial portion of the annual changes in the market interest rates. The proportion of fixed interest loans transaction position, are hedged. The profitability is affected in the loan portfolio can be increased by means of interest by the portion of the Group’s EBIT generated in USD (translarate derivatives. As a consequence of this treasury policy, the tional effect) and by the USD operations of the Group compaGroup’s average interest rate level, in general, can be higher nies with euro as home currency and generating EBIT in euros than the market level of short-term interest rates when low (transactional effect). The equity is affected by the change in rates prevail and, on the other hand, lower than the market EBIT and by the portion of the Group’s equity in USD. level when high rates prevail. Please see Note 30.3 of the Appreciating dollar has also a positive impact on Group’s Consolidated Financial Statement for sensitivity analysis of operating profit margin, when it affects the revenues and the Group’s interest rate risk. costs reported in euros asymmetrically. The EBIT change affecting the operating profit margin (relative profitability) is Commodity risk only approximately EUR 7 million (7 million in 2011), when By using electricity derivatives, the Group strives to reduce dollar appreciates 10 percent. This is due to the fact that the the negative effect caused by electricity price fluctuation. The exchange rate change impacts mostly both group’s revenues overall importance of the energy price risk is small compared and costs and only partly either of these. Relative profitability to other financial risks and cannot be described as significalculation excludes the hedged cash flows from long lasting cant. projects. Please see Note 37 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the notional and fair values of derivative financial Interest rate risk instruments (including electricity forwards). Changes in market interest rates have an impact on Group’s Steel prices are fixed as a normal part of the procurement net interest expenses and the market value of interest rate process. Price changes naturally affect the future procurederivatives. The objective for interest rate risk management ment, but these changes can be taken into consideration in is to reduce the volatility impact the market interest rate the price quotes to the end customers. changes cause by optimizing the allocation between flow risk In large crane projects, the steel structures are suband price risk according to principles set in Capital structure contracted and as a normal part of the sub-contracting promanagement. cess, the steel is included in the price of the sub-contracting Approximately 90% of the Group’s interest-bearing liabili(i.e. the price is fixed with the sub-contractor). ties are denominated in euro (96% in 2011). Please see The Group procures steel and steel components and thus Note 30.3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the has an inventory of those. Market price fluctuation of steel currency split of outstanding debt. can impact the profitability of customer projects or cause The portion of the Group’s long term debt of total debt is inventory obsolescence. related to the Group’s gearing ratio. The higher the ratio is, the more weighted the long term debt portfolio is according Credit and counterparty risks to principles set in Capital structure management. In 2012 Credit risk arises from the potential failure of a commercial Konecranes issued a two year senior unsecured domestic counterparty to meet its commercial payment obligations. To bond for EUR 75 million. The interest rate risk related to limit this risk, the Group applies conservative credit policy long term loans are partially hedged with interest rate derivatowards customers. It is Konecranes practice to review custives belonging to hedge accounting. For hedging purposes tomers carefully before entering formal business relationship interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, interest rate and require Credit Reports from new customers. Customer futures and interest rate options can be used. Credit risks are mitigated with Advance Payments, Letters The Group’s interest bearing liabilities at the end of 2012 of Credits, Payment Guarantees and Credit Insurance where were EUR 327 million (EUR 293 million in 2011). The averapplicable. With these actions and careful monitoring of age interest rate for short term loans was 3.08% (1.73%) the customer payments credit risks can be mitigated. Durand for long term loans 1.91% (2.53%). A change of one ing 2012 Konecranes has further developed Trade & Export percentage point in interest rates in Group’s long term debt Finance –department to support all business units with portfolio would have following effect on Group’s income staterequired expertise. ment and equity: The business units manage credit risks related to their commercial flows. There is currently no significant concentraChange 2012 2011 tion of credit risk regarding the commercial activities, as the in Interest Income 2012 Income 2011 number of customers is high and their geographic distriburates statement Equity statement Equity tion is wide. It is the Group’s policy not to fund its customers +1% -1.8 2.5 -0.4 2.5 beyond regular payment terms. Please see Note 24 of the 1% 1.8 -2.5 0.4 -2.6 Consolidated Financial Statements for a table of an aging analysis of accounts receivable. The theoretical maximum credit risk equals the carrying amount of receivables. There The effect on income statement is comprised of Group’s floatare also some additional receivables, which relate to the pering long term debt which is recognized through the statement centage of the completion revenue method used in long-term of income. The effect on equity is comprised of the changes projects, and these are partly covered by advance payments. in fair value of interest rate swaps hedging the long term Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 77 Please see Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements The Group has no quantitative targets for the capital strucfor details. ture but the optimal long-term gearing ratio is in the range of Counterparty risk arises from the potential failure of a 50–80%. However, in the short term, the gearing can also be financial institution to meet its payment obligations regardsignificantly higher or lower than this range. ing financial instruments. All credit risks related to other The Group decides on the split between long-term and financial instruments than the regular accounts receivable short-term debt in relation to the gearing ratio level. The folare managed by Konecranes Group Treasury. There is no lowing table shows the rough guidelines for the portion of concentration of credit risk regarding the financial instrulong–term debt of total debt under different gearing ratio levments, since investments are rare and hedging instruments els: are done with a number of banks, not just one or two. However, counterparties for financial instruments are limited to Gearing ratio Portion of long–term the core banks of the Group. These are all major banks with level of total debt good credit ratings. The majority of all financial instruments Under 50% Under 1/3 are of short-term nature, with maturity of less than one year. Between 50–80% Between 1/3 and 2/3 There are no significant deposits or loans granted with exterOver 80% Over 2/3 nal counterparties. The Group has bank risk exposure in form of cash at bank accounts around the world. Despite the active cash manageThe Group monitors the gearing ratio level on a weekly ment structures the Group has in place, some cash holdings basis. During 2012 or 2011, no changes have been made globally with several banks are needed to ensure the liquidity in the objectives, policies or processes. The objectives of the of Group companies. Group Treasury follows closely the bank Group’s capital management have been met in recent years. risk exposure in Group according to principles set in Treasury Policy and takes necessary actions for reducing the risk. Liquidity risks Liquidity risks concern the availability of liquid assets or funding. Lack of funding might jeopardize normal business operations and eventually might endanger the ability to fulfill daily payment obligations. For managing the liquidity risks, the Group has established a EUR 200 million committed revolving credit facility with an international loan syndication (2010–2015). To cover the short-term funding needs, Konecranes Finance Corporation can borrow from institutional investors through six domestic commercial paper programs (totaling EUR 480 million). In addition, business units around the world have overdraft facilities totaling some EUR 100 million to cover the day-to-day funding needs. It is the Group’s policy to keep minimum amount of cash in the balance sheet as deposits or any other liquid assets to maximize the return of capital employed. Cash and cash equivalents totaled EUR 145.4 million at the end of 2012 (EUR 72.7 in 2011). See Note 30.3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities. Capital structure management The primary objective of the Group’s capital structure management is to ensure that it maintains a good credit risk status and a healthy capital ratio to support its business operations. At the same time, the Group also aims to maximize shareholder value by effective use of capital. The Group manages its capital structure and fine-tunes it to adjust to probable changes in economic conditions. These actions may include adjusting the dividend payment to shareholders, buying back own shares or issuing new shares. The Group monitors its capital structure using gearing ratio. This is calculated as a ratio of interest-bearing liabilities less liquid assets less loans receivable to total equity. At the end of 2012, the gearing ratio was 39.5% (50.1% in 2011). 78 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4. Segment information From 2010 onwards Konecranes has reported two Business As its secondary segments, Konecranes Group reports Areas: Service and Equipment as its primary business segthree geographical areas, which are the main market areas: ments. The business areas are based on the Group’s manEMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), AME (Americas) and agement reporting and organizational structure. Konecranes APAC (Asia-Pacific). Sales are reported by the customer locaGroup’s highest operative decision maker is the President tion and assets and capital expenditure by the location of and CEO with the support of the Group Executive Board the assets. (GXB). Intracorporate transfer prices are based primarily on the The assets and liabilities of the business areas include market prices. only items directly connected with the business as well as the goodwill related to them. Unallocated items, including Group Headquarters, include tax and financial income and expenses, which are managed on group level, as well as items which can not be allocated to the business areas. All figures are in millions of euros unless otherwise indicated. 4.1. Business segments Unallocated Elimina2012 Service Equipment items tions Total Orders received 735.0 1,340.4 -105.2 1,970.1 Order book 147.2 795.6 942.7 Sales to external customers 843.3 1,326.9 2,170.2 Inter-segment sales 40.7 84.5 -125.3 0.0 Total net sales 884.0 1,411.4 -125.3 2,170.2 EBITDA 87.3 108.5 -20.6 0.5 175.7 EBITDA, % 9.9% 7.7% 8.1% Depreciation and amortization 12.7 27.6 0.4 40.6 Impairment of assets 0.0 2.9 2.9 Operating profit excluding restructuring costs 74.6 83.8 -21.0 0.5 137.9 % of net sales 8.4% 5.9% 6.4% Operating profit including restructuring costs 74.6 78.0 -21.0 0.5 132.1 % of net sales 8.4% 5.5% 6.1% Assets 353.6 897.6 312.6 1,563.8 Liabilities 187.0 491.4 425.3 1,103.7 ROCE% 41.8% 18.8% 18.6% Capital expenditure 12.5 29.1 41.7 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 0.0 3.8 3.8 Investment in associates and joint ventures 0.0 37.5 37.5 Personnel 6,119 5,973 55 12,147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 79 Unallocated Elimina2011 Service Equipment items tions Total Orders received 694.6 1,291.5 -90.1 1,896.1 Order book 135.1 856.7 991.8 Sales to external customers 767.4 1,129.0 1,896.4 Inter-segment sales 28.7 72.4 -101.1 0.0 Total net sales 796.1 1,201.4 -101.1 1,896.4 EBITDA 63.3 104.8 -18.8 -1.2 148.1 EBITDA, % 8.0% 8.7% 7.8% Depreciation and amortization 11.7 25.0 0.3 37.1 Impairment of assets 2.2 2.0 4.2 Operating profit excluding restructuring costs 55.7 81.7 -19.1 -1.2 117.2 % of net sales 7.0% 6.8% 6.2% Operating profit including restructuring costs 49.4 77.7 -19.1 -1.2 106.9 % of net sales 6.2% 6.5% 5.6% Assets 348.7 888.7 208.9 1,446.3 Liabilities 157.8 462.7 387.0 1,007.6 ROCE% 27.9% 23.2% 17.1% Capital expenditure 9.3 23.2 32.4 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 0.0 3.8 3.8 Investment in associates and joint ventures 0.0 34.6 34.6 Personnel 5,980 5,621 50 11,651 4.2. Geographical segments 2012 EMEA* AME APAC Total External sales* 1,042.4 721.0 406.9 2,170.2 Assets 875.2 353.2 335.4 1,563.8 Capital expenditure 30.8 2.9 7.9 41.7 Personnel 6,269 2,724 3,154 12,147 * External sales to Finland EUR 90.0 million 2011 EMEA* AME APAC Total External sales* 950.9 549.1 396.4 1,896.4 Assets 788.4 351.0 306.9 1,446.3 Capital expenditure 22.1 3.1 7.2 32.4 Personnel 6,144 2,513 2,994 11,651 * External sales to Finland EUR 99.8 million 80 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5. Acquisitions Acquisitions in 2012 Konecranes completed two small acquisitions in crane serCranes, located in Prague, Czech Republic and Nea Lyfton, vice business during April–June 2012 when it acquired assets located in Örebro, Sweden. and operations of Deussen Andernach GmbH in Andernach, The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Germany and Ameritronic Industries, Inc in Indiana, USA. the acquired business at the date of acquisition are sumDuring July–September Konecranes acquired the assets marized below. and operations of two small crane service companies: Re2012 2012 2012 Recognized Fair value Acquired on acquisition adjustments carrying value Intangible assets Clientele 1.6 1.6 0.0 Technology 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other intangible assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.0 0.3 Inventories 0.1 0.0 0.1 Account receivables and other assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total assets 2.0 1.6 0.4 Deferred tax liabilities 0.3 0.3 0.0 Longand short-term interest bearing debts 0.0 0.0 0.0 Account payables and other current liabilities 0.1 0.0 0.1 Total liabilities 0.4 0.3 0.1 Net assets 1.6 1.3 0.3 Purchase consideration transferred 1.6 Goodwill 0.0 Cash outflow on acquisition Purchase consideration, paid in cash 1.5 Transactions costs* 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies 0.0 Net cash flow arising on acquisition 1.7 Purchase consideration: Purchase consideration, paid in cash 1.5 Purchase consideration, liabilities assumed 0.1 Contingent consideration liability 0.0 Total purchase consideration 1.6 *Transaction costs of EUR 0.2 million have been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. From the date of acquisitions the acquired companies have contributed EUR 2.4 million of sales and EUR -0.1 million EBIT. If the combinations had taken place at the beginning of the year, Konecranes Group’s 2012 sales would have been EUR 2,172.7 million and EBIT EUR 132.4 million. Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 81 Acquisitions in 2011 On October 11, 2010, Konecranes announced that it had The acquisition marks an important step in strengthening entered into an agreement to acquire the Indian crane comKonecranes’ position in the growing Indian crane market. The pany WMI Cranes Ltd. (“WMI”). Konecranes has received the acquisition had a neutral impact on the EPS in 2011. required regulatory approvals during first quarter of 2011 The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of and WMI has been consolidated into Konecranes’ financial the acquired business at the date of acquisition are sumreporting from February 1, 2011. marized below. Konecranes acquired WMI’s shares in two phases. In the During the fourth quarter a retrospective adjustment was first phase in February, Konecranes acquired 51 percent of made to the provisional carrying values of the acquired busithe shares in the company. In the second phase finalized ness in accordance with IFRS3. As a result of the adjustin August, Konecranes acquired the remaining 49 percent of ments, inventory value decreased with EUR 1.8 million and the shares. The total price for 100 percent of the shares in deferred tax assets increased with EUR 1.1 million and proWMI amounted to INR 3,438 million. In addition an equity visions with EUR 1.8 million. Comparing to the preliminary investment amounting to INR 140 million has been made purchase price allocations, the goodwill increased EUR 4.1 into WMI’s equity in accordance with the share purchase million and intangible assets decreased with EUR 2.3 million agreement. and deferred tax liabilities decreased with EUR 0.8 million. 2011 2011 2011 Recognized Fair value Acquired on acquisition adjustments carrying value Intangible assets Clientele 8.3 8.3 0.0 Technology 9.9 9.8 0.0 Other intangible assets 2.3 2.3 0.0 Property, plant and equipment 5.8 0.0 5.8 Inventories 10.1 0.6 9.6 Deferred tax assets 1.2 0.0 1.2 Account receivables and other assets 19.1 0.0 19.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.0 0.2 Total assets 56.9 21.0 35.9 Deferred tax liabilities 7.3 6.8 0.5 Longand short-term interest bearing debts 3.3 0.0 3.3 Account payables and other current liabilities 22.1 0.0 22.1 Total liabilities 32.7 6.8 25.9 Net assets 24.2 14.2 10.0 Purchase consideration transferred** 56.3 Goodwill 32.1 Cash outflow on acquisition** Purchase consideration, paid in cash 54.4 Transactions costs* 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies -0.2 Net cash flow arising on acquisition 54.8 *Transaction costs of EUR 0.6 million have been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. **Cash outflow on acquisition differs from purchase consideration due to the currency rate differences. 82 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In addition, Konecranes completed six other acquisitions durEleve S.L. The company is located in Badalona, 5 kilometers ing January–December 2011. north of Barcelona, in Catalonia. The service business has In early January 2011 Konecranes acquired Gruas Koman approximately 20 employees. Limitada, the former licensee of Konecranes in Recoleta, At the end of June Konecranes acquired 100 percent of Santiago, Chile. The acquisition also includes the Peruvian the Saudi Arabian crane manufacturer Saudi Cranes & Steel start-up subsidiary, Koman Gruas Peru S.R.L. The companies Works Factory Company Limited (“Saudi Cranes”). Saudi specialize in providing advanced overhead lifting solutions Cranes is headquartered in Al Jubail Industrial City and the and maintenance services in Chile, Peru, and Bolivia. company has approximately 100 employees. Saudi Cranes’ In March 2011 Konecranes acquired the assets and core business is designing, manufacturing and selling indusoperations of lift truck service company Zeiss Staplerservice trial cranes. The company previously had a license agreeGmbH, headquartered in Sommerein, Austria. The company ment with Konecranes. is specialized in lift truck maintenance service, and the sales During the third quarter 2011 Konecranes made no acquiand rental of lift trucks. sitions, but in November 2011 Konecranes acquired ABB During June 2011 Konecranes finalized three acquisiSchweiz AG’s crane systems business. The acquired entity, tions. At the beginning of the month Konecranes acquired the which is based in Baden-Dättwil, Switzerland, has 30 employassets of German machine tool service company Schneider ees. The entity was originally established to serve ABB’s own Werkzeugmaschinen GmbH in Heilbronn, Baden-Würtencrane systems. berg in south-west Germany. The company is specialized in The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of maintenance services of machine tools in the engineering these acquired businesses at the date of acquisitions are industry in western Germany. The company has 16 full time summarized in the following table as consolidated figures, employees. since none of them alone has relevance if treated as sepaLater in June Konecranes made an acquisition of the serrate entities. vice business assets of Spanish crane and service company Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 83 2011 2011 2011 Recognized Fair value Acquired on acquisition adjustments carrying value Intangible assets Clientele 9.9 9.9 0.0 Technology 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other intangible assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Property, plant and equipment 5.3 0.0 5.3 Inventories 7.3 0.6 6.7 Account receivables and other assets 5.3 0.0 5.3 Cash and cash equivalents 1.0 0.0 1.0 Total assets 28.8 10.5 18.3 Deferred tax liabilities 2.2 2.2 0.0 Longand short-term interest bearing debts 0.7 0.0 0.7 Account payables and other current liabilities 7.1 0.0 7.1 Total liabilities 10.1 2.2 7.9 Net assets 18.7 8.3 10.4 Purchase consideration transferred 23.8 Goodwill 5.1 Cash outflow on acquisition Purchase consideration, paid in cash 20.4 Transactions costs* 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies -1.0 Net cash flow arising on acquisition 20.0 Purchase consideration: Purchase consideration, paid in cash 20.4 Purchase consideration, liabilities assumed 3.4 Contingent consideration liability 0.0 Total purchase consideration 23.8 *Transaction costs of EUR 0.6 million have been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. From the date of acquisitions the acquired companies including WMI Cranes Ltd. have contributed EUR 61.7 million of sales and EUR -0.1 million EBIT. If the combinations had taken place at the beginning of the year, Konecranes Group’s 2011 sales would have been EUR 1,910.8 million and EBIT EUR 107.8 million. 84 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6. Distribution of sales 10. Depreciation, amortization and impairments 2012 2011 Sale of goods 1,527.0 1,331.7 10.1. Depreciation and amortization 2012 2011 Rendering of services 642.7 564.4 Intangible assets 19.9 18.6 Leasing of own products 0.3 0.1 Buildings 3.0 2.4 Royalties 0.2 0.1 Machinery and equipment 17.8 16.2 Total 2,170.2 1,896.4 Total 40.6 37.1 7. Percentage of completion 10.2. Impairments 2012 2011 method and advances received Machinery and equipment 0.0 0.0 7.1. Percentage Intangible rights 0.0 1.0 of completion method 2012 2011 Goodwill 2.9 3.2 The cumulative revenues of Total 2.9 4.2 non-delivered projects 309.6 255.9 Advance received from percentage of completion method 324.5 171.2 11. Other operating expenses Receivables from the revenue 2012 2011 recognition netted with the advances received 261.4 164.7 Change in work in progress -5.5 -28.4 Production for own use -1.2 -1.8 Net sales recognized under the percentage of completion Material and supplies 882.3 792.6 method amounted EUR 404.1 million in 2012 (EUR 392.7 Subcontracting 193.6 154.9 in 2011). Wages and salaries 482.4 424.8 Pension costs 38.1 36.7 7.2. Advance payments received 2012 2011 Other personnel expenses 74.1 68.9 Advance received from percentage Other operating expenses 332.9 304.7 of completion method (netted) 63.1 6.4 Total 1,996.8 1,752.3 Other advance received from customers 154.0 167.7 Research and developments costs recognized as an expense Total 217.2 174.1 in other operating expenses amount to EUR 25.8 million in the year 2012 (EUR 29.6 million in 2011). 8. Other operating income 12. Personnel expenses 2012 2011 and number of personnel Profit of disposal of fixed assets 0.2 0.3 12.1. Personnel expenses 2012 2011 Rental income 0.6 0.7 Wages and salaries 482.4 424.8 Indemnities 0.4 0.7 Pension costs: Defined benefit plans 5.4 6.8 Other 1.0 2.4 Pension costs: Total 2.2 4.1 Defined contribution plans 32.8 29.9 Other personnel expenses 74.1 68.9 9. Government grants Total 594.6 530.3 2012 2011 12.2. Average personnel 2012 2011 Investment grants in building, machinery and employment grants 0.9 0.3 The average number of personnel 11,917 10,998 Grants for research Personnel 31 December, 12,147 11,651 and development 0.7 0.7 of which in Finland 2,035 1,977 Total 1.6 1.1 12.3. Personnel by Business Area at end of period 2012 2011 Service 6,119 5,980 Equipment 5,973 5,621 Group Staff 55 50 Total 12,147 11,651 Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 85 13. Management compensation Board of Directors The remuneration packages for Board members are resolved According to the proposal, 50% of the annual remuneraby the Annual General Meeting on proposal by the Nomination is to be used for acquiring shares in the company. The tion and Compensation Committee. The AGM 2012 conremuneration may also be paid by transferring treasury firmed an annual fee of EUR 105,000 for the Chairman of the shares based on the authorization given to the board of direcBoard (2011: EUR 100,000), EUR 67,000 for the Vice Chairtors by the general meeting. In case such purchase of shares man of the Board (2011: EUR 64,000), and EUR 42,000 cannot be carried out due to reasons related either to the for other Board members (2011: EUR 40,000). In addition, company or to a board member, the annual remuneration compensation of EUR 1,500 was approved for attendance at shall be paid entirely in cash. Board committee meetings (2011: EUR 1,500). However, the Travel expenses will be compensated against receipt. chairman of audit committee is entitled to a compensation of EUR 3,000 (2011: EUR 1,500) per meeting for attendance at audit committee meetings. 2012 2012 2011 2011 Total Number Total Number Total compensation compen­sation, of shares as part compen­sation, of shares as part to the Board of Directors EUR of com­pensation EUR of com­pensation Chairman of the Board 111,840 2,276 106,000 1,788 Board members 342,845 6,370 313,000 5,012 Total 454,685 8,646 419,000 6,800 President and CEO The additional pension agreement of President and CEO The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the Pekka Lundmark was reviewed and amended during 2012 to President and CEO’s performance. Based on this review and reinforce its defined contribution plan feature with an annual relevant facts, the Board sets the total compensation packcontribution of 18,6% from the salary. At the same time the age for the President and CEO. retirement age was raised to 63 years. At the end of year 2012, Konecranes had a loan receiv2012 2011 able of EUR 221,725.43 from President & CEO Pekka Lund­ Salary and benefits, EUR 468,196 440,140 mark with the interest rate of 1.615%. (EUR 217,197 with Bonus, EUR 262,800 330,066 the interest rate of 2.039% in 2011). The loan relates to a Total compensation, EUR 730,996 770,206 tax payment resulting from the incentive scheme directed to the President & CEO in 2006. There is a tax appeal pending against the imposed payment and the loan is effective until Contributions to the defined contribution plan 175,654 204,209 the appeal is concluded. Group Executive Board & Extended Shareholding in Konecranes Plc Management Team (number of shares) 263,749 180,000 In 2012 Konecranes had a two-tiered management strucShareholding in Konecranes Plc through ture. The structure consisted of the Group Executive Board the Share Swap (number of shares)** 0 83,606 and the Extended Management Team. The Group Executive Total shares owned Board comprises President and CEO, and Chairman of the (number of shares) 263,749 263,606 Group Executive Board; Executive Vice President and Head of Business Area Service; Executive Vice President and Head Option rights owned of Business Area Equipment; Executive Vice President and (number of options) 80,000 174,000 Head of Market Operations; Chief Financial Officer; and Chief Share-based payments costs Technology Officer. (options), EUR 248,693 446,848 In addition to the Group Executive Board members, the members of the Extended Management Team include the Retirement age 63 years 60 years Senior Vice Presidents of the regional organization (4 perPeriod of notice 6 months sons); Senior Vice President, Head of Product Management 18 months salary and Engineering, deputy to Head of Business Area EquipSeverance payment and fringe benefits ment (acted also as Chief Technology Officer in 2012); Chief Supply Chain Officer; Vice President, Head of Field Service and Technology. Deputy Head of BA Service; Vice President, General Counsel; Vice President, Human Recourses; Vice President, Marketing and Communications; and the Chief Information Officer. 86 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements At the end of 2012, Extended Management Team conAccording to the agreements governing KCR Management sisted of totally 16 persons (15 persons at the end of 2011). Oy, KCR Management Oy had an obligation to repay the loan The Nomination and Compensation Committee of the Board granted by Konecranes Plc prematurely in case the share reviews Group compensation policies and issues guidelines price of Konecranes Plc other than temporarily exceeds for the same. In accordance with these guidelines, the Nomia certain level determined in the agreements. This condination and Compensation Committee confirms compensation was met in December 2010. The Board of Directors of tion packages for those Group Executive Board members who ­Konecranes Plc decided that the loan will be repaid through a report directly to the President and CEO. For other Extended share swap whereby Konecranes Plc acquires all the shares Management Team members, the compensation packages in KCR Management Oy. To implement the share swap, the are confirmed by the President and CEO. Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc decided on a directed The retirement age of the Finnish members of the share issue in which the Company offers, in derogation from Extended Management Team (excluding the President and the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights, a total of CEO) is set according to the Employees Pensions Act (TyEL). 281,007 new Konecranes shares to the shareholders of KCR The Finnish members of the EMT also participate in the conManagement Oy against share consideration (Share Swap). tribution-based group pension insurance scheme offered to In the Share Swap, the shareholders of KCR Management key personnel in Finland. The defined contribution payment Oy conveyed the KCR Management Oy shares they hold and by the company is 1% of annual salary excluding performance received new Konecranes Plc shares in return. based compensation (annual or long term incentives). The The new shares are subject to the transfer restriction Finnish EMT members also have life insurance and disability determined by the Board of Directors in May 2009 and expirinsurances. Non-Finnish members have local insurances. ing on 1 November 2012. The new shares have been registered on the subscriber’s Extended Management Team book-entry accounts and entered into the Trade Register on excluding the President and CEO 2012 2011 January 13, 2011 and were subject for public trading on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Oy from January 14, 2011. Salary and benefits, EUR 3,121,537 2,705,215 There were no loans to the Extended Management Team Bonuses, EUR 524,691 667,241 (excluding the President and CEO) at end of the period 2012 Total compensation, EUR 3,646,228 3,372,456 and 2011. There are no guarantees on behalf of the Extended Contributions to the defined Management Team in year 2012 and 2011. contribution plan 563,769 555,537 The employee benefits to the key management personnel of the Group were in total EUR 7.3 million in year 2012 (7.1 Shareholding in Konecranes Plc million in year 2011). (number of shares)* 279,132 258,948 Shareholding in Konecranes Plc through the Share Swap (number of shares)** 0 164,888 Total Shareholding in Konecranes Plc (number of shares) 279,132 423,836 Option rights owned (number of options) 493,635 777,500 Share-based payments costs, EUR 1,437,350 1,356,568 * The number of shares does not include 12,500 excercised option rights for which the transfer of treasury shares occurs in 2013. ** The Konecranes Group executives established a company named KCR Management Oy in May 2009. KCR Management Oy acquired 517,696 Konecranes Plc shares from the market. The acquisition was financed by capital investments by the executives, in the total approximate amount of EUR 1.3 million, as well as by a loan in the approximate amount of EUR 7.1 million provided by Konecranes Plc. KCR Management Oy was owned by the executives who belonged to the Group Extended Management Team upon the establishment of KCR Management Oy. Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 87 14. Financial income and expenses 15. Income taxes 14.1. Financial income 2012 2011 15.1. Taxes in statement Dividend income on available-for-sale of Income 2012 2011 investments 0.2 0.4 Local income taxes of Interest income on bank group companies 45.2 35.7 deposits and loans 3.3 4.1 Taxes from previous years 1.1 0.9 Fair value gain on derivative Change in deferred taxes -6.9 -5.7 financial instruments 3.5 0.9 Total 39.3 30.8 Exchange rate gains on interest bearing assets and liabilities 0.0 5.6 15.2. Reconciliation of income Other financial income 0.1 0.1 before taxes with total Total 7.1 10.9 income taxes 2012 2011 Profit before taxes 124.0 95.8 14.2. Financial expenses 2012 2011 Tax calculated at the domestic corporaInterest expenses on liabilities 14.7 10.8 tion tax rate of 24.5% (2011: 26%) 30.4 24.9 Fair value loss on derivative Effect of different tax rates of financial instruments 0.0 13.3 foreign subsidiaries 3.8 2.4 Exchange rate loss on interest Taxes from previous years 1.1 0.9 bearing assets and liabilities 2.3 0.0 Tax effect of non-deductible Other financial expenses 2.1 1.7 expenses and tax-exempt income 1.4 1.7 Total 19.0 25.8 Tax effect of unrecognized tax losses of the current year 4.5 3.8 Tax effect of utilization of previously Financial income unrecognized tax losses -0.7 -0.3 and expenses net -11.9 -14.9 Tax effect of recognition of previously unrecognized tax losses* -0.7 -6.6 The company applies hedge accounting on derivatives used Tax effect of recognizing the controlled to hedge cash flows in certain large crane projects. The cash temporary difference from investment flow hedges of the expected future cash flows are assessed in subsidiaries** 0.0 3.2 to be highly effective and a net unrealized effect of EUR -1,4 Other items -0.3 0.8 million (2011: EUR -2.9 million) with deferred taxes of EUR Total 39.3 30.8 0.5 million (2011: EUR 0.9 million) relating to the hedging instruments is included in the equity. The hedged operaEffective tax rate % 31.7% 32.2% tive cash flows are expected to occur during the next 3–18 months. * The US operations have been able to fully utilize the carry forward losses during the last five years. Due to the past and estimated future result development Group decided to increase the valuation of deferred tax asset in 2011 by calculating it from the next 10 years’ carry forward losses instead of previously used 3 years’ losses. ** Konecranes decided in 2011 to distribute dividends from Konecranes (Shanghai) Company Ltd and recognized the withholding tax of 5% from company’s retained earnings as repatriating dividends is a change from a prior strategy. 88 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16. Earnings per share of a range from 9 to 19 percent). In 2011, the average pretax discount rate used was 11.2 percent (a weighted average Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net of a range from 9 to 30 percent). The business risk distribuincome attributable to the shareholders of the parent comtion of the tested BUs were considered when determining the pany by the weighted average number of shares outstanding discount rates in use and the discount rates account for the during the year. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by average cost of capital for all BUs. adjusting the weighted average number of shares with the stock options outstanding per December 31. Goodwill allocation to main cash-generating Units (CGUs), Business Units (BU) and 2012 2011 business segments: Net profit attributable to shareholders The Group’s total goodwill is allocated to the Business Units of the parent company 84.0 65.5 (BU) as indicated in the table below. The table also shows Weighted average number of shares separately the goodwill of those individual CGUs that repreoutstanding (1,000 pcs) 57,228 58,982 sent stand alone businesses and thus are extracted from Effect of issued share options BU-level for goodwill impairment testing purposes (tested (1,000 pcs) 289 380 separately). Diluted weighted average number of In Group’s assets, there is also included EUR 10.4 milshares outstanding (1,000 pcs) 57,517 59,362 lion intangible assets with indefinite useful life arising from the acquisition of R. Stahl AG’s material handling division, Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 1.47 1.11 which consists of the trademark of the brand name ‘Stahl’. Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 1.46 1.10 The carrying amount of this asset is tested on a yearly basis by using a similar kind of impairment testing method as the goodwill. 17. Goodwill and goodwill impairment testing Sensitivity analyses In addition to impairment testing using the base case General principles assumptions, three different sensitivity analyses were perThe goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) formed: being the lowest level of assets for which there are sepa• A discount rate analyses where the discount rate was rately identifiable cash flows. These CGUs are then aggreincreased by 5 percentage points gated to the Business Unit (BU) level which is the lowest • A Group management adjustment to the future profitoperative management reporting level at which goodwill is ability. Each BU and stand alone CGU cash flow was monitored and for which the impairment testing is primarily analyzed by the Group management. Based on the BU done. specific historical data and future growth prospects the The recoverable amounts of the BUs and CGU are detercash flows were decreased by -10%. mined based on value in use calculations (discounted cash • A higher discount rate (+5%) analyses combined with flow method). In those cases where a CGU forms a stand lower (-10%) cash flows as mentioned above alone business where synergies with the rest of the respective BU activities are difficult to assess, the goodwill is tested Goodwill testing results: on the CGU level. The forecasting period of cash flows is As a result of the impairment test in 2012 an EUR 2.9 milfive years and it is based on financial forecasts of each BU’s lion impairment need was identified for Konecranes Lifting management, adjusted by Group management if needed. The Systems as the future discounted cash flows did not support forecasts have been made based on BU specific historical the asset value tested due to the low volumes in tailor-made data, order book, the current market situation and industry manipulator business. specific information of the future growth possibilities. The calculated cash flows after the five-year forecasting period are based on a zero percent growth estimate on sales and operating margin. Calculations are prepared during the fourth quarter of the year. The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is the weighted average (pre-tax) cost of capital and is based on risk free long term government bond rates and market and industry specific risk premiums. These risk premiums are derived based on the business portfolio of companies which operate in a similar industry as the BUs. The average discount rate used in 2012 is 11.7 percent (a weighted average Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 89 Total Goodwill in Business 18.2. Other (including service Segments after impairments 2012 2011 contracts, software) 2012 2011 BU Industrial Cranes 43.3 45.1 Acquisition costs as of January 1 141.0 111.8 BU Lifttrucks 14.7 14.2 Increase 13.8 3.7 CGU STAHL Konecranes GmbH, Decrease -0.3 -3.2 Germany 20.4 20.4 Company acquisitions 1.6 30.0 CGU Konecranes Lifting Systems 2.8 5.7 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.0 Goodwill in Equipment total 81.2 85.4 Impairment 0.0 -0.9 Translation difference -1.0 -0.4 BU Port Service 13.3 13.2 Acquisition costs as of December 31 155.2 141.0 BU Crane Service 9.4 8.1 Accumulated amortization BU Machine Tool Service 5.1 4.8 as of January 1 -76.9 -62.9 CGU Suomen Teollisuusosa operations 3.9 3.9 Accumulated amortization relating Goodwill in Service total 31.6 30.0 to disposals 0.0 3.1 Amortization for financial year -18.1 -17.1 Total Goodwill in Business Total as of December 31 60.2 64.2 Segments as of December 31 112.8 115.3 18.3. Other intangible As a result of the impairment test in 2011 a EUR 2.0 milassets total 2012 2011 lion impairment need was identified for Konecranes Lifting Acquisition costs as of January 1 170.1 140.6 Systems as the future discounted cash flows did not support Increase 13.8 3.7 the asset value tested. Due to restructuring and discontinuDecrease -0.3 -3.2 ing parts of BU Machine Tool Service (MTS) business, a total Company acquisitions 1.6 30.0 of EUR 0.8 million of goodwill was written off from this BU. For BU Port Service the write off need due to same reasons Transfer within assets 0.0 0.0 as for BU MTS was EUR 0.4 million. In total the amount of Impairment 0.0 -0.9 goodwill impairments in 2011 was EUR 3.2 million. Translation difference -1.2 -0.1 Acquisition costs as of December 31 184.1 170.1 Goodwill 2012 2011 Accumulated amortization Acquisition costs as of January 1 122.7 85.7 as of January 1 -88.5 -73.1 Increase 0.0 37.2 Accumulated amortization relating Translation difference 0.4 -0.2 to disposals 0.0 3.1 Acquisition costs as of December 31 123.1 122.7 Amortization for financial year -19.3 -18.6 Accumulated impairments Total as of December 31 76.2 81.6 as of January 1 -7.4 -4.1 Impairments for the financial year -2.9 -3.2 Other intangible assets include service contracts, patents Total as of December 31 112.8 115.3 and trademarks and software licenses. They are stated at cost and amortized on the straight-line basis over their 18. Other intangible assets expected useful lives. The normal amortization period varies from 4 to 20 years. Intangible assets having an indefinite 18.1. Patents and trademarks 2012 2011 useful life are tested for impairment annually. On December Acquisition costs as of January 1 29.1 28.8 31, 2012, the intangible assets having indefinite useful life Translation difference -0.2 0.3 consisted of the Stahl trademark, totally EUR 10.4 million. Acquisition costs as of December 31 28.9 29.1 As there is no foreseeable limit on the period over which the Accumulated amortization asset is expected to generate net cash inflows for the entity, as of January 1 -11.6 -10.2 it is classified as intangible assets having indefinite useful Amortization for financial year -1.2 -1.4 life. Total as of December 31 16.1 17.4 90 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 19. Property, plant and equipment 19.1. Land 2012 2011 19.4. Property, plant and Acquisition costs as of January 1 5.7 2.6 equipment total 2012 2011 Increase 0.9 2.3 Acquisition costs as of January 1 266.5 230.7 Company acquisitions 0.0 0.8 Increase 32.2 32.7 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 Decrease -9.1 -10.5 Total as of December 31 6.6 5.7 Company acquisitions 0.0 14.7 Transfer within assets 0.0 -0.2 Translation difference -0.2 -0.9 19.2. Buildings 2012 2011 Acquisition costs as of December 31 289.3 266.5 Acquisition costs as of January 1 49.4 35.0 Accumulated depreciation Increase 3.4 6.8 as of January 1 -141.0 -132.0 Decrease -0.9 -0.3 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 6.0 9.5 Company acquisitions 0.0 6.6 Depreciation for financial year -20.7 -18.6 Transfer within assets 0.5 0.0 Total as of December 31 133.6 125.4 Translation difference 0.0 1.3 Acquisition costs as of December 31 52.3 49.4 20. Investments accounted for Accumulated depreciation using the equity method as of January 1 -7.3 -5.2 Accumulated depreciation 2012 2011 relating to disposals 0.3 0.2 Acquisition costs as of January 1 34.6 31.9 Depreciation for financial year -3.0 -2.4 Share of associated companies Total as of December 31 42.2 42.0 result after taxes* 3.8 3.8 Dividends received -0.9 -1.2 There were no buildings which belong to finance lease at the Translation difference 0.0 0.0 end of year 2012 and 2011. Total as of December 31 37.5 34.6 * Including adjustments from purchase price allocation. 19.3. Machinery and equipment 2012 2011 Acquisition costs as of January 1 211.3 193.1 Increase 28.0 23.5 Decrease -8.1 -10.2 Company acquisitions 0.0 7.4 Transfer within assets -0.5 -0.2 Translation difference -0.3 -2.2 Acquisition costs as of December 31 230.4 211.3 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 -133.7 -126.9 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 5.7 9.4 Depreciation for financial year -17.8 -16.2 Total as of December 31 84.7 77.7 The balance value of machinery and equipments which belong to finance lease is EUR 9.6 million in the year 2012 (EUR 8.6 million in 2011). Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 91 20.1. Investments accounted for using the equity method by companies Carrying amount of the Total asset Total liability 2012 investment value 1) value 1) Revenue 1) Profit/loss 1) Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd. 0.6 1.8 1.1 1.4 0.0 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd. 0.5 1.5 1.1 2.8 0.1 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Company, Ltd. 2.0 5.8 3.8 5.6 0.3 Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.8 0.0 Levelec S.A. 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.6 0.0 Manelec S.a.r.l. 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.3 0.0 Manulec S.A. 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.8 0.0 Sere Maintenance S.A. 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.8 0.0 Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 1.2 4.1 3.0 5.6 0.5 Morris Material Handling (Thailand) Ltd. 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Morris Thailand Co. Ltd. 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Kito Corporation 31.3 62.4 31.4 77.2 2.1 Crane Industrial Services LLC 1.0 3.2 1.8 5.7 0.3 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 37.5 80.5 42.9 101.4 3.5 Carrying amount of the Total asset Total liability 2011 investment value 1) value 1) Revenue 1) Profit/loss 1) Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd. 0.6 2.2 1.5 1.0 0.1 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd. 0.4 1.6 1.2 1.1 0.0 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Company, Ltd. 1.7 4.8 3.1 4.1 0.7 Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.7 0.0 Levelec S.A. 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.6 0.0 Manelec S.a.r.l. 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.0 Manulec S.A. 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.7 0.0 Sere Maintenance S.A. 0.0 0.3 0.2 0.7 0.0 Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 1.0 3.8 2.8 4.8 0.6 Morris Material Handling (Thailand) Ltd. 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Morris Thailand Co. Ltd. 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Kito Corporation 29.4 69.1 32.1 67.1 0.8 Crane Industrial Services LLC 0.7 1.7 1.1 2.6 0.1 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 34.6 84.7 42.5 83.9 2.3 The investment value of the shares in the associated companies consists of the Group’s proportion of the associated companies at the acquisition date, adjusted by any variation in the shareholders’ equity after the acquisition. See also the Company list for listing the ownership of the associated companies and joint venture. The market value of Kito Corporation shares owned by Konecranes as at December 31, 2012 amounted to EUR 19.5 million (EUR 17.4 million in 2011). Konecranes has made an impairment test on its shareholding of Kito corporation based on estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by the associate and according to the calculation the recoverable value has been higher than the carrying value, as a result of which no impairment charges have been recognized. The low market value of Kito Corporation is mainly due to the non liquid nature of the share in Tokyo Exchange. 1) Total asset and liability value, revenue and profit/loss represent the Group’s share of these investments according to the latest published financial information. 92 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 21. Available-for-sale investments 2012 2011 Acquisition costs as of January 1 1.4 1.4 Transferred to subsidiary and associated company shares 0.0 0.0 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.0 Total as of December 31 1.4 1.4 Investments for available-for-sale investments consist of shares in unlisted companies and are measured at cost, because the range of reasonable fair value estimates is significant and the probabilities of the various estimates cannot be reasonably assessed. See also Company list for detailed list of available-for-sale investments. 22. Inventories 2012 2011 Raw materials and semi-manufactured goods 138.5 132.5 Work in progress 180.7 176.8 Finished goods 21.6 20.2 Advance payments 22.0 17.8 Total 362.9 347.5 23. Valuation and qualifying accounts Balance at the Trans­ Utilized Provision Balance beginning lation during the not at the end 2012 of the year difference period needed Additions of the year Provision for doubtful accounts 14.0 0.0 2.3 3.0 7.8 16.4 Provision for obsolete inventory 20.0 0.1 3.7 0.3 5.6 21.7 Balance at the Trans­ Utilized Provision Balance beginning lation during the not at the end 2011 of the year difference period needed Additions of the year Provision for doubtful accounts 15.8 0.2 4.7 2.8 5.5 14.0 Provision for obsolete inventory 19.4 0.3 2.0 1.1 3.4 20.0 24. Ageing analysis of Accounts receivable are initially measured at cost (book accounts receivable values represent their fair values). Accounts receivable are subject to only minor credit risk concentrations due to the 2012 2011 Group’s extensive customer portfolio. Credit losses recogUndue accounts receivable 249.3 236.1 nized for the financial year totaled EUR 2.4 million (EUR 4.7 Accounts receivable million in 2011). 1–30 days overdue 89.3 71.4 Accounts receivable 25. Other receivables 31–60 days overdue 35.2 35.7 Accounts receivable 2012 2011 61–90 days overdue 23.3 27.7 Bills receivable 7.2 18.0 Accounts receivable more Value added tax 22.0 26.8 than 91 days overdue 44.8 35.0 Total 29.2 44.8 Total 442.0 405.9 Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 93 26. Deferred assets 27. Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 2012 2011 Interest 0.1 1.2 Cash in hand and at bank 130.0 58.0 Receivable arising from percentage Short-term deposits 15.2 14.7 of the completion method 42.6 66.4 Total 145.1 72.7 Prepaid expenses 12.3 12.6 Other 45.1 38.3 Short-term deposits are with a maturity of less than three Total 100.1 118.5 months. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at nominal value, which corresponds to their fair value. 28. Equity Number of Share Share Paid in 28.1. Shareholders’ equity shares capital premium capital As of January 1, 2011 58,959,664 30.1 39.3 10.5 Share subscriptions with options 958,300 0.0 0.0 24.6 Share issue due to the incentive arrangement for Konecranes Group executive management (KCR Management Oy) 281,007 0.0 0.0 8.6 Purchase of treasury shares -3,000,000 0.0 0.0 0.0 As of December 31, 2011 57,198,971 30.1 39.3 43.7 Share subscriptions with options 92,339 0.0 0.0 1.1 As of December 31, 2012 57,291,310 30.1 39.3 44.8 The total shareholders’ equity consists of share capital, 2012 2011 share premium account, share issue, fair value reserves, Number of Number of translation difference, paid in capital and retained earnings. 28.3. Treasury shares shares shares Konecranes’ share has no nominal value. The company has As of January 1 6,042,456 3,042,456 one series of shares. All issued shares are fully paid. The Decrease -61,424 0 share premium account includes the value of shares, which Increase 0 3,000,000 exceeds the accounting par value of the shares, for shares Total as of December 31 5,981,032 6,042,456 issued before September 1, 2006. Fair value reserves include changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments used to hedge operational cash flows. Translation differProposal by the Board of Directors to authorize ences comprise the differences arising from the elimination the Board of Directors to decide on the of net investments in non-euro foreign subsidiaries. The paidrepurchase and/or on the acceptance as pledge in capital includes the portion of shares’ subscription price, of the Company’s own shares: which is not recorded to share capital or according to IFRS The AGM on March 23, 2012 authorized the Board of Directo liabilities. The paid-in capital includes also other capital tors to decide on the repurchase and/or on the acceptance contributions to the Group, which are not recorded to some as pledge of the Company’s own shares as follows: other reserve within the equity. The paid-in capital includes The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or also the possible amount of share capital decrease, which is accepted as pledge based on this authorization shall not not netted against accumulated losses or is not distributed exceed 6,000,000 shares in total, which corresponds to to shareholders. approximately 9.5 per cent of all of the shares in the Company. However, the Company together with its subsidiaries 28.2. Distributable earnings cannot at any moment own and/or hold as pledge more than See page 120 / Board of Director’s Proposal to the Annual 10 per cent of all the shares in the Company. Only the unreGeneral Meeting. stricted equity of the Company can be used to repurchase own shares on the basis of the authorization. Own shares can be repurchased at a price formed in public trading on the date of the repurchase or otherwise at a price formed on the market. The Board of Directors decides how own shares will be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge. Own shares can be repurchased using, inter alia, derivatives. Own shares can be 94 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements repurchased otherwise than in proportion to the shareholdProposal by the Board of Directors to authorize ings of the shareholders (directed repurchase). the Board of Directors to launch an employee Own shares can be repurchased and/or accepted as share savings plan and to decide on directed pledge to limit the dilutive effects of share issues carried share issue without payment: out in connection with possible acquisitions, to develop the The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the Company’s capital structure, to be transferred for financing launch of an employee share savings plan and directed share or realization of possible acquisitions, investments or other issue without payment as follows: arrangements belonging to the Company’s ordinary business, The Plan will be launched in the Konecranes Group to pay remuneration to Board members, to be used in incenglobally. The aim of the Plan is to encourage Konecranes tive arrangements or to be cancelled, provided that the repuremployees to become shareholders in the Company and chase is in the interest of the Company and its shareholders. to reward the employees for their efforts in working toward The authorization is effective until the end of the next ­Konecranes’ goals, now and in the future. Another objective Annual General Meeting, however no longer than until 22 is to strengthen the tie between Konecranes shareholders September 2013. and employees. The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders authorized Authorizing the Board of Directors to decide the Board of Directors to decide on the detailed terms and on the issuance of shares as well as on the conditions of the Plan, on the Plan periods and on their issuance of special rights entitling to shares: detailed terms and conditions, and to implement the Plan The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the at its discretion, considering especially the legislation and issuance of shares as well as the issuance of special rights other regulations applied to the Plan in each country where entitling to shares referred to in chapter 10 section 1 of the the Group operates. Finnish Companies Act as follows. The Board of Directors approved the detailed terms and The amount of shares to be issued based on this authoconditions of the Plan and the commencing Plan period. The rization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which correPlan was offered in about 40 countries to approximately sponds to approximately 9.5 per cent of all of the shares in 11,000 employees. A few countries have been ruled out at the Company. this phase due to local legal restraints. The commencing The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the plan period begun on July 1, 2012 and will end on June 30, issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares. 2013. The maximum monthly saving is 5 percent of each The issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to participant’s monthly gross salary and the minimum monthly shares may be carried out in deviation from the shareholdsaving per employee will be EUR 10. Each participant will ers’ pre-emptive rights (directed issue). The authorization receive one free matching share for every two acquired savcan also be used for incentive arrangements, however, not ings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to a particimore than 700,000 shares in total together with the authoripant if the participant holds the acquired shares from the zation of transfer of the company’s own shares. plan period until the end of the designated holding period, The authorization is effective until the end of the next February 15, 2016, and if his or her employment with a comAnnual General Meeting, however no longer than until 22 pany has not been terminated on the last day of the holding September 2013. However, the authorization for incentive period on bad leaver terms. arrangements is valid until 30 June 2015. An employee will participate in the Plan for one year at a time. Shares will be acquired with the accrued savings Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize at the market price quarterly, after the publication date of the Board of Directors to decide on the transfer the ­Konecranes interim results, commencing in November of the company’s own shares: 2012. Any dividends paid on purchased shares during the The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the commencing Plan period will automatically be reinvested transfer of the Company’s own shares as follows: into additional shares on the following purchase date. These The authorization is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares will have an equal right to matching shares. shares, which corresponds to approximately 9.5 per cent of The Board of Directors decides on the issue of new all of the shares in the Company. shares or on the transfer of own shares held by the ComThe Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the pany to such participants of the Plan who, according to the transfer of own shares. The transfer of shares may be carried terms and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to receive free out in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights shares, as well as to decide on the share issue without pay(directed issue). The Board of Directors can also use this ment also to the Company itself. The authorization includes a authorization to grant special rights concerning the Comparight in this Plan to transfer own shares held by the Company, ny’s own shares, referred to in Chapter 10 of the Companies the use of which has earlier been limited to other purposes Act. The authorization can also be used for incentive arrangethan incentive plans. The number of new shares to be issued ments, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total or own shares held by the Company to be transferred may be together with the authorization in the issuance of shares and a maximum total of 500,000 shares, which corresponds to the issuance of special rights entitling to shares. 0.8 per cent of all of the Company´s shares. This authorization is effective until the next Annual GenThe Board of Directors is entitled to decide on other materal Meeting of Shareholders, however no longer than until ters concerning the share issue. The authorization concern22 September 2013. However, the authorization for incentive ing the share issue is valid until 1 March 2017. arrangements is valid until 30 June 2015. Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 95 29. Option rights and other ment of targets determined by the Board of Directors. The share-based payments aim of the new plan is to combine the objectives of the shareThe Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Konecranes holders and key employees in order to increase the value of Plc has on March 12, 2009 accepted the issue of stock the Company, to commit key employees to the Company, and options to the key personnel of Konecranes Plc (Company) to offer them a competitive reward plan based on long-term and its subsidiaries. The maximum total number of stock shareholding in the Company. options issued is 2,250,000, and they entitle their owners The plan consists of three one-year discretionary periods to subscribe for a maximum total of 2,250,000 new shares as well as three approximately three-year discretionary periin the Company or existing shares held by the Company. The ods. The discretionary periods will begin in the beginning of Board of Directors shall resolve whether new shares in the years 2012, 2013 and 2014. The Board of Directors of the Company or existing shares held by the Company are given Company will decide on the Plan’s performance criteria and to the subscriber. Of the stock options, 750,000 are marked on their targets at the beginning of each discretionary period. with the symbol 2009A, 750,000 are marked with the symEarning during the one-year discretionary period beginning on bol 2009B and 750,000 are marked the with the symbol 1 January 2012 will be based on the Konecranes Group´s 2009C. The period for the option rights of the first series EBIT margin, and during the three-year discretionary period begins on April 1, 2012 and ends for the option rights of the beginning on 1 January 2012 on the Total Shareholder Return last series on April 30, 2016. The share subscription price of the Company’s share (TSR). The potentially earned reward for stock options is based on the prevailing market price of will be paid in spring 2015. If a key employee’s employment the Konecranes Plc share on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. or service ends before the end of a discretionary period, no in April 2009, April 2010 and April 2011. At the end of 2012, reward will be paid on the basis of such discretionary period. altogether 92,339 shares had been subscribed for the stock The Board of Directors requires that each member of the options pursuant to 2009A stock option plan. Extended Management Team holds a half of shares paid on Should the Company distribute dividends, from the share the basis of the Plan until the value of his or her shareholding subscription price of the stock options, shall be deducted in the Company in total corresponds to the value of his or her the amount of the dividend decided after the beginning of annual gross salary. Such number of shares will be held as the period for determination of the share subscription price long as his or her employment or service in a Group company but before share subscription, as per the dividend record continues. date. The subscription prices were for series 2009A EUR The target group of the Plan consists of approximately 14.55 (after year 2009, 2010 and 2011 dividend distribution 150 people. The rewards to be paid on the basis of the disEUR 11.65), for series 2009B EUR 23.79 (after year 2010 cretionary periods beginning on 1 January 2012 correspond and 2011 dividend distribution EUR 21.79) and for series to the value of maximum of total of 700,000 Konecranes Plc 2009C EUR 31.37 (after year 2011 dividend distribution EUR shares. If the targets determined by the Board of Directors 30.37). are achieved, the reward payout will be a half of the maxiThe Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc has on 22nd mum reward. The maximum reward payout requires that the March, 2012 resolved to implement a performance share targets are clearly exceeded. plan according to which earning reward is based on attain29.1.Summary of the Konecranes Plc’ Option Plans Maximum number Maximum number of shares the stock of shares Share option plan entitles Subscription that still can be subscription Stock Option to subscribe for price/ share (EUR) subscribed period 2009A 750,000 11.65* 630,161 1.4.2012–30.4.2014 2009B 750,000 21.79** 733,000 1.4.2013–30.4.2015 2009C 750,000 30.37*** 727,500 1.4.2014–30.4.2016 Total 2,250,000 2,090,661 * The original subscription price was EUR 14.55 ** The original subscription price was EUR 23.79 ***The original subscription price was EUR 31.37 29.2. Changes in the number of shares from option rights outstanding 2012 2011 Number of shares of option rights outstanding as of January 1 3,144,200 3,370,000 Granted during the year 2,000 787,000 Forfeited during the year -15,000 -49,500 Exercised during the year -104,839 -958,300 Expired during the year -935,700 -5,000 Total number of shares from option rights outstanding as of 31 December 2,090,661 3,144,200 Excersiced option rights includes 12,500 shares for which the transfer of treasury shares occurs in 2013. The total cost of the option programs for the financial year 2012 was EUR 4.0 million (2011: EUR 4.8 million). Option program costs are included in personnel expenses and credited to the shareholders’ equity. 96 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29.3. Assumptions made in determining the fair value of stock options The fair values for the options have been determined using the Black & Scholes method. The fair values for stock options have been calculated on the basis of the following assumptions: 2009A 2009B 2009C Subscription price of the share, EUR 11.65* 21.79** 30.37*** Fair market value of the share, EUR 17.65 24.22 32.30 Expected volatility, % 25% 23% 20% Risk-free interest rate, % 3.27% 2.15% 2.82% Expected contractual life in years 2.3 3.3 4.3 Grant date fair value of the stock options, EUR 6.52 6.19 8.17 The above calculations are based on the 4–6 year implied volatility of the Konecranes Plc share price estimated by a market participant who actively trades stock options. * The original subscription price was EUR 14.55 ** The original subscription price was EUR 23.79 *** The original subscription price was EUR 31.37 29.4. Changes in number of share rewards tion based on non market vesting condition (EBIT margin) has in performance share plan been determined at grant using the fair value of Konecranes share as of the grant date and expected dividend yield. 2012 2011 The fair values have been calculated on the basis of the Number of Number of shares shares following assumptions: As of January 1 0 0 2012 Share rewards granted 605,000 0 Share price at grant, EUR 21.17 Share rewards awarded 0 0 Share price at reporting period end 31.12 25.55 Share rewards forfeited -3,000 0 Expected volatility, % * 37.5% Total as of December 31 602,000 0 Risk-free interest rate, % 3.5% Expected dividend, pa , EUR 1.0 The reward will be paid in Konecranes shares (approximately 50%) and partly in cash (approximately 50%). The cash-setExpected contractual life in years 3.0 tled portion is dedicated to cover taxes and tax-related payments. The equity -settled portion of the plan is recognized Weighted average fair value of the share over the vesting period based on calculated fair value of rewards at the grant date 14.87 Konecranes share as of the grant date EUR 21.17. The historical development of Konecranes share and the expected * Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Konecranes share using monthly observations over corresponding dividends have been taken into account when calculating the maturity. fair value. The total cost of the performance share plan for the financial year 2012 was EUR 0.8 million (2011: EUR 0.0 million). 29.5. Employee share savings plan The costs of the performance share plan are included in The matching shares of employee share savings plan will be personnel expenses. Equity-settled portion is credited to the paid in Konecranes shares (approximately 50%) and partly in shareholders’ equity and cash-settled portion to long-term cash (approximately 50%). The cash-settled portion is dediliabilities. The carrying amount of the liability arising from cated to cover taxes and tax-related payments. The expenses cash settled portion was EUR 0.5 million (2011: EUR 0.0 of the plan are recognized over the vesting period based on million). the quarterly acquired savings share amounts and fair value of Konecranes share as of the closing date. Assumptions made in determining the fair value The total cost of the employee share savings plan for the of share rewards in performance share plan financial year 2012 was EUR 0.0 million (2011: EUR 0.0 milThe fair value for the cash settled portion is remeasured at lion). each reporting date until the possible share delivery. The fair The costs of the employee share savings plan are included value of the liability will thus change in accordance with the in personnel expenses. Equity-settled portion is credited to Konecranes Plc share price. The fair value for the equity setthe shareholders’ equity and cash-settled portion to longtled portion based on market vesting condition (total share term liabilities. The carrying amount of the liability arising holder value) at grant has been determined at grant using the from cash settled portion was EUR 0.0 million (2011: EUR Monte Carlo model. The fair value for the equity settled por0.0 million). Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 97 30. Interest-bearing liabilities 2012 2012 2011 2011 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 30.1. Non-current amount value amount value Loans from financial institutions 105.7 105.7 106.6 106.6 Bonds 74.9 74.9 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 11.4 11.4 15.1 15.1 Finance lease liabilities 6.1 6.1 5.4 5.4 Other long-term loans 7.6 7.6 1.9 1.9 Total 205.6 205.6 129.1 129.1 2012 2012 2011 2011 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 30.2. Current amount value amount value Loans from financial institutions 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.7 Pension loans 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 Finance lease liabilities 3.3 3.3 3.2 3.2 Commercial papers 88.7 88.7 144.7 144.7 Other short-term loans 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 Overdraft 25.5 25.5 11.2 11.2 Total 121.7 121.7 163.9 163.9 The average interest rate of the non-current liabilities portfolio on December 31, 2012 was 1.9% (2011: 2.53%) and that of current liabilities was 3.08% (2011: 1.73%). The effective interest rate for EUR-loans varied between 0.73%–5.05% (2011: 0.93%–6.68%). 30.3. Currency split and repricing schedule of outstanding debt 2012 Debt repricing in period Amount Avg Avg Rate Currency MEUR duration rate % sensi­tivity1) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017EUR 295.9 1.9 years 1.43 3.0 98.1 85.3 6.5 105.4 0.6 CAD 0.3 1.0 years 2.42 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 INR 30.2 1.5 years 11.19 0.3 23.2 1.8 1.2 2.2 1.7 USD 0.8 2.0 years 2.80 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 SGD 0.1 1.9 years 4.97 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Total 327.3 2.33 3.3 121.7 87.9 7.7 107.6 2.4 2011 Debt repricing in period Amount Avg Avg Rate Currency MEUR duration rate % sensi­tivity1) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016EUR 280.9 2.1 years 1.23 2.8 154.4 9.1 6.6 6.1 104.7 CNY 0.6 2.0 years 7.65 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 INR 8.6 1.0 years 12.00 0.1 8.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 USD 1.8 2.0 years 3.46 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.8 GBP 0.3 2.0 years 6.68 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 PLN 0.1 1.0 years 6.00 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 SAR 0.7 1.0 years 9.00 0.0 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 SGD 0.1 1.9 years 1.97 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 ZAR 0.0 1.4 years 8.81 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 293.0 1.60 2.9 163.9 9.3 6.6 6.1 107.0 1) Effect of one percent rise in market interest rates on the Group’s net interest expenses over the following 12 months. All other variables have been assumed constant. 98 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30.4. Maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities 2012 Maturity of financial liabilities Amount Debt type drawn 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Later Committed revolving facilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loans from financial institutions 112.6 0.0 4.3 3.0 103.0 2.3 0.0 Bonds 74.9 0.0 74.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Finance lease liabilities 9.4 3.3 4.6 0.7 0.7 0.0 0.0 Commercial paper program 88.7 88.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 15.1 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 0.0 0.0 Other long-term debt 1.0 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 Overdraft 25.5 25.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 6.9 3.7 3.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Account and other payables 178.0 178.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 512.2 303.4 91.1 7.7 107.6 2.4 0.0 2011 Maturity of financial liabilities Amount Debt type drawn 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Later Committed revolving facilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loans from financial institutions 107.3 0.7 0.7 1.9 1.9 101.8 0.4 Finance lease liabilities 8.6 3.2 4.4 0.6 0.3 0.1 0.0 Commercial paper program 144.7 144.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 18.9 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 0.0 Other long-term debt 2.2 0.3 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.7 Overdraft 11.2 11.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 6.0 6.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Account and other payables 177.8 177.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 476.8 347.7 9.3 6.6 6.1 105.9 1.1 Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 99 30.5. Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities classified based on IAS 39 2012 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Availableliabilities Carrying liabilities at fair Loans for-sale measured amounts value through and financial at amorby balance Fair Financial assets income statement receivables assets tized cost sheet item value Note Non-current financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables 0.2 0.2 0.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.6 37.2 Other financial assets 1.4 1.4 1.4 21 Current financial assets Short-term interest-bearing receivables 0.1 0.1 0.1 Account and other receivables 471.1 471.1 471.1 24, 25 Derivative financial instruments 6.6 6.6 6.6 37.2 Cash and cash equivalents 145.1 145.1 145.1 27 Total 7.1 616.6 1.4 624.5 624.5 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 205.6 205.6 205.6 30.1 Derivative financial instruments 3.2 37.2 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 121.7 121.7 121.7 30.2 Derivative financial instruments 3.7 3.7 3.7 37.2 Account and other payables 178.0 178.0 178.0 34.2 Total 6.9 505.3 509.0 509.0 2011 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Availableliabilities Carrying liabilities at fair Loans for-sale measured amounts value through and financial at amorby balance Fair Financial assets income statement receivables assets tized cost sheet item value Note Non-current financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables 0.2 0.2 0.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.4 37.2 Other financial assets 1.4 1.4 1.4 21 Current financial assets Short-term interest-bearing receivables 0.4 0.4 0.4 Account and other receivables 450.6 450.6 450.6 24, 25 Derivative financial instruments 5.9 5.9 5.9 37.2 Cash and cash equivalents 72.7 72.7 72.7 27 Total 6.3 523.9 1.4 531.2 531.2 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 129.1 129.1 129.1 30.1 Derivative financial instruments 2.3 37.2 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 163.9 163.9 163.9 30.2 Derivative financial instruments 6.0 6.0 6.0 37.2 Account and other payables 177.8 177.8 177.8 34.2 Total 8.3 470.8 476.8 476.8 100 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31. Employee Benefits 31.3. Movements of the The Konecranes Group companies have various pension present value of defined benefit obligation 2012 2011 plans in accordance with local conditions and practices. The pension plans are classified as either defined contribution Obligation as of January 1 108.1 101.7 plans or defined benefit plans. The Group has a significant Translation difference 0.7 1.3 defined benefit pension plan in the United Kingdom and GerBusiness combinations 0.0 1.0 many. The Konecranes Group accounts for the Finnish sysReclassification of pension liabilities 0.0 1.6 tem under the Employees’ Pensions Act (TyEL) as a defined Past service cost 0.0 0.6 contribution plan. Settlements and curtailments -0.3 -0.1 Konecranes resiled starting from 1.1.2012 from the Current service cost 2.4 2.5 deferred recognition of actuarial gains and losses for defined benefit plans (i.e. the corridor approach) according to IAS19. Interest cost 5.1 5.1 By changing the accounting principle Konecranes prepares Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) 14.3 -0.3 for the IAS 19R which was endorsed by EU in June 2012. Benefits paid (-) -6.3 -5.3 Actuarial gains and losses are now recognized in consoliObligation as of December 31 123.9 108.1 dated statement of comprehensive income when they occur. The comparison figures of 2011 have been adjusted to meet 31.4. Movements of the the changed accounting principles. During 2011 the change fair value of plan assets 2012 2011 effected the actuarial gains in consolidated statement of Fair value of plan assets comprehensive income by EUR +1.1 million and taxes by as of January 1 44.9 39.1 EUR +0.4 million. In balance sheet the change decreased Translation difference 1.0 1.2 the retained earnings of 2011 by EUR -3.3 million (EUR -4.0 Business combinations 0.0 0.5 million in 2010), and increased the other long term liabilities Expected return on plan assets 2.1 2.2 by EUR +4.5 million and deferred tax assets by EUR +1.2 million. Employer contributions 2.6 2.4 Settlements and curtailments -0.5 0.6 31.1. Amounts recognized Actuarial gains (+) / losses (-) 2.6 0.8 in the balance sheet 2012 2011 Benefits paid (-) -2.7 -2.0 Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets wholly unfunded 70.2 59.6 as of December 31 50.0 44.9 Present value of obligation wholly or partly funded 53.8 48.5 31.5.Major categories of plan Defined benefit plan obligations 123.9 108.1 assets at the end of the Fair value of plan assets -50.0 -44.9 reporting period 2012 2011 Total net liability recognized 73.9 63.2 Equity instruments 15.4 20.5 Debt instruments 23.8 21.4 31.2. Components of defined Insurances 2.1 2.6 benefit plan recorded in Others 8.8 0.4 statement of income 2012 2011 Total plan assets 50.0 44.9 Current service cost 2.4 2.5 Interest cost 5.1 5.1 Expected return on plan assets -2.1 -2.2 Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in active markets. The actual return on plan assets was EUR Past service cost 0.0 0.6 4.7 million (2011: EUR 2.9 million) Net actuarial gain (-)/loss (+) The Group expects to contribute EUR 2.1 million to its recognized in year -11.7 -1.1 defined benefit plans in 2013. Total -6.3 5.0 31.6. Defined benefit plan: The actuarial losses in 2012 were mainly caused by the the main actuarial assumptions 2012 2011 decrease of discount rates in the defined benefit plans of Germany and United Kingdom. Discount rate % 2.20–20.00 3.10–8.75 Expected return on plan assets % 3.60–8.00 4.00–8.75 Future salary increase % 2.00–17.20 2.50–15.00 Future pension payment increase % 1.00–3.00 1.50–4.00 Expected returns on equities reflect long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets and the returns of bonds are based on the terms of agreement. Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 101 31.7. Amounts for the current and previous periods: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Defined benefit obligation 123.9 108.1 101.7 88.3 77.2 Fair value of plan assets -50.0 -44.9 -39.1 -33.9 -27.9 Surplus (-) /deficit (+) 73.9 63.2 62.6 54.4 49.3 Actuarial losses (-) / gains (+) on plan liabilities -14.3 0.3 -9.6 -7.2 7.5 Actuarial losses (-) / gains (+) on plan assets 2.6 0.8 2.0 2.8 -5.5 32. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 32.1. Deferred tax assets 2012 2011 the carry-forward losses totally amounting to EUR 127.5 milEmployee benefits 12.8 9.8 lion (EUR 125.9 million in 2011). The carry-forward losses, Provisions 14.4 13.6 for which no deferred tax assets are recognized due to the Unused tax losses 13.5 15.9 uncertainty of the utilization of the losses, amounted to EUR 84.6 million in the year 2012 (EUR 77.5 million in 2011). Other temporary difference 13.1 9.9 The main portion of carry-forward losses relates to MorTotal 53.8 49.1 ris Material Handling, Inc., USA, which was acquired in 2006. The overall losses of Morris Material Handling, Inc. 32.2. Deferred tax liabilities 2012 2011 amounted to EUR 42.3 million (EUR 55.4 million in 2011). Intangible and tangible assets 17.8 20.9 The Group has recorded a deferred tax asset amounting to Other temporary difference 4.6 5.7 EUR 8.3 million (EUR 12.4 million in 2011) based on the tax Total 22.3 26.6 losses estimated to be utilized during the years 2013–2022 amounting to EUR 23.6 million. Since the result performance Konecranes has not recognized the temporary differences of US operations have been able to fully utilize the carry in investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they probforward losses during the last five years Group decided to ably will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The biggest increase the valuation of deferred tax asset by calculating it temporary difference for which no deferred tax liability has from the next ten years’ carry forward losses. For the amount been recognized relates to the distributable profits in Canaof EUR 18.7 million tax loss carry-forwards deductible over dian subsidiaries. The estimated withholding tax 5 per cent the period 2023–2031 no deferred tax asset has been recamounts EUR 1.3 million. ognized due to uncertainties and limitations on deductible annual amounts. 32.3. Tax losses carried forward Tax losses carried forward and related deferred tax assets At the end of year 2012, Konecranes recorded a deferred on December 31 by the most significant countries as followtax asset of EUR 13.5 million (EUR 15.9 million in 2011) on ing: Potential Deferred Tax losses deferred tax assets Deferred 2012 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets USA 42.3 15.4 7.0 8.3 Austria 19.8 5.0 3.8 1.2 The Netherlands 9.8 2.5 1.1 1.3 Spain 9.4 2.8 2.8 0.0 Germany 7.7 2.3 2.3 0.0 Japan 7.5 3.0 3.0 0.0 Brazil 5.7 1.9 1.9 0.0 Italy 3.9 1.2 1.2 0.0 Finland 3.7 0.9 0.0 0.9 Other 17.7 4.7 2.9 1.8 Total 127.5 39.6 26.1 13.5 102 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Potential Deferred Tax losses deferred tax assets Deferred 2011 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets USA 55.4 20.5 8.1 12.4 Austria 16.1 4.0 3.0 1.0 The Netherlands 10.1 2.6 1.1 1.4 Spain 10.0 3.0 3.0 0.0 Germany 7.7 1.9 1.9 0.0 Japan 6.9 2.8 2.8 0.0 Brazil 3.2 1.1 1.1 0.0 Italy 3.9 1.3 1.3 0.0 Finland 3.8 0.9 0.0 0.9 Other 8.7 5.5 5.4 0.1 Total 125.9 43.7 27.8 15.9 33. Provisions Pension Restructurcommit2012 Warranty ing ments Other Total Total provisions as of January 1 25.5 11.3 3.9 13.4 54.1 Translation difference 0.0 0.1 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 Increase through business combination 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Additional provision in the period 7.4 2.9 3.1 6.6 20.0 Utilization of provision 7.2 9.8 2.0 5.0 23.9 Unused amounts reversed 3.0 1.0 0.0 1.6 5.5 Total provisions as of December 31 22.8 3.5 4.8 13.3 44.5 Pension Restructurcommit2011 Warranty ing ments Other Total Total provisions as of January 1 24.7 7.4 4.4 13.6 50.1 Translation difference 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.7 Increase through business combination 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.9 Additional provision in the period 8.9 7.6 0.1 4.7 21.3 Utilization of provision 5.0 3.6 0.7 3.8 13.1 Unused amounts reversed 3.6 0.4 0.0 1.9 5.9 Total provisions as of December 31 25.5 11.3 3.9 13.4 54.1 The provision for warranties covers the expenses due to 34. Current liabilities the repair or replacement of products during their warranty period. The warranty liability is based on historical realized 34.1. Accruals 2012 2011 warranty costs for deliveries of standard products and serWages, salaries and vices. The usual warranty period is 12 months. For more personnel expenses 72.7 70.6 complex contracts, mainly including long-term projects, the Pension costs 7.1 5.0 warranty reserve is calculated contract by contract and the Interest 0.8 1.7 warranty could be up to two years. The restructuring proviLate cost reservations 94.1 85.7 sion is recognized when the Group has prepared a detailed Other items 41.1 46.7 reorganization plan and begun implementation of the plan or Total 215.7 209.7 announced the matter. Pension commitments include provisions for local pension schemes. 34.2. Other current liabilities Other provisions include provisions for claims, litigations (non-interest bearing) 2012 2011 and loss contracts. Bills payable 0.7 2.3 Value added tax 12.5 14.1 Other short-term liabilities 6.7 9.1 Total 19.9 25.5 Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 103 35. Lease liabilities consecutive times. The Group has various other operating leases for office equipments, vehicles and premises with 35.1. Finance lease 2012 2011 varying terms and renewal rights. Minimum lease payments within 1 year 3.4 3.3 36. Contingent liabilities 1–5 years 6.6 6.0 and pledged assets over 5 years 0.1 0.0 2012 2011 Total 10.1 9.3 For own commercial obligations Guarantees 349.5 371.2 Present value of finance lease Leasing liabilities 101.7 101.8 within 1 year 3.3 3.2 Other 1.4 0.1 1–5 years 6.0 5.4 Total 452.6 473.0 over 5 years 0.0 0.0 Total 9.4 8.6 Leasing contracts comply with normal practices in the countries concerned. Konecranes Group has finance leases mainly for vehicles with an average of four years leasing time. Contingent liabilities relating to litigation Various legal actions, claims and other proceedings pend 35.2. Operating leases 2012 2011 against the Group in various countries. These actions, claims Minimum lease payments and other proceedings are typical of this industry and consiswithin 1 year 33.0 31.2 tent with a global business offering that encompasses a wide 1–5 years 63.1 60.9 range of products and services. These matters involve conover 5 years 5.7 9.6 tractual disputes, warranty claims, product liability (including Total 101.7 101.8 design defects, manufacturing defects, failure to warn and asbestos legacy), employment, vehicles and other matters Operative rental expenses involving claims of general liability. during the year 33.1 33.2 While the final outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, Konecranes has the opinion, based on the information available to date and considering the grounds The Konecranes Group has major operating lease agreepresented for such claims, the available insurance coverage ments of factory and office buildings in Hyvinkää and and the reserves made, that the outcome of such actions, Hämeenlinna, Finland. They are valid for 10–12 years, unless claims and other proceedings, if unfavorable, would not have the lessee extends the lease period by five years. The lesa material, adverse impact on the financial condition of the see is entitled to exercise the 5-year extending option three Group. 37. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments 2012 2012 2011 2011 Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Fair value Foreign exchange forward contracts 504.8 3.4 479.0 -7.6 Currency options 19.7 0.0 15.0 -0.1 Interest rate swaps 100.0 -3.0 70.0 -1.1 Electricity forward contracts 1.9 -0.2 1.8 -0.2 Total 626.5 0.3 565.9 -9.0 Derivatives are used for hedging currency and interest rate risks as well as risk of price fluctuation of electricity. Company applies hedge accounting on derivatives used to hedge cash flows in certain large crane projects and to interest rates of certain long-term loans. IFRS 7 requires that the classification of financial instruments at fair value be determined by reference to the source of inputs used to derive the fair value. This classification uses the following three-level hierarchy: • Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments • Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the financial instrument, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) • Level 3 inputs for the financial instrument that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) Classification of financial instruments within the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy: level 2 for all values as at 31 Dec 2012. 104 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37.1. Breakdown of nominal values of derivative financial instruments Hedging derivative Remaining maturities 2012 Remaining maturities 2011 financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Foreign exchange forward contracts 205.1 24.8 229.9 278.5 29.3 307.8 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 70.0 70.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 205.1 124.8 329.9 278.5 99.3 377.8 Non-hedging derivative Remaining maturities 2012 Remaining maturities 2011 financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Foreign exchange forward contracts 274.9 0.0 274.9 171.3 0.0 171.3 Currency options 19.7 0.0 19.7 15.0 0.0 15.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.7 1.3 1.9 0.8 1.0 1.8 Total 295.3 1.3 296.6 187.2 1.0 188.2 Derivative financial Remaining maturities 2012 Remaining maturities 2011 instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Foreign exchange forward contracts 480.0 24.8 504.8 449.8 29.3 479.0 Currency options 19.7 0.0 19.7 15.0 0.0 15.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 70.0 70.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.7 1.3 1.9 0.8 1.0 1.8 Total 500.4 126.1 626.5 465.7 100.2 565.9 37.2. Breakdown of fair values of derivative financial instruments 2012 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 2.9 0.6 -2.4 -0.1 0.9 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 -3.0 -3.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 2.9 0.6 -2.4 -3.1 -2.1 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 3.7 0.0 -1.2 0.0 2.5 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 Total 3.7 0.0 -1.3 -0.1 2.3 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 6.5 0.6 -3.6 -0.1 3.4 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 -3.0 -3.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 Total 6.6 0.6 -3.7 -3.2 0.3 Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2012 105 2011 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 5.0 0.4 -7.6 -1.2 -3.4 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.9 -1.1 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 5.0 0.4 -7.8 -2.0 -4.5 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.9 0.0 -5.1 0.0 -4.2 Currency options 0.0 0.0 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.1 0.0 -0.2 -0.1 -0.2 Total 0.9 0.0 -5.3 -0.1 -4.4 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 5.9 0.4 -12.7 -1.2 -7.6 Currency options 0.0 0.0 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.9 -1.1 Electricity forward contracts 0.1 0.0 -0.2 -0.1 -0.2 Total 5.9 0.4 -13.2 -2.1 -9.0 38. Hedge reserve of cash flow hedges 39. Related party transactions The related parties of Konecranes are associated companies 2012 2011 and joint ventures and the key management personnel of the Balance as of January 1 -2.9 0.5 Group: the Board of Directors, the CEO, the Group Executive Gains and losses deferred to equity Board and Extended Management Team. (fair value reserve) 2.0 -4.6 Transactions with associated Change in deferred taxes -0.5 1.1 companies and joint ventures 2012 2011 Balance as of December 31 -1.4 -2.9 Sales of goods and services with associated companies The Group applies hedge accounting to certain large cranes and joint ventures 10.4 10.9 projects in which expected cash flows are highly probable Receivables from associated and to interest rates of certain long-term loans. companies and joint ventures 2.0 3.0 Purchases of goods and services from associated companies and joint ventures 0.5 2.4 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 0.0 0.0 Sales to and purchases from related parties are made at the normal market price. Key management compensation The Board of Directors, the CEO and Extended Management Team. See Note 13. of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 106 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes Group 2008–2012 Business development 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Orders received MEUR 1,970.1 1,896.1 1,536.0 1,348.9 2,067.1 Order book MEUR 942.7 991.8 756.2 607.0 836.3 Net sales MEUR 2,170.2 1,896.4 1,546.3 1,671.3 2,102.5 of which outside Finland MEUR 2,080.1 1,796.6 1,457.4 1,575.1 1,979.6 Export from Finland MEUR 638.9 570.7 427.2 488.4 700.1 Personnel on average 11,917 10,998 9,739 9,811 9,222 Personnel on 31 December 12,147 11,651 10,042 9,782 9,904 Capital expenditure MEUR 41.7 32.4 22.3 25.7 22.3 as a percentage of net sales % 1.9% 1.7% 1.4% 1.5% 1.1% Research and development costs MEUR 25.8 29.6 21.5 22.0 19.0 as % of Group net sales % 1.2% 1.6% 1.4% 1.3% 0.9% Profitability Net sales MEUR 2,170.2 1,896.4 1,546.3 1,671.3 2,102.5 Operating profit (including restructuring costs) MEUR 132.1 106.9 112.4 97.9 248.7 as percentage of net sales % 6.1% 5.6% 7.3% 5.9% 11.8% Income before taxes MEUR 124.0 95.8 111.3 88.6 236.2 as percentage of net sales % 5.7% 5.1% 7.2% 5.3% 11.2% Net income (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 84.7 64.9 78.2 62.5 166.6 as percentage of net sales % 3.9% 3.4% 5.1% 3.7% 7.9% Key figures and balance sheet Equity (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 460.1 435.4 456.2 407.1 400.7 Balance Sheet MEUR 1,563.8 1,447.5 1,175.5 1,060.4 1,205.4 Return on equity % 18.9 14.6 18.1 15.5 48.9 Return on capital employed % 18.6 17.1 24.2 19.3 56.3 Current ratio 1.4 1.3 1.4 1.4 1.5 Solidity % 34.2 34.2 44.7 45.1 39.9 Gearing % 39.5 50.5 -3.8 -19.1 2.8 Shares in figures Earnings per share, basic EUR 1.47 1.11 1.35 1.08 2.83 Earnings per share, diluted EUR 1.46 1.10 1.34 1.08 2.82 Equity per share EUR 7.92 7.57 7.64 6.84 6.75 Cash flow per share EUR 2.78 -0.35 0.97 3.79 1.82 Dividend per share EUR 1.05* 1.00 1.00 0.90 0.90 Dividend / earnings % 71.5 90.1 74.1 83.3 31.8 Effective dividend yield % 4.1 6.9 3.2 4.7 7.5 Price / earnings 17.4 13.1 22.9 17.7 4.3 Trading low / high** EUR 14.34/26.67 13.18/34.17 19.08/32.04 10.61/22.04 9.90/32.50 Average share price** EUR 21.39 22.83 23.84 16.66 21.05 Share price on 31 December** EUR 25.55 14.54 30.89 19.08 12.08 Year-end market capitalization MEUR 1,463.8 831.7 1,821.3 1,122.1 713.6 Number traded*** (1,000) 206,014 220,567 145,005 151,422 171,519 Stock turnover % 359.6 385.6 245.9 257.5 290.4 Average number of shares outstanding, basic (1,000) 57,228 58,982 58,922 58,922 58,726 Average number of shares outstanding, diluted (1,000) 57,517 59,362 59,274 59,086 58,987 Number of shares outstanding, at end of the period (1,000) 57,291 57,199 58,960 58,813 59,070 * The Board’s proposal to the AGM ** Source: NASDAQ OMX Helsinki *** Source: NASDAQ OMX Helsinki 2008, Fidessa 2009–2012 Konecranes Group 2008–2012 KONECRANES 2012 107 Calculation of key figures Net profit for the period Return on equity (%): X 100 Total equity (average during the period) Income before taxes + interest paid + other financing cost Return on capital employed (%): X 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities non-interest bearing debts (average during the period) Current assets Current ratio: Current liabilities Shareholders’ equity Solidity (%): X 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities advance payment received Interest-bearing liabilities liquid assets loans receivable Gearing (%): X 100 Total equity Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Earnings per share: Average number of shares outstanding Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Earnings per share, diluted: Average fully diluted number of shares outstanding Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent company Equity per share: Number of shares outstanding Net cash flow from operating activities Cash flow per share: Average number of shares outstanding Dividend per share Effective dividend yield (%): X 100 Share price at the end of financial year Share price at the end of financial year Price per earnings: Earnings per share Year-end market capitalization: Number of shares outstanding multiplied by the share price at the end of year Average number of personnel: Calculated as average of number of personnel in quarters Number of shares outstanding: Total number of shares treasury shares 108 KONECRANES 2012 Calculation of key figures Company list Subsidiaries owned by the parent company Parent Book value company’s Group’s (1,000 EUR) of shares share % share % Finland: Konecranes Finance Oy 46,448 100 100 Konecranes Finland Oy 14,677 28 100 Subsidiaries owned by the group Book value Group’s of shares share % Australia: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 175 100 Austria: Konecranes Ges.m.b.H 2,140 100 Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH 22,033 100 Bangladesh: Konecranes (Bangladesh) Ltd. 49 100 Belgium: S.A. Konecranes N.V. 597 100 Brazil: Konecranes Talhas, Pontes Rolantes e Serviços Ltda. 3,010 100 Canada: 3016117 Nova Scotia ULC 0 100 Hydramach ULC 0 100 Kaverit Cranes and Service ULC 0 100 Konecranes Canada Inc. 893 100 MHE Canada ULC 0 100 Overhead Crane Ltd. 0 100 Cayman Islands: Morris Middle East Ltd. 0 100 Chile: Konecranes Chile SpA 1 100 China: Dalian Konecranes Company Ltd. 1,933 100 Konecranes (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 0 100 Konecranes (Shanghai) Company Ltd. 3,993 100 Konecranes Port Machinery (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 6,807 100 Sanma Hoists & Cranes Co. Ltd. 17,864 65 Stahl CraneSystems Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 191 100 SWF Krantechnik Co., Ltd. 629 100 Czech Republic: Konecranes CZ s.r.o. 805 100 Denmark: Konecranes A/S 1,026 100 Estonia: Konecranes Oü 0 100 Finland: Konecranes Service Oy 2,614 100 Nosturiexpertit Oy 10 100 Permeco Oy 113 100 Suomen Teollisuusosa Oy 5,811 100 France: KCI Holding France S.A. 461 100 Konecranes (France) S.A. 0 100 Konecranes Supply France SAS 10 100 Stahl CraneSystems S.A.S. 0 100 Verlinde S.A. 2,783 99.6 Verlinde SAS 10 100 Germany: Eurofactory GmbH 1,239 100 Konecranes Holding GmbH 15,262 100 Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH 804 100 Stahl CraneSystems GmbH 30,776 100 Konecranes GmbH 4,300 100 SWF Krantechnik GmbH 15,500 100 Greece: Konecranes Hellas Lifting Equipment and Services S.A. 60 100 Hungary: Konecranes Kft. 792 100 Konecranes Supply Hungary Kft. 3,899 100 India: Konecranes Shared Sevices India Pvt. Ltd. 175 100 Stahl CraneSystems (India) Pvt. Ltd. 56 100 WMI Konecranes India Limited 56,719 100 Indonesia: Pt. Konecranes 0 100 Italy: Konecranes S.r.l. 4,890 100 Stahl CraneSystems S.r.l. 110 100 Company list KONECRANES 2012 109 Book value Group’s of shares share % Japan: Konecranes Company, Ltd. 5,141 100 Latvia: SIA Konecranes Latvija 2 100 Lithuania: UAB Konecranes 139 100 Luxembourg: Materials Handling International S.A. 300 100 Malaysia: Konecranes Sdn. Bhd. 745 100 Mexico: Konecranes Mexico S.A. de C.V. 2,184 100 Morocco: Techniplus S.A. 5,818 99.9 The Netherlands: Konecranes B.V. 4,518 100 Konecranes Holding B.V. 13,851 100 Norway: Konecranes A/S 11,372 100 Konecranes Norway Holding A/S 3,588 100 Peru: Konecranes Peru S.R.L. 0 100 Poland: Konecranes Sp. z.o.o. 810 100 Portugal: Ferrometal Limitada 1,556 100 Konecranes Portugal, Unipessoal Lda 0 100 Romania: Konecranes S.A. 98 100 Russia: ZAO Konecranes 161 100 Saudi Arabia: Saudi Cranes & Steel Works Factory Co. Ltd. 14,022 100 Singapore: KCI Cranes Holding (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 49,117 100 Konecranes Pte. Ltd. 1,927 100 Morris Material Handling Pte. Ltd. 266 100 Stahl CraneSystems Pte. Ltd. 0 100 SWF Krantechnik Pte. Ltd. 155 100 Slovakia: Konecranes Slovakia s.r.o. 200 100 Slovenia: Konecranes, d.o.o. 200 100 South Africa: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 3,356 100 Spain: Konecranes Ausió S.L.U. 16,299 100 Stahl CraneSystems S.L. 0 100 Sweden: Konecranes AB 1,593 100 Konecranes Lifttrucks AB 27,075 100 Konecranes Sweden Holding AB 1,682 100 Switzerland: Konecranes AG 404 100 Thailand: Konecranes (Thailand) Ltd.* 105 49 Turkey: Konecranes Ticaret Ve Servis Limited Sirketi 53 100 Ukraine: Konecranes Ukraine JSC 2,048 100 ZAO Zaporozhje Kran Holding* 974 49 PJSC “Zaporozhcrane”* 533 49.23 United Arab Emirates: Stahl CraneSystems FZE 221 100 Konecranes Middle East FZE 1,774 100 United Kingdom: Axis Machine Tool Engineering Limited 0 100 Bond Engineering (Maintenance) Ltd. 0 100 Electron Services Limited 0 100 Konecranes Machine Tool Service Ltd. 2,991 100 K&B Machine Tool Services Ltd. 0 100 KCI Holding UK Ltd. 13,656 100 Konecranes UK Limited 8,173 100 Lloyds Konecranes Pension Trustees Ltd. 0 100 Morris Material Handling Ltd. 6,570 100 Stahl CraneSystems Ltd. 0 100 U.S.A. KCI Holding USA, Inc. 53,901 100 Konecranes, Inc. 40,390 100 Konecranes Nuclear Equipment & Services, LLC 0 100 Merwin, LLC 0 100 MMH Americas, Inc. 0 100 MMH Holdings, Inc. 0 100 Morris Material Handling, Inc. 54,144 100 PHMH Holding Company 0 100 R&M Materials Handling, Inc. 6,215 100 Stahl CraneSystems Inc. 0 100 Vietnam: Konecranes Vietnam Co., Ltd 202 100 * Konecranes Group has the majority representation on the entity’s board of directors and approves all major operational decisions and thereby Konecranes consolidates them in the Group’s financial statements. 110 KONECRANES 2012 Company list Investments accounted for using the equity method Assets Group’s value share % China: Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd. 630 25 Jiangyin Dingli High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd. 463 30 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 1,997 28 France: Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 332 25 Levelec S.A. 212 20 Manulec S.A. 251 25 Manelec S.a.r.l. 70 25 Sere Maintenance S.A. 74 25 Japan: KITO Corporation 31,297 23.06 Saudi Arabia: Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 1,170 49 United Arab Emirates: Crane Industrial Services LLC 1,005 49 Available-for-sale investments Book value Group’s of shares share % Austria: Austrian CraneSystems Ges.m.bH. 86 19 Estonia: AS Konesko 498 19 Finland: East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 50 5.26 Fimecc Oy 120 5.69 Levator Oy 34 19 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 345 3.3 France: Heripret Holding SAS 53 19 Societe d'entretrien et de transformation d'engins mecaniques 0 19 Indonesia: Pt. Technocranes International Ltd. 3 15 Malaysia: Kone Products & Engineering Sdn. Bhd. 13 10 Venezuela: Gruas Konecranes CA 4 10 Others: 177 Total: 1,383 Company list KONECRANES 2012 111 Parent company statement of income – FAS (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2012 1 Jan–31 Dec 2011 Note: 4 Sales 91,971 83,576 Other operating income 0 1,358 5 Depreciation and impairments -2,922 -2,099 6 Other operating expenses -82,919 -76,801 Operating profit 6,129 6,034 7 Financial income and expenses 80,072 14,821 Income before extraordinary items 86,202 20,855 8 Extraordinary items 35,555 27,495 Income before appropriations and taxes 121,757 48,350 9 Income taxes -10,459 -8,300 Net income 111,298 40,050 112 KONECRANES 2012 Parent company statement of income – FAS Parent company cash flow – FAS (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2012 1 Jan–31 Dec 2011 Cash flow from operating activities Operating income 6,129 6,034 Adjustments to operating profit Depreciation and impairments 2,922 2,099 Extraordinary income 27,495 44,130 Other adjustments 0 -1,358 Operating income before changes in net working capital 36,546 50,905 Change in interest-free short-term receivables 6,300 -13,243 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities -13,911 17,128 Change in net working capital -7,611 3,885 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 28,935 54,790 Interest received 1,074 2,251 Other financial income and expenses 42 -80 Income taxes paid -7,493 -15,069 Financing items and taxes -6,377 -12,898 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 22,558 41,892 Cash flow from investing activities Capital expenditure to tangible assets -732 -1,408 Capital expenditure and advance payments to intangible assets -21,706 -29,289 Dividends received 78,970 13,125 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 56,532 -17,572 Cash flow before financing activities 79,090 24,320 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from options excercised and share issues 3,912 24,498 Purchase of treasury shares 0 -51,271 Repayments of long-term receivables -25,925 62,980 Dividends paid -57,199 -60,553 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -79,212 -24,346 Cash and cash equivalents from KCR Management Oy 0 211 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -122 185 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 212 27 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 90 212 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -122 185 Parent company cash flow – FAS KONECRANES 2012 113 Parent company balance sheet – FAS (1,000 EUR) ASSETS 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Note: NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets 10 Intangible rights 15,500 5,475 Advance payments 40,935 31,740 56,435 37,215 Tangible assets 11 Machinery and equipment 2,007 1,711 2,007 1,711 12 Investments Investments in Group companies 50,649 50,649 Other shares and similar rights of ownership 515 515 51,164 51,164 Total non-current assets 109,606 90,090 CURRENT ASSETS Long-term receivables Loans receivable from Group companies 108,621 82,696 108,621 82,696 Short-term receivables Accounts receivable 106 1,971 Amounts owed by Group companies Accounts receivable 21,784 24,529 14 Deferred assets 35,614 27,647 Other receivables 176 5,168 14 Deferred assets 7,333 6,943 65,013 66,257 Cash in hand and at banks 90 212 Total current assets 173,724 149,166 TOTAL ASSETS 283,330 239,257 114 KONECRANES 2012 Parent company balance sheet – FAS (1,000 EUR) SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Note: 15 EQUITY Share capital 30,073 30,073 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 Paid in capital 39,033 35,120 Retained earnings 42,864 60,013 Net income for the period 111,298 40,050 262,574 204,563 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Other long-term liabilities 0 78 0 78 Provisions 457 294 Current liabilities Accounts payable 6,344 5,209 Liabilities owed to Group companies Accounts payable 3,789 17,560 16 Accruals 1,458 1,214 Other short-term liabilities 575 502 16 Accruals 8,133 9,837 20,299 34,322 Total liabilities 20,756 34,694 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 283,330 239,257 Parent company balance sheet – FAS KONECRANES 2012 115 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 1. Accounting principles Wages and salaries in accordance with the The financial statements of the company have been prepared Statement of Income 2012 2011 in euro and in accordance with accounting principles generRemuneration to Board 0.5 0.4 ally accepted in Finland. Other wages and salaries 15.9 16.5 2. Extraordinary items Total 16.4 16.9 The extraordinary items in the financial statements include received group contributions. The average number of personnel 269 251 3. Research and development costs Auditors fees Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Audit 0.2 0.1 Other services 0.3 0.2 Total 0.4 0.4 STATEMENT OF INCOME 4. Sales 7. Financial income and expenses In the parent company the sales to subsidiaries totaled EUR 92.0 million (EUR 83.6 million in 2011) corresponding to a 2012 2011 share of 100% (100% in 2011) of net sales. Financial income from long-term investments: 5. Depreciation and impairments Dividend income from group companies 79.0 13.1 2012 2011 Dividend income total 79.0 13.1 Intangible rights 2.5 1.6 Interest income from Machinery and equipment 0.4 0.5 long-term receivables: Total 2.9 2.1 From group companies 1.0 2.0 Other interest income 0.0 0.0 6. Other operating expenses Interest income from long-term receivables total 1.0 2.0 and personnel Costs and expenses in the Financial income from Statement of Income were long-term investments total 79.9 15.1 as follows: 2012 2011 Wages and salaries 16.4 16.9 Interest and other financial income 0.2 0.0 Pension costs 3.2 3.3 Interest and other financial Other personnel expenses 0.7 0.8 income total 0.2 0.0 Other operating expenses 62.6 55.8 Interest expenses and other financial expenses: Total 82.9 76.8 Other financial expenses 0.1 0.4 Interest expenses and other financial expenses total 0.1 0.4 Financial income and expenses total 80.1 14.8 116 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 8. Extraordinary items 2012 2011 Investments in Book Book 2012 2011 Group companies Domicile value value Group contributions received Konecranes Finance Corp. Hyvinkää 46.4 46.4 from subsidiaries 35.6 27.5 Konecranes Finland Corp. Hyvinkää 4.2 4.2 Total 35.6 27.5 KCR Management Oy Hyvinkää 0.0 0.0 Total 50.6 50.6 9. Income taxes Other shares and similar 2012 2011 rights of ownership 2012 2011 Taxes on extraordinary items 8.7 7.1 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 0.3 0.3 Taxes on ordinary operations 1.7 1.6 Pärjä Oy 0.0 0.0 Taxes from previous years 0.1 -0.5 East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 0.1 0.1 Total 10.5 8.3 Fimecc Oy 0.1 0.1 Total 0.5 0.5 13. Treasury shares BALANCE SHEET 2012 2011 10. Intangible rights Number of shares as of January 1 6,042,456 2,524,760 Increase 0 3,517,696 2012 2011 Decrease -61,424 0 Acquisition costs as of January 1 16.0 12.6 Number of shares Increase 12.5 3.4 as of December 31 5,981,032 6,042,456 Decrease 0.0 0.0 Acquisition costs as of December 31 28.6 16.0 Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize Accumulated depreciation 1 January -10.6 -9.0 the Board of Directors to decide on the Accumulated depreciation repurchase and/or on the acceptance as relating to disposals 0.0 0.0 pledge of the Company’s own shares: Accumulated depreciation -2.5 -1.6 The AGM on March 23, 2012 authorized the Board of DirecTotal as of December 31 15.5 5.5 tors to decide on the repurchase and/or on the acceptance as pledge of the Company’s own shares as follows: 11. Machinery and equipment The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge based on this authorization shall not 2012 2011 exceed 6,000,000 shares in total, which corresponds to Acquisition costs as of January 1 6.2 4.8 approximately 9.5 per cent of all of the shares in the Company. However, the Company together with its subsidiaries Increase 0.7 1.4 cannot at any moment own and/or hold as pledge more than Decrease 0.0 0.0 10 per cent of all the shares in the Company. Only the unreAcquisition costs as of December 31 7.0 6.2 stricted equity of the Company can be used to repurchase Accumulated depreciation 1 January -4.5 -4.0 own shares on the basis of the authorization. Accumulated depreciation Own shares can be repurchased at a price formed in pubrelating to disposals 0.0 0.0 lic trading on the date of the repurchase or otherwise at a Accumulated depreciation -0.4 -0.5 price formed on the market. Total as of December 31 2.0 1.7 The Board of Directors decides how own shares will be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge. Own shares can be repurchased using, inter alia, derivatives. Own shares can be 12. Investments repurchased otherwise than in proportion to the sharehold2012 2011 ings of the shareholders (directed repurchase). Own shares can be repurchased and/or accepted as Acquisition costs as of January 1 51.2 51.2 pledge to limit the dilutive effects of share issues carried Increase 0.0 0.0 out in connection with possible acquisitions, to develop the Decrease 0.0 0.1 Company’s capital structure, to be transferred for financing Total as of December 31 51.2 51.2 or realization of possible acquisitions, investments or other arrangements belonging to the Company’s ordinary business, to pay remuneration to Board members, to be used in incentive arrangements or to be cancelled, provided that the repurchase is in the interest of the Company and its shareholders. Notes to the parent company’s financial statement KONECRANES 2012 117 The authorization is effective until the end of the next The Plan will be launched in the Konecranes Group Annual General Meeting, however no longer than until 22 globally. The aim of the Plan is to encourage Konecranes September 2013. employees to become shareholders in the Company and to reward the employees for their efforts in working toward Authorizing the Board of Directors to decide ­Konecranes’ goals, now and in the future. Another objective on the issuance of shares as well as on the is to strengthen the tie between Konecranes shareholders issuance of special rights entitling to shares: and employees. The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders authorized issuance of shares as well as the issuance of special rights the Board of Directors to decide on the detailed terms and entitling to shares referred to in chapter 10 section 1 of the conditions of the Plan, on the Plan periods and on their Finnish Companies Act as follows. detailed terms and conditions, and to implement the Plan The amount of shares to be issued based on this authoat its discretion, considering especially the legislation and rization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which correother regulations applied to the Plan in each country where sponds to approximately 9.5 per cent of all of the shares in the Group operates. the Company. The Board of Directors approved the detailed terms and The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the conditions of the Plan and the commencing Plan period. The issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares. Plan was offered in about 40 countries to approximately The issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to 11,000 employees. A few countries have been ruled out at shares may be carried out in deviation from the shareholdthis phase due to local legal restraints. The commencing ers’ pre-emptive rights (directed issue). The authorization plan period begun on July 1, 2012 and will end on June 30, can also be used for incentive arrangements, however, not 2013. The maximum monthly saving is 5 percent of each more than 700,000 shares in total together with the authoriparticipant’s monthly gross salary and the minimum monthly zation of transfer of the company’s own shares. saving per employee will be EUR 10. Each participant will The authorization is effective until the end of the next receive one free matching share for every two acquired savAnnual General Meeting, however no longer than until 22 ings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to a particiSeptember 2013. However, the authorization for incentive pant if the participant holds the acquired shares from the arrangements is valid until 30 June 2015. plan period until the end of the designated holding period, February 15, 2016, and if his or her employment with a comProposal by the Board of Directors to authorize pany has not been terminated on the last day of the holding the Board of Directors to decide on the period on bad leaver terms. transfer of the company’s own shares: An employee will participate in the Plan for one year at The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the a time. Shares will be acquired with the accrued savings transfer of the Company’s own shares as follows: at the market price quarterly, after the publication date of The authorization is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 the ­Konecranes interim results, commencing in November shares, which corresponds to approximately 9.5 per cent of 2012. Any dividends paid on purchased shares during the all of the shares in the Company. commencing Plan period will automatically be reinvested The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the into additional shares on the following purchase date. These transfer of own shares. The transfer of shares may be carried shares will have an equal right to matching shares. out in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights The Board of Directors decides on the issue of new (directed issue). The Board of Directors can also use this shares or on the transfer of own shares held by the Comauthorization to grant special rights concerning the Compapany to such participants of the Plan who, according to the ny’s own shares, referred to in Chapter 10 of the Companies terms and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to receive free Act. The authorization can also be used for incentive arrangeshares, as well as to decide on the share issue without payments, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total ment also to the Company itself. The authorization includes a together with the authorization in the issuance of shares and right in this Plan to transfer own shares held by the Company, the issuance of special rights entitling to shares. the use of which has earlier been limited to other purposes This authorization is effective until the next Annual than incentive plans. The number of new shares to be issued General Meeting of Shareholders, however no longer than or own shares held by the Company to be transferred may be until 22 September 2013. However, the authorization for a maximum total of 500,000 shares, which corresponds to incentive arrangements is valid until 30 June 2015. 0.8 per cent of all of the Company´s shares. The Board of Directors is entitled to decide on other matProposal by the Board of Directors to authorize ters concerning the share issue. The authorization concernthe Board of Directors to launch an employee ing the share issue is valid until 1 March 2017. share savings plan and to decide on directed share issue without payment: The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the lauch of an employee share savings plan and directed share issue without payment as follows: 118 KONECRANES 2012 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 14. Deferred assets Distributable equity Paid in capital as of December 31 39.0 35.1 2012 2011 Retained earnings as of December 31 42.9 60.0 Group contributions 35.6 27.5 Net income for the period 111.3 40.1 Payments which will be realized Total 193.2 135.2 during the next financial year 7.3 6.9 Pension costs 0.0 0.0 16. Accruals Interest 0.1 0.2 Total 42.9 34.6 2012 2011 Income taxes 0.1 0.0 15. Equity Wages, salaries and personnel expenses 5.7 6.1 2012 2011 Interest 0.0 0.0 Share capital as of January 1 30.1 30.1 Other items 3.8 5.0 New issue 0.0 0.0 Total 9.6 11.1 Share capital as of December 31 30.1 30.1 17. Contingent liabilities and Share premium account 1 January 39.3 39.3 pledged assets New issue 0.0 0.0 2012 2011 Share premium account as of December 31 39.3 39.3 Contingent liabilities For obligations of subsidiaries Share issue 1 January 0.0 0.1 Group guarantees 357.4 363.1 Increase 3.9 24.5 Other contingent and financial liabilities Decrease -3.9 -24.6 Leasing liabilities Share issue 31 December 0.0 0.0 Next year 1.0 1.3 Later on 1.1 1.7 Paid in capital 1 January 35.1 10.5 Increase 3.9 24.6 Leasing contracts are valid in principle three years and they Decrease 0.0 0.0 have no terms of redemption. Paid in capital as of December 31 39.0 35.1 Other liabilities 0.0 0.0 Retained earnings as of January 1 100.1 180.2 Total by category Dividend paid -57.2 -60.6 Guarantees 357.4 363.1 Decrease 0.0 -59.7 Other liabilities 2.2 3.0 Retained earnings as of December 31 42.9 60.0 Total 359.5 366.1 Net income for the period 111.3 40.1 Shareholders’ equity as of December 31 262.6 204.6 18. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments 2012 2012 2011 2011 Fair value Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.0 26.8 -0.2 28.2 Derivatives are used for currency rate hedging only. Notes to the parent company’s financial statement KONECRANES 2012 119 Board of Directors’ proposal to the annual general meeting The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR ing the amount of the dividend the Board of Directors has 193,194,781.05 of which the net income for the year is assessed the liquidity of the parent company and the eco111,298,139.92. nomic circumstances subsequent to the financial year-end. The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 385,938,000. Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proAccording to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable poses to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR funds of the company are calculated based on the parent 1.05 will be paid on each share and that the remaining noncompany’s non-restricted equity. For the purpose of determinrestricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. Helsinki, January 31, 2013 Stig Gustavson Svante Adde Tapani Järvinen Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Matti Kavetvuo Nina Kopola Bertel Langenskiöld Board member Board member Board member Malin Persson Mikael Silvennoinen Pekka Lundmark Board member Board member President and CEO 120 KONECRANES 2012 Board of Directors’ proposal to the annual general meeting Auditor’s report To the Annual General Meeting of entity’s preparation of financial statements and report of the Konecranes Plc Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in order to We have audited the accounting records, the financial statedesign audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumments, the report of the Board of Directors, and the adminstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on istration of Konecranes Plc for the financial period 1.1.– the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit 31.12.2012. The financial statements comprise the conalso includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting solidated statement of financial position, income statement, policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estistatement of comprehensive income, statement of changes mates made by management, as well as evaluating the overin equity and statement of cash flows, and notes to the conall presentation of the financial statements and the report of solidated financial statements, as well as the parent compathe Board of Directors. ny’s balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statement We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is and notes to the financial statements. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Responsibility of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Opinion on the consolidated The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responfinancial statements sible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a that give a true and fair view in accordance with International true and fair view of the financial position, financial perforFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, mance, and cash flows of the group in accordance with Interas well as for the preparation of financial statements and national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair the EU. view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and the report of Opinion on the company’s financial the Board of Directors in Finland. The Board of Directors is statements and the report of the responsible for the appropriate arrangement of the control Board of Directors of the company’s accounts and finances, and the Managing In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Director shall see to it that the accounts of the company are Board of Directors give a true and fair view of both the conin compliance with the law and that its financial affairs have solidated and the parent company’s financial performance been arranged in a reliable manner. and financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements Auditor’s Responsibility and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The inforOur responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial mation in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent statements, on the consolidated financial statements and on with the information in the financial statements. the report of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The Auditing Act requires that we comply with the requirements of Opinions based on assignment professional ethics. We conducted our audit in accordance of the Audit Committee with good auditing practice in Finland. Good auditing practice We support that the financial statements should be adopted. requires that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reaThe proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of sonable assurance about whether the financial statements the distributable equity shown in the balance sheet for the and the report of the Board of Directors are free from mateparent company is in compliance with the Limited Liability rial misstatement, and whether the members of the Board of Companies Act. We support that the Members of the Board Directors of the parent company or the Managing Director are of Directors and the Managing Director of the parent comguilty of an act or negligence which may result in liability in pany should be discharged from liability for the financial damages towards the company or have violated the Limited period audited by us. Liability Companies Act or the articles of association of the company. Helsinki, January 31, 2013 An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial Ernst & Young Oy statements and the report of the Board of Directors. The proAuthorized Public Accountant Firm cedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessHeikki Ilkka ments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the Authorized Public Accountant Auditor’s report KONECRANES 2012 121 Shares & shareholders Shares and share capital age turnover of EUR 10.4 million. In addition, approximately As of December 31, 2012, Konecranes Plc’s fully paid84.4 million Konecranes’ shares were traded on other tradup share capital entered in the Trade Register was EUR ing venues (e.g. multilateral trading facilities and bilateral 30,072,660, divided into 63,272,342 shares (63,241,427 OTC trades) in 2012 according to Fidessa. in 2011). Konecranes has one class of shares and each share entitles its holder to one vote at the Annual General Board authorizations Meeting and an equal dividend. Konecranes’ shares are regThe Annual General Meeting held on March 22, 2012, authoistered in the Finnish book entry system. rized the Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase of On December 31, 2012, Konecranes Plc was in the posthe Company’s own shares and/or on the acceptance as session of 5,981,032 own shares (6,042,456 in 2011), pledge of the Company’s own shares. The amount of own which corresponds to 9.5 percent of the total number of shares to be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge based shares having a market value of EUR 152.8 million on that on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares in date. total, which corresponds to approximately 9.5 per cent of all of the shares in the Company. However, the Company together Market capitalization and share trading with its subsidiaries cannot at any moment own and/or hold As of the end of 2012, the total market capitalization of as pledge more than 10 per cent of all the shares in the Konecranes Plc on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki was EUR 1,464 Company. The authorization is effective until the end of the million, excluding treasury shares (EUR 832 million at yearnext Annual General Meeting, however, no longer than until end 2011). September 22, 2013. The Board of Directors did not use this Konecranes’ shares closed the year at EUR 25.55 (EUR authorization in 2012. 14.54 at year-end 2011) on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. The The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on volume-weighted average trading price for the year was EUR the issuance of shares as well as the issuance of special 21.39. The highest quotation for the Konecranes share was rights entitling to shares referred to in Chapter 10, Section EUR 26.67 in December and the lowest was EUR 14.34 in 1 of the Finnish Companies Act as follows. The number of January. shares to be issued based on this authorization shall not The traded volume of Konecranes’ shares totaled some exceed 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approxi121.6 million on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. In monetary terms, mately 9.5 per cent of all of the shares in the Company. The this was valued at EUR 2,602 million. The daily average tradauthorization can also be used for incentive arrangements, ing volume was 486,551 shares, representing a daily averhowever, not more than 700,000 shares in total together Monthly PRICE AND volume on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki 2008–2012 EUR Number of shares, million 35 25 30 20 25 20 15 15 10 10 5 5 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 Konecranes OMX Helsinki Industrials Index OMX Helsinki Cap Index Monthly trading volume 122 KONECRANES 2012 Shares & shareholders Changes in the share capital Change in number Total number Change in Share capital and the number of shares of shares of shares share capital EUR 1999 March 11, Conversion of share capital into EUR 15,000,000 30,000,000 2002 December 20, invalidation of shares held by the company and reduction of share capital -691,370 14,308,630 -1,382,740 28,617,260 2004 New shares subscribed for with the 1997 stock options 1,400 14,310,030 2,800 28,620,060 2005 New shares subscribed for with the 1997, 1999A, 1999B, 2001A and 2003A stock options 176,000 14,486,030 352,000 28,972,060 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A and pre-split 2003A stock options 286,700 14,772,730 573,400 29,545,460 2006 March 17, 2006 Share split 1:4 44,318,190 59,090,920 0 29,545,460 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, post-split 2003A and 2003B series stock options 986,800 60,077,720 493,400 30,038,860 2007 February, new shares subscribed for with 2003B stock options 67,600 60,145,320 33,800 30,072,660 2007 March–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, 2001B, 2003B and 2003C stock options 833,460 60,978,780 0 30,072,660 2008 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001B, 2003B and 2003C stock options 633,540 61,612,320 0 30,072,660 2009 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 2001B and 2003C stock options 260,600 61,872,920 0 30,072,660 2010 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2001B stock options 129,200 62,002,120 0 30,072,660 2011 January, share issue directed to the shareholders of KCR Management Oy 281,007 62,283,127 0 30,072,660 2011 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2007A and 2007B stock options 958,300 63,241,427 0 30,072,660 2012 May–June, new shares subscribed for with 2009A stock options 30,915 63,272,342 0 30,072,660 with the authorization in the following paragraph. The authois valid until June 30, 2015. The Board of Directors did not rization is effective until the end of the next Annual General use this authorization in 2012. Meeting, however no longer than until September 22, 2013. The General Meeting decided that an Employee Share However, the authorization for incentive arrangements is valid Savings Plan (the Plan) will be launched in the Konecranes until June 30, 2015. The Board of Directors did not use this Group. The General Meeting authorized the Board of Direcauthorization in 2012. tors to decide on the detailed terms and conditions of the The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on Plan, on the Plan Periods and on their detailed terms and the transfer of the Company’s own shares. The authorization conditions, and to implement the Plan at its discretion taking is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which correspecifically in consideration the legislation and other regulasponds to approximately 9.5 per cent of all the shares in the tions applied to the Plan in each country where the Group Company. The Board of Directors can also use this authorizaoperates. tion to grant special rights concerning the Company’s own The Board of Directors is authorized to decide on the shares, referred to in Chapter 10 of the Companies Act. The issue of new shares or on the transfer of own shares held authorization can also be used for incentive arrangements, by the Company to such participants of the Plan who, accordhowever, not more than 700,000 shares in total together ing to the terms and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to with the authorization in the previous paragraph. This authoreceive free shares, as well as to decide on the share issue rization is effective until the next Annual General Meeting of without payment also to the Company itself. In this Plan, the Shareholders, however no longer than until September 22, authorization includes a right to transfer own shares held by 2013. However, the authorization for incentive arrangements the Company, the use of which has earlier been limited to Shares & shareholders KONECRANES 2012 123 the purposes other than the incentive plans. The number of to the subscribers in the share subscription. Treasury shares new shares to be issued or own shares held by the Comhave been used for the share subscriptions made after June pany to be transferred may be in total up to a maximum of 8, 2012. In July–December, 61,424 treasury shares were 500,000 shares, which corresponds to 0.8 percent of the transferred to the subscribers pursuant to the Konecranes all Company’s shares. The Board of Directors are entitled to Plc’s stock options 2009A. decide on the other matters concerning the share issue. The As of the end of 2012, the stock options issued under authorization concerning the share issue is valid until March Konecranes Plc’s ongoing stock option plans entitle option 1, 2017. The Board of Directors did not use this authorizaholders to subscribe for a total of 2,090,661 shares. The tion to issue new shares or to transfer own shares held by option programs include approximately 200 key personnel. the Company in 2012. For a more detailed description of the option plans, see These authorizations are explained in more detail in the Note 29 on Page 96 of the Financial Statements. The terms release covering the resolutions of the 2012 AGM, which can and conditions of the stock option plans can also be conbe consulted at the Company’s Web site at www.konecranes. sulted at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Share informacom > Investors > Corporate governance > General meeting tion > Stock option plans. > Materials and information on general meetings > 2012. Shareholders Flagging notifications Konecranes had 19,598 shareholders on December 31, On October 26, 2012, Konecranes received a disclosure to 2012, compared to 18,767 at the end of 2011. 37.6 percent the effect that the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Konecranes of the Company’s shares were nominee-registered compared Plc had exceeded 5 percent. BlackRock, Inc. held 3,250,867 to 29.2 percent at the end of 2011. More information on the Konecranes Plc’s shares on October 22, 2012, which is 5.14 breakdown of share ownership and Board and Management percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. interests can be found in the Shares and Shareholders section on Page 125 of the Financial Statements. Stock option plans Konecranes has stock option plan 2009 for its key employShare trading information ees, including top and middle management, and employees Date of listing on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki: March 27, 1996 in certain expert positions. Under stock options 2009A, Segment: Large Cap 30,915 new shares were subscribed for and registered in the ICB classification: Industrials, Industrial Goods & Services, Finnish Trade Register during 2012. Industrial Engineering, Commercial Vehicles & Trucks 2753 In accordance with the terms and conditions of the stock ISIN code: FI0009005870 options 2009, Konecranes Plc’s Board of Directors resolved Trading code: KCR1V that instead of issuing new shares in the company, the Reuters ticker: KCR1V.HE shares held by the company (treasury shares) can be offered Bloomberg ticker: KCR1V FH 124 KONECRANES 2012 Shares & shareholders Shares and shareholders According to the register of Konecranes Plc’s shareholders kept by Euroclear Finland Oy, there were 19,598 (2011: 18,767) shareholders at the end of the 2012. Largest shareholders according to the share register on December 31, 2012 Number of shares % of shares and votes 1 HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab 6,870,568 10.9% 2 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 2,174,664 3.4% 3 Gustavson Stig, Chairman of the Board of Konecranes, and family* 2,072,054 3.3% 4 Nordea Investment Management 1,704,548 2.7% 5 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,620,275 2.6% 6 The State Pension Fund 918,000 1.5% 7 Sigrid Juselius Foundation 638,500 1.0% 8 Fondita Funds 565,000 0.9% 9 Samfundet Folkhälsan 535,600 0.8% 10 Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 404,319 0.6% Ten largest registered owners' total holding 17,503,528 27.7% Nominee registered shares 23,764,350 37.6% Other shareholders 16,023,432 25.3% Shares held by Konecranes Plc 5,981,032 9.5% Total 63,272,342 100.0% Shares and options owned by the members of the Board and Change in Option of Directors and of the Extended Change in Number option ownership Management Team on December shareholding of shares % of shares holdings in December % of shares 31, 2012 in 2012 owned** and votes 2012** 31, 2012** and votes Board of Directors* 8,134 33,469 0.1% 0 0 0.0% Extended Management Team -144,561 542,881 0.9% -465,365 486,135 0.8% Total -136,427 576,350 0.9% -465,365 486,135 0.8% * Konecranes Plc has on December 28, 2011 received information according to which the Chairman of the company’s Board of Directors Stig Gustavson has donated all of his shares in Konecranes Plc to his near relatives retaining himself for life the voting rights and right to dividend attached to the donated shares. The donation encompassed in total 2,069,778 shares. ** Option holdings are reported as the number of shares that they entitle to subscribe for. The number of shares owned does not include 12,500 excercised option rights for which the transfer of treasury shares occurs in 2013. Breakdown of share ownership Breakdown of share ownership by the number of shares by shareholder category on owned on December 31, 2012 December 31, 2012 Number of % of Total number of % of shares % of shares and votes Shares shareholders shareholders shares and votes and votes Finnish companies 23.8% 1–100 8,368 42.7% 430,843 0.7% Finnish financial institutions 6.1% 101–1,000 9,437 48.2% 3,423,775 5.4% Finnish public institutions 9.2% 1,001–10,000 1,557 7.9% 4,286,180 6.8% Finnish non-profit institutions 6.6% 10,001–100,000 188 1.0% 5,412,513 8.6% Finnish private investors 15.7% 100,001–1,000,000 26 0.1% 7,238,364 11.4% Nominee registered shares 37.6% Over 1,000,001 6 0.0% 18,716,317 29.6% Non-Finnish holders 1.0% Registered Total 100.0% shareholders total 19,582 99.9% 39,507,992 62.4% Nominee registered 16 0.1% 23,764,350 37.6% Source: Euroclear Finland Oy, December 31, Number of shares 2012. issued 19,598 100.0% 63,272,342 100.0% Shares & shareholders KONECRANES 2012 125 Investor information Investor Relations IR principles Equity research The main objective of Konecranes’ Investor Relations DepartThe following banks, investment banks and equity research ment is to assist in the correct valuation of the Company’s providers cover Konecranes: share by providing capital markets with information regarding Konecranes’ operations and financial position. Konecranes ABG Sundal Collier pursues an open, reliable, and up-to-date disclosure policy, CA Cheuvreux aimed at giving all market participants access to correct and Carnegie Investment Bank consistent information regularly and equitably. Danske Markets Konecranes’ Investor Relations Department is responDeutsche Bank sible for investor communications and daily contacts. The DNB Markets President and CEO, together with the Chief Financial OffiEvli Bank cer, participate in IR activities and are regularly available for FIM meetings with capital market representatives. Goldman Sachs Handelsbanken Capital Markets Silent period HSBC Trinkhaus and Burkhardt Konecranes observes a silent period prior to the publication Inderes of its financial statements and interim reports starting at the Nordea Bank end of the quarter in question. During this time, Company Pareto Securities representatives do not comment on Konecranes’ financial Pohjola Bank position. SEB Enskilda UBS Investor relations in 2012 Konecranes participated in eight investor seminars and held Konecranes takes no responsibility for the opinions 25 roadshow days. All in all, we took part in approximately expressed by analysts. More information on Konecranes as 230 investor meetings in 2012 in Amsterdam, Boston, Chian investment can be found at www.konecranes.com > Invescago, Copenhagen, Edinburgh, Frankfurt, Geneva, Helsinki, tors. Kansas City, London, Munich, New York, Oslo, Paris, Stockholm, Toronto, and Zurich. Investor contacts Miikka Kinnunen, Director, Investor Relations Tel: +358 20 427 2050 E-mail: miikka.kinnunen@konecranes.com Anna-Mari Kautto, Assistant, Investor Relations Tel: +358 20 427 2960 E-mail: anna-mari.kautto@konecranes.com 126 KONECRANES 2012 Investor information Information for shareholders Annual General Meeting Financial reports in 2013 Konecranes’ next Annual General Meeting will be held Financial Statements for 2012: January 31, 2013 on Thursday, March 21, 2013 at 10 a.m. at Hyvinkääsali, Interim report, January–March: April 24, 2013 Jussinkuja 1, 05800 Hyvinkää, Finland. Interim report, January–June: July 24, 2013 Shareholders registered no later than March 11, 2013 in Interim report, January–September:October 23, 2013 the Company’s list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. are entitled to attend the AGM. Konecranes’ annual and interim reports are published in EngHolders of nominee-registered shares intending to particilish, Finnish, and Swedish. The Annual Report is available pate in the AGM shall notify their custodian well in advance in pdf format on the Company Web site and in print form. of their intention and comply with the instructions provided Copies are mailed to shareholders on request; orders can be by the custodian. placed through the Company Web site. A shareholder wishing to participate in the AGM must All press and stock exchange releases can be consulted notify the Company (Ms. Laura Kiiski) of his/her participation at the Company’s Web site (www.konecranes.com) and can no later than March 18, 2013: be received by e-mail by subscribing at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Releases > Order releases. The Annual Report Internet: www.konecranes.com/agm2013 can also be ordered from: E-mail: agm2013@konecranes.com Fax: +358 20 427 2105 (from abroad) Konecranes Plc or 020 427 2105 (Finland) Investor Relations Phone: +358 20 427 2017 (from abroad) or P.O. Box 661 020 427 2017 (Finland) FI-05801 Hyvinkää Mail: Konecranes Plc, Laura Kiiski, P.O. Box 661, Finland FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Phone: +358 20 427 2960 Fax: +358 20 427 2089 Shareholders are requested to inform the Company of any Web: www.konecranes.com > Investors > Reports and result proxies for the AGM in connection with their registration. A presentations > Order annual report sample proxy can be found at the Company’s Web site. Shareholder register Payment of dividend Konecranes shares are covered by the Finnish Book Entry The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Securities System. Shareholders should notify the relevant Meeting of Shareholders that a dividend of EUR 1.05 should holder of their book entry account about changes in address be paid for 2012. The dividend will be paid to shareholders or account numbers for the payment of dividends and other who are registered on the record date as shareholders in the matters related to their holdings. Company’s shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. Important dates Record date of the AGM: March 11, 2013 Registration for the AGM closes: March 18, 2013 The AGM: March 21, 2013 Dividend ex-date: March 22, 2013 Dividend record date: March 26, 2013 Dividend payment date: April 5, 2013 Investor information KONECRANES 2012 127 Contact Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses™, serving a broad range of customers, details including manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes provides productivity-enhancing lifting solutions as well as services for lifting equipment and machine tools of all makes. In 2012, Group sales totaled EUR 2,170 million. The Group has 12,100 employees at 626 locations in 48 countries. Konecranes is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki (symbol: KCR1V). Corporate HQ Main production sites Sales and service locations 128 KONECRANES 2012 Contact details Corporate Headquarters Konecranes Plc P.O. Box 661 (Koneenkatu 8) FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +358 20 427 2099 Global Business Area Headquarters Service Equipment Konecranes Service Corporation Konecranes Finland Corporation P.O. Box 135 (Koneenkatu 8) P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel +358 20 427 11 Tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +358 20 427 4099 Fax +358 20 427 3009 Regional Headquarters Americas Nordic, Eastern Europe and India Konecranes, Inc. Konecranes Region NEI 4401 Gateway Blvd. P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) Springfield, OH 45502, USA FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel +1 937 525 5533 Tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +1 937 322 2832 Fax +358 20 427 3009 Western Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific Konecranes Region WEMEA Konecranes (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) Building 4, No. 100, Lane 2891, South Qilianshan Road FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Shanghai, 200331, China Tel +358 20 427 11 Tel +86 21 2606 1000 Fax +358 20 427 3009 Fax +86 21 2606 1066 Corporate responsibility For corporate responsibility matters please contact corporate-responsibility@konecranes.com This publication is for general informational purposes only. Konecranes reserves the right at any time, without notice, to alter or discontinue the products and/or specifications referenced herein. This publication creates no warranty on the part of Konecranes, express or implied, including but not limited to any implied warranty or merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. © 2013 Konecranes. All rights reserved.
