United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENTAL principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery; Chess iX – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Contents 1 About Chess iX 2 Statement of continued support 3 Human rights principles 4 Labour principles 6 Environmental principles 7 Anti-corruption principles Chess iX – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 About Chess iX Chess iX software solutions For over 15 years Chess iX has helped innovative organizations achieve their business goals by creating business critical software solutions. From our head office in Haarlem, The Netherlands, we operate with 55 highly skilled and motivated professionals. We build software that exceeds the expectations of our customers with the highest level of craftmanship and support. On top of that we help our clients to achieve their business goals by maintaining and updating the software for many years. From concept to production What sets us apart is our ability to help you think about new concepts and transform those into robust specifications. We develop software in a waterfall or iterative way, depending on the circumstances, always thoroughly test and we use an automated test harness. Chess iX delivers support during all phases of your product: 1 Software Development Center 2 Application Lifecycle Management 3 Hosting & Operation Chess iX – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 1 Statement of continued support To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Chess iX continues its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we will describe the actions we have made to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Rene Hodde CEO Chess iX Chess iX – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 2 HUMAN RIGHTS principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assesment, Policy and goals As a company and on personal behalf of all our employees we state to respect the internationally proclaimed Human Rights and like to go beyond that. We think it is important to stimulate good behavior to others by setting the right example. We aim to cooperate with business partners that think alike. The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact are included in our code of conduct and on our internal information site. We have informed our employees about the UN Global Compact during our formal mandatory quaterly community meeting (Tuning). Candidates for vacant positions within Chess iX are also informed about our commitment. We wrote about the 10 principles on our website and in our newsletter to make our clients, suppliers, employees and partners understand our position regarding these principles. Implementation In our annually published businessplan we address our culture and HR aspects in separate chapters. The businessplan is distributed to our employees, major clients, shareholders and the bank. Our Work/Employee council cares for the benefits of our employees. They have regular meetings with the management team about decisions made. Our employees are informed in several ways about the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, starting with the job interview, in job control meetings, in joint company meetings and finally on the internal information website. Our HR department oversees the principles in our day-to-day behaviour and processes. Bi-weekly HR makes an HR status report for the management team, possible deviations are reported. Measurement of outcomes Every year Chess iX holds an employee satisfaction survey amongst all employees. We also hold a client satisfaction survey amongst several customers. No issues have been reported so far in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was Chess iX involved in any human rights incidents before or during the reporting period. The HR manager reports to the MT in the MT meeting about ongoing HR issues biweekly. He also writes up these issues in an HR report. Our work / employee council writes a yearly report. Chess iX – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 3 LABOUR principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of associationand the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assesment, Policy and goals Our code of conduct covers policies concerning our employee rights and responsibilities. We will continue to update and improve our employee handbook when needed and assimilate the Global Compact principles. There is no discrimination of race or sexual preference at Chess iX. Men and women are equally rewarded within their position. Within Chess iX the HR manager serves as confidant / counsellor. If necessary there is also a neutral confidant at the Arbodienst to treat complaints of sexual intimidation, discrimination, agression or violence. Our Work/Employee council cares for the benefits of our employees. They have regular meetings with the management team. They safeguard our employees working conditions and equal opportunities. Implementation Chess iX strongly believes that employee satisfaction and shared goals are crucial to achieve the best business result. Therefore additional effort is being made on communication. There are different channels of communication towards our employees: o management messages o newsletters o emails o formal letters o the internal information website o informal biweekly community meetings (chats) o formal mandatory quaterly community meeting (Tuning) o presentations during lunchtime (lunch sessions) o team meetings o work / employees council meetings with the management o Management meetings with principals o job control meetings Chess iX works with various function levels in which the roles that an employee can fulfill within Chess iX are described. Every function level has a salary range (minimal/maximal salary), a maximal set expanse payment and devices that are issued by Chess iX. Chess iX is a company with a flat organisation structure. We have an open door policy throughout the company. Biweekly we organise an informal community meeting where each team informs everybody about the development in their project. We also organise a formal mandatory quaterly community meeting where a business update is given by one of the MT members regarding the overall state of affairs. During both meetings employees can ask questions about anything they want. Chess iX – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 4 During coffee and Friday afternoon drinks employees we have the opportunity to speak informally to each other. Measurement of outcomes Every year our employees complete an employee satisfaction survey. In 2012 we scored 7.3 on a 110 scale, where 10 is the best possible. Besides this survey yearly job control meetings and a review session is organized for every employee where we give our employees the opportunity to address issues. These are also powerful tools for HR to monitor how an employee is doing. Employees can always make an appointment besides these fixed formal moments of contact. The HR manager reports to the MT in the MT meeting about ongoing HR issues biweekly. He also writes up these issues in an HR report. Chess iX has a diverse workforce. Men and women have equal opportunities. We employ employees from different nationalities. Our work / employee council writes a yearly report. Chess iX – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 5 ENVIRONMENTAL principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assesment, Policy and goals Chess iX values the environment and tries to have as little impact as possible on the environment. We try to do this by creating awareness amongst our employees and by providing them with tools. Our policy regarding the environment is written in our code of conduct. Chess iX is housed in an environmentally friendly building. The Chess iX staff lives generally close to the company, 80% of our staff is in 30 minutes in the office and approximately 50% come by bicicle or public transport. Our Work/Employee council has regular meetings with the management team. They can give suggestions about improvements that can be made to improve our behavior regarding the environment. Implementation Chess iX implements the following actions: o we choose the most sustainable solutions for mobility, starting by reducing the number of lease cars and only allowing employees to choose A rated label cars o we encourage employees to recycle o we are supplied with green electric power o we have equiped all rooms with sensors that activate the lights when someone is near and turn off when nobody is in the room o we use as many energy saving lamps as possible o we are housed in a building that uses hot and cold storage to save energy for heating and cooling the building. This results in a 40 – 80% save o we recycle old PC’s and printers Measurement of outcomes The HR manager reports regularly on progress on mobility, housing and facilities. From our employee survey we learn that 50% of our employees travel to Chess iX by bike or public transport. We have brought down the number of company cars. We also do not offer a company car to new employees who apply for a position which does not require often travel. Our work / employee council writes a yearly report. Chess iX – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery; Assesment, Policy and goals Currently there are no written guidelines for employees on how to act in case of bribary or extortion. We haven’t yet come across situations that might have corruption risk. We are however very keen on not working together with corrupted parties. Chess iX prohibits the offering, the giving, the sollicitation or the acceptance of any bribe, whether cash or other inducement to or from any person or company by any individual employee, in order to gain any commercial, contractual or personal advantage. We have a no cash policy. All payments are done by bank transfers. Our Work/Employee council has regular meetings with the management team. During these meetings issues regarding anti-corruption can be reported or discussed. Implementation Chess iX is very supportive of an anti-corruption policy. We win bids for new assignments because of our knowledge in the market, quality and price. We do not accept bribes. Our actions are completely transparant. There is an active bid/no bid process in which we decide to bring out offers. In that process we also assess the client from an ethic point of view. Measurement of outcomes There have been no cases of corruption in the line of work over the course of the organization’s existence. If such a situation might arise, Chess iX will take appropriate action and ultimately withdraw from the assignment. The situation will be evaluated afterwards. Our work / employee council writes a yearly report. The HR manager reports to the MT in the MT meeting about ongoing HR issues biweekly. He also writes up these issues in an HR report. Chess iX – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 7
