CLIFFE DEKKER HOFMEYR INC. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 'COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS' JUNE 2013 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 3 LABOUR PRINCIPLES 4 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES UN GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE OF CONTENTS | 1 Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr reiterates 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT our commitment as expressed in BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER our letter of 16 September 2011 This is Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr's (CDH) first Communication on Progress (COP) to support the 10 principles of which describes our firm's efforts to implement the 10 principles. We recognise this COP the Global Compact with respect as a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact. to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. OUR FIRM AND BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY At CDH we believe in partnerships. We have the depth of skills to respond The partnerships we cherish and value to a client's business operations locally and most are those we have forged through anywhere in the world. time and experience with our clients and our people. We strive to provide a meaningful service and advice that produces results. Our We are passionate about our commitment to approach is to give commercial and providing a high degree of client care and pragmatic advice, and enjoy a good rapport relationship management. We make it our with our clients. priority to get to know our clients so we can understand their business and management needs, then act accordingly. In this way, we are able to support the strategic and operational needs of our clients by offering Brent Williams, Chief Executive Officer, high quality legal advice across the full Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc range of legal services tailored to their needs. UN GLOBAL COMPACT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER | 2 CDH has adopted a Corporate 2. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Social Investment Policy, a Pro Bono Policy, and a Human HUMAN RIGHTS STATEMENT ■■ We confirm our commitment to Rights Statement. CDH has also respecting the ten principles of the Our Human Rights Statement reflects the established a Social and Ethics following principles and commitment: United Nations Global Compact. Committee in terms of the ■■ We communicate our commitments as Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008 ■■ We are cognisant of the social context set out in this Human Rights Statement (The Companies Act). within which we operate as a law firm, to our clients, employees and other and we are committed to respecting the stakeholders. rights entrenched in the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, and in Regarding the implementation of the particular the Bill of Rights. Human Rights Statement, all employees are requested to bring matters which fall ■■ We confirm that we support upholding within the mandate of the Social and the rights entrenched in the United Ethics Committee to the attention of the Nations Universal Declaration of members of the Committee. This process Human Rights, the African Charter is further discussed herein with particular on Human and Peoples' Rights, the reference to the establishment and mandate International Covenant on Civil and of the Committee. Our grievance policy Political Rights, the International and procedures also allow employees to Covenant on Economic, Social raise any dissatisfaction with individuals or and Cultural Rights and the core processes. This is discussed further in the conventions of the International Labour section dealing with Labour Principles. Organisation (ILO). UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 3 PRO BONO POLICY Our pro bono policy reflects CDH's commitment to facilitating access to justice for the underprivileged and disadvantaged, providing legal services to vulnerable groups, non-governmental or non-profit organisations and to promoting the Bill of Rights. Pro bono services include the provision of advice, opinions or assistance in matters falling within the professional competence of an attorney to facilitate access to justice for those who cannot afford to pay for legal services. The policy provides that: ■■ The firm has adopted and maintains ■■ All CDH practitioners and staff The firm reports annually on its pro bono a pro bono policy independent of any members within CDH acknowledge legal services to the Law Society of the legislation or regulation requiring that they have a role to play in Northern Provinces and the Cape Law mandatory pro bono work. assisting and supporting the firm in Society. During the past financial year, fulfilling these commitments. the firm donated more than R8 million in ■■ The firm is committed to the pro bono legal services to individuals and involvement of its practitioners and ■■ In 2011 the firm established a Pro Bono worthy causes. In 2012 CDH was given the staff members in pro bono work. and Human Rights department staffed Cheetah Award by the Endangered Wildlife by attorneys who are committed to ■■ All practising members who are less Trust for its pro bono legal services which providing pro bono legal services. than 60 (sixty) years of age perform have made a significant contribution to a minimum of 24 (twenty four) hours achieving their vision of a healthy planet of pro bono services per calendar year. and an equitable world that values and Non-compliance with this obligation is sustains the diversity of all life. considered unprofessional conduct by the law societies. UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT POLICY CDH is committed to discharging its corporate social investment obligations. The policy provides that: The policy describes the role of the Social The firm maintains an annual register of and Ethics Committee with regard to CSI, its charitable giving. Our staff are actively ■■ The firm has adopted and maintains namely that it will: involved with our two core charities namely a corporate social investment (CSI) the Bulelani Creche (Cape Town) and the policy independent of any legislation ■■ Identify those organisations which Come Together Children's Haven (Sebokeng). or regulation requiring mandatory will be assisted through the firm's CSI community service or the like. programme either through donations and/or through practitioners' and staff ■■ The firm is committed to the members' participation. involvement of its practitioners and staff members in community projects ■■ Encourage all practitioners and staff and development. members to participate in community projects and social initiatives. ■■ All CDH practitioners and staff members acknowledge that they have a role to play ■■ In collaboration with the marketing in assisting and supporting the firm in department, facilitate practitioners' fulfilling these commitments. and staff members' participation in, and access to, community and social projects. ■■ Monitor and evaluate practitioners', staff members' and the firm's CSI and commitments. UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 5 SOCIAL AND ETHICS COMMITTEE CDH's Social and Ethics Committee's functions include: ■■ Monitoring CDH activities with regards ■■ The latter would include CDH's: Furthermore, the Social and Ethics to social and economic development Committee is required to bring matters ●● Promotion of equality, prevention of which includes the 10 (ten) principles of within its mandate to the attention of the unfair discrimination and reduction the Global Compact, the Organisation for board as the occasion requires, and to of corruption. Economic Co-operation and Development report through one of its members to the (OECD) recommendations regarding ●● Record of sponsorship, donations shareholders of the company's annual corruption, employment equity, broad and charitable giving. general meeting on those matters which based black economic empowerment and fall within its mandate. CDH's Social and ●● Environmental, health and public good corporate citizenship. Ethics Committee reported accordingly at safety of its services. the meeting of 27 May 2013. Information ●● Consumer relationships and its regarding the Committee, its members compliance in terms of labour and and its mandate has been shared with all employment regulations. employees. Employees were also requested to bring any matters falling within the mandate of the Committee to the attention of the members thereof. UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 6 3. LABOUR PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS ILO Conventions have been adopted by the South African Parliament and subsequently enacted in domestic law. As a firm we are both within the letter of domestic legislation and we further live the spirit of the intent of such legislation. As an example, we are fully compliant with all employment equity related legislation and are firmly focussed on maintaining our industry leader position in equity outcomes, through mechanisms such as our Transformation Committee (Exco level) our Employment Equity (EE) Committee (all levels of employees) and our Transformation Policy. IMPLEMENTATION We have a team of Human Resources (HR) professionals who ensure that the principles of our labour legislation are always upheld. The HR, Management and EE Committee regularly review our labour policies and procedures to ensure that they are aligned to legislation. Our grievance policy and procedures allow employees to raise any dissatisfaction with individuals or processes. We have started training on awareness of sexual harassment, and will roll this out to all staff members within the next few months. We have posters displayed across the firm with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, the Labour Relations Act, the Employment Equity Act, and Occupational Health and Safety provisions in all pause areas, and in a variety of languages. UN GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR PRINCIPLES | 7 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES – EE STATS Internally, we manage labour violations of Unfair Discrimination Act. During the through our disciplinary and grievance last year, we have reviewed and updated procedures. We are pleased to confirm the following labour policies: sexual that the firm has had no disputes in the harassment, whistle blowing, leave, study Commission for Conciliation, Mediation loans and bursaries, disciplinary and and Arbitration since Cliffe Dekker grievance procedures amongst others. CDH Hofmeyr Inc was formed in 2008, or at also reports annually to the Department of the Labour Court. CDH has not had any Labour regarding its employment equity, complaints lodged against it in terms of as well as to the law societies on an the Promotion of Equality and Prevention on-going basis. UN GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR PRINCIPLES | 8 4. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES RELEVANCE OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION FOR CDH The legal sector has a relatively small environmental footprint. However CDH acknowledges that it has a responsibility to ensure its environmental impacts are minimised. The greatest impact we can have on environmental sustainability is using our expertise in providing legal advice to our clients to help them understand and comply with environmental legislation and implement environmentally sound management, so as to respond to the environmental challenges facing the world. CDH'S ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY At CDH we recognise the critical importance natural resources have on economic growth and sustainable development. We continually strive to reduce our environmental impact in all areas of our business and we contribute to projects that support positive environmental outcomes. To achieve this, we are implementing an environmental management system informed by DLA Piper's environmental policy internationally. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 9 We presently focus our commitment to operate IMPLEMENTATION in a responsible way in areas including: Reduction and efficient use of water Reduction, re-use and recycling of waste ■■ Reduction and efficient use of water, and energy We are committed to reducing paper use energy and paper. The design of CDH's Johannesburg Office and recycling paper, plastics and other ■■ Reduction, re-use and recycling ensures the efficient use of water and waste. CDH has appointed an accredited of waste. energy. Solar panels on the roof generate recycling company at its Johannesburg hot water and evaporative cooling in the and Cape Town Offices. As with most law ■■ Creating environmental awareness atrium controls the air temperature. The firms, paper constitutes the bulk of CDH's among staff, clients and business glass used extensively on the Office facades waste stream. During 2012, 21,581kgs partners. is a low e-glass, which emits low levels of of paper was recycled, which equates ■■ Providing pro bono legal support to radiant energy. The top basement levels are to a saving of 220 trees and 583,990 litres non-profit organisations (NPOs) and designed to allow for natural ventilation and of water for the equivalent amount to non-governmental organisations (NGOs) the Office windows are designed to allow as produce 'new' paper. and working with companies and local much light in as possible. Double-glazing on vision panels and roof insulation allows for An employee of the recycling company communities to implement projects the conservation of natural energy. is based permanently at the Johannesburg aimed at fostering environmental Office to separate waste streams for recycling sustainability. Electrical energy consumption is reduced at purposes. In addition, recycling boxes are ■■ Furnishing environmental legal the Johannesburg Office through movement present in prominent positions in both the services to clients. sensors and timers for lighting systems and Cape Town and Johannesburg Offices. the installation of new energy efficient PCs and laptops. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 10 PROVIDING PRO BONO LEGAL SUPPORT TO NPOS AND NGOS AND WORKING WITH COMPANIES AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES TO IMPLEMENT PROJECTS AIMED AT FOSTERING ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Delta Environmental Centre Clean-up campaign United Nations Millennium Development Our Pro Bono and Human Rights practice in Alexandra Goals. Alexandra was chosen for this is working with the Delta Environmental Young Minds is an association of CDH's upliftment initiative as it is characterised Centre (a private NPO) to find sustainable junior professionals that seek, amongst by extreme poverty and unemployment. solutions to the Centre's legal needs. other activities, to advance CDH's corporate The overall goal of Young Minds is to The Centre provides training and education social responsibility objectives. The make a positive impact in Alexandra programmes that promote the sustainable professionals are collaborating with two and encourage the residents to sustain the use and management of resources to enable community based NPOs Junior Chamber clean-up activities. people to improve the quality of their International Sandton (JCI Sandton) environment. and the Greater Alexandra Chamber of Rhino Action Group Effort Commerce and Industries (Galxcoc) who The rhino poaching epidemic in South Africa Endangered Wildlife Trust have launched a clean-up campaign in is presently regarded as an environmental In 2012 CDH was given the Cheetah Award Alexandra, Johannesburg. The campaign crisis. The Rhino Action Group Effort by the Endangered Wildlife Trust for its pro has identified various streets within (RAGE) is an organisation set up to assist in bono legal services. Alexandra that need improvement. On 29 the fight against illegal rhino poaching. CDH June 2013 Young Minds together with the has donated R200 000 to this organisation, two NPOs will clean the allocated streets as part of its commitment to environmental in Alexandra and thereby further promote protection. a clean environment that is aligned with the UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 11 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AMONG STAFF, CLIENTS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS CDH has recently implemented an environmental awareness campaign. Weekly environmental friendly tips are posted on CDH's intranet. Regular environmental seminars are planned, to create awareness amongst employees on challenges facing the environment and steps that can be taken to reduce environmental impacts. The Environmental Law practice regularly provides seminars to other departments, candidate attorneys and clients on various aspects of environmental law. It also frequently publishes articles on developments in environmental law and environmental rights in Africa, aimed at increasing awareness amongst its clients and the general public. FURNISHING ENVIRONMENTAL LEGAL SERVICES TO CLIENTS CDH represents several clients with significant environmental impacts due to the nature of their operations, such as mining, industry and coal power generation. Through our Environmental Law practice we advise our clients on all environmental aspects of their business, from climate change, carbon trading and regulation to environmental compliance and strategic environmental planning. In conjunction with our Projects and Infrastructure and Energy practice, it is also currently acting for over half of the project bidders or lenders for South Africa's multi-billion dollar independent Power Producer Procurement Programme. On completion it is expected to be the leading renewable energy programme in the world and aims to generate 42% of all new electricity from renewable energy sources in the next 20 years using solar, wind, hydro, biomass and biogas projects. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 12 TRAVEL Our virtual meeting technology, installed in both our Cape Town and Johannesburg Offices provides an effective alternative to travel and is increasingly used. ASSESSMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT AND IMPACT OF CDH To integrate principles 7, 8 and 9 into ■■ CDH's 'per capita' footprint of is responsible for 1,891tCo2eq or our strategies and operations means 9.6tCO2eq /fte is just above the South 11.46tCO2eq /fte. This could be due not understanding and managing our own African average of 9.5tCO2eq1. only to the fact that the Sandton Office is environmental impact. Due to CDH's However the SA average has been a 'green' building but that the Cape Town commitment to reduce its environmental increasing steadily over the last few Office seems to be energy inefficient. impact and conduct its business in a years (an increase of 45% since ■■ Air travel comprises the second responsible manner it instructed an 1992). CDH's per capita emissions highest portion with 37% or 2133 tons independent expert, Carbon Neutral are higher than the World average of CO2eq. This is disproportionally Group to compile a carbon footprint of its (4.6tCo2eq) and the European average high. Usually for service companies operations. The carbon footprint is attached. (7.2tCO3eq). (including SA law firms) this is 15 The footprint concluded the following: ■■ Electricity use comprises the largest – 25% of footprint. ■■ CDH was responsible for generating portion of the footprint with 54% or ■■ Car travel (commuting) is the third 5,694.3 tons of CO2eq during 3068.7tons. The electricity use between highest position with 6% or 323.3 tons 2012/2013. The emissions per employee the two Offices is highly uneven: of CO2eq. are 9.6 tons. Sandton generated 1,163tCO2eq, or 2.73tCO2eq /fte and Cape Town UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 13 Goals CDH is further committed to further Through the carbon footprint's outcome reducing our environmental impact in the and data accumulated on our waste stream, three key areas identified in the carbon we have a measurable baseline to set footprint namely: energy, air travel and annual targets and objectives, enabling us car travel. to accurately track and report our progress and determine if our strategies are effective. It will consider the recommendations Management will bi-annually assess the provided by Carbon Neutral Group and effectiveness of strategies that have been develop an appropriate strategy to reduce its implemented and whether they successfully carbon footprint and environmental impacts reduce the negative impact in the three arising from its operations. key areas. Monitoring CDH's Social and Ethics Committee has an environmental representative, who is a Director in the Environmental Law practice. The representative reports back on the extent and effectiveness of environmental strategies within the firm and presents proposals on further reduction/ mitigation strategies to reduce CDH's environmental impact. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 14 As a large business law firm, 5. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr functions Various local laws provide a framework for anti-corruption enforcement in South Africa within a framework of high legal, including, for example, the following legislation: professional and ethical standards. As such, the firm is committed ■■ Prevention of Organized Crime Act, In addition, companies are required to the fight against corruption 1998 to adopt the OECD Recommendations on Combating Bribery, Bribe Solicitation and bribery. ■■ Protected Disclosures Act, 2000 and Extortion, 2011. ■■ Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 This legislation has a significant impact on ■■ Prevention and Combating of Corrupt the way we conduct business and interact Activities Act, 2004 with our clients. We take our obligations in ■■ Protection of Constitutional Democracy this regard seriously. against Terrorist and Related Activities Act, 2004 ■■ Companies Act, 2008 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES | 15 COMPLIANCE The Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (FICA) and the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Act, 2008, are geared towards combatting money laundering. The firm, as a registered accountable institution under FICA introduced comprehensive policies and procedures in order to comply with our obligations in respect of: verifying the identity of clients, keeping records of business relationships and transactions and reporting cash transactions as well as suspicious transactions to the Financial Intelligence Centre. We have comprehensive internal rules in this regard, which are made available to all employees as part of compulsory training on our FICA policies and procedures. In addition to local obligations, foreign ■■ Awareness raising as well as additional legislation such as the US Foreign Corrupt training and information sessions on the Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, firm's bribery prevention policies and 2010 as well as international treaties and procedures for all employees; conventions (i.e. the UN Convention ■■ Focussed anti-bribery and anti-corruption against Corruption and the African Union training as part of formal career Convention Against Corruption) will impact academies for professionals; the firm and its clients. We are in the process of formalising our anti-corruption and ■■ Training sessions and seminars for anti-bribery programme which includes, clients of the firm. for example: ■■ A policy of zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion; ■■ Assessment of the bribery and corruption risk; UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES | 16 REGULATION Ethical conduct remains a cornerstone of the legal profession and a fundamental part of Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr's culture. In terms of the Attorneys Act, 1979, our attorneys are registered with the relevant provincial law societies where they practice and comply with the rules in regard to professional conduct and ethics. TRAINING As part of the firm's in-house training programme, newly appointed candidate attorneys are required, in preparation for their admission examinations, to attend various training sessions on professional conduct and ethics, which includes, for example, a discussion of risk management, fraud, bribery and corruption as well as attorney-client privilege. As part of the new practice management course for new directors which has been introduced by the Law Society of South Africa, new directors attend in-house training sessions on professional conduct, ethics and risk management. OTHER INITIATIVES AND POLICIES Other initiatives and policies include, for example: client conflict checks, billing procedures and charging guidelines, tender and business development guidelines, a disclosure policy and a gifts and benefits policy. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES | 17
