Chairman´s Report to Stakeholders 2013 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com Table of content page 1. Chairman´s Report to Stakeholders 2013 page 2. Table of content page 3. Chairman´s Statement for continued support page 4. Chairman´s Statement for continued support (2) page 5. Chairman´s Statement for continued support (3) page 6. Human Rights Aspects page 7. Labour Standards page 8. Environmental Aspects page 9. Anti-Corruptional Aspects page 10. FAI – A Global Employer page 11. FAI´s Service – Revenues 2012 by Division page 12. FAI´s Ambulance Division page 13. Performance Specifications page 14. Patient Transport in Distances (2012) page 15. FAI´s Public Services page 16. FAI´s Revenue 2009 – 2013 by Type of Service (Graphic) page 17. FAI´s Stakeholders 2 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com Chairman´s statement continued support After having operated out of our new Hangar Facilities at Nuremberg International Airport successfully for over two years we need to enlarge our Hangar capacities for another 3000 m². Therefore we are deeply grateful to all our clientele, business partners and our employees for all their advise and assistance. Having had this support from every one of us we were able to do grand strides towards future which means setting new, huge milestones. We are grateful to work in a pleasant, comfortable and high-class atmosphere which endeavors us to an effective working. We are proud having accomplished with our implementation of renewable energy technology with a 100 kwp roof top solar power plant, the securing of our daily operations and ensuring of a carbon-neutral ground operation. We could not only preserve jobs, but again increase our staff about approx. 40 % up to 157 employees being a recognized entrepreneur on local employment market as well as in Aviation internal structure. Since last year we also started to train technical and administrative apprentices in order to fulfill our commitment to hand down our specific know how to the next generation. 3 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com Chairman´s statement continued support (2) Retrospect of FAI‘s Cherity Project of Clinic „Médina Chérif“ in Kolda, Senegal: 20,000 residents living in 60 villages round Médina Chérif in Senegal sigh with relief since 2010 if they are in need of medical aid. Since then we are supporting together with UNESCO this project under the locally supervision by the Austrian ReliefOrganization Hope ´87. The Clinic was increased emphasising first medical care for pregnant women but of course also other medical care takes place. In one year we had 1.140 first medical care for pregnant women, 106 nativities, 1.155 malaria treatments, 876 diarrhea treatments, 949 treatments against pulmonary infection, 262 measles treatments, 262 yellow fever treatments, 276 tuberculosis treatments, 1140 tetanus vaccinations and 6.135 polio vaccinations. For many years we put ourselves out for social projects but this was one of our most important ones so far. 4 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com Chairman´s statement continued support (3) Over the intervening years we attend to Global Compact´s Initiative, there is continouos advancement which affects notably and sustainable our business. We recognize and demonstrate our committment to the 10 principles as we pursue imploringly the concepts since we joined the Global Compact in year 2005. Siegfried Axtmann Chairman 5 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com Human Rights Aspects To respect the dignity of each human being, to Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the respect human rights and to create the rule of protection of internationally proclaimed law within the company, are not only basic ethical human rights and precepts, but also conditions for sustained political stability and economic and social development in Principle 2 the world. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. This principle is very important for us. With continuing globalization gains that task more and more practical relevance, it becomes clear that the protection of fundamental freedom, respect to the rule of procedure, the political and social equality are the basis of state stability in the interest of multinational corporations and therefore in our interest. 6 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com Labour Standards For our colleagues we Principle 3 want the best so we put Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition much emphasise on light of the right to collective bargaining. suffused workplaces and lounges to recreate, what has been successfully Principle 4 implemented in our Green Hangar. The elemination of all forms of forced and Compulsory labour. For the prosperity of our personnel we provide work clothes for all weather-situations, to prevent Principle 5 diseases we offer vaccinations for everybody voluntarily The effective abolition of child labour. and free of charge. Pregnant women have the posibiltiy to recreate in their own relax zone with all privacy. Principle 6 To offer a maximum contribution to a balanced The elimination of discrimination in respect nutrition we work together with a local partner who of employment and occupation. offers a considerable choice of hot meals, most of them base on biological food. 7 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com Environmental Aspects Exclusively on all our desks monitors LED backPrinciple 7 Businesses should support a precautionary ground illumination conserves energy up approach to environmental challenges. to 37.2 kilowatt hours and additional reduces CO₂ Emission of about 23.6 kg. Principle 8 The implementation of virtual servers enables an Undertake initiatives to promote greater exploitation of existing resources at a environmental responsibility. Minimum application of hardware. Principle 9 We are always mindful in being delivered with Encourage the development and diffusion packaging material consisting of a minimum of 80 % of environmentally friendly technologies. corrugated paper what results in another reduce of CO₂ emission consequently. All email signatures wear the writing “Help protect the environment. Print less.” and our staff is directed to work in a paperless office. 8 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com Anti-Corruptional Aspects Corruption is inherently wrong. It is a misuse of Principle 10 power and position and has a disproportionate Businesses should work against all forms impact on the poor and disadvantaged. of corruption, including extortion and We fight against corruption in all its forms bribery. One of the important thing for us to do. One of our major goals is to fight against all forms of corruption. Based on our experience for many years, it always has been our endeavour to meet high ethical standards as we are not willing to take any risks – neither legal nor reputational. 9 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com FAI – a Global Employer FAI rent-a-jet is operating globally for more than 25 years, employing now more than 150 people from almost 30 different countries. ALGERIA AUSTRIA BELGIUM BOSNIA CAMEROON CANADA CZECH REP. DENMARK FRANCE GERMANY GREECE HUNGARY ITALY KENYA NAMIBIA NETHERLANDS NIGERIA ROMANIA RUSSIA SERBIA SPAIN SWEDEN SWITZERLAND TURKEY UNITED KINDOM USA 10 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com FAI´s service – Revenues 2012 by Division One Company 3 Powerful Divisions 40 % Air Ambulance worldwide 10 % Aircraft Maintenance and related services 20 % Public Service 30% Executive Jet Charter and Aircraft Management In the year of 2012 FAI´s consolidated revenues were exceeding € 62 m (US$ 79,5 m) which reflects an increase of more than 11 % versus 2011. For the fiscal year 2013 FAI estimates consolidated revenues of € 68 m, what again would reflect an increase of around 10 % versus 2012. 11 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com FAI´s Ambulance Division FAI has been intensively focusing on the Ambulance Market since 2001 and meanwhile is generating 45 % of its revenues with Ambulance Missions. With its own in house Medical Department and 35 Flying Doctors“ and 25 Flight Nurses“, FAI has been awarded 2007 the first time with EURAMI´s (European Aero-Medical Institute) Certificate Critical Care“, which is the highest certification EURAMI is issuing to Air Ambulance Operators. Recertification – Audit was passed in June 2010, new Recertification – Audit scheduled and confirmed for July 2013. In November 2012 FAI rent-a-jet AG was awarded the prestigious prize in the Air Ambulance Provider of the Year category, bestowed annually by the International Travel Insurance Journal , the communications vehicle for the worldwide travel insurance industry. FAI was thus recognized for its quality focus and its forward looking overall business concept. 12 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com Performance Specifications Special Equipment for medical Flexible operation transportation for time-critical missions (e. g. wing(e. g. IABP, PECLA, to-wing missions) Incubator and so on) State-of-the-art equipment for intensive-caremedicine Counselling and support in aviation medicine Organization of Worldwide service Bed-to-bed service ground ambulances – even in war risk and helicopterworldwide areas transportation 13 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com Patient Transport in Distances (2012) S Short Range (up to 700 NM = 1440 km M Medium Range (up to 1200 NM = 2160 km) L Long Range (up to 1700 NM = 2880 km) XL Extra Long Range (up to 3000 NM = 5400 km) XXL Ultra Long Range (more than 3000 NM > 5400 km) 14 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com FAI´s Public Services • Support of UN Peace Keeping Missions since 2004 • Up to five UN-Missions on the African Continent same time • Spectrum of duties: – Medevac – Safety Evactuations – Liaison Missions / VIP-Transport – Staff and Equipment Transport – Casevac 15 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com FAI´s Revenue 2009 2013 by Type of Service (Graphic) Mio € 25 20 15 10 5 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* F/W Ambulance F/W Non-Ambulance incl. A/C-Mgmt. F/W Public Services Others * Forecast 16 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com FAI´s Stakeholders as per January 1, 2013 In December 2008 the Axtmann-Family sold a 49,9 % stake in FAI to MIG Aviation Holdings Ltd., Nicosia, Cyprus, a 100 % subsidiary of MIG Marfin Investment Group S. A., Athens, Greece, which is the biggest Greek Investment Group and one of the largest of Eastern Europe. MIG numbers in excess of 50,000 employees and associates and has a presence spanning over 40 countries. MIG is headquartered in Greece and listed on the Athens Exchange. 58 % of its share capital is held directly or indirectly by Greek strategic, institutional and retail investors and 24 % is held by international institutional investors. In June 2010, MIG rised its interest to 51 %, after exercising a call-option. 17 www.rent-a-jet.de www.flightambulance.com
