Communication on progress GLOBAL COMPACT IDEALEC S.A.S Rue Claude Chappe 25300 PONTARLIER +33(0)3-81-46-99-00 +33(0)3-81-46-99-58 Contents Introduction Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Introduction I am pleased to confirm that IDEALEC reaffirms its support of the ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact in the areas described in the content. Communication on Progress is based on our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information using our website. Yours sincerely, Fabrice VITAL DURAND HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Idealec ‘s goal is to engage its employees and all business partners to respect and join the Global Compact principles relative to human rights protection. We publish on our website a code of conduct as well as our Sustainable Development Charter to make our engagement clear to all of our partners. Furthermore, a yearly external authority monitors the application of the Human Rights. A suggestion box has been implemented to receive all the employees issues included human right and environmental matters. Suggestions will be reviewed by the staff on a monthly basis and the selected ones implemented. Our vision and values Our sustainable charter CHARTE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DURABLE Le développement durable est une valeur essentielle pour Idéalec. C’est pour cette raison qu’en 2012, Idéalec adhère au Pacte Mondial des Nations Unies qui invite les entreprises à adopter, soutenir et appliquer un ensemble de valeurs fondamentales dans les domaines des droits de l’hommes, des normes de travail, de l’environnement et de lutte contre la corruption. Les objectifs d’Idéalec sont plus particulièrement les suivants : Respecter la personne humaine et les libertés de chacun, le droit du travail, notamment en développant, valorisant et reconnaissant les compétences des salariés, en éliminant la discrimination en matière d’emploi, Limiter et valoriser les déchets, Utiliser des produits et matériaux les moins dangereux pour l’homme et pour l’environnement. Idéalec confirme ainsi les valeurs qui sont les siennes, et demande à l’ensemble des salariés d’y contribuer, et engage ses fournisseurs à y adhérer. Pour de plus amples informations, se référer aux 10 principes du Pacte Mondial sur www.unglobalcompact.org LABOUR Our company handbook and policies states the right for collective bargaining. Our handbook covers policies concerning our employee rights and responsibilities. We have appointed an expert to improve our practices for health and safety at work and environment protection. IDEALEC has created a Supplier Charter which encompasses the requirements and principles of the Global Compact Initiative. This charter has been communicated to our supplier, for implementation. A safety comity is being held every quarter in order to improve safety at work. An employees and union representatives meet with the management every month to review the company situation and negotiate improvements in working rekationship. All employees are entitled to medical insurance. Lost days after working injuries have been reduced of 81% between 2011 and 2012. IDEALEC has a 100% compliance on approved working contracts. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES IDEALEC has with a limited impact on environment (assembly of components). In 2012, we have invested in new equipments to reduce waste in raw material by 5% . We have negotiated a new contract for the supply of electricity to increase the share of Electricity produced from renewable energies from 21% to 50%. Products regulation is monitored by dedicated employees and IDEALEC engages itself and its suppliers to respect all the regulation included REACH and ROHS requirements. In 2012 we have reduced the quantity of dangerous waste 37%. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES IDEALEC is in compliance with all relevant laws including anti-corruption laws. IDEALEC pushes its suppliers to act against the corruption in the Supplier charter. Our aim is to implement an ethic charter in 2013 and to communicate it to our business partners.
