Communication on Progress 2013 Statement of Continued Support R R Kabel Ltd. is committed to align its operations and strategies with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Program. The company considers human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption as significant and key areas for long term sustenance and progress. During the last year we have had an active involvement of our employees in several initiatives related to community welfare, environment preservation and promotion of integrity and ethics. We are a proud recipient of a very important certification on Energy Management System certification; namely ISO 50001:2011. This reflects our concern for environmental issues. We continue to support the Global Compact by following the ten principles in letter and spirit. In every activity – manufacturing, non-manufacturing, employee and social welfare, we will continually evolve strategies which accentuate the commitment to each of the ten principles. Mahendra Kabra Executive Director 1st October 2013 Communication on Progress 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right Action Area Current Position Measureable Outcome Compliance with local and  Company maintains a legal register which Twelve training programs were held international law states the requirements in respect of Human covering all the staff of the Rights company.  Company educates the staff on the requirements regularly Addressing consumer concerns  Company welcomes customers to carry out One customer carried out a sustainability audits sustainability audit during the year. No adverse findings were found. Supply chain management  Company is fully aware of the potential Two supplier audits were carried out human rights issues upstream and where a check on human rights was downstream. It is committed to select included. business partners who promote the best practices in human rights Increasing worker productivity and  Workers are treated with utmost respect and The attrition rate has fallen down retention are given fair and just wages. from 6% to 4%. Worker participation in company organized events has increased two fold. Building good community relationships  Community welfare projects are taken up. A free medical checkup camp was organized on 5th May 2013. More than 800 beneficiaries from the neighboring areas. Learning from others  Company regularly looks at the best practices Concepts like ethical purchasing has and learns from them. been picked from Starbucks Coffee. Communication on Progress 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Action Area Current Position Measureable Outcome Understand and appreciate the Company has educated its staff on the concept of Company has framed polices to concept of ‘Complicity; ‘complicity’ and its form provide for equal opportunities, fair and just wages, non-discrimination based on caste, colour, creed, gender. Avoid direct/ beneficial/silent Company adopts a proactive approach in matter of There has been no case where complicity human rights. It recognizes complicity in subtle forms there is an abuse on any kind of and avoids it. complicity. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Action Area Current Position Measureable Outcome Freedom of association  The company does not have any union. All There have been no disputes of any welfare issues related to workers are dealt kind. through committees. Company has received and  Workers are free to discuss issues related to rewarded more than 100 work. suggestions.  Company encourages suggestions from workers and has a unique scheme to monetarily reward the workers for their suggestions. Collective bargaining  Workers welfare committee is responsible for taking up issues related to workers Communication on Progress 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Action Area Current Position Measureable Outcome Forced and compulsory  Company in no way or form engages forced Zero forced and compulsory labour labour and compulsory labour.  No deposits (passport/ financial deposits / certificates) are taken at the time of recruitment.  No penalties are levied at the time of worker leaving the company.  Forced and compulsory labour is against the national law and importantly against the ethics of the company. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Action Area Current Position Measureable Outcome Prohibition of child labour  The recruitment policy requires verification of Zero child labour age as a pre-requisite. No one under the age of 18 years is ever interviewed; needless to say recruited.  As far as child labour is concerned, the company does not define work as light or regular. It just does not recruit anyone who is under 18 years of age. Communication on Progress 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Action Area Current Position Measureable Outcome Discrimination  Company has a policy on non-discrimination Zero case of nondiscrimination. which professes nondiscrimination of any kind; viz. race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, social origin.  Employees are selected on the basis of their ability to do the job and there is no distinction – exclusion or preference on such grounds  Company promotes skill development training to all its employees. Communication on Progress 2013 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Action Area Current Position Measureable Outcome Precautionary approach  Company has a positive commitment to There is a significant decline in safeguard the environment. It updates the scrap generation. significant aspects and impacts. There is involvement at all levels in  There is emphasis on 3R – Reduce, Recycle activities like tree plantation, World and Reuse. Environment Day Quiz.  Scrap generation is monitored regularly and it shows a positive trend.  Tree plantation is carried out to make a green belt in the manufacturing area.  The company is ISO 14001:2004 certified.  World environment day is celebrated every year on 5th June; creating awareness and involvement. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Action Area Current Position Measureable Outcome Environmentally responsible approach  Company believes in the principles of The material and energy usage has sustainability. been optimized during the year.  It takes proactive measures to minimize the environmental impact because of its operations.  Using resources optimally (energy and materials) has been prime guiding force.  Company has achieved ISO 50001:2011, the first cable manufacturing company in India to do so. Communication on Progress 2013 ENVIRONMENT Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Action Area Current Position Measureable Outcome Environmentally friendly technology  Company falls under GREEN category. It has The environmental performance has zero emission. The waste water is treated improved as is reflected from the and recycled. The process scrap generated is reduction in use of resources. recyclable.  Company is constantly striving for better performance on conservation of resources by optimizing the consumptions.  Products manufactured are RoHS and REACH complaint. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. . Action Area Current Position Measureable Outcome Anti-corruption  Company believes that corruption is ‘wrong No case has been reported for doing’ extortion, bribery or forgery.  Company has an Integrity Policy which promotes ethical behavior of all the employees.  Company has a policy which prohibits taking gifts of any kind.  Company does not encourage bribes of any kind
