Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer Period covered From 01/01-2013 to 31/12-2013 To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Jyden workwear A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During 2013, we have been in regular dialogue with our suppliers and our own staff communicating Jyden’s principles covering both social and environmental aspects of our operations. We started a co-operation with the Danish embassy in Bangladesh so that we can both communicate and monitor our supplier in that country regarding our requirements based on Global Compact principles. We have in 2013 successfully applied and renewed a licence for the European Ecolabel the “Flower” that is an integral part of our operations. In the coming year we will continue to work with our supply chain and encourage our suppliers to support and join Global Compact as well as the European Ecolabel. We will also continue our cooperation with the Danish embassy in Bangladesh. Jyden’s operations locally are administrative, storage and distribution and we are continuously working with improving social and environmental issues. Sincerely yours Ole Sørensen Adm. Director Human Rights and Labour Assessment, policy and goals Our policy is that Jyden and all its suppliers and sub-suppliers must comply with the universal declaration of human rights and labour issues as required in our code of conduct All suppliers are informed of Jyden’s code of conduct and the requirements relating to human rights and labour. We assess the situation continuously through close dialogue with our staff and our suppliers. Implementation We have procedures in place to evaluate, monitor and follow-up the situation regarding human rights and labour both locally and with our suppliers. This work is made through: • Various types of documentation. Our own questionnaire, credible international certification systems, other certificates that show compliance with the local laws. • Locally we prepare and an annual working environment evaluation and submit a compulsory report (APV) to the Labour inspectorate every 3 years. The yearly evaluation points out areas that need to be upgraded and or changed and we make a plan of how to act upon these. • Regular visits. We visit our suppliers regularly and inspect the facilities. We then talk to them about the possibilities of improving certain areas and how it could be done. • Cooperation with credible local stakeholders. We have started a cooperation with the Danish Embassy in Bangladesh and the Embassy is working closely with our supplier and helping them to understand the requirements and to implement various actions so that they not only comply with the requirements but to influence them to go beyond these requirements . Building safety and labour conditions have been the first 2 areas that we are working with. Measurement of outcomes Our evaluation has shown that almost all our suppliers and sub suppliers uphold or go beyond the country’s labour legislation. It also showed that our supplier in Bangladesh was struggling in understanding the requirements and how to make necessary changes. Recommendations have been made regarding safety measures such as fire fighting equipment, railing on stair cases etc. This facility now is well on the way in putting order in their safety, working conditions and rights of workers. Internally, our workers are encouraged to discuss any work conditions topics at regular meetings and at the yearly evaluation. Their input results in changes such as ………… Environment Assessment, policy and goals Jydens aim has always been to reduce the environmental impacts caused during the production of their products from the raw materials to the end of the products life and as such our objective is to have all our products certified by the EU Ecolabel. Internally, our goal is to reduce energy use and waste throughout our operations. Assessment is carried out both through our environmental requirements, the EU Ecolabeland through a mapping of our energy and waste situation. Implementation We use the same procedure as above in carrying out environmental work. We map and document the environmental performance of our products, we also visit our suppliers periodically to assess the conditions first hand, we cooperate with local stakeholders to help suppliers when needed and we engage in close dialogue with our suppliers about the benefits of the EU Ecolabel. We are continuously monitoring the market for better energy, transport and waste solutions. Measurement of outcomes Jyden has successfully applied and renewed their EU Ecolabel licence. Energy?, Waste? Transport? Most of our suppliers hold an EU Ecolabel licence. Anti – Corruption Assessment, policy and goals We do not cooperate with suppliers that break the corruption principles. Jyden adheres to the anti corruption principles and is kept up to date with developments through the CSR network participation and newsletters. Implementation Employees and suppliers are informed of the importance of Jyden’s stand on anti corruption. Moreover all of Jyden’s activities are completely transparent which reduces the element of corruption greatly. Measurement of outcomes Our evaluation has shown that our suppliers and sub suppliers uphold anti corruption principles.
