COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 NMT celebrates its fourth year of participation to Global Compact initiative. Throughout the last two years we have made great effort to develop a culture of corporate responsibility among our stakeholders. I am pleased to confirm that NMT supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. With this statement, we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment – to our employees, partners, clients and to the public. Our workforce of young professionals remains our biggest asset and their personal safety and wellbeing is of paramount importance. Our focus continues to be to provide a safe and healthy work environment to our associates and continuously engage with them to make them aware of safety measures at work and on the road. Our objective is to make safety an organizational culture. One highlight of the year has been the tremendous success of our Carbon offset program. We strengthened our commitment to environmental improvement as a subscriber to the climate volunteers through active contributions to the launch of the Carbon offset certificate initiative. We calculated our carbon footprint in this year and offset our carbon footprint by purchasing high quality Gold Standard carbon credits. Finally, I am proud to announce that NMT has become the first company in consultancy sector in Turkey to get carbon-offset certificate. On behalf of NMT team I wish 2014 will be a more rewarding and peaceful year for the world and I proudly declare NMT’s support and commitment to global compact principles will continuously increase in the upcoming year. Didem Esen Managing Director-CMC NMT Consultancy and Training Center NMT Consultancy and Training Center had been founded in 1996 in order to maintain direct and tangible management solutions for small and medium sized enterprises in manufacturing industry. During this initial period, NMT’s consultants have serviced over 100 companies and directly supported their clients’ in developing their industrial capabilities. In 1998, NMT Consultancy becomes the member of association of management consultants (YDD). In 1998, on demand of its clients NMT Human Resources group had been established to support clients in their search and selection processes. In 1999, NMT Training Center had been established so as to provide professional training programs on quality management. In 2000, NMT had been added into the UNIDO database. In 2001, NMT started its institutionalization projects for family owned businesses. In 2002, NMT undertook the consultancy project of EU Business Centers in Turkey. In 2004, NMT Training Group developed various new programs in strategic management, business continuity management and personal development. In 2005, NMT divided its activities into two corporate bodies as NMT Consultancy and Training Center and NMT Human Resources. In 2007, NMT adopted the vision of internationalization and thus NMT Human Resources signed the partnership contract with Feige Business Advisors GmbH. In 2010, NMT was certified consulting company from TURQUALITY. In 2011, widening the scope of TURQUALITY, require the approval of the CMC Consultants. In 2011, NMT celebrates its 15th anniversary. In 2013, NMT was the first company in consultancy sector, which has carbon offset certificate. In 2013, NMT require the approval of an accredited consultant from EBRD (European Bank for Reconstruction and Development) NMT’S COMMITTMENTS  Provide High Quality Services  Respect Confidentiality of Clients’ Information  Impartiality and Independence  Promote the Ultimate Interest of the Clients  Maintain Sustainability and Good Governance Practices  Maintain Measures Against Anti-Discrimination and Respect To Human Rights  Protect and Promote Environmental Friendly Solutions In All Processes NMT’S VISION Become an internationally recognized institution that transforms the concept of “quality” into a way of life. NMT’S MISSION Continuously and apparently improve the value that we add to our clients’ organizations, to our employees, to the society and environment by means of our efficiency, honesty and dynamism. NMT’S VALUES AND PRINCIPLES Honesty NMT embraces the principle of honesty and mutual trust in all dimensions of its operations. NMT believes that developing realistic and sincere solutions that would best fit to its clients’ corporate culture and industrial position is the utmost way of value creation. Innovation NMT Team is dedicated to develop original solutions instead of duplication. By developing tailor-made solutions we are trying to frame up the future. The Value of “One” NMT Team is aware of the fact that unless we hear the voice of an individual, we will not be able to hear the voice of the group. Continuous Development NMT Team’s major concentration is to keep on developing services and do our job better than yesterday. By promoting a culture of continuous development among the agents and organizations in our sphere of influence we believe to develop a culture of continuous quality. CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS KALDERTurkish Quality Association NMT, as a company which contains the idea of quality in its founding principle, is the member of Kalder and joined various occasions concerning process and quality management PERYONTurkey Personnel Management Association NMT becomes the member in 2010 and NMT Consultants participated to the national occupational standards project team for recruitment job group YDDTurkish Association of Management Consultants NMT is the member of this organization since 1998 and Mrs. Didem Esen became Certified Management Consultant in 2009 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS IN 2013 NMT Consultancy and Training Center has donated to TEGV for two child's annual expenditure on education. NMT’S ACTIONS FOR GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN 2013 WE WERE THE FIRST COMPANY IN CONSULTANCY SECTOR TO GET CARBON OFFSET CERTIFICATE NMT Consulting and Training Centre as an indicator of sensitivity We believe that every step to the environment and to raise awareness among our stakeholders we take, would have a we calculated our carbon footprint for the year 2011. Our on going positive impact on climate work with our continued efforts to reduce our energy consumption change; for example in 2011 we offset our carbon footprint by purchasing high quaility changing our consumption Gold Standard carbon credits. patterns reduce energy consumption, preferring public transport. But these changes will take time. Besides all these measures to make a difference in the shorter term after calculating the carbon footprint another step is to purchase the same amount of carbon credits from renewable energy sources to support these projects financially and reset your greenhouse emissions from your activities. CLIMATE CHANGE AND TO BE CARBON NEUTRAL Carbon neutral literally means offsetting the greenhouse gases emitted to the atmosphere as a result of any activity undertaken by a person or entity meaning to have a net “0” emissions by purchasing the exact amount of carbon credits from carbon prevent/reduce carbon emissions. To generate carbon credits, these projects are undergoing serious international certification processes. This is one of the most respected certifications and to pass the certification process the project should take into consideration the other two major elements of sustainable development; economic and social impacts as well as the environmental impact like benefit of the local community, employment opportunities of the project. There are many wind, landfill gas and energy efficiency projects that completed Gold Standard processes successfully. Rapid population growth, urbanization, the growing need for energy increases each passing day. It is important to replace fossil fuels with sustainable sources and find new technologies instead of sources that will be scarce in the near future. For this reason we can support renewable energy sources like wind, solar, biogas, biomass, landfill gas storage and similar renewable sources to make these investments more attractive for investors. Supporting renewable energy will reduce the consumption of fossil fuels most of which are imported as well as decreasing the carbon footprint. NMT’S ACTIONS FOR GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN 2013 In the first two years of our membership, we tried to improve NMT teams’ general level of awareness on global compact principles. Simultaneously we aim to internalize and adopt common values in our daily business operations and corporate principles. Within NMT we have established issue-oriented work groups among the employees. These employees are acting as informative agents for their colleagues on the issues of environment and human rights. Throughout 2012 these groups kept on realizing regular meetings and this year we have observed a considerable increase in employees contributions to these meetings. By this way, a culture of democracy is also developing as well as mutual understanding of differences between people is also flourishing HUMAN RIGHTS NMT supports and protects internationally proclaimed principles of human rights and works to eliminate actions or practices that might give way to human rights abuses from its business practices. NMT respects human rights. In the previous three years NMT focused on eliminating practices, which might give way to human right abuses. For this, NMT Human Rights Awareness Group had been established with the participation of three consultants in 2012. This group has two roles. Firstly, they are responsible for raising employees’ general level of awareness on human rights issues. Secondly, they would review all internal business processes of NMT. That group has kept working on among human right abuses in 2013. As a result of their efforts, recruitment process had been reviewed and format of vacancy advertisements and application forms had been revised. Recruiters also trained about human rights issues. Human rights principles had been incorporated into human resources manual of NMT. A brief presentation on “Human Rights and Business” had been added into the corporate orientation program. At the beginning employees were quite reluctant about contributing to the meetings. However, we have observed that every year their contributions to these meetings are increasing slowly. Last year on the basis of our employees’ demands we celebrated the human rights day. Against all global human rights abuses, we decided to celebrate it every year. By placing posters in our office places and on our website, we manage to develop a considerable degree of awareness among our stakeholders. Table 1.0 NMT’S GLOBAL COMMITTMENT COMPACT RESULTS AND ACTIONS PRINCIPLES TAKEN Businesses should *NMT Human Rights *Total degree of support and respect Awareness Group awareness on human the protection of organized quarterly rights issues developed internationally meetings among the NMT Team. proclaimed human rights *Continuous feedbacks *General level of on best practices are awareness about the given in regular relationship between meetings human rights and business life started to * NMT will celebrate increase among our Businesses make sure Human Rights Day on 10 clients and suppliers. that they are not December 2013 third complicit in human time. *NMT employees are rights abuses planning to place a poster in the office entrance to inform the visitors and a special message will be broadcasted on corporate web page. LABOR NMT declares its adherence to the principles of freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. NMT is against all forms of compulsory labor and supports all civil initiatives for abolition of child labor. We are eager to put forward all the necessary measures that would foster the application of ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. NMT is fully aware of its obligation in developing the standards of working life within its sphere of influence. NMT complies with all legal requirements arising from the Turkish Labor Law and embraces the principle of being an “equal opportunities employer” In all human resources processes. Especially in alternative areas that might involve complicity to discrimination, NMT human resources team developed effective safe guards within their code of conduct. NMT is encouraging its personnel to stand against maltreatment and/or mobbing. Managers are obliged to take necessary actions within 2 days after they have received written or oral complaint of an employee. In terms of occupational health and safety applications; NMT guarantees to provide right tools and working conditions to all of its employees. In 2012 in order to certify our full commitment on occupational health and safety, we have started necessary preparations to get OHSAS18001 certification. We established our rules and procedures according to the international occupational health and safety standards. NMT has given ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System, OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupation Health and Safety Management System, Risk Analysis trainings to all NMT employees. Furthermore, NMT has given Ergonomics Training to employees of occupational health in workplace and supplied that required technical equipment for own workers. However we still need to work on legal requirements. We are expecting to complete these efforts in 2014. NMT, Service Quality and Confidence rate according to the Customer Satisfaction Survey results was calculated as %95. Table 1.1 NMT’S GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITTMENT RESULTS PRINCIPLES AND ACTIONS TAKEN Businesses should *NMT adhere to *Employees enjoyed uphold the freedom principle of working within a safe of association and the association and right and democratic effective recognition of collective environment that of the right to bargaining collective bargaining respect and promotes *NMT is against all human dignity and forms of compulsory individuality labor * NMT, established Elimination of all *NMT is against child corporate rules and forms of forced and labor procedures according compulsory labor to the international *Anti discriminatory clauses are being health and safety detached from standards vacancy ads and recruitment processes *NMT has completed Effective abolition of child labor risk analysis in *Encouraging women workplace. engagement to economic life *NMT has supplied Eliminate *Promote Equal Pay required technical discrimination in For Equal Job equipment. respect of employment and *Corporate policy occupation against mobbing is applied ENVIRONMENT NMT declares its adherence to the principles set on Agenda 21. We believe and support the idea that; policies and operations of business and industry can play a major role in reducing the impacts on the use of resources and the environment. NMT supports all the corporate social responsibility activities, which endorse fighting against soil erosion, and promotes animals’ rights initiatives. We work to promote greater environmental responsibility in our business practices and promoting green office applications internally. NMT is supporting projects that would maintain the use of environment friendly technologies. During the last two years we have completed efficient projects to maintain our adherence to above-mentioned principles. In 2010 NMT established a green office project team that managed to decrease 2% of electricity consumption and reduced our office wastes by 10%. In 2011, implementation of enterprise resource planning (ERP) program had been completed. We managed to transfer all documentation into electronic database and use of paper in our daily operations had been diminished by 76%. NMT Consulting and Training Centre as an indicator of sensitivity to the environment and to raise awareness among our stakeholders we calculated our carbon footprint for the year 2011. Our on going work with our continued efforts to reduce our energy consumption in 2011 we offset our carbon footprint by purchasing high quality Gold Standard carbon credits. In 2013 we revised our procedures according to ISO14001: 2004 Environmental Management System requirements. We are expecting to complete the certification in 2014. Table 1.2 GLOBAL COMPACT NMT’S RESULTS PRINCIPLES COMMITTMENT AND ACTIONS TAKEN Business should *NMT staff had been support a trained on *Use of paper in the precautionary transformation to daily operations had approach to green office been diminished by environmental applications %76. challenges *Enterprise Resource Planning program had *NMT will get been implemented. ISO14001: 2004 Undertake initiatives Environmental to promote greater Management System environmental *Whole corporate certification in 2013. responsibility documentation had been transferred into *External electronic platform stakeholders of NMT adopted a wider vision on Encourage the environmental social development and responsibility diffusion of environmentally *NMT calculated our friendly technologies carbon footprint for the year 2011. ANTI CORRUPTION NMT is aware of the fact that corruption has played a major part in undermining the world's social, economic and environmental development, which leads ultimately to the improper and unfair allocation of resources and prevents development of societies. NMT supports all the national and international efforts to fight against corruption and declares its full commitment to the anti-corruption principle of Global Compact. NMT reaffirms that; fighting against corruption in our business operations is a prerequisite for good governance. By supporting development of good governance practices within our sphere of influence, we believe that fair business practices among our external and internal stakeholders would flourish. NMT promotes the idea of transparency and tries to develop a democracy culture among its staff and within the organizations of its clients. Consultants who are working for the institutionalization of family businesses projects are obliged to inform their clients on the necessity of adopting anti-corruption principles into their corporate practices. Table 1.3 NMT’S GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITTMENT PRINCIPLES AND ACTIONS RESULTS TAKEN *NMT supports all the national and international efforts to fight against corruption and declares its full commitment to the antiBusiness should work corruption principle of *Corporate culture against corruption in Global Compact. against antiall its forms including extortion and bribery corruption had *Consultants who are working for the been developed institutionalization of family businesses projects are informing the clients on necessity of adopting anticorruption principles into their corporate practices. *Corporate code of conduct revised to include clauses against bribery NMT’s PLANS FOR 2014 In 2014, NMT will continue its support for the global compact principles and we are planning to develop our corporate policies and practices in compliance with these principles. Our Goal  In order to ensure the wellbeing and health of our employees, we will provide the private health insurance programme.  In order to create wellbeing and personal satisfaction, we will organize regular yoga programme.  We will increase total number of personal training courses.  We will complete the ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001 Certification process.  Each of our employees will take part in social responsibility projects.  We will organise environmental awareness programme in at least a primary school. Contact Details SEMA YUCETAS HANDE ATAY CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP TRAINING ORGANIZATION MANAGER MANAGER Phone +90 (216) 546 03 70 Phone +90 (216) 546 03 70 Fax : +90 (216) 546 03 76 Fax : +90 (216) 546 03 76 sema@nmt.com.tr hande@nmt.com.tr Company Details NMT Consultancy and Training Center nmt@nmt.com.tr Turkey-Istanbul ; 34718 Phone: +90 (216) 546 03 70 Fax: +90 (216) 546 03 76 www.nmt.com.
