Global Compact by BoConcept 1 Global Compact by BoConcept Communication on Progress – 2013 June 2013 Global Compact by BoConcept 2 Statement from the CEO The desire to take responsibility for human beings, the environment and social relations constitutes an important element in BoConcept's global brand. At the same time, it is vital that the BoConcept CSR policy strikes an obvious and healthy balance between environmental impact and business economics. In 2009, BoConcept joined the UN Global Compact, and the BoConcept CSR policy which forms the framework of our CSR initiatives and priorities is based on Global Compact's 10 principles relating to human rights, employee rights, respect for the environment and a prohibition against corruption. Continuous improvements in CSR focus areas The BoConcept CSR policy is divided into three focus areas: environmentally friendly and safe production at our sub-suppliers, reduction in CO2 emissions related to transportation and logistics as well as reduction in the BoConcept Brand Stores' energy consumption. We are convinced that we through continuous improvements in our designated CSR focus areas automatically will continue to improve our CSR initiatives and priorities. On the proceeding pages you will find an update on the past 12 months' developments in our designated CSR focus areas. On behalf of BoConcept, I thank you for the interest you are showing in our organisation by reading this report. Torben Paulin President & CEO Global Compact by BoConcept 3 About BoConcept BoConcept is the brand name of Denmark's most global retail furniture chain with 299 sales units in 58 markets worldwide. Passion at our core Passion and persistence are what move the people behind the BoConcept brand, whether they are designing a wall unit, leading a team, or managing a store. Our common mission is to make modern design furniture available to the urbanminded customer. Our furniture and accessories We offer customised, coordinated and affordable design furniture and accessories. Customised because our products can be fitted to the needs and dreams of our customers. Coordinated because we take a holistic approach in the development and design of our product range. Design because we are a design company with our own designers. Affordable because we want to spoil our customers by giving them great value. Global Compact by BoConcept 4 The BoConcept vision and values Our vision and our core values guide us in everything we do at BoConcept. These statements are not just words on a page they are acted out every day by BoConcept employees around the world. Our vision To make BoConcept no. 1 brand within urban interiors. Our core values 'Values are what bring people together in a common understanding. They're a set of rules telling us how to think and act. From Herning in Denmark to Auckland in New Zealand, values unite us across occupation, language and culture. They make us family.' Viggo Mølholm, BoConcept Holding A/S chairman and former BoConcept A/S CEO Global Compact by BoConcept 5 Financial highlights & key figures BoConcept's CSR vision At BoConcept it is vital that our CSR policy strikes an obvious and healthy balance between environmental impact and business economics. As an organisation, we wish to ensure that our conduct has the least possible adverse environmental impact; and at the same time we need to be pragmatic and understand that it is impossible to avoid such impact altogether. Business Environmental economics impact Global Compact by BoConcept 6 The BoConcept CSR policy One of the core values at BoConcept is respect. We want to show respect for our customers by delivering great design and quality at the right price. But not at any price. All BoConcept suppliers must follow the BoConcept Code of Conduct in order to ensure that all our products are manufactured in a way that respects the rights of their employees. Our headquarters are based in Denmark and we apply our Danish background in our expectations to our suppliers when it comes to quality, environment and work processes. Over 60 years of experience and know-how provide invaluable benefits for our production facility in Denmark as well as in our close co-operation with our global suppliers. We have carefully selected suppliers that share our commitment to high quality. Together, we work to develop competencies and processes, and to implement initiatives that take responsibility for people and the environment. In general terms our ambition is to manufacture products with as little impact on the environment as possible. We continuously strive to make environmental improvements in the production of our products as well as the logistical processes involved in delivering BoConcept products to customers, thereby making sure that the effects of our business leave as little footprint on the global environment as possible. Global Compact by BoConcept 7 Communication on Progress BoConcept Due to BoConcept's social commitment and sense of responsibility, BoConcept has joined Global Compact in its attempt to build a more sustainable and inclusive global economy. With this partnership BoConcept shows its support of the ten principles of Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Below is an update on the areas that BoConcept has designated as its principal focus areas: Suppliers At BoConcept we have become more globally oriented as a growing share of our products is sourced from all over the world. We realise that we are able to exert some influence on our suppliers, and we believe it would be natural to take advantage of this to the extent possible. At BoConcept, we believe that personal relationships, mutual respect, communication and determination are useful drivers for growth. BoConcept sourcing share trends With this in mind, we regularly discuss environmental and safety issues with our suppliers, and we have in the past encouraged our suppliers to abide by the 10 Global Compact principles, just as we endeavour to do so ourselves. Five years ago BoConcept launched the first edition of its Code of Conduct. The purpose of the BoConcept Code of Conduct is to ensure that BoConcept suppliers operate in accordance with internationally recognised standards on human rights, labour and environment. BoConcept adheres to the principles of this code and expects the same of its suppliers. The content is based on relevant ILO (International Labour Organisation) and UN conventions. The aim of the BoConcept Code of Conduct is not to end our business with noncompliant suppliers but to help our suppliers improve their social and environmental standards. BoConcept is therefore willing to work with suppliers to achieve their compliance with this code. However, we will not conduct business with a supplier if compliance with the requirements of the code is deemed impossible. Nor will we conduct business with a supplier engaged in violations of fundamental human rights. Global Compact by BoConcept 8 At BoConcept, we visit all our The model below shows a number of principal suppliers to ensure that parameters that BoConcept requires its these comply with the BoConcept suppliers to live up to. BoConcept will not begin Code of Conduct and that action collaborating with a company that does not plans are established to deal with comply with Step 1. the most important issues. No serious While adherence to the BoConcept environmental Code of Conduct brings our issues suppliers up to a certain standard, it No forced No serious basically only sets out our minimum labour safety issues requirements. With this in mind, we work with a 'development wheel' that is used in our ongoing dialogue STEP 1 Health with suppliers. No child labour Legal insurance for framework employees The model below illustrates how we hold our suppliers to their CSR commitments, and it shows that it is an ongoing process. Step 2 states a number of the expectations BoConcept has to established suppliers. A BoConcept supplier should fulfil most of these expectations. In case there are any remaining issues, a written action plan will be drafted in consultation with the supplier, setting out practical steps for improvement. Permitted breaks and holidays Minimum wages No discrimination and overtime pay Reasonable Collective hygienic and bargaining may not healthy living be prevented or conditions impeded Continual relevant STEP 2 No physical safety training and Social punishment or safe working threats of same conditions conditions Global Compact by BoConcept 9 Handling of chemicals and waste in accordance with Reduction of air, the law Records kept and water and soil reduction of pollution accidents Training of Records kept and STEP 3 employees reduction of Environmental handling consumption framework chemicals and waste Step 3 comprises a number of expectations relating more to management and control issues, and a BoConcept supplier should be able to comply with these specifications. Once Steps 1 and 2 have been established, plans will be drawn up for implementation of Step 3. Status on the recent 12 months' developments At BoConcept, we expect our suppliers to comply with REACH, which is the European Community Regulation on chemicals and their safe use. The regulation deals with the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances. To comply with the regulation, companies must identify and manage the risks linked to the substances they manufacture and market in the EU. In the 2012/2013 financial year we urged our entire supplier platform to sign a REACH declaration issued by BoConcept A/S. Based on findings from supplier audits, incoming goods inspection at our warehouses and feedback from the BoConcept stores, we perform product risk assessments. These assessments are performed in cooperation with the Danish Technological Institute, who provides advisory information and recommendations related to REACH, thereby enabling us to ensure that the products included in the BoConcept collection always comply with the REACH regulation. Also, during the past 12 months focus has been on safe and appropriate working conditions with our suppliers. A project example of this is our Asian supplier of metal products, who in connection with the building of a new, modern factory – has ensured safer and more appropriate working conditions in the form of safe work stations in the production as well as clear indications of the production flow. Another project example is our Asian supplier of wooden chairs, who has ensured safer and more appropriate working conditions by installing air extraction equipment at the work stations in the production etc. Global Compact by BoConcept 10 A third project example is the BoConcept warehouse located in Herning, Denmark, where focus has been on further optimising the work place set-up in order to avoid or minimise repetitive or heavy lifting. Finally, a fourth example is the BoConcept production facilities located in Ølgod, Denmark. Here focus has been on the use of environmentally friendly formaldehyde-free glue and continuous reduction in the emission of solvents. Goals and focus for the coming year Our focus for the coming year is to ensure continuous CSR/environmental improvements with our suppliers. In this context, CSR/environmental audits will become an integral part of future supplier visits performed by key CSR coordinators from the BoConcept organisations in Denmark and China. Also, in the coming year we will keep on working on ensuring that 90% of our total buying volume within the upholstery and board furniture categories is sourced from suppliers with established action plans that are audited on an annual basis. Global Compact by BoConcept 11 Transportation As an international company, both with regard to retail and supply chain, transportation and logistics are key aspects of our business. Buying and selling at the right prices is of vital importance to BoConcept. However, it is just as important to maintain a high quality standard and ensure reliable delivery. BoConcept has its own production facilities in Denmark, but otherwise also purchases goods from the Far East and Eastern Europe. The BoConcept warehouse and In order for this to be successful, a strict and distribution set-up precise management of logistics and suppliers is required. Status on the recent 12 months' developments During the past 12 months, BoConcept has strived to establish an overview of and document the CO2 emissions for which it is responsible in connection with its sourcing (where BoConcept is responsible for arranging and paying transportation) and sale of BoConcept has three distribution furniture worldwide (only up to ports in centres: destination countries). • Ølgod, Denmark • Shanghai, China This is a huge task, as the logistics flow • California, USA through our supply chain is relatively complex and, in many instances, the information Two distribution points: available is not detailed enough. • New Jersey, USA For these reasons, we have been forced to • Lithuania work with certain limitations in accounting for the various sources: for example, truck and air Two sourcing offices: transport has been excluded from the report. • Shanghai, China Accordingly, it appears from our calculations • Dongguan, China that our transportation activities, bearing the above-mentioned limitations in mind, have an annual impact on the environment of approximately 840,000 tonnes of CO2, which is a reduction of 180,000 tonnes compared to last year. Global Compact by BoConcept 12 Below we provide an account of some of the BoConcept's introduction of a new transportation-related initiatives from the past packing method for its upholstered 12 months. products has resulted in higher loadability, leading to an approx. 20% Project examples reduction in CO2 emissions related to During the past 12 months, the volume of air upholstered products. freight from China has been reduced by 5%. This constitutes a continued improvement on The old packing method characterised by last year's reduction of 25%. use of cardboard boxes: This improvement has primarily been achieved through better planning in connection with the product development process and improved control of inventory levels. Also, we have changed the packing method of our upholstered products. These are no longer packed in cardboard boxes but in plastic wrapping only. Due to this change, it has been possible to take away pallets used for road transportation. This has resulted in a higher loadability, leading to a reduction in CO2 emissions close to 20% related to upholstered products. Images of the old and new packing method for upholstered products appear to the right. During the past 12 months we have continued to establish more direct transport through our supply chain resulting in shorter delivery times The new packing method characterised and reductions in costs and CO2 emissions. by use of plastic wrapping: Goals and focus for the coming year For the coming year, BoConcept intends to improve the quality of its calculations further by including more relevant sources in order to providing better insight into the impact from transportation. In relation to European road transport, a model for the reporting of CO2 emissions will be introduced, and figures included in this reporting will be included in next year's Communication on Progress from BoConcept A/S. Originally, this was also a goal for this year's report. However, we have realised that this task is more complex than originally anticipated. Global Compact by BoConcept 13 Finally, BoConcept's process of shifting to a more direct distribution set-up will continue the coming year. Global Compact by BoConcept 14 BoConcept Retail BoConcept attaches great importance to presenting its collections in the best possible way in its stores. This includes clean surroundings and displaying the furniture correctly and in the most advantageous light. Lighting plays an important part in the arrangement of our furniture in the stores. It is essential that the light has the right glow, ensuring correct colour reproduction and perception. Thus the light sources used are important, and so is the number and arrangement of these light sources. Status on the recent 12 months' developments During the past 12 months and following last year's goal of a new lighting system introduction BoConcept has tested a new LED/metal halogen lighting system in three selected BoConcept stores. Based on findings from the tests conducted, all ordinary halogen lamps have now been discontinued from the standard BoConcept shop fixture program. So far, 15 new BoConcept stores have all been fitted with the new lighting system, and as a result of this shift to a more CO2 friendly solution, the energy consumption in the 15 stores has been reduced by at least 30%, which was the goal set for the 2012/2013 financial year. Goals and focus for the coming year At BoConcept, we work hard to ensure further reductions in the stores' energy consumption. For the coming year, BoConcept expects to be able to offer the new LED/metal halogen lighting system to all existing stores at a reduced price. As a result of this, we expect 25% of all BoConcept stores to have installed the new lighting system at the end of the 2013/2014 financial year. Global Compact by BoConcept 15 BoConcept's Global Compact in essence The UN Global Compact Principles BoConcept's Actions: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should BoConcept supports the international declared support and respect the protection of human rights. internationally proclaimed human rights; and We do not discriminate against any person, regardless of race, sex, colour or religion. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Being a global organisation, BoConcept has employees with many different cultural backgrounds. It is vital to BoConcept to Labour Principle 3: Businesses should maintain this. uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the One of BoConcept's core values is 'Respect'. right to collective bargaining; In this context the value covers respect for other people and their rights. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory BoConcept knows that people makes the labour; difference! Therefore all employees are encouraged to bring up their ideas to improve Principle 5: the effective abolition of workflow, work environment or ideas to child labour; and improve other parts of the BoConcept business. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of The BoConcept Code of Conduct states that all employment and occupation. suppliers must ensure that basic human rights and basic labour standards are implemented. Further, we have communicated to our present suppliers that we have enrolled in the UN Global Compact program and that we expect they will run their companies applying the same 10 principles as we do. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should As can be read on the preceding pages, support a precautionary approach to BoConcept has prepared a specific plan for the environmental challenges; clarification and reduction of the environmental impacts of our chain and our Principle 8: undertake initiatives to products. promote greater environmental responsibility; and This plan covers sub-suppliers/production, transportation, and retail. At BoConcept, we Principle 9: encourage the will continue our work to improve the accuracy development and diffusion of of the data. environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should At BoConcept we do not accept any form of work against corruption in all its corruption. We do not use bribe or extortion in forms, including extortion and any way. bribery. Further, anti-corruption is an integrated part of our Code of Conduct, which we ask our suppliers to confirm in writing. Global Compact by BoConcept 16 We value your feedback If you have any questions, comments or proposals relating to this report, please feel free to contact the designated contact person: Quality Manager Torben Blindbæk E-mail: toj@boconcept.com Telephone: +45 7013 1366
