CSR and Charity Activities Parami Energy Group of Companies 2012 Sandar Yarma Recipient: Sandar Yarma Buddhist Monastic School Location: Hlaing Thar Yar Township, Yangon Region Number of Beneficiary: 200 students (teachers included) Type of Aid: School building (24' x 120') Start of Aid: April 2012 Duration of Aid: On-going Amount of Aid: Ks. 18,000,000 (For school construction) Ks. 700,000 per month (For monthly educational aid) Ks. 196,465 (Medicines for school) (29/06/2012) In April 2012, Parami CEO discovered that a Buddhist monastic school in Hlaing Thar Yar Township of Yangon Region was in need of school extension to provide free education for needy children. More than 40 Parami employees joined the CEO in preparing school construction for the monastery. After consultation with chief monk of the monastery, the school construction commenced in the same month and completed in May 2012. The school is able to accommodate 200 students, attached with a medical clinic, which is supervised by three doctors. About 12 teachers are assigned to teach at the school. The company also offered medicines for the school clinic, in addition to monthly cash assistance to provide educational expenses for the school and monastery. Today, more than 200 needy students enjoyed learning at Sandar Yarma Monastic School, complete with a medical clinic and doctors. To provide nutrition, Parami Energy also donates soy bean milk for the children occasionally. Naung Taung Recipient: Naung Taung Parahita Monastic School Location: Ho Pong, Shan State (South) Number of Beneficiary: 900 students + 90 teachers Type of Aid: Funding for classroom construction / Monthly financial support Start of Aid: May 2012 Duration of Aid: Ongoing Amount of Donation: Ks. 20,000,000 (for classroom construction) Ks. 1,500,000 per month Parami Energy initially identified the school in Ho Pong, Shan State (South) in early 2012 after doing survey on the location and situation of the school. The company CEO visited the school and he found out difficult situations facing the school directly from Sayadaw (the Abbot) of the school. The school has been facing financial difficulties to look after day-to-day subsistence of the students, teachers, monks and novices, in addition to long-term welfare and education for them. Sayadaw had to reject parents' growing request to keep their children at school due to financial limitation. Before Parami's aid, the school had a limited capacity to house only 500 students. In addition to the students, Sayadaw had to take care of 90 volunteer teachers, who stayed at the school during the academic term, and their welfare. The volunteer teachers were not getting paid for their hard work. There are about 20 monks serving as supervisors of the school. After Parami started its charity project, the school was able to accept 400 students more. For the 2012-13 academic year, Sayadaw was able to give free education to a total of 900 students. Thapaung Recipient: Flood victims Location: Thapaung Township, Ayeyarwady Region Number of Beneficiary: 20631 Flood victims (5806 Households) Type of Aid: Rice / Medicine / Tarpaulin / Food / Classroom furniture / Medicare for humans and animals / Healthcare training Start of Aid: August 2012 Duration of Aid: 8 days Amount of Aid: Ks. 10,000,000 Several villages in Thapaung Township of Ayeyarwady Region faced flash flood from the beginning of August 2012 due to heavy monsoon rain. The flood destroyed a total of 267608 acres of rice fields, resulting in some fatalities in the affected areas. According to local people, the villages in the area annually faced the natural disaster due to overflowing of Ngawun and Daka Rivers, in addition to the local authorities' failure to maintain the river course conservation. This year, inundation was mainly due to incessant heavy rain for months. According to the government's information release a total of 68,111 people or 15705 households were recorded as flood victims, who had to take temporary shelter in 219 flood disaster rescue centers in the township. By the end of August, flood had subsided to a certain degree, but many kinds of assistance were still essential for the flood victims, who remained in rescue centers. They were in need of food, medicines, drinking water and paddy seeds. On Aug 26, Parami Energy teamed up with ECLOF NGO and set out for the aid journey to Thapaung Township. In Thapaung, the aid team coordinated with Township Medical Authority to reach out to flood victims, using motorized-barges. On Aug 27, Parami divided three aid teams and reached out to 12 villages and distributed rice, tarpaulin and provided vaccines for pigs and cows. Based on the information received, the three teams travelled to the leastrescued households and provided necessary food and medicines, in addition to conveying words of comfort. From Aug 26 to Sep 2, Parami aid teams reached out to the flood victims, providing 108 rice bags, 85 pieces of tarpaulin, various foodstuff, medicines for humans and animals, 10 pairs of classroom desks and chairs. The teams also observed urgent and long-term needs of flood victims during their aid journeys. They found out that rice, shelters and paddy seeds were immediate needs, while the victims required safe and secure schooling, nutrition for children and moral support. Parami team also discovered and recorded Wunthapala monastic school in Thapaung, which is proving education to 32 students, in a miserable state. The team also reported that kutpa (farm workers without farm ownership) were the worst-hit victims of flash flood as they could not make a living on flooded land. In aftermath of the flooding, they needed to renovate their houses, clean drinking water and rice for basic staple, in addition to preventive medication for diarrhea. Parami aid team also documented eager cooperation from Thapaung Township local authorities for the successful implementation of the aid operation. Furthermore, the gratitude shown by recipients was the biggest motivation for the Parami team to continue engages in humanitarian works. ---x--In June 2012, more than 40 Parami Energy employees made a two-day trip to Naung Taung School and spent time with the students and teachers there, witnessing the lives of underprivileged children. The children and young people of Naung Taung School were astonished when they saw so many people came to observe how they live and learn in such difficult condition and share a few meals and play a game or two with them together. Obviously, for many children there, it was a highlight of their lives. They showed their appreciation by signing a moving rendition of “Guiding Star” Equally touched and delighted were the Parami staff, who served soy bean milk to the monks, teachers and children, before forming human rings to talk and exchange thoughts with the students and teachers. Parami continues to provide monthly assistance to Naung Taung, knowing this noble activity has made a difference for many lives and education of the young children Ho Pong. ---x--Parami Energy Group of Companies #14-02, 15-07 Sakura Tower Sule Pagoda Road Yangon, Myanmar Tel. +(95-1) 255104 +(95-1) 255450 Fax. +(95-1) 255109
