Foreword 3 Our Viewpoint 4 One Ahead 6 Carbon Neutral & Responsible Consulting 10 Our Alliances 18 Our Governance 20 About This Report 22 United Nation Global Compact 24 Global Reporting Initiative 25 Contact Info 35 3 foreword Sustainability has become one of the most sought afTogether with local issues that are generally extranecare for the well-being of those benefited, a sustainater topics on the agendas of business, governments ous to developed countries and considerable chalbility approach that comes as part of the corporate and other important institutions around the world. lenges concerning human rights, it presents an imporstrategy would be the preferable path forward, one Easing the heavy burden that human and commercial tant moment for the advancement of sustainable that advances the company’s practices by focusing on activities have put on the earth’s limited resources and practices. efficiency and development of new markets while infragile nature presents itself as one of the top prioricorporating factors now considered external such as ties for leaders all over the world. At stakes is thefuture Sustainability looks to address the flaws of a short the community and the environment. viability of business and governments, together with -sighted vision that impregnated the business world the basic, yet not assured, guarantee that current and over the last century. While continuing to look for the future generations will find a suitable planet to live in betterment of the economic and financial health of and develop. businesses and other institutions, it adds to the equation the wellness of the community, people and enviDeveloping countries, specifically those in Latin Ame­ ronment that surrounds them. rica, are in the middle of an important crossroad. They lack the larger scale commercial infrastructures that Companies in the region have started to notice the have led to many of the current climate issues but are need of incurring in sustainability practices, although, growing at a considerable pace in regions dominated most still see it as a specific investment in corporate by weak political and regulatory leadership and a gensocial responsibility instead of an embedded factor in eral sustainability consiciousness that is far behind the overall corporate strategy. While individual CSR that of some developed countries. practices and the creation of charitable foundations do GROWING 4 CULTURE our viewpoint Sustainability, as it is known in developed countries, The family-oriented business model which still predominates in many Latin American countries serves as a double-edge sword, on one hand it partially shields the region from financial market speculations and inSTAKEHOLDER needs to be adapted to the context in which Central, efficiencies such as the ones that helped originate the South American and Caribbean countries operate. 2008 economic crisis, on the other it plays a role against sustainability since most local companies are Some of the topics and goals that dominate the suslate adopters of new industry trends and best-practictainability efforts of European, North America and es, falling back to a business-as-is approach. The relaAsian countries are applicable yet too ambitious for tive stability of the region has lead to an increasing many developing countries given the array of basic entrance of multinational players either by mergers challenges they still face and which their developed and acquisition or directly setting shop which should peers have long-passed overcome. This effectively increase competitiveness and promote the adoption strengthens the importance of aiming towards greater of industry best-practices, some of which can come goals while bringing the spotlight on many less ostenfrom sustainability initiatives. tatious but equally important topics. The business case for sustainability, which is difficult The dissemination of a sustainable business culture to make in developed markets, may become easier to faces a blurry road ahead. For starters, the lack of regujustify in developing countries but more difficult to latory framework and political will in many countries sell. Inefficiencies and high costs which impregnate presents a big obstacle in promoting competitiveness many companies in the region may open the door for and introducing a meaningful sustainability culture to sustainability through the optimization of processes local markets. which are not as sophisticated as those in developed 5 “There are a number of signs that lead to believe that over the next decade the sustainability culture in developing countries may catch up with that of developed ones, but it is undeniable that the road to get there has to be adapted to cater the specific needs of the region.” markets and the adoption of cost-reduction practices. involve recycling practices. These initiatives, although Public relations companies have been trying to tap not well organized or business-oriented yet, are a necinto the market by offering stand-alone initiatives that essary foundation for the future development of susmake for good immediate marketing campaigns but do tainable markets. not offer much business sense or long-lasting benefits, sometimes even falling under the “green-washThere are a number of signs that lead to believe that ing” criteria due to its deceptive nature. over the next decades the sustainability culture in developing countries may catch up with that of develMost companies are well intended and care for oped ones but it is undeniable that the road to get their employees and communities but lack a complete there has to be adapted to cater the specific needs of understanding of the real needs of their stakeholders, the region. Companies that lead the way in responsiwith no clear idea on how to effectively attend their ble practices can serve as a conduit of social developdemands. A culture of philanthropy dominates social ment in a region that is going through a rapid social, responsibility agendas, one that proves to be unsuseconomic and environmental change that few others tainable and too shallow-focused, leaving behind the have seen in the past. For this, we believe that our role potential business benefits that sustainability may as providers of advanced sustainability knowledge is have and becoming a budget consuming item for most one of great importance to promote the development companies. of the region. A growing “green” culture is also taking place in a very Manuel Valdez informal manner. Increasing consciousness, especially CEO amongst younger generations, has led to many informal and dispersed initiatives, a good amount of which PROFIT STRATEGIES one ahead ONE AHEAD is a Dominican Republic-based sustainability firm, dedicated to providing leading sustainabiliRESEARCH ty services to business and entities looking to enhance their financial performance while respecting and developing their surroundings. Sustainability has become one of the fastest growing areas in the world and a fundamental part of corporate strategies. By adopting sustainability practices many businesses have found ways to develop innovative products, reduce costs, increase operational performance and optimize processes while genera­ t ing new income streams and solidifying the relation with employees, clients, authorities, society and other key stakeholders. By focusing on emerging markets, especially those of Central America and the Caribbean, we look to identify the specific needs of each country so we can provide catered solutions that are relevant to the companies in the region. 7 We specialize in the development of sustainability business strategies, counseling Retail Construction on sustainability topics, elaboration of and Mining Utilities sustainability reports and generation Financial Sector Telecommunications of sustainability-related knowledge for INDUSTRIES the Latin American region. Food and Beverage Transportation and Logistics Wholesale Tourism and Leisure Risk Profitability Management Development of Sustainability Business Strategies Partnership Brokers Efficiency Governance Water Anti-corruption Infrastructure Planning and Environmental Management of CSR Impact Assessment Initiatives Responsible Ethics AREAS Supply Chain SERVICES Human Rights Emissions Waste Energy Sustainability/ Market Research CSR Dashboards and Insight Civil Society GRI, United Nation’s Renewable Community Global Compact and Energy Engagement Sustainability Reporting 8 Through our sustainability consulting practice we adCreating the foundation vise our clients in the development of comprehensive sustainability strategies that are tied to the core of their for a better society business, helping them meet their business goals and In virtue of our consulting engagements, our clients create meaningful relations with their stakehol­ders and have become catalysts for change in areas that serve as the environment. Our pioneering consulting approach building blocks of a more just and sustainable society. allows us to understand the complex environment While matching a better understanding of our clients in which our clients operate, making it possible for business with the societal needs that surrounds them to successfully integrate social, envi­ ronmental them, we have encouraged the adoption of impactful and governance considerations into their day-to-day programs in areas such as water conservation, respect operations. By way of this value-generating practice, of human rights, sustainable supply chain, energy effiour clients are making significant progress on their ciency, community engagement and development, quest of becoming better corporate citizens, aligning comprehensive waste management, biodiversity contheir practices with the needs of those impacted servation, local sourcing, valuable employee relations by their operations. and responsible cor­porate governance. The reporting on economic, social and environmental Global Reporting Initiative performance is vital if companies hope to accelerate the transition towards sustainable development. and the United Nations At One Ahead we believe corporate transparency is Global Compact at the center of business stewardship, with sustainabiliAs the only Organizational Stakeholder for the Global ty reporting playing a key role by promoting the discloReporting Initiative in the Dominican Republic and sure of financial and nonfinancial information that are the Caribbean, we are committed to promoting a greatrelevant to a company stakeholder. Releasing informaer adoption of sustainability reporting in the region, tion about economic, operational, governance, social as well as the compliance with the Ten Principles incorand environmental performance is necessary to better porated in the United Nations Global Compact. As a understand the policies, performance, challenges and national leader in the advising and development of risks that companies have on important areas relevant sustainability reports, we are assisting companies comto sustainable development, as well as to hold them municate their corporate sustainability performance by accountable for their actions. following the most-widely used reporting frameworks and the most advanced standards. 9 RESPONSIBLE Promote stewardship on the products our clients produce, buy and sell product responsibility * All values are monthly ** Excluding Transportation emissions TRANSPARENC Buy products with the lowest environmental and highest local economic impact TRAVEL OFFSET Screen and evaluate conditions on which AIR >.04 co2 tons TRAVEL EMISSIONS suppliers operate responsible procurement and supply chain 626 >.152 km co2 tons Holistic approach in all our decision-making economic, social and carbon neutral & SOCIAL GROUND environmental considerations 375 >.064 km co2 tons responsible Zero tolerance towards Human Rights transportation violation consulting Never had an occurance of Human Rights violation .30 co2 ton** emissions Reduce our 710 water gallons Convervation and human rights Firm stance against corruption in all of its Leading by example is something we pride on, reason carbon footprint use minimization for which we developed our own Carbon Neutral forms and Responsible Consulting Initiative as a platform to Promote ethical behaviour and tie our vision of a sustainable business world with our 10 waste pounds Comprehesive waste management 424 kWh* energy Reduce use of energy transparency One bribery case reported and addressed anti-corruption own practices and operations. We hope to achieve carbon neutrality by minimizing our carbon footprint and promoting actions that respect and benefit the environment, and look to become a model company by enand sources with considerable negative impact on the planet and transparency acting responsible practices through our operations. 11 Y Under the Carbon Neutral umbrella we look to make responsible use of the natural resources that are available to us, identifying ways to have the lowest possible impact on the environment and to make responsible use of such resources so that it does not compromise their future availability and condition. The Dominican Republic has limited natural resources and as its population and industries grow the pressure on them increases. It has become a necessity for busiEnergy We encourage solutions that reduce the use of fossil fuels or any other sources of energy with considerable negative impact on the planet. Electricity in the Dominican Republic is generated by fuel oil engines (26.9%), combined cycle (23.7%), steam turbines “The Dominican Republic has limited natural resources and as its population and industries grow the pressure on them increases.” Our energy consumption for 2012 averaged 424 kWh nesses to be responsible about their use of natural (17.9%), gas turbines (16.9%), hydraulic turbines resources, planning for the future. (13.8%) and diesel oil engines (0.9%). Recently, other per month. We maintain a low energy use by managing methods of electricity generation have been impleour HVAC system according to needs and by using We are committed to minimize our impact on our surmented, such as wind farms, but their participation in fluorescent lighting fixtures, thus reducing our impact roundings. We used 2012 to create the baseline for the power generation mix is still minimal. on the city’s energy grid. We promote the use of enerour energy, water, waste, emissions and transportation gy efficient appliances, especially those verified by performance. As our operations grow, we expect to Annual energy consumption is estimated at 1,349 kWh re­putable certifications such as Energy Star. When have minimal impact on the environment and on utiliper capita, not very different from regional average, financially viable, we acquire such products. Energyties systems. Our company works to keep low its diand is distributed between residential, commercial, inwise we have set a three year goal of not surpassing rect and indirect emissions and water footprints by dustrial and public use, with residential use accounting the current monthly consumption while taking into making a conscious use of its inputs and resources. for almost half of the total energy use of the country. account any workforce grow we may experience. 12 Water We are committed on having the lowest possible impact on local water resources and utilities operations. Fresh water resources in the Dominican Republic are limited and some regions are under hydric stress. Most of the available water is used for agriculture irrigation (81%), while the rest of the water is distributed among uses like drinking (13%), ecological (3%), and industrial (2%), with other uses like tourism and cattle taking a small portion. Our country has a water availability of 2,507 m3/person/year, ranking 116th of 169 countries according to the World Health Organization. Surface water is the main source for water supply but pumping fields are also used in some areas. Even though the country has sufficient water available to Waste satisfy current demand, not every habitant has access to it. Irrigation and drinking water systems are ineffiWe promote a responsible management of waste, Most of the waste our firm generates comes from cient presenting leaks that waste an important part of its reduction, proper collection, recycling and adeoffice supplies, adding to about 10 pounds per month. the precious resource and many regions lack the quate disposal. Waste management in the Dominican We reuse most of our office supplies, especially paper, necessary infrastructure to provide water access to its Republic has over the last decades been one of its and refill our printer cartridges to avoid buying new inhabitants. On the meantime, demand for water Achilles heels. Collection is done on an irregular basis, ones. Our procurement practice dictates that new grows steadily as cities get bigger and industrial leaving streets and garbage bins overcrowded with office supplies most come from recyclable materials consumption increases. waste and risking the health and safety of the populaand ideally be certified by a reputable label. Starting tion. No formal recycling campaigns or practices exist in 2012 we began separating and collecting waste for Currently, our water use averages 710 gallons per in the country and disposal of collected waste is done recycling focusing on carton, paper, batteries and month equivalent to 89 gallons per person which is in local open air dumpsters which are managed in dysdisposable electronics, all of which are collected and primarely destined for personal uses. Our goal is to functional ways, most of the time incinerating the managed by a local firm with the all necessary waste reduce our water use per person by 5% during the garbage and not following any strict environmental management certifications which recycles them next three years. Since our water use is already low, procedures or considerations. Over the last few years through its Dominican and North American partners. we intend to achieve this goal by using non-structural some very small recycling companies have started Our goal is not to exceed the amount of waste genermeasures. operating locally but with very limited impact. ated per employee during the next three years. 13 Transportation We encourage solutions that reduce our use of fossil fuels or any other sources of energy with considerable negative impact on the planet. With transportation being highly dependent on fossil fuels we promote the use of alternative means of transportations, energy efficient vehicles and reduction of unnecessary mobilization. We reduce our transportation to our clients by using tools such as video conferences and walking to those nearby our offices. We acknowledge that infrastructure conditions and the weather of our country makes it impossible to use alternative means of transportation such as subways and bikes or to access more fuel efficient vehicles. We purchase travel offset credits to compensate our impact when using Emissions air transportation. We look for ways to reduce our carbon emissions and We travelled close to 375 ground km per month, which avoid the unnecessary release of harmful chemicals. accounts for 0.151 tons of CO2 and is equivalent Emissions from our operations have averaged 0.30 to 0.351 barrels of oil consumed. Our air transportatons of CO2 per month. These emissions are based tion during the 2011 and 2012 calendar years on our energy use and calculated according to totaled 15,026 km, equivalent to 1.531 tons of CO2 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s parameters. as estimated using the International Civil Aviation It is our policy not to purchase or use products that Organization emissions calculator. From our alternacontain banned chemicals such as CFC. When possible tive means of transportation and collaborative work we purchase credits to offset travel or conference tools that reduce travel need we were able to avoid emissions as well as other activities. 0.04 tons of CO2 per month. 14 Beyond the business and professional positions adopted we understand that our human nature urges Human Rights us to act in a dignifying and responsible manner that respects the lives of those around us. We have a zero tolerance stance towards the violation of human rights. We are committed to becoming a Following are some of the aspects we respect and leader in addressing human rights across our operaencourage: tions and exerting our influence to promote human rights more broadly. As signatories of the United > A dignifying and respectful treatment, providing Nations Global Compact we are committed with an adequate workplace that ensures the individual’s respecting and abiding by The Universal Declaration health and integrity. of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, as well > Freedom of speech, thoughts, beliefs and as supporting The International Covenant on Civil association. and Political Rights and The International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights. We also > Equal opportunities to all, both professional and personal, without discrimination of any form, allowing respect all local labor laws and regulations. the individual to develop their full professional In our role as sustainability business consultants we and personal potentials, including fair wages, career consider it an obligation to incorporate human rights opportunities and job security when appropriate. criteria in our entire service offering and understand We look to conduct ourselves in a responsible manner, that it is our duty to use our influence to promote the > Abolition of child labor and of conditions that limit the healthy development of children, including one that promotes meaningful and inclusive developrespect of the rights of those affected by the operapractices that generate unfavorable situations to ment, respects and takes into consideration all astions of our clients and suppliers. As a result, all of our working parents that affect the adequate raising of pects of our society and cares for the appropriate strategies and services provided, without exceptions, their children. interests of our clients, promoting the quest for better have human rights considerations and those in our firm who do not follow them are considered at fault companies that we believe lead to better societies. and their cases addressed by superiors with definite > Abolition of any form of forced labor, including the unfair and unpaid allocation of extra working hours, For this, we have adopted the following positions consequences for repeating occurrences. The Global the use of unpayable debt, the withholding of identity in some of the most important current topics in the Reporting Initiative, United Nations Global Compact, papers and the use of threat. business world and society as a whole, delimiting the BSR and Ceres are some of frameworks and benchway we conduct ourselves and what we try to reflect marks we use to incorporate human rights indicators Our firm has never had an occurrence of violation of when advising our clients: to our work. human rights. 15 Product responsibility, procurement and supply chain We believe companies are responsible for the pro­­ ducts they produce, buy and sell, as well as for ensuring they do business with companies that share their views on global and societal issues. Anti-corruption and transparency When possible we buy supplies and materials ma­­de from recyclable sources or ones with the lowest enviWe promote ethical behavior and have a firm stance ronmental impact. We also look to lower our use of against corruption, denouncing and rejecting any form office supplies, minimizing our printing and relying of corruption that comes upon such as bribery and exon digital means to share information. We re-use all tortion. Any case of corruption is addressed by superiof our paper for internal use and recycle electronics. ors with definite consequences for repeating occurWe do not procure from companies with known and rences or first occurrence with significant importance. pro­ven poor human rights records or adverse social or environmental impact, unless they have a remediaOn 2011 the firm was part of one bribery case, being it tion plan in place and have shown progress on it. reported to higher instances that took the appropriate We encourage local sourcing and when possible measures to ensure no recurrence. buy from local shops. Economic, social We also believe companies should be transparent and environmental We consider companies should screen and evaluate about their business practices and positions on some considerations the conditions on which their suppliers operate makof the most important topics such as how they manage ing sure they respect the foundation of the most imhuman rights, their impact on the environment On all our decision-making, we consider the eco­­­­­­­­no­­­­­­­­­ portant international agreements and take responsiand their community engagement. We promote the mic, social and environmental impacts of our actions, bility for the products they produce and sell, incurring Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI’s Report or Explain looking to create value in all three areas with a on all necessary due diligence to ensure the integrity Campaign Forum to encourage companies to share comprehensive and balanced approach to what is of their products and that they will not have negative their sustainability performance. commonly known as the “triple-bottom line”. effects on their consumers. “We believe that better companies lead to better societies.” RESPONSIBLE MEANINGFUL IMPACTFUL our alliances We seek partners and allies that share our interests and values, working for ways to develop sustainable business practices and more just and equitable societies. We are selective in our partnerships, making sure we can be active and that the work will have a considerable impact. 19 Global Reporting Initiative www.globalreporting.org United National We are a registered Organizational Stakeholder Global Compact of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and support their mission to develop globally accepted sustain­ www.unglobalcompact.org ability reporting guidelines through a global, multistakeholder process. The GRI is a network-based The Global Compact is a United Nation’s platform that BSR organization based in Amsterdam, Netherlands, that seeks to promote amongst businesses the support of has developed one of the more widely adopted ten universally agreed principles by aligning its operawww.bsr.org sustainability frameworks in the world, used by pu­blic tions and strategies around them. and private business, governments and NGOs to Business for Social Responsibility is a world-leading communicate their sustainability practices. As a signatory of the Global Compact, we are commitand one of the most highly regarded not-for-profit ted to complying and going beyond what the ten prinorganizations that work with a global network of nearly Since 2011 we have been an Organizational Stake­ ciples in the areas of human rights, labor, environment 300 member companies to build a just and sustainable holder of the network, and as the only one in the and anti-corruption estipulate. We also promote the world. Caribbean we look to promote the use of the frameadoption of the platform by the companies we work work in the region. We take part on many of the GRI’s with, especially impacting the way they report on their Since 2012 our company is an Associate Member of the stakeholder events, sharing our knowledge to help activities, being the sole company in the Dominican BSR, attending, amongst other things, the 2012 BSR shape the upcoming version of the framework. We also Republic dedicated to providing high-level assistance Conference in New York, one that brings together a plan to organize local GRI-specific events in the future to companies that wish to create Advanced Criteria reglobal community of more than 1,000 leaders from such as courses and workshops. We have taken part on ports. Furthermore we have attended and participated business, civil society, and the public sector, and is one the development of the new G4 framework and supon several initiatives and events by the Dominican of the world’s largest and most influential events deport the Report or Explain Campaign Forum. Republic’s Local Network. voted to sustainable business. HUMAN RIGHTS our governance One Ahead Consulting S.R.L. is a limited-responsibility private society, established in the Dominican Republic COLLABORATE under the country’s commercial laws. As a small organization, we do not have the governance structure other mid-size and large organizations have. We take advantage of our compactness to make important decisions in a collaborative manner. Aside from our specific positions, we are a vertical functioning operation where responsibilities and area of expertise dictate the role that each collaborator plays. Feedback, suggestions, comments and conflict of interest are addressed via direct communication between the concerning members. When issues can not be resolved immediately these are taken to the appropriate supervisor. Our Carbon Neutral and Responsible Consulting Initiative dictates how our collaborators should conduct themselves on a profe­ ssional basis, our positions on important topics and consequences for any misconduct. 21 0 turnover Male Our team Our team is formed by leading individuals in their 3 fields with a great desire to assist businesses and institutions positively impact society. Our consultants have years of experience in a vast array of fields, with management on-hands knowledge of some of the most relevant sustainability topics. 2 Project-based Team members are encouraged to spread their know­ ledge onto society and they do so as professors and 8 research fellows on the most important universities. 1 Part-time To broaden their impact they actively engage with some of the world-leading initiatives of which the firm is part of such as the BSR, UNGC and GRI, as well as local ones including the Dominican Republic’s National Literacy Plan. Keeping up to date with the latest develmen 5 Full-time opment on sustainability topics, our consultants have taken over 100 hours of training, participating in in­ women ternational workshops, round tables, webinars and conferences. employees IN 22 UPSTREAM FLUENCE Suppliers civil local society community one ahead BOUND Our direct and consulting indirect impact employees We believe we have direct influence on the parties about with which we frequently interact and, more importantly, advise to, since most look to put into action our recommendations. Our clients, business and institucivil allies & this report clients tions, our allies and business partners, the associations society partners of which we are members of, and the civil society are the stakeholders with which we engage more frequently and have a direct impact on. The work we do has significant economic, social and Local NGO’s Suppliers environmental impact, reason for which we consider Our employees are the cornerstone of the firm, hence Authorities International Customers necessary to reflect and share our values on all three also of vital importance to us, as well as the local comGovernments Institutions & Regulators & Think Tanks Local aspects. We understand that regardless of the nature munity on which we operate and focus to help Community General Public Business of our clients and stakeholders or the sector on which improve. All of them have their own stakeholders Associations they operate, the same aspects are relevant to their which may be impacted by our work with them but work and we should be consistent in our positions on which we do not have direct control or influence. about them. To the right is the value map of our operations. DOWNSTREAM UPSTREAM 23 CN Carbon Neutrality R Responsibility Suppliers Waste WS Water WT EN Energy civil local carbon society community neutrality CN R CN R TT EM Transportation Emissions Human Rights one ahead HR consulting AC employees HR responsibility AC PR Anti-corruption Product Responsibility & Transparency & Supply Chain civil allies & Boundaries and society partners clients how topics CN R CN R CN R Topics of importance affect our stakeholders Local ONG’s Suppliers Carbon neutrality along with the different topics that Each topic is of different importance to our stakeholdAuthorities International Customers are involved with it and the responsibility of working ers, although most topics have some importance to all. Governments Institutions & Regulators & Think Tanks Local to become better societies are the areas we consider To the right is a graphic demonstra­t ing which aspects Community General Public Business of most importance to us. On top is the list of aspects are of most importance to each of our stakeholders. Associations we consider material. On our Carbon Neutral & For more information about each topic and our sta­ Responsible Consulting section you can read more keholders see our Carbon Neutral & Responsible about each of them. Consulting section. DOWNSTREAM 24 United Nation Global Compact Principle Description Reference/Page human rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and p. 14 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. p. 14 laboUr 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; p. 14 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; p. 14 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and p. 14 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p. 14 environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; pp. 10-15 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and pp. 10-15 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. pp. 10-15 anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. pp. 15 25 Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Description Answer/Reference/Page Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the 1.1 pp. 4-5 organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. pp. 4-5 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. p. 20 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. p. 7 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint 2.3 p. 20 ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. p. 20 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are 2.5 p. 20 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. p. 20 2.7 Markets served. pp. 6-7 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. p. 21 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. None. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. None. Report Parameters REPORT PROFILE 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. p. 35 26 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). p. 35 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) p. 35 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. p. 35 REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY Process for defining report content, including: determining materiality; prioritizing topics within the report; and 3.5 pp. 22, 23 identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report. p. 23 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. p. 23 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 3.8 Not applicable. significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 3.9 p. 13 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such 3.10 Not applicable. re-statement. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the 3.11 Not applicable. report. GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. p. 25 ASSURANCE 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. p. 35 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for 4.1 p. 20 specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Not applicable. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest 4.3 Not applicable. governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance 4.4 Not applicable body. 27 Since the nature of our work is closely related Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives to social and environmental topics, no extra 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental linkage between performance and performance). compensation is needed. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. p. 20 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7 pp. 20, 21 body and its committees,including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 pp. 10-15 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or pp. 10-15, 20 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.10 pp. 10-15, 20 environmental, and social performance. COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. pp. 4, 5, 10-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 pp. 18, 19 organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: has 4.13 positions in governance bodies; participates in projects or committees; provides substantive funding; or views pp. 8, 18, 19 membership as strategic. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. p. 22 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. pp. 10-15, 18-21 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. pp. 10-15, 18-21 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 pp. 10-15, 18-21 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators Economic ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 28 Due to internal policies, it is not possible for Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, EC1 us to release all relevant information to donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. calculate this. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. pp. 4, 5 The company complies with all employee EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. benefits required by law. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. None. MARKET PRESENCE No member of our workforce is compensated Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of EC5 based on wages subject to minimum wage operation. rules. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. p. 15 The nature of our work, which requires highly-skilled labor on a new, very specific Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of EC7 area means that there's a limited pool of local significant operation. talent for the firm to rely on. Regardless, most of the firm's workforce is locally-hired. INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through The firm doesn't invest in infraestructure EC8 commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. directly. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. pp. 3-8 Environmental MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. pp. 12, 15 p. 12. We have not calculated the percentage EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. value for recycled input materials. ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. pp. 10, 11 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. pp. 11, 13 29 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. p. 11 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy EN6 None. requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. pp. 11, 13 WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. pp. 10, 12 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. None. At this time, we do not reuse or recycle any EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. water. BIODIVERSITY Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity EN11 Not applicable. value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of EN12 Not applicable. high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not applicable. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Not applicable. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, EN15 None. by level of extinction risk. EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. pp. 10, 13 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. None. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. pp. 10, 13 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. None. EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. None. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. None. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. pp. 10, 12 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. None. Not applicable. 30 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel EN24 Not applicable. Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by EN25 Not applicable. the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. p. 15 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Not applicable. COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with EN28 None. environmental laws and regulations. TRANSPORT Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s EN29 p. 13 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. OVERALL EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. None. Labor Practices and Decent Work EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. p. 21 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. p. 21 Full-time and project-based employees all receive the same benefits as stipulated by law. For full-time employees extra benefits Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant LA3 are available such as flexible workdays and locations of operation. hours, extended maternity-leaves and sick-days, work-from-home opportunities, gas and mobile phone vouchers, etc. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 100% LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 31 p. 14. Although the firm has an open policy that calls for freedom of association, no employee has chosen to be part of one. The LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. firm will support any employee that chooses to become part of a labour association in the future. Due to the small scale of the organization, LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. such information could be easily communicated to all. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY The firm doesn't have formal health and Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that LA6 safety committees, rather all employees take help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. part of conversations about those topics. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities by region and LA7 None. by gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their LA8 None. families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Not applicable because we do not have LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. agreements with trade unions. TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 33 hours per employee. The firm offered over 30 workshops, conferences, webinars and round-tables Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and LA11 opportunities focused on professional assist them in managing career endings. development for our employees to take part of. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 100% DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age LA13 p. 21 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. 1:1 32 Human Rights INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating pp. 14, 19. The firm didn't have any significant HR1 human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. investment. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights pp. 14, 15. The firm didn't have any significant HR2 screening, and actions taken. suppliers or contractors. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to HR3 pp. 14, 15 operations, including the percentage of employees trained. NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. pp. 10, 14, 15 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 p. 14 bargaining may be voilated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. CHILD LABOR Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures HR6 None. taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, HR7 p. 14 and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SECURITY PRACTICES The company doesn't employ security personel directly. The administrator of the building where our offices are locate Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human outsources the security service. It is unclear HR8 rights that are relevant to operations. to us to what degree they meet human rights criterias, but some some flags have been raised which we have communicated to the building administrator. INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. N/A 33 ASSESSMENT Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact HR10 None. assessments. REMEDIATION HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. N/A SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITY Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development SO1 None. programs. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. None. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts SO10 None. on local communities. CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 100% SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 100% SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. p. 15 PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. p. 19 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. None. ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. None. COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and SO8 None. regulations. 34 Product Responsibility CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and PR1 p. 15 percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety PR2 None. impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services PR3 Not applicable. subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service PR4 Not applicable. information and labeling, by type of outcomes. The firm doesn't have formal customer satisfaction surveys but does ask/receive recommendation letters from those clients PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. satisfied with our services. 100% of our clients have returned for a second or follow-up service. MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including PR6 Not applicable. advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 Not applicable. communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. CUSTOMER PRIVACY PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. None. COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of PR9 None. products and services. 35 This is our first sustainability report, covering the 2011 some common sceneries in the Dominican Republic and 2012 calendar years. Our plan is to release a report such as agricultural products (p. 9), sugar cane field annually, using the highest reporting guidelines and/or (p. 13), West Santo Domingo Skyline (p. 17) and rural frameworks available. This report was made following house facade (p. 21). the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 guideline, autodeclaring a compliance with the Application Level A. For any comments, feedback or enquiries about this It also incorporates some of the changes at the report these are the different ways to reach us: moment being proposed for the G4, although, since By email: these changes are still provisional, they may differ with servicios@oahead.com the final version. The report was not ensured externally but the firm has made the decision to seek external By phone: assurance for the following reports. +1 (809) 620-1447 All work for this report including the generation of conAt our office: tent, the graphic design and ensuring it meets GRI’s ONE AHEAD CONSULTING guidelines was done internally by our team. 128 Gustavo Mejía Ricart Ave. Edificio Elab, Suite 104 All images in this report are protected under copyright Evaristo Morales, Distrito Nacional laws and used under acquired rights and agreed Dominican Republic license terms. Imagines from this report showcase One Ahead Consulting 2011-2012 Report
