Sustainability Report 2013 CEO’s message Welcome to the second Aperam Contents Customer innovation as part of Sustainability Report 01 CEO’s message economic sustainability We publish this report to communicate our sustainability objectives, part of how we do 02 The approach at Aperam The economic pillar of responsible business is the main item business. We are a young company with an extensive legacy. Publishing our evolving strategic 06 Customer innovation and shared value covered in this second Sustainability Report, based on the approach and our year-on-year performance is an 14 The core fibre of safety principles of the Global Reporting Initiative and the United Nations important expression of our company values. Global Compact. 18 People at the heart of Aperam This year’s report gives an overview of our activities during the last 12 months and data for activities Last year I described the alignment of our Leadership Journey® and our Sustainability 22 The people in our communities objectives. Sustainability management includes responsible economic growth and innovation. through 2012. The report is guided by the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) sustainability reporting 24 Driving environmental improvement In order to progress in this direction, we have responded by reorganising our ‘top line’ guidelines and subject to external assurance. management (from raw materials to sales) through integration under a unique leadership Additional information about the initiatives 28 About this report of sourcing, sales and customer service, including Research and Development. Process covered in this report is available on our website improvements and product development are at the center of this new top line management, and from the regional company websites accessible 28 Assurance statement and accounts among the number one priority of our new Customer & Sourcing Officer. via our homepage. Our last year’s report and an This direction is supported by our belief that customer service and agility are determining accompanying GRI index can be downloaded 29 GRI index qualities in challenging markets. Quarter after quarter Aperam is shown to be the strongest at aperam.com. among its peers. We want our results to be seen not only as a good representative level of achievement in financial, marketing and operational terms, but also as a sign of responsible Feedback business. Our customers expect us to operate responsibly. Aligning sustainability practices Please, take a look inside. We invite you to reflect with commercial and operational competitiveness is our objective. For example, our on the past and look to the future: and please investment in a new line at Gueugnon was designed to provide energy efficiencies, safety spare a few minutes to give us your feedback on benefits and improved delivery schedules, in addition to better operating performance. things you liked or improvements you recommend. Apart from customer innovation, Aperam has been working on all directions as previously announced: Please contact us on sustainability@aperam.com • Our first Sustainability Report published in 2012 laid out how safety is front and centre in or +352 273627128. our lives here at Aperam. 2012 was clearly not a satisfactory year to this respect with fatal accidents in Timóteo and Imphy. Another challenge was a major fire at our Gueugnon plant. All these unfortunate events received my urgent and in-depth attention and the entire Aperam team has been redoubling efforts to get back on track towards zero accidents. • In 2012 we also continued our employee engagement and action plans. We responded with our (we+do) concept to intensify respect and collaboration across the Group. We also completed our commitments relating to training and succession plans. • With regards to emissions, we are delighted to now power our Brazilian furnaces solely with charcoal from our forest operations. In line with our commitment to revise our environmental targets, we now propose a new target to reduce the carbon intensity of our current sites by 35% by 2020. Economic conditions are uncertain and in Europe, even difficult. Aperam believes that Sustainability objectives are a key catalist to improve performance and ensure business continuity. Safety, service to customers, environment for our neighbours, process improvement to contain CO2 emissions are determining factors to allow Aperam benefitting from the new competitive landscape for the best of its stakeholders, people, customers and end users. Philippe Darmayan, Aperam CEO Our awards Stainless | Unmatched A better option all round Let’s not compromise when choosing materials, especially in clean The International Stainless Steel Forum (ISSF) has granted its 2012 Sustainability technology. Take air quality: without stainless steel, catalytic Award to Aperam for SolarStyl®, its pioneering solar panel technology. converters would not be as efficient; the substances they treat are Aperam South America is listed in the Sustainability Guide 2012 (Guia Exame de usually highly corrosive and active at high temperatures. On energy Sustentabilidade, published by Revista Exame) as one of the top 21 most sustainable organisations in Brazil in 2011. Some 150 companies were considered and Aperam efficiency, and thus carbon emissions, without it, condensing boilers scored 88.4% on social performance, while the average was 86.1%. would be far less efficient: condensates are corrosive. In countries For the third year running Aperam South America was selected as a top 150 Best where liquefied petroleum gas is used, without the strength and Place to Work. The ranking appears in the Guia Voce S/A – Exame edited by Editora ductility of stainless steel, piping the fuel would be less safe. And so Abril and the Foundation Institute of Administration (FIA). The listing recognises action taken on employee health and wellbeing. to water cleanliness: our steels guarantee lasting hygiene and prevent See more at aperam.com/sustainability Aperam is a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index series. surface bacteria growth. See other examples in this report! Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 01 The approach at Aperam The approach at Aperam The approach at Aperam We innovate with customers. We deliver quality stainless steels, specialties and alloys. We are tenacious in keeping costs as low as possible. We are a catalyst for new practices in our sector. Aperam is a leading global producer serving high-end, mature and emerging markets. Responsible manufacturing is simply part of how we work. The vision Our vision is to be the leading industry catalyst in stainless steel and specialties. Our passion, agility and ingenuity help us respond to change and prepare for the future. This is happening at Aperam in various areas, from raw material sourcing, pricing, people policy, operational investment, customer engagement and biomass energy, for example. See our Made for Life video and other media at aperam.com. Plants Fast facts: Unique strengths Key challenges Forest During a company’s ‘sustainability journey’, the relative importance of issues Service Centres • Long-term market position trends in mature markets as well will rise and fall. In 2012 our key challenges related to, firstly, business as demand from emerging markets sustainability: maintaining our edge as key catalysts of change, to • Global, integrated distribution channel to customers with continually reinvent how we manage the business. And, secondly, safety: a major focus on partnership for product opportunities constantly focusing on awareness, root causes and communication. We are moving forward. For us, 2011 was a year of transition but 2012, in many • Leading R&D: product and process innovation in ferritics, ways, was a year of transformation in pursuit of excellence. Our direction is high-end GO/NGO, nickel alloys and duplex for example; 18 9 22 6 $5.3bn agreed and we are aligned with our brand message ‘made for life’ and our facilities in France and Brazil underlying operational values of agility, leadership and ingenuity. • Continuous improvement programme driving cost efficiency and health & safety programme Resolute and agile, we have responded to challenging market US conditions. We have achieved our goal of US$250m cost savings without Service Centres Transformation Sales Offices Main Plants 2012 sales in 40 countries • Speciality steel production powered by low-cost charcoal compromising quality or innovation, and we progressed the integration of Facilities Belgium | Brazil | France (€4.1bn) from a unique upstream forestry sustainable energy asset our sourcing and commercial functions. Like many others in our sector we have reduced our workforce numbers, but all parties concerned have weathered it with integrity and a positive attitude. Fast facts: Profile Regretfully we endured three fatalities in 2012. We are resolute in tackling the causes of all accidents, we are redoubling our vigilance and setting Governance clear commitments for improvements. We have evolved our human Navigating a straight and trusted course is helped by a raft of policies to support the Public limited company in Luxembourg resources practices to adapt to the prevailing economic challenges too. Management Committee. These include our Code of Business Conduct, Insider Dealing So, we embrace the economic pillar of sustainability: where the Regulations and policies on risk management, anti-fraud. We aim to maintain high standards 1.68mt of integrity, accountability and responsible governance practices. We comply with the shipped Aperam offers management of wider risks and opportunities aims to create value at Luxembourg Stock Exchange Ten Corporate Governance Principles (Annual Report, page 42). in 2012 the widest every turn. While focusing on the ‘business case’, sustainability is part of what we do. We assess sustainability risks via our group risk register 2.5mt flat stainless steel capacity stainless steel product range 37% and management process (Annual Report, p13). We summarise To see our Annual Report, please visit aperam.com/whoWe have in place a committed and engaged Board of Directors who define our business Our Management Committee is entrusted with the day-to-day management of the of Aperam’s energy performance against targets and lessons learned in this report; in Europe and in the world are-we/investors-shareholders/ objectives under the advice of the Company, as authorised by the Board. Its is from biomass objectives and goals related to sustainability risks and opportunities South America aperam-reports Management Committee. The Chairman members are appointed and dismissed by are set to be delivered over a one to three year period. We are guided by our Sustainability, Performance and Strategy Committee which takes a is not an executive officer. The CEO has the Board. US$ million 2012 2011 2010 strategic view of what is at stake during our ‘sustainability journey’. ultimate accountability for our sustainability Our Sustainability, Performance and Strategy EBITDA 214 356 410 ethics, performance and compliance. Some Committee assists the Aperam Board’s 10% of the performance bonus of the CEO approach to sustainability. The committee Number of employees 9,806 10,533 9,904 and Management Committee members is met four times in 2012, with 100% Employee wages and benefits 688 761 709 linked to safety performance (Annual Report, attendance. A separate Sustainability Payments to suppliers 4,373 5,265 4,535 page 49). Shareholders can provide Steering Committee guides sustainability Taxes paid to government 59 58 61 recommendations to the highest governance management, risk, stakeholder relationships, body via the standard routes such as the reporting and assurance. Community investments 1.5 2 2 shareholders’ meeting. Employees can Payments to providers of funds 134 132 178 engage with the Management Committee Research & development 20 20 21 and CEO on a monthly basis on matters relating to safety and human resources. Economic value retained 69 203 171 Economic value generated 5,345 6,454 5,691 02 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 03 The approach at Aperam The approach at Aperam Developing how we manage sustainability Risk and issues Aperam’s Board of Directors Position Remuneration, Sustainability, Safety matters are listed as risk factors in our Annual Report, our CEO and Management held in Performance Audit and Risk Nomination Risk also means opportunity. Risk Name Age Gender Aperam’s Status Management and Corporate Committee are engaged on safety front and centre and we are redoubling our vigilance Board of and Strategy Committee Governance management processes, embedded in the Committee to make sure behaviours respect guidance on safety. Our safety guidance and policy are Directors Committee organisational culture, help decision-making emphatically underlined during our annual Health & Safety Day, in which members of the This engagement is coupled with by the leadership, allows opportunity to be Board of Directors also participate. Aperam’s Health & Safety Roadmap maintains a focus on a new concept to articulate the Lakshmi Mittal 62 M Chairman Non-independent spotted and acted upon, and supports key safety action, such as training and best practice sharing, through the year. We continue reciprocity, closeness, respect and continuous improvement. Our Combined to work towards a goal of zero accidents and injuries. engagement between employee and Romain Bausch 59 M Member Independent Assurance risk management function Member Chairman On people matters, we used our employee motivation and engagement survey to keep company. Known as (we+do), the facilitates the risk management process abreast of sentiment and satisfaction in Aperam. We are taking forward the actions resulting aims are to increase the motivation and prepares the Risk Management David Burritt 57 M Member Independent from the last survey. Safety, compensation and work-life balance are the top three issues of and the engagement of all our reporting documentation for both the Chairman Member importance to employees. employees, retain key people and Management Committee and the Audit attract the best candidates, and & Risk Management Committee. Kathryn Matthews 53 F Member Independent We have initiated new leadership development programmes, building on our Human Member Member create a strong employer branding. Resources policies launched in 2011 and we run our Continuous Improvement Challenge Our framework for managing risk is based on: Aditya Mittal 36 M Member Non-independent to recognise the skills and values of Aperam employees and management. • COSO Enterprise Risk Management Framework Laurence Mulliez 46 F Member Independent • ISO31000 principles and guidelines for Member Member risk management Material issues 2012-13 and engaging with stakeholders What are our key material issues? Gonzalo Urquijo 51 M Member Non– Independent • Benchmarking with external companies. Chairman 1 Health and Safety Our Audit and Risk Management Issues that have a material impact on our stakeholders, the environment and on us are assessed in a structured way by our Sustainability Steering Committee by division first and 2 Economic value generated Committee supports the Board of then consolidated at Aperam level, to identify the most important for our reporting. Other Directors in fulfilling their corporate issues that are omitted, or that do not receive substantial coverage in the report, are of lower 3 Local air quality governance duties relating to defining and materiality. Absence from our report does not necessarily mean that an issue is not managed. 4 Labour relations reviewing risk, managing risk assessment, and risk audit. The Sustainability, We have assessed the priority attached People involved in our materiality process 5 Business integrity Performance and Strategy Committee by our stakeholders, and internally, to include internal experts in our Sustainability advises the Board on wider, sustainability 6 Energy use and efficiency sustainability issues. Issues raised by Steering Committee, employees (via a wider risks. Page seven of our Risk Management stakeholders are subject to review by our survey) and dialogue with unions. As part 7 Materials use efficiency Manual describes risk as a pillar of Sustainability, Performance and Strategy of our wider sustainability approach we corporate governance and the 8 Greenhouse gas emissions Committee. Where the issue meets certain engage with shareholders (AGM), customers organisational responsibilities for risk. risk related classifications (internally and (constantly and through Customer 9 Use of recycled materials Our Aperam Anti-Fraud Policy and externally-focused) we formulate a way to Satisfaction Surveys), communities (notably 10 Waste management Whistleblower Charter allow employees to manage it and will include it as appropriate those close to our operations and through raise concerns over possible irregularities in our public reporting. Aperam Acesita Foundation programmes) 11 Ozone depleting emissions in financial practices. and local suppliers, academic bodies, the ISSF (and other trade bodies). 12 Customer satisfaction 13 Employee development and engagement 14 Environmental management and compliance 15 Water use and recycling Our most material issues 16 Local supply chain engagement 17 Local employment 4 5 1 2 Critical 6 7 3 18 Waste water Aperam offers the widest stainless steel product range in the world Current or potential impact on Aperam 19 Human rights 8 11 12 20 Community involvement 9 10 Major 13 14 21 Environmental fines incurred Accountability, control and influence 22 Biodiversity 16 18 Moderate 21 15 17 19 20 Activities that are not managed appropriately may present engagement ((we+do) for example) is an important process to challenges from a sustainability perspective. Competition for build ways of working that allow leadership to be accountable We have initiated new water or land, amenity impacts for local communities, and and the rest of the employees to hold leaders to account. 22 Minor leadership development greenhouse gas emissions from our operations are examples of We manage our business so that we do not infringe stakeholders’ this. We encourage wider debate on the expansive benefits to Minor Moderate Major Critical programmes, building on our society as a result of the use of our stainless steels, alloys and rights as defined by national and international laws and norms; for example we uphold employees’ labour rights according to Level of concern to stakeholders Human Resources policies speciality products. The in-house approach to employee Brazilian labour relations and representation laws. Safety Governance and commerce Environmental People and community 04 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 05 agile Customer innovation and shared value Our customers and end users expect an overriding focus on quality and cost. But we strive to go further: to be bold and to innovate beyond what the customer expects. Taking advantage of Aperam’s ingenuity, we catalyse the astonishing properties of our products and adapt to economic challenges. The commercial environment over recent years has presented challenges. Raw material price rises and volatility present demanding impacts on operators, whilst the European market has seen some significant manufacturing consolidation in 2012. Against this background, Aperam responds with innovation and new ways of organising our business for greater customer benefits. All this takes place as the products we make continue to get better and to serve a supreme diversity of needs in industry and society. Stainless steel was first discovered and commercialised a century ago: and now we look forward to countless future opportunities. Indicator We said We did We will Establish and monitor action plan in We will run a new survey in 2013 for Customer: ✔ Achieved response to customer surveys in 2012 both Europe and South America markets continue pursuit of excellence in Phase 2 of Commercial Excellence Project in Review how excellence in commercial customer Europe and logistics performance in South ✔ performance is measured under the satisfaction America; common performance monitoring On track, and under review re‑organised Aperam for commercial teams Promote the development and marketing 30% of portfolio will comprise 200 of high volume less expensive alloys ✔ Achieved series, ferritics and duplex (less nickel content) Product: Ramp up commercial developments in ✔ Launch new sector marketing teams by maintain innovative oil & gas, water, desalination and On track, in response to the end of 2013 profile sustainable construction market segmentation New collaborations with key universities Intensify collaborations with universities ✔ covering stainless steel application in and utility companies On track food industry and hospitals Stainless | Unmatched How we work Fit for a severe environment Agility Stainless steel presents architects with many possibilities for As is our way, we have a deftly innovative response shape, colour and form, whilst being tough, hygienic, adaptable and recyclable. But stainless steel is also corrosion and fire resistant, to market conditions by, for instance, more tightly it offers superior strength and load-bearing capacity for a longer aligning our sourcing and our sales functions; the time than equivalent carbon steel forms. result is rapid improvement in customer terms and This can therefore allow buildings to use stainless members without more stable prices. protection. This can lower construction costs, shorten construction periods, make better use of interior space, improve the working environment and make the building more aesthetically pleasing. Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 06 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 07 Customer innovation and shared value Customer innovation and shared value Responding with agility 60 seconds with the So what is Aperam’s response? Chief Commercial & Sourcing Officer Our aim is to continue adding value for customers and end users as well as investing in the future, by improving products, production As described above, we reorganised our sourcing and equipment and processes. commercial functions bringing mill and service centre sales together, with stronger global marketing and a Our immediate response has been to reorganise how we serve our leaner organisation where the teams are closer than customers so that they can have a clear single point of contact for ever to site operations. product sales from mills and service centres. We are simplifying how we organise supply chain management, procurement and commercial sales management. We have established a strong integrated trading Tim di Maulo. Tim di Maulo was appointed Chief Commercial and sourcing department. Our agility means we can work to achieve & Sourcing Officer (CCSO) in May 2012. what we call ‘effective pricing’ for customers, for example by using Exceeding customer needs an overhead at current London Metal Exchange (LME) nickel prices rather than those of previous months. Customers like this: it helps Recent global context them avoid, or limit, passing raw material price volatility to their end Market conditions present big challenges to our sector. Among these was the financial crisis of 2009, the European budget crisis of 2012, user customers. a slide in infrastructure investment, tax increases hitting consumption and European stainless steel structural overcapacity. Our response also means practical changes on site. At Gueugnon we Analysts see the dynamic markets to be China, India, some Asian Consumer durables tend to be more price sensitive as consumers have invested heavily in a new production line – the ‘RD79’. We can countries, NAFTA and Latin America, while the stagnating markets often have alternatives at hand (coated carbon steels, aluminium, buffer customers against raw material price volatility but we can also are seen by some to be Europe (UK, Spain, France) and Japan. The US plastics). While investment goods are more stable in their improve delivery times through such production investments. This market was strong in 2010 and 2011, with a good outlook in 2013 specifications but with a lot more volatility in the face of the amounts to a series of attractive innovations for customers. when it is likely to grow faster than most European markets. economic situation, as we saw in 2009. So the sector is developing Also, we maintain a clear momentum in product development – this strategies to face highly demanding raw material prices: our inputs The forces of globalisation and a strong Euro have impacted the remains a clear long-term focus for our teams. We have continued to comprise scrap, molybdenum, ferrochrome, nickel, pig iron, oil and competitiveness of our customers, and their financial vulnerability work on ‘lean Duplex’ products, for example DX2202, and we have electricity; and each is exposed to volatility. has been further affected by strict policies of credit insurers. Also, succeeded in promoting our KARA® K33X in the automotive sector. in some market segments, such as automotive, there are signs As a result, we focus here on the ‘economic pillar’ of sustainability, Finally, we continue our long-term partnerships and associations to of overcapacity globally. that part of the equation that sustains the financial health of a help retain our market profile and position at the heart of the industrial company. Agility, one of our key values, is really brought to life as A positive development for us in 2012 was the decision of the production chain. This encompasses deep collaboration with original we cope successfully with these adverse conditions. Brazilian government to increase tariffs on stainless steel to equipment manufacturers (OEM) such as PSA, Renault, Mercedes, compensate for the loss of competitiveness resulting from the Doosan, Indesit and Sidem, Technip, Valtimet as well as evolving high value of the Brazilian Real. See page 11 of our Annual Report product development approaches and new materials with Bosch. for a market analysis. How has Aperam responded to the tighter Cutting diesel pollutants For the long-term: market conditions? “R&D teams play an essential role to We have integrated further the commercial and sourcing understand what direction the world Our automotive customer team have scored a great achievement. Aperam as ‘strategic supplier’ (again) functions. This includes raw material purchasing, direct mill Working with automotive partners, Aperam’s K33X ferritic grade sales, service and solutions sales, marketing and research is heading in and anticipate needs.” has been developed and approved for use in a new selective Aperam Stainless Europe achieved the accolade as Indesit’s & development. Also, sales teams will be working closely catalytic reduction (SCR) system to remove nitrogen oxides ‘strategic supplier’ for the fifth consecutive year. This acknowledges with buyers to take advantage of how the commodity Tim di Maulo, Chief Commercial & Sourcing Officer (NOx) from diesel engine exhaust gases. quality, innovation, service and stability. Indesit is planning further markets work in order to provide benefits that we can development of small appliances, hoods and sinks, focusing on the share with customers. The SCR will be these partners’ production cars of 1.6L or less Middle East, South Africa, Turkey and Russia. Indesit was founded from 2014, to help meet the EURO6 environmental standard. in 1975, has a €2.8 billion turnover, 16,000 employees and 16 What will be different? Five benefits of our recent For five years we have been developing the skills of specialist engineers at the Isbergues research centre in anticipation of this production sites; it is the second largest European producer of household appliances, producing the Hotpoint-Ariston, Scholtes We have simplified the way customers can access products from mills and Services & Solutions division. changes for customers: standard. This dedicated automotive competence is unique on and Indesit brands. Better synergies exist between sales and sourcing teams. We continue to innovate and be a catalyst in the sector, the European market. for example by minimising our working capital and hedging R  aw material cost savings buffering our open nickel position on the London Metal Exchange. for customers Aperam’s primary brands and products What about R&D? R&D teams play an essential role to understand what Tailored pricing solutions In Europe, our product offering comprises a wide range of grades direction the world is heading in and anticipate needs. such as duplex and primary brands such as KARA® (a nickel-free It will be more focused on the needs of the market to ferritic grade). From our Imphy site we offer a large range of forged, Trusted strategic partner: drawn bars or billets from continuous casting whilst Aperam Alloys create new opportunities for customers. increased product sales 2011-2012 Amilly provides our magnetic alloys offering; we are also known What are the challenges in the future? for our specific electrical and specialist carbon steels. Alongside With the merger between Outokumpu and Inoxum production is our Services & Solutions division that offers distribution (ThyssenKrupp), European competition will change Unrivalled technical support services as well as customised steel solutions, relating to, for significantly. However, while they deal with the impacts example, tubes and precision steels. of the merger, a real opportunity opens to us. We can Long-term partnerships: For all details on our products please follow the links from strengthen our market and commercial position if we remain faithful to our values of agility, ingenuity and leadership. great teams working on solutions together www.aperam.com. 08 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 09 Customer innovation and shared value Customer innovation and shared value Solid customer service: how it works here Heart of the industry: collaborations in practice Flexing our muscles: Whilst we adapt to changing conditions we also ensure the basic approach to managing Our ambition is to be a lead catalyst in the industry in stainless and electrical steel and specialities, allowing us to be customer and product affairs is intact and evolving. Engagement with customers is constant. RD79 in action competitive through operational efficiency and to create wealth for all stakeholders, especially customers. We work The significant investment at Gueugnon alongside customers consistently at Management Committee level as well at shop-floor level. Commercial policy and marketing strategy been established and monitored and many into the new production line known as are set centrally. Revised in 2012, our Risk were implemented on sites according to their ‘RD79’ will, when it is commissioned, Management Policy allows the company to market segment, relating to logistics, claims, allow us to further improve our response assess risk relating to changing customer commercial relationships, terms and conditions, demands and market trends. It requires each technical assistance, product development to the needs of customers in terms of Kicking off with quality in Brazil’s World quality and timeliness. Hot-rolled division and corporate function to cascade and communication in 2012. These will products will see improved delivery Cup stadium risk management in accordance with continue in 2013 and a new survey will be times and lower breakage rates; flatness Aperam’s Risk Management Guidelines. launched in September 2013 to check their 2012 saw the inauguration of Brazil’s first World Cup stadium! is substantially improved too. Also, it will impacts. Quality management at Aperam is Internally we build connections and carry strengthen our product offering in line The façade of the stadium prominently features stainless steel plates underpinned by plant-level training, audit and out training for sales teams on new offers, with US materials standards. 42 metres high fixed between 68 pillars on the stadium façade. In total defect detection. Existing certifications include new grades and team building. For example, Aperam South America supplied 80 tons of ferritic stainless steel. ISO9001, OHSAS18001, ISO/TS16949. we have a common development programme Aperam steel was also used for railings, sanitary fittings and locks on across Europe and Brazil, which is also a Specialist quality software and operator the site. Aperam steel will also be used in the National Stadium in Brasilia. vector through which we share R&D progress. training are implemented in our plants. The Good Products software ensures coil We survey customer expectations every year in quality for each tool and results show that South America and every two years in Europe. the software revealed early quality risks, for “The material is highly reliable, not only for the security In 2012, South America returned a score of related applications but also for aesthetics and maintenance example furnace temperature in annealing. 8.05 (49 clients)✱ , compared to 8.17 in 2011. It is in place at Gueugnon, Genk and Châtelet. purposes; we value the low-maintenance aspect and Subsequently, an action plan to improve Another software tool provides a structured 100% recyclability” logistics is now in place in Brazil. In 2011, method for each work station to allow Aperam Stainless Europe returned a score of Vicente Castro Mello, project architect procedural rigour in order that risks to 7.1 (170 respondents)✱ compared to 7.3 in quality, health and environmental control 2008. Logistics (6.5), claims stettlement (6.3) are minimised. and development performances (6.9) were challanged by our clients. Action plans have A helicopter view of stainless steel at an altitude of 3835 meters Safe products through the life-cycle Sitting in a valley, this project required several months of studies to resolve the issues surrounding the construction of this capped and Health and safety impacts of products are assessed at the metallurgical design stage and certification relating to materials safety in faceted building. Precision to the nearest millimeter was required the use phase is in place. This applies to all significant products. Stainless steel is manufactured and independently certified according in view of the extreme conditions. Mat finished and durable, the to international standards such as the EN, ASTM and UNS series. We are regularly audited on these certifications. stainless steel roofing material responds to both the climatic and Our latest material safety data sheets confirm the absence of health or toxicological hazards. We meet European regulations and French environmental requirements. ministerial decrees relating to materials intended to come into contact with food. Temperatures which can plummet to minus 40 degrees, the concept Finally, Aperam Stainless Steel Europe achieved compliance with EU REACH regulations again as our products do not contain any substance was to create a shell with a capacity to accommodate 120 people. listed on the Candidate List of the European Chemical Agency. This project comprises type 304L austenitic stainless steel for the outer cladding, perfectly suited to the extreme weather conditions in mountainous regions thanks to its surface finish, mechanical properties, ease of transformation and installation, An accolade for Aperam: whilst being recyclable. Star Supplier 2013 Making for life Aperam South America has been recognised the ‘best commercial service’ provider for its work with Flexibrás, part of the Technip Group, world leader in engineering and construction. They use our duplex grades for flexible tubes in marine oil extraction: we provided bespoke adaptations to meet client needs. The reasons for this recognition are: Cooking up innovation with Demeyere • Aperam is close to the customer Demeyere worked with Aperam Alloys Imphy on a specialist heat-tolerant metallurgy. • Our agility helps solve any quality or commercial issues It is now possible to produce cooking utensils and heating induction containers that • Short production lead time compared to imported material will not exceed a given temperature. One of the first applications has been in cookers where this feature prevents food from burning and fat from overheating. This also helps • Strategic storage of hot rolled material. protect non-stick coatings because they degrade during prolonged heating over 240°C . “We are proud to provide products that meet the The benefits are numerous, in terms of energy savings, ease of use and ensuring the highly demanding requirements of a national oil and maximum life for cooking utensils. gas supply chain” Clênio Guimarães, Chief Operating Officer, Stainless & Electrical Steel South America 10 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 11 Customer innovation and shared value Customer innovation and shared value Innovation, long term Energy scarcity Solarstyl® growth We are proud of the extraordinary properties of stainless steel and we never stop exploring the opportunities Stainless steel is currently used in providing alternative energy resources and in promoting Last year we reported on our that lie around the next corner. No other material offers the durability, resilience, resistance to corrosion and heat, photovoltaic products using our energy efficiency. Opportunities are expected to as well as outstanding mechanical properties at high temperatures. Stainless steel is perfect where hygiene is grow with the further development of liquefied K44 grade for façade and roofing mandatory, it is endlessly recyclable and easily recycled, it is safe and it has a noble and aesthetic attraction to natural gas (LNG), deep sea fossil fuels and shale components. Over 2012 we have seen gas, for example. And as renewable energy some steady growth particularly in many end users and specifiers. France. We recorded 3,000m2 sold and technologies form a greater part of our energy No wonder the end users are so diverse. mix we will see further opportunities for installed. The French governmental stainless steel, building on existing product support available to end users has offerings in solar, wind, biomass, hydroelectric, undoubtedly benefited this market. Stainless steel market by segment wave and geothermal systems. Market 2012: 30.5mt Consumer goods Crucially, stainless and electrical steels are Other Applications Appliances Catering equipment found to have a key role in many energy 3 37 Tableware Lifestyle products efficiency systems, in distribution grids, Air quality and emissions regulations household appliances and construction. To improve air quality globally we anticipate that the choice of materials used in infrastructure Transportation Oil and Gas Electrical steels allow great efficiency in 12 and industry will change. Industrial processes, transportation systems, power utilities and Passenger cars Trucks Off-road vehicles Trains Ships Motorbikes % Hardware Sub-sea equipment Topside equipment Refining and distribution energy generation and energy saving applications. In South America for example, construction projects are increasingly specifying ‘lower carbon’ options with lower life-cycle costs. And specialist technologies such as carbon capture and storage and other nitrogen oxide 19 Aperam is the sole producer of grain-oriented emissions control technologies are being applied more widely. Stainless steel is specified in such Architecture, building and construction 17 Industrial Use (GO) and non-grain oriented (NGO) electrical applications because over the long term, its life-cycle costs are compelling. Structural tube Ornamental tube Cladding Roofing Chimney linings Elevators 12 Chemical Petrochemical Food processing Pulp and paper Water treatment Manufacturing steels. Their excellent magnetic properties Re-bars Swimming pools Heating systems Pharmaceutical allow higher efficiency of electrical equipment. In the transport sector, fuel economy and CO2 emissions are increasingly regulated around the world. Stainless exhaust systems are increasingly used for their excellent service life and resistance to high temperatures. Lighter car bodies of stainless steel will improve fuel economy, As society and governments become more conscious of sustainability without compromising safety. Extensive tests carried out in recent years with all the leading considerations, the growth in the use of stainless steel has been the In use: roofing carmakers in Europe and the United States show that the total cost of body parts can justify highest of any material in the world. the use of stainless steels. Stainless steel functions in even the most severe environments. Compound annual growth rate of major metals (%/year): It has high physical and thermal shock properties. Ferritic stainless 1980 2010 steel for example combines easy-to-clean features with durability Average: 2.47% and lightness. Our excellent surface finishes, UGINOX® tinned and UGITOP®, present great flexibility and durability for compelling Lead 1.93% architectural forms. For example, at St Lawrence Church in northern England UGINOX FME was installed. The design The non-grain oriented (NGO) electrical steels are used in compressors for refrigerators Copper 2.56% resembled the form of the original roof and the tin oxides forming on the replacement ferritic stainless steel gives a patina that Zinc 2.43% blends perfectly with the traditional appearance desired. Demographic change Aluminium 3.09% As mega-trends in world population growth, Stainless growth in sugar cane and ethanol such as ageing population and urbanisation, Aperam South America is a leading supplier to the sugar and alcohol industry in Brazil. Carbon steel 2.32% intensify we can note a series of changes in Substituting carbon steel with stainless improves productivity and product quality society’s consumption habits. An example is there, in line with new corporate policies. Tests run with the sugarcane sector Stainless steel 5.57% the potential demand for products that show stainless steel as a more cost-effective option in sugarcane mills, sometimes promote or preserve hygienic conditions, by up to 40%. The relationships, technical developments and test results are very ISSF, Stainless Steel in Figures 2012 and for products that meet increasingly attractive to customers such as the Raizen Group featured here. And stainless steel will see further demand in line with global trends stringent demands on quality. Carbon steel is increasingly being substituted in processes such as washing, over the next 15 years relating to scarcity of energy resources, ore, The stainless church roof has excellent resistance to high wind, evaporation and milling: the intention is to achieve a ‘100% stainless steel sugar food and water as well as climate change and demographic shifts. Our is lead-free and inert. and ethanol mill’. Cleaning costs are reduced, equipment lasts longer, and, vitally, research team is already working on the resulting future opportunities St Lawrence Church, Doncaster – United Kingdom the quality and price of sugar improves as ’black spots’ in the product are reduced. for Aperam. In 2012 we maintained our €20m commitment to our R&D Architect: Wiles and Maguire Ltd Cachaça of quality programmes in Isbergues, Imphy and Timóteo. Contractor: A+K Bridgett & Sons (Tickhill) Installer: CEL Cachaça is a popular beverage made from fermented sugarcane juice. Aperam’s stainless steel components The ‘anti-fingerprint’ product UGINOX Cleantouch® are used in reservoirs, preheating tanks, condensers, fermentation tanks and Our sales, production and Isbergues R&D teams have been working on a homogenisation tanks. The very smooth special coating on a stainless steel substrate. It aims to provide resistance to surface of stainless steel prevents the chemical change, heat, ultra-violet light, and shocks and scratches. It is also accumulation of impurities on the intended to be robust and easy to clean. The product will serve different surface of the processing tanks. This markets such as kitchen appliances, interiors and sanitary applications. and other benefits allow a better quality Sugarcane plantation Example of Aperam’s stainless Stainless steel grades K39MD product at a competitive price. Sante! steel inserts in sugar and and K44 alcohol mills 12 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 13 safe The core fibre of safety Aperam people are briefed and trained on safety. It is central to the Continuous Improvement Challenge. It is a vital part of customer visits. There is an annual Health & Safety Day which is well attended and there is a competency framework to make sure people have the right skills and equipment to do their job safely. Safety management must be a journey of vigilance. We capture this commitment in Aperam’s Health & Safety Roadmap. There are complex reasons behind decisions that human beings make. We know that we must constantly focus on being vigilant on safety behaviour. We work in high risk operating environments. We are accountable for our own safety. We look out for the safety of those around us. This is part of who we are. Indicator We said We did We will Combined LTIFR (Employees 0.7 1.3 Recover 2011 and contractors, all regions) results Fair Play Policy Implement Fair Play ✔ On track Monitoring the Policy, group wide Policy implemented in strict application most of the units of Fair Play Policy Absenteeism 2.6% 2.4% 2.1% Stainless | Unmatched How we work Safer than plastic Leadership Minute amounts of elements may be released from stainless steel Heightened vigilance is reinforced: our Management during normal wear and tear, but any releases are highly dependent on the quality of the stainless steel. Iron, nickel, manganese, and Committee instigated four key safety priorities: even chromium are naturally occurring and safe to ingest in trace visible leadership, root and branch risk evaluation, amounts. Our stainless steel meets stringent materials safety clear understanding of good practice to achieve regulations. So in catering and home kitchen products for example it is important to make sure that the right grade of stainless is used fatality prevention, and safety auditing for managers. for each application. Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 14 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 15 The core fibre of safety The core fibre of safety How we manage safety What happened in 2012? Safety performance, group level and by region1 Sharing good practice every day Safety is paramount at Aperam. We consider any injury to be Regrettably, three tragic fatalities occurred in 2012. We have a very unacceptable and all incidents to be preventable. Our Health strong Health & Safety culture at Aperam and this tragic news was Group During our monthly Health & Safety & Safety Roadmap aims to show progress towards our longmet with shock. Aperam’s Health & Safety Committee has identified Aperam’s safety management indicators 2007–2012 show a positive trend Committee meetings we work to term goal of zero accidents and injuries: all our employees and and the Management Committee has validated four key priorities: promote improved vigilance with 3.0 0.30 contractors must arrive home safely at the end of every shift. better visible leadership, more training, 2.5 0.25 a focus on contractor safety, better We focus on the ‘behavioural dimension’ to health and safety 2.0 0.20 safety reporting and best practice to ensure that every person in Aperam takes responsibility; 1. Maintain a visible leadership: sharing. We know there is work to do, we are all accountable. In line with our Health & Safety Policy to lead by example and avoid accidents through 1.5 0.15 for example on improving root cause all of us at Aperam complete health and safety training. This appropriate behaviour. 1.0 0.10 analyses of accidents and reporting. provides a strong foundation and a supreme safety ethos in 0.5 0.05 the organisation. 2. T  op-down and bottom-up risk evaluation: Safety Flash – Aperam Stainless Europe 2.7 0.19 2.3 0.21 1.8 0.09 2.0 0.23 0.7 0.08 1.3 0.07 We actively encourage the sharing of best practice to enhance we will map all root causes of accidents, all employees 0.0 0.00 also releases a monthly bulletin on 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 our ‘zero accident’ culture, a commitment clearly demonstrated in and contractors must report every accident and near-miss security and safety at each plant. Also, our Health & Safety Day in 2012. In addition, we hold a monthly and best practices will be shared. LTI Frequency Rate Severity Rate Services & Solutions in Luxembourg management level meeting focusing on health and safety. All installed three canteen screens to operations participate and Aperam’s CEO is involved in each 3. ‘Good safety practices’: send out ‘express safety messages’, one. Enshrined in the laws of the countries where we operate, clear understanding of good practice will support our reminding us all to reflect on safety at Combined Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) work, on the road and at home. our employees are represented by formal management worker immediate aim to achieve level 3 in applying fatality safety committees. For example, Works Councils in Europe, and in prevention standards. The long-term aim is level. S. America, Working at height – To maintain a good Brazil 100% of our employees are represented by CIPA members incl BioEnergia Europe Services & Solutions Alloys & Specialties record on working at height Aperam in all production sites. Employees and temporary workers are 4. Recognise the importance of auditing for managers: 15.0 LTIFR = 0.5 LTIFR = 2.2 LTIFR = 0.9 LTIFR = 4.2 Imphy provided additional mandatory represented by trade unions. All French employees and temporary it improves the understanding of safety risks and 10.0 training for 20 contractors on site. workers are covered by collective agreements signed with local procedures. Managers must apply a Hazard Identification 5.0 independent trade unions; formal safety agreements exist and Risk Analysis before conducting any risky activity. Carefully does it – In Duisburg Aperam 4.0 between Aperam and the local trade unions. has made the unloading of scrap 3.0 and waste safer. Forklifts have been Our focus on behavioural management with respect to safety adapted to grab their loads from above, 2.0 revolves around three key elements, see below. We measure our progress based on the frequency and severity of making its extraction easier and safer. 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.4 accidents. Our combined lost time incident frequency rate (LTIFR) 1.0 for employees and contractors was 1.3 ✱ (this means 1.3 injuries 1.8 0.7 1.3 5.0 0.8 0.0 0.6 2.9 0.6 0.0 2.7 14.6 Greater vigilance resulting in lost time per million working hours). Our Brazilian 0.0 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 We must couple the briefings and campaigns, such as the Golden operations include manufacturing and forestry so the overall risk “We have the ambition to Employees Subcontractors Rules, with constant guidance on risk and reaction. Employee participation is vital: in each meeting’s safety-share, in regular profile differs; in 2012 the LTIFR in Brazil was 0.5. Our absenteeism Severity rate be the safest company in rate was 2.4% in 2012, indicating a small reduction from 2011 of safety meetings, task briefings and contractor engagement absences as a result of occupational disease, chronic health issues S. America, stainless, electrical steel as well as our Health & Safety Day. and work related stress.1 The rate varied from 1.0% in Brazil, 3.0% in incl BioEnergia Europe Services & Solutions Alloys & Specialties and specialities: both for France, 3.9% in Belgium and 2.8% for other sites. 0.35 Severity rate = 0.00 Severity rate = 0.20 Severity rate = 0.11 Severity rate = 0.04 contractors and for our own Fair Play Policy In April, employees and executives from all plants, service centres 0.30 personnel. In safety we have Our Fair Play Policy is our commitment for each of us to be and sales offices took part in our annual Health & Safety Day. The 0.25 accountable for our safety and the safety of colleagues, focus was: ‘stop, think and act safely’. It was an opportunity to 0.20 only one shared objective: whatever the pay grade. Where one’s actions become collaborate with contractors, temporary workers, trade union leaders 0.15 no accident” too risky this policy allows us to speak up to help reduce and members of the community on Aperam’s most important health infringements of safe practice. and safety issues. Topics included occupational diseases, emergency 0.10 Jean-Paul Rouffiac, Chief Operating responses, wellbeing and contractor safety. 0.05 Officer, Aperam Stainless Europe 0.01 0.24 0.00 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.23 0.05 0.22 0.14 0.13 0.00 0.12 0.00 0.04 0.00 From the top down and the shop-floor up 0.00 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Executive pay is directly linked to safety performance. The Employees Subcontractors executive team deliberate intensely on safety. Our Head of Health & Safety is responsible for collecting performance 1. A bsenteesim data cover significant sites only, BioEnergia is included. Data exclude absence resulting from lost time accidents and illness longer than six months. 1 Number of injuries, including first-aid level injuries, resulting in lost time per million working hours information and disseminating learning, best practices, The absenteeism rate for 2011 was reported last year as 2.8%, we restate it this standards and awareness across the group. year as 2.6% owing to improvements in data systems. Where are we going? Risk reminders Maintain target-beating LTIFR with constant vigilance for further improvement 10% A new poster campaign launched on Health & Safety Day 2012 aimed to truly embed a daily ‘stop, think, act safely’ instinct in all Implement Fair Play Policy group wide, reinforce employees and contractors. The message: that safety must always Leadership by Example come first. Employees and contractors should work together to Improve quality of root cause analyses of all accidents, apply ‘shared vigilance’. attack the ‘base of the pyramid’ We didn’t stop there. Aperam’s Continuous Improvement Challenge of Aperam executives’ Improve contractor safety, best practice sharing, 2012 was designed to showcase the continuous improvement and manage by project performance incentive is ambition of our operations with respect to Health & Safety. Health and Safety in three acts linked to safety performance 16 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 17 People at the heart of Aperam ingenious People at the heart of Aperam Every day the initiative, agility and responsiveness of our people enable us to develop cutting-edge products, build great customer relationships and adapt to our environment, for example, with new ways of communicating, ‘cloud-based’ working practices, and reorganising how we trade or sell. We listen to our employees, they are a key stakeholdergroup. We support them so that they are equipped to develop themselves and deliver innovative, high quality products on time. Our colleagues value their training so we are reinforcing competency development and putting safety objectives in each manager’s annual performance plan. We are also seeing women take more positions at senior levels, and we are emphasising the total reward packages available here. We have transformed into a leaner, more agile Aperam. And whilst we know this has presented challenges for our people, we have actively responded to their concerns and experienced positive dialogue throughout. Indicator We said We did We will 84% of employees followed a Annual training plans Training plans in 93% of plants 90% of employees by 2014 training plan in 2012 Maintain GEDP for 100% of Regular career development Apply GEDP for 100% of reviews managers and 95% of exempts ✔ Achieved managers, achieve it for 97% of exempts Employee development and Launch new Employee Value Fully implement the Employee engagement Proposition initiative ✔ Achieved Value Proposition in 2014 Succession plans for 80% of Succession plans in place Succession plan to fully cover for management senior managers and 90% of ✔ Achieved Aperam management middle managers Stainless | Unmatched How we work Precision specialists Agility Stainless steel can be made at gauges of 0.3mm or less! Composed, productive, light on our feet: our people Such ultra-thin products (<0.3mm – 2.5mm) can also be annealed in different profile shapes, widths and tolerances. For more than adapt and respond to changes in the commercial 100 years, two of our French mills have been dedicated to cold environment, to workplace incidents, and to a rolling of special steels: this experience has enabled us to become collective effort to do better. Aperam has to react, a specialist in ultra-thin stainless steel serving highly complex customer demands. Our teams at our production sites react quickly but our people see the direction and help us get to provide products and samples; so if you have an ultra-thin design there. This is an excellent example of respect and in mind, pick up the phone and call our experts! working relationships in action. Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 18 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 19 People at the heart of Aperam People at the heart of Aperam Our people approach What happened in 2012? In 2012, Aperam (including BioEnergia) directly employed 9,745 ✱ people with A continued focus on training In 2012 we achieved our target of In the pursuit of excellence and continuous improvement, 2012 was a year of transformation. Commercial change naturally impacts permanent contracts and 62 people with establishing annual training plans for we continue to deliver the objectives of our Human Resources on people, their jobs and their opinions. We track what they think. These fixed-term contracts. We also employed 452 84% of our employees. We maintained our Policy which aims to ensure employee retention, equal focus areas are guided by the outcomes of our 2011 Leadership Survey. trainees and temporary workers worldwide. investment of €7 million in training, while opportunities, safety and career development. Our Engagement and Motivation Survey of employees in 2012 highlighted Our headquarters are in Luxembourg delivering 321,207 hours of employee the most important issues to be safety, pay and work-life balance. As a however 40% of us are located in Brazil. Our training. Of all training delivered, technical Crucially, we want our colleagues to have skills that are result we focused on four priorities in 2012: overall permanent employee turnover was and safety (including environmental) are 8.7%, an increase of 0.7% on 2011. Overall the top topics (32% and 29% respectively) “The success of Aperam ‘made for life’, which help us meet the needs of our business and our customers. A strategic view we saw 859 employees leave Aperam, but followed by quality (16%) and personal relies on both individual To attract and retain the best employees we have developed We have strengthened our commitment to employees with a people strategy known as the Employee Value Proposition, welcomed 220 new hires. The turnover is development (10%). and collective contribution” mainly the result of our reduced headcount the new Competency Framework which encourages strategic an outcome of the Leadership Survey. It focuses on compensation By the end of 2012, 100% of our managers Johanna Van Sevenant, Head of in Europe and South America. The closure of thinking and decision-making competencies as well as skills and benefits, work-life balance, future career opportunities, (100 people) and 95% of exempts completed Human Resources the Paris office and São Paulo Distribution to help manage through change. Other focus areas include health and safety culture, and skills development. the GEDP talent development programme. Centre led to 133 redundancies. teamwork and stakeholder engagement, effective Through this, at the annual appraisal, a Safety at the core manager assesses whether or not an Recent employee engagement is communications, as well as learning and development. 2012 Group Turnover was 8.7% Our Health & Safety Roadmap aims to ensure that senior managers individual has achieved agreed goals and coupled with a new concept to Additionally, our Global Training Policy aims to develop the Turnover Leavers Joiners (10% of us) lead on constantly embedding the health and safety culture. expectations in their career plan. By articulate the reciprocity, closeness, skills and performance required of employees. Brazil 557 110 respect and engagement between Reinforcing skills for the future measuring an individual’s performance We have a new Leadership Development Policy and Annual France 165 54 annually, the manager and the employee employee and company. Known as Our training investment is maintained. Professional committees help Region Performance Review Guidelines. Guided by local employment Belgium 75 2 can formally evaluate performance against (we+do), the aims are to increase to identify skills needed for our future, through workforce planning laws where we operate, these policies will help improve Other 62 54 the plan. Of our 100 managers, 95% have a motivation and engagement of and skills gap analysis. performance and equip managers with the right skills to Male 782 179 career progression plan, exceeding our target employees, retain key people, attract talk through and plan improvements with employees. Gender the best candidates and strengthen Adaptation for competitiveness Female 77 41 of 90%. We increased productivity of employees in the recently challenging < 30 103 122 employer branding. Whilst all employees receive information on labour rights, commercial environment, and maintained excellent dialogue Overall, in 2012, our employees received an The (we+do) logo is increasingly health and safety procedures and employment law, they 30 50 333 81 too. We had to reduce our workforce in 2012 but throughout Age average of 39.1 hours training must all comply with our Code of Business Conduct and > 50 287 3 visible at Aperam to remind us during the process good quality relationships with employees and challenging times. The first (we+do) Anti-Corruption Guidelines. Going deeper, we strive to engage Unknown 136 14 Male Female trade unions were mantained. We commit to reporting revised newsletter was published in our employees through our Continuous Improvement Challenge, Total 859 220 Operations 38.5 34.4 data next year on the percentage of the workforce covered by September 2012. employee surveys and other internal communications. We have collective bargaining agreements. Diversity at Aperam White collar 41.8 37.0 established a forum for engaging with employees and unions Out of our 1,002 directly employed people Total 39.4 36.5 through the European Works Council. responsible for achieving performance We provide extensive benefits to our employees including The Aperam Family1in 20121 objectives (known as ‘exempts’), 198 are medical, disability and death insurance as well as stress The Aperam Family women. Overall, 86% of Aperam’s workforce management counselling and travel insurance. We provide is male. Whilst we know this is an area on Our 8th Continuous Improvement Challenge private pension facilities to 99.9% of employees. France Belgium which we need to continue to work, we offered to our talented female colleagues This is an innovative programme that enables us to recognise the skills and values of a Women in Leadership course. In total, our employees. It also leads to best practice learning across our operations. We were 2,012 61% of Aperam employees are between pleased to see how strong collaboration and innovation have resulted in the reduction 1,520 of customer complaints on bright annealing. This was due to fewer defects and 30 and 50 years old. a reduction of rework and follow-up inspections. In the same time, this project contributed to safer operations. Congratulations to Genk SKP1 team! Making for life TOP 20 289 56 “For Aperam this event reveals the intensity of what we do to 24 26 Our new Alloys Production School 3 8 aims to train over 100 production reach excellence in our processes, to work safely, to succeed in 274 20 83 1 178 3 25 2 operators over the next five years. our Leadership Journey and to keep an eye on our customers. Three production lines will be used Brazil Other to train participants on melting, It’s in line with our strategy to create value.” In 2012 Aperam South America hot and cold rolling, safety and Philippe Darmayan, Aperam CEO was again voted one of the top 150 operational culture. The school will companies to work for and was 3,429 provide over 500 hours of training voted one of the top 20 most through two sets of 12 trainees per year. It will be an excellent sustainable companies in Brazil. opportunity for the ‘old hands’ 850 to share their skills through the company. The first session took 50% place in October 2012. Trainees will receive an 333 industry-recognised diploma 257 54 upon completion of the training. 16 1 166 99 25 20 181 12 71 15 of our Independent Board Permanent Management Permanent Non-management FixedTerm TermManagement Members are women Permanent Management Non-management Fixed Term Non-management Fixed Term Non-management Permanent Management Temporary/Trainee Fixed Temporary Non-management  e were unable to obtain gender information for 206 temporary workers (140 in France 1 Figures include people on third parties’ payroll working for Aperam and exclude people invoiced to external entities. W and 66 in countries other than France, Belgium and Brazil). Last year, we reported number of contractors as well, in 2012 we have not included contractors in our employee figures. Figures are in FTE. 20 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 21 The people in our communities The people in our communities The people in our communities The Aperam Acesita Volunteerism examples in 2012 Foundation We understand our place in the lives of those around us. We contribute to the economic • Volunteerism commitments: volunteerism continued to strengthen community In order to promote sustainability in its host relations, a key example was the Social QCC Programme, where employees livelihoods of those who work for us directly and those in the supply chains serving us, locales, Aperam South America operates the share quality management skills from work to improve the quality of life for we pay company taxes where we operate, and we operate community involvement and Aperam Acesita Foundation with projects in employees and community. culture, education, environment and social donations through our Aperam Acesita Foundation. promotion. The foundation has helped • The Arraiá d’Ajuda (Help Group) convened various partners to support four integrate us deeply into the history of organisations working on childcare, alternative medicine and human rights. Timóteo. • On corporate volunteering, over 350 of our Brazilian colleagues gave 3,820 hours How we manage this (400 hours in 2011) of their time to help develop and improve 34 local charities. The Aperam Acesita Foundation Our approach to community relations is guided by our values and by frameworks such as the UN Global Compact. The approach is rooted firmly Contribution by theme at grass-roots levels with the Aperam Acesita Foundation which runs an impressive breadth of community, education and cultural programmes. (Total: R$4.29m/US$2.10m) We work in partnerships with colleges, schools, youth groups and cultural centres, for example. Where we operate in Brazil, Aperam is an Education and social promotion important element in local town life. In Europe, we continue to focus on specific partnerships and relationships on more of an ad-hoc basis. In 2012, the value of community educational investment was R$1.16m (US$0.57m); 19 27 while social promotion investment was R$0.82m (US$0.40m). % Indicator We said We did We will We help schools in various areas, including administration, course development and Education partnerships. Since 2004, the Aperam Acesita Foundation has been working with projects Maintain licence to operate 24 Environment in five cities of Jequitinhonha Valley. Examples include: Monitoring risks that affect Review our approach to these by monitoring community licence to operate ✔ On track risks by 2014 30 Culture risks (Brazil) • The Reference School, to improve school administration and the attainment of students Social Promotion Good quality community Review our community stakeholder Maintain level of activity • The Estudar Project, mainly for employees’ technical education but the results were so engagement (Brazil) engagement programmes ✔ Achieved and engagement good that it was also extended to BioEnergia and some contractors Report in 2014 on local supplier • The Educational Program for Resistance to Drugs and Trafficland, for traffic safety Review local supply chain education, both in partnership with police agencies of Timóteo City and the Acesita Rotary Local supply chain engagement engagement in Brazil ✔ On track engagement in Europe and South America Fast facts: the Foundation Club. The anti-drugs programme is mainly for Timóteo’s fifth grade elementary school children. In 2012 (H1) 1,300 students participated. Mission: Improve the quality of life in the What happened in 2012? community through local development When it comes to vocational training, we want to prepare the next generation of skilled workers in stainless steel. Safer communities: Focus areas: culture, education, In short, since 2011, we have intensified our support to the environment and social promotion • The Institute of Stainless promotes professional qualifications for youth in the encouraging watchfulness communities and supply chains where we operate. community and in other companies. It helps new business start-ups and promotes stainless steel applications. www.institutodoinox.com.br We encourage the promotion of safety practices into all walks In 2012, we indirectly distributed US$5,345m to the economy of life outside including the ‘factory gate’. For example, Aperam worldwide through tax payments, wages, salaries, contracts, • The Professional Training Centre – for employees, contractors and other apprentices – BioEnergia has nine observation towers, eight tankers and 48 community investments and research and development spending. is dedicated to mechanics, quality and safety. The trainees can research and train in very watchmen working in three shifts; the site each year gathers appealing surroundings. The centre has 20 training rooms, laboratories and workshops. together employees, contractors and communities to learn We adopt procedures that allow us to favour local suppliers. They can be assessed on safety, quality, cost, technical efficiency and delivery Youth development is also promoted through the Municipal Network for Work and Income about fire prevention and safety. All employees are involved. term in order to optimise the supply management performance and project in Timóteo, and projects with RedEAmérica (an inter-American foundations network) The Cultural Centre on social inclusion and poverty reduction, for example, Project ‘Vale Cidadania’ (Citizenship the long-term relationship. Our Production Sites and Service Centres Valley), to promote citizenship education in the Steel Valley. “Our focus is to educate and empower have not only a direct impact on the local economy by providing direct jobs but support local business in the supply chain and support Location: Cultural Centre – Timóteo Impeccable environmental programmes people to avoid possible fires” services. This positive local economic impact helps ensure continuous Project geography: Steel Valley and The value of environmental programmes investment in 2012 was R$1.2m (US$0.63m). supply to Aperam entities and a stable economy anchored to the Jequitinhonha Valley Daniel Coelho, local community. Environmental responsibility is part of how we do business in South America, so through the Founded: 1994 Manager of Forestry Foundation, we deliver an extensive environmental education programme in Timóteo and the Aperam considers its suppliers sustainable partners and therefore Partners: government (federal, ‘Steel Valley’. We run this from our Environmental Education Centre (Oikós) in a 989ha forest strives to maintain a good dialogue on a regular basis to establish state and city), international reserve. It is open to the public and teaches alternative technologies such as water treatment, In 2012 the event featured evacuation simulations and sustainable performance and improvement actions to the benefit independent agencies, government bio-digestion, beekeeping, composting and watershed management. The Oikós programmes fire-fighting skills. Fostering excellent community relations of both parties. Aperam General Purchasing Conditions require our and non-governmental organisations, look after 2,504ha of green spaces belonging to Aperam in the city of Timóteo, and make makes business sense. Our neighbours are very important partners to respect quality, environmental, safety and labour practice foundations and institutes. sustainability accessible for all. partners in this work, they are always alert to any movement regulations. The different subcontractors that perform services on in the forest, or the slightest hint of smoke. Aperam sites have to comply with the ‘General Consigns of Health www.aperam.com/brazil/ & Safety’ to ensure that suppliers meet our self imposed high level ing/fundacao/index.asp safety standards. At our four significant European sites, active local suppliers (Belgian suppliers for Genk and Châtelet. French suppliers for Isbergues and Gueugnon) of non-raw materials represent 83% from the total “It is very rewarding to know number of active suppliers in 2012. Moreover, more than 60% of the total purchasing value in 2012 for the same perimeter was that I’m doing something that purchased from local or domestic suppliers. In some specific cases will help others” Aperam also helped suppliers to safeguard their business continuity model so that a sustainable relationship in a difficult economical Maria de Souza Lima, employee volunteer market could be maintained. on the organising committee of Arraiá 22 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 23 Driving environmental improvement recyclable Driving environmental improvement Our products include recycled inputs and are 100% recyclable so it makes perfect sense to produce them responsibly. Our metals are highly durable, an attribute to which we subscribe as a company. So we promote environmental excellence in our operations. We work hard to be fully compliant with regulations, and to meet the expectations of our customers and other stakeholders. We continue to invest to reduce our environmental impact. We have expanded our eucalyptus charcoal supply to meet 100% of our blast furnace fuel requirements in Brazil, and we installed a high-efficiency production line at Gueugnon in France. We continue to rely on the dedication and competence of our employees in working towards environmental improvements. Each gesture counts, from the shop floor to the forest and from the training centre to the boardroom. Indicator We said We did We will Review progress through monitoring. Environmental Revise our environmental targets management and targets ✔ Achieved Establish energy action plans at significant production sites Improve local emissions data Achieve a sound environmental data Environmental data collection and reporting ✔ On track collection system . Complete clean technology Start the new line in 2013 (following Clean Technology expansion at our flagship Gueugnon ✔ Achieved fire damage December 2012) plant in France Complete compliance with EU Reach Maintain compliance. Complete actions Compliance regulations. Review environmental ✔ Achieved relating to arc furnaces by 2016 compliance of our arc funcances Stainless | Unmatched How we work Landfill-free? Ingenuity Stainless steel products last an extremely long time. And even Most pollution reduction systems in vehicles use once their service life is over, stainless steel items should never enter the waste stream. They are 100% recyclable with no loss liquid urea injection which can lead to corrosion so of original properties; on average, in Europe, a stainless steel our R&D team found a technical and cost-effective item comprises approximately 60% recycled input. It is also solution for the automotive industry. straightforward to separate and re-use its raw materials, such as chromium and nickel, and scrap is used in high quality products! Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 24 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 25 Driving environmental improvement Driving environmental improvement How we manage this Water: clear reductions Waste and waste water Becoming lower-carbon In 2012 we continued to reduce our total In 2012, we sent 98.6ktonnes of waste for We seek to ensure environmental compliance across all operations. Our Environmental Policy commits us to a long-term approach to resource water use. Around 90% of our water is disposal, 25ktonnes of which were hazardous. efficiency and sustainability so we strive for continuous improvement in environmental performance, while constantly seeking to add value sourced from local rivers or canals. In 2012, The increase, of 16.6ktonnes from 2011, to Aperam. we used 10.9 m3 per tonne of crude steel. The comprises mainly non-hazardous waste; Carbon dioxide emissions total amount consumed in our manufacturing hazardous waste volumes were stable. NonIn 2012 we established an Energy Policy which covers all Aperam sites and operations and aims to push through new efficiency programmes. 1.4 processes was 20.9 million m3, a 6.7% hazardous waste is mainly composed of sludge We continue to work with our suppliers and customers to maximise the inherent energy efficient properties of our steel products, notably total = 1.19 decrease from 2011A (15% less than 2008). (75%) and dust (14%). The increase is principally 1.2 specialty products used in diverse industrial energy efficient applications. total = 0.97 This was achieved in various ways, including the result of the closure of a furnace at Timóteo 1.0 new water treatment stations at Imphy and in late 2011 which resulted in the landfilling of Our two principal targets are1: m tCO2e 0.8 Gueugnon, and the replacement of an old sludge that previously would have been reused. • A 5% reduction in total energy consumption by 2020 (baseline 2012)2 annealing unit at Gueugnon. At Isbergues, we diverted 3kt of hazardous dust 0.6 residues to a zinc recovery company, so cutting • A 35% reduction in carbon intensity of our current sites by 2020 (baseline 2007).2 0.4 Water: using 6.7% less since 2011 the hazardous waste at the plant by 70%. 0.88 0.31 0.67 0.30 25 0.0 2011 2012 Tracking waste 20 What happened in 2012? direct indirect 15 80 60 Energy consumption and efficiency This reduction comes from switching from management system to ISO50001. At Genk 10 40 We find and implement energy conservation LPG to natural gas, and from coke to charcoal we began operating a new steam generator measures to cut costs and protect both our as well as shutting down old equipment to recapture lost heat from the pickling line Emissions by location 5 20 0 customers and ourselves from price and at Timóteo, where 50% of our energy is leading to primary energy savings. 2011 2012 0 supply volatilities. In 2012, we consumed from biomass renewable sources. Also, at Pre-product water use (m3/t crude steel) 2011 2012 Carbon dioxide emissions 18.5m GJ✱ of direct energy and 7.5m GJ of Gueugnon we replaced two older lines with Main industrial plants in Total water use (m m3) Hazardous (ktons) Non-Hazardous (ktons) In 2012 we emitted 971ktonnes of CO2 indirect energy3. This equates to 13.5 GJ/ one new one, so reducing natural gas and France and Belgium In 2012 we discharged 12.7m m3 of waste equivalent (tCO2e); 672ktCO2e✱ direct Material and resource use tonnes of crude steel, down 4.3% from electricity consumption there by 45% and water (6.6m3/t crude steel), a decrease of emissions and 299ktCO2e indirect emissions. 1.2 We used a total of 4.4mB tonnes of materials 2011. Globally, we reduced our total energy 27% respectively; also at this site we set 2.9m3/t crude steel from 2011. We met all This reflects an 18% reduction from 2011, in 2012. This comprised stainless steel and consumption by 3.8% from the previous year4. a new commitment to certify the energy 1.0 regulatory and legal limits for water quality and a 33% reduction from our 2007 baseline. carbon steel scrap recycled from end of life, Our 2012 emissions equate to 0.51 tCO2e 0.8 total = 0.66 post-industrial and internal sources (29%), in 2012, and recorded lower chemical oxygen m tCO2e per tonne of crude steel. 0.6 wood (21%), iron ore (19%), ferro-alloys (11%) demand, total suspended solids, chromium and Energy consumption The reduction in emissions during 2012 0.4 and other material or gases (20%). Having nickel content (on a tonne/tonne product basis). resulted principally from switching to charcoal revised our material use data from 2011, Total energy consumption Direct energy 0.2 this represents an increase of 94ktonnes of A Data under revision. Imphy includes other industrial sites on the from coke in our furnaces at Timóteo. We have 0.42 0.24 same location. Timóteo’s figure is also based on estimated value. 0.0 material. We used less iron ore, gas and coke made good progress, but we recognise the B Material data from Timóteo contain some estimated data. need to go further and we are identifying direct indirect but more wood in the switch to charcoal in The calculation methodology has changed and natural gas 29 opportunities to help meet our new 2020 Brazil, representing 21% of our materials used. has been excluded compared to 2011. 44 % 52 % reduction target: a 35% cut in carbon intensity (existing sites, 2007 baseline). Local air emissions We seek to manage the effects of our air Efficiency gains through 71 Main industrial plants in Brazil emissions, with a focus on dust. At our line improvements 1 The data cover all of our main plants, Service Centres, Timóteo site, the switch to charcoal has transformation plants and Corporate Offices. Exclusions are total = 0.285 resulted in increased dust emissions in 2012 At Gueugnon we invested in a new 0.30 noted in footnotes and on p28. and we are currently working to reduce them. high-efficiency production line. It would Direct energy (71%) Natural gas (44%) 2 Based on our current operations and sites. 0.25 At Timóteo and Châtelet, for example, we result in significant energy and emissions Indirect energy5 (29%) Charcoal (52%) 3 Direct energy refers to primary energy (wood, LPG, natural gas, reduced Melt Shop dust emissions over the improvements – consuming 45% less gas Coke and coal (1.3%) fuel, coal, coke, charcoal) consumed by Aperam and our products 0.20 and 27% less electricity with equivalent m tCO2e and services. Indirect energy is electricity consumed by Aperam last 12 months by 34% and 43% respectively. Oil (1.5%) and our products and services. 0.15 At Genk we have cut dust emissions by 60% reductions in CO2 and NOx emissions, Other (1%) 4 Following improvements to our data collection processes, we have recalculated our total energy consumption for 2011 to be 0.10 since 2007 owing to better stack monitoring, as well as noise. A closed loop water 27.1m GJ (19.1m GJ direct and 7.9m GJ indirect). 0.05 maintenance, slag treatment, and by-product cooling system will also minimise water 5 Indirect energy comprises purchased electricity. 0.240 0.045 handling, for example. In Belgium we have consumption and production leaks, further 0.00 achieved a very low level of emissions: an increasing the efficiency of the process. direct indirect The project will be restarted in 2013 Aperam BioEnergia, Brazil excellent result for our neighbours too. following a fire at the site in late 2012 which disrupted the commissioning. Aperam BioEnergia produces charcoal (biomass) from cultivated eucalyptus. Services and Transformations It is a substitute for coke at our two blast furnaces at Timóteo, enabling Centres (worldwide) Enhancing vehicle anti-pollution systems 0.030 more efficient and sustainable production. total = 0.025 Regulators worldwide are seeking to reduce nitrogen In 2012 we produced 429ktons of charcoal 0.025 oxide (NOx) and particulate matter (PM) emissions to (318ktons in 2011). 0.020 relieve potential health impacts. Most NOx reduction m tCO2e We achieved a key milestone in 2012, systems in buses, trucks and diesel cars will use 0.015 both furnaces are now fired using 100% liquid urea injection processes. This method can 0.010 charcoal. Timóteo steel is therefore a lead to corrosion issues not previously experienced. lower-carbon product, comparable to 0.005 Our Aperam R&D team has worked to understand production achieved by electrical arc 0.000 0.005 0.020 the problem and find a technical and cost-effective furnace or by standard blast furnace. solution which can be readily adopted by the direct indirect automotive industry. 26 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 27 About this report Assurance statement GRI Index About this report GRI Application Level C + To facilitate stakeholders in understanding and benchmarking our corporate responsibility performance, our reporting follows the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 disclosure framework, which is an internationally recognised set of indicators for economic, environmental and The scope of the information and data in this report principally covers operations in Europe and South America, from January to December 2012. social aspects of business performance. GRI guidelines help companies in selecting material content and key performance indicators. Safety data cover other sites relating to our Services & Solutions and Alloys & Specialty operations, as well as contractors on site; people data exclude For more on GRI, please see www.globalreporting.org. contractors however. Our environmental data system has improved since 2011. Subject to the exclusions indicated below, environmental data cover Fully reported Partially reported all main industrial sites, service centre operations and corporate offices. Environmental information is compiled locally, and then aggregated centrally. Index according to GRI (G3.1) Reported Page reference (or direct response) In our greenhouse gas emissions calculation we apply the standards of ISO14404-1 and ISO14404-2, which state that biomass is considered to be carbon neutral. The CO2 emissions data relate to Scope 1 and 2. The following exclusions apply to the environmental data: (1) Raw material data exclude 1 Vision and Strategy packaging and miscellaneous parts; (2) we do not currently account for Scope 3 indirect emissions within our methodology. CO2 and absenteeism data 1.1 Statement from the CEO 1 are restated following improvements in data systems, with no material effect on comparability or timeliness. 2 Organisational Profile The report is guided by the principles of report content and quality from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainable Development Reporting 2.1-2.6 Name, HQ location, ownership, legal form, structure, countries of operation, primary brands and services 1, 2, 3, 9, 28, Back cover, Annual Report Guidelines (version 3.1). The report represents our Communication on Progress relating to UNGC membership. The report does not cover any joint 2.7 Markets 12, Annual Report (6,7) venture operations or activities of partner organisations. We sought external independent assurance for this report. 2.8 Scale of the company 2, 3, 21 2.9 Significant changes during report period 29, Annual Report (42) Independent assurance report on the sustainability report 2.10 Awards received in the report period Front cover 3 Reporting Parameters of Aperam S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2012 3.1-3.5 Reporting period, reporting cycle, contact point, content selection process Front cover, 1, 4, 5, 29 To the Management of Aperam S.A. Limitations 3.6-3.8 Boundary of the report, any specific limitations 29, Annual Report (6,7) The accuracy and completeness of the information disclosed in the Report Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the Objectives and scope of work performed 3.10 16, 20, 26, 27, 29 are subject to inherent limitations given their nature and the methods for reasons for such re-statement This report has been prepared in accordance with the terms of our determining, calculating or estimating such information. Our independent 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied 29 engagement letter dated 29 January 2013 to provide limited assurance on assurance report should therefore be read in connection with the GRI as the Sustainability Report (the “Report”) of APERAM S.A. (“the Company”) well as with the Company’s definitions and basis of reporting of the 3.12 Table identifying the location of Standard Disclosures 29 for the year ended 31 December 2012 on the following subject matters indicators as described in the Report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with rgard to seeking external assurance for the report 28 Assurance Report (the ”Subject Matters”): We have not performed any analysis, testing or review of prior year 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement • adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative 3.1. guidelines (the “GRI” performance information included within the Report. 4.1 Governance structure 3, 4, 5, 15, 20, Annual Report or “GRI Guidelines”) with respect to the Principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness; A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a 4.2 Independence of the Supervisory Board Chairman 5 reasonable assurance engagement and consequently does not enable us • appropriateness of the GRI Application Level disclosed in the Report 4.3 Governance body and/or independent members of management 5 to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters and the GRI Index on page 29 of the report and ; that might be identified in a reasonable assurance audit. Accordingly, we 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations to highest governance body 3 • fair presentation in all material aspects in accordance with GRI do not express an audit opinion. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to Guidelines, of selected performance data, marked with a “✱” in the 4.12 26, 28 which the organization subscribes or endorses Report, which are: results of customer satisfaction surveys (page 10), Conclusion List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization and basis for identification and selection of lost time frequency incident rate(page16),number of employees Based on our work conducted as above, nothing has come to our attention 4.14-4.15 4 stakeholders with whom to engage (page 21), consumption of direct energy(page 26), direct CO2 emissions that causes us to believe that: 5 Performance Indicators (page 26). • the Report of APERAM S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2012, does 5.1 Economic not adhere to GRI Guidelines with respect to the Principles of Materiality, Responsibility of the Management of the Company Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness; EC1 Economic value generated and distributed 2 The Management of the Company is responsible for the preparation of • the GRI Application Level C+ and the GRI Index as presented on page 29 2, Annual Report (6, 10, 13, 14, 20, 21, the Report in accordance with GRI and for the information and statements EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 30, 59, 79, 125, 128, 159) contained within it. The Management is responsible for determining the of the Report are not appropriate in the circumstances; Company’s sustainability objectives and for establishing and maintaining • the selected performance data marked with a “✱” on pages 10, 16, 21 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 22 appropriate performance management and internal control systems from and 26 of the Report and enumerated above are not presented fairly, 5.2 Environment which the reported information is derived. in all material aspects, in accordance with GRI Guidelines. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 27 Responsibility of the Réviseur d’entreprises agréé Limitation on use EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 27 Our responsibility is to conduct a limited assurance engagement on the Our report is intended solely for the use of the Company, in connection EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 26 Company’s Sustainability Report and draw conclusions on the Subject with the Report and should not be used for any other purpose. To the EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 26, 27 Matters based on the work we performed. fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept, or assume responsibility We carried out our procedures on the Subject Matters in accordance to anyone else, except to the Company for our work, for this report, or for EN5 Energy saved due to energy efficiency improvements 26, 27 with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 the conclusions that we have reached. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 27 “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical For Deloitte Audit, Société à responsabilité limitée EN16 Total direct/indirect GhGs emissions by weight 26 Financial Information”( “ISAE 3000”). In order to draw our conclusions on the Report, we undertook the following procedures: Cabinet de révision agréé EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 26 5.3 Social and Society Performance • analysing and testing, by sampling, of the processes related to stakeholder inclusiveness; LA1 Workforce by employment type and region 20 • assessing the suitability of the reporting criteria and their consistent LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and turnover by age group, gender, and region 21 application ; LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements [Future commitment] 16 • interviewing Management, corporate sustainability team, data owners Nicolas Hennebert, Réviseur d’entreprises agréé Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety and those with operational responsibility at the Company’s head office; LA6 16 Partner committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. • visiting selected operational sites ; 19 April 2013 LA7 Injuries, absentee rates and work-related fatalities 16, 17 • understanding through inquiries, analytical reviews, observation and LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 21 560, rue de Neudorf other applicable evidence gathering procedures, by sampling, the key L-2220 Luxembourg LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 21 structures, systems, processes, procedures and internal controls relating to the collation, aggregation, validation and reporting of the key (i) Composition of governance bodies and (ii) breakdown of employees per employee category, LA13 5 performance indicators presented in the Report; according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, • checking that the GRI Index contains the relevant indicators for each SO1 22, 23 and development programs of the standard disclosures required by GRI for an Application Level C report, and Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 10 improvement, percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures • reviewing the content of the Report against the findings resulting from PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 10 our procedures. For our complete GRI Index, 28 Aperam Sustainability Report 2013 29 please see aperam.com/sustainability Aperam 12C, rue Guillaume Kroll L-1882 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Tel: +352 27 36 27 00 Email: contact@aperam.com Aperam Investor Relations: Romain Grandsart: +352 27 36 27 168 Aperam Media contact: Jean Lasar: +352 27 36 27 27 For all sustainability feedback: sustainability@aperam.com www.facebook.com/aperam See more at aperam.com/sustainability @aperam Copyright 2013 © Aperam Produced by Aperam with the assistance of DNV Two Tomorrows Limited and AB (UK) Disclaimer – Forward Looking Statements In this Sustainability Report, Aperam has made certain forward-looking statements with respect to, among other topics, its financial position, business strategy, projected costs, projected savings, and the plans and objectives of our management. Such statements are identified by the use of forward-looking verbs such as ‘anticipate’, ‘intend’, ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, or ‘estimate’, or words or phrases with similar meanings. Aperam’s actual results may differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to the known and unknown risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed, including, without limitation, the risks described in the Annual Report. Aperam does not make any representation, warranty or prediction that the results anticipated by such forward-looking statements will be achieved. Please refer to the ‘Summary of risks and uncertainties’ section of the Annual Report page 35 as well as ‘Risks related to the company and the stainless and specialty steel industry’ page 142. Such forward-looking statements represent, in each case, only one of many possible scenarios and should not necessarily be viewed as the most likely to occur or standard scenario. Aperam undertakes no obligation to publicly update its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Unless indicated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references in this Sustainability Report to ‘Aperam’, the ‘Group’ and the ‘Company’ or similar terms refer to Aperam, ‘société anonyme’, having its registered office at 12C, Rue Guillaume Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and to its consolidated subsidiaries.
