General Period covered by your Communication on Progress January, 2012 to December,2012 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). TNS RMS East Africa will continue to support the UN Global compact and push its agenda by continuously reporting in a transparent manner on the company’s good Business practise to encourage Capacity building by creating awareness of ethics, integrity and Corporate Social Responsibility. ERIC REINGEWERTZ CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses (For more information on the principles, Click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk‐assessment). Description of Policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. TNS RMS East Africa is committed to the protection and advancement of human rights as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) The TNS RMS East Africa Human Rights Policy is grounded in the WPP Code of Business Conduct (the “Code”), and operates in conjunction with the Code. The Code and Human Rights Policy set forth TNS RMS East Africa policies and practices relating to conducting our business in an ethical and responsible manner that supports and respects the protection of human rights. It reflects the company’s core values and high ethical standards A brief description of our Processes or Systems SEXUAL HARASSMENT Sexual Harassment is an invasion of an individual’s rights and a violation of the law. Consistent with our core values, it Is the policy of TNS RMS that sexual harassment of staff is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. Sexual Harassment at the workplace is defined as follows: Sexual harassment is an unwelcome, sexually determined behaviour (whether directly or by implications) as: Physical contact and advances A demand or request for sexual favours Sexually colored demands Showing pornography Any unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature HIV/AIDS WORKPLACE POLICY HIV/AIDS is arguably one of the greatest challenges facing countries, societies, individuals and Organizations doing business in the sub-Saharan region and in particular, the East African region where TNS Research International does business. TNS Research International recognizes the impact of HIV/AIDS on the Community and its staff, and it has committed itself to making a contribution in the fight against this pandemic in the sub-region. More specifically, this HIV/AIDS workplace policy has been developed to act both as a benchmark and a platform on which to encourage all to protect the rights of the infected and affected, preserve the integrity and performance of our workforce and organization, and support initiatives by others in the community. This HIV/AIDS Workplace Policy informs, clarifies and sets out promises and responsibilities for all of us, and commits TNS RMS East Africa Ltd to provide an enabling and safe working environment for all staff. Not making the HIV test mandatory for any current or prospective employee(s) to work with TNS Research International, as HIV infection does not, in itself, constitute lack of fitness to carry out tasks. Providing all a fair and equitable chance for employment, promotion and other benefits regardless of one’s current HIV status. Both the HIV infected and the uninfected persons have the same rights and privileges as provided for in their work contracts with TNS Research International. Working with the HIV infected staff (and their line managers) to ensure those no longer able to undertake their current job due to HIV related ill health, are provided an alternative and reasonable work arrangement. Maintaining strict confidentiality with regard to HIV status of any staff and/ or their dependents, and keep such information privileged unless the concerned staff gives their consent in writing for it to be shared. TNS Research International however, encourages the HIV infected to consider self-disclosure. Providing appropriate HIV/AIDS information and prevention tools, including condoms, to empower all staff and their dependents to protect themselves and encourage reduction in HIV related stigma. Encouraging and supporting all staff and their dependents to access VCT services to know their HIV status. Providing eligible HIV infected staff and/ or their dependents with treatment, care and support to improve their quality of life, in line with our medical scheme. HEALTH & SAFETY INFORMATION The Company is committed to achieving a high standard of health and safety in all its activities and requires the active participation of all employees to reach this goal. This is essential for ensuring the health and safety of our staff, visitors and our premises and of others working with us. Staff must co-operate and comply with the measures, which the Company takes in the interests of health, comfort, cleanliness, discipline, safety and orderly working conditions. The Company’s health and safety objectives are set out in the Health and Safety master Policy statement which can be found in the Knowledge Navigator and all staff are encouraged to carefully read and observe it. COMPENSATION Salaries To determine salary, TNS RMS classifies each position in one of several salary scales. These scales are adjusted periodically so that they can remain competitive with those offered for comparable positions by other relevant organizations in Kenya. Initial placement and subsequent movement within and between salary scales is determined by various criteria, including professional qualifications (education, skills and experience), responsibilities and performance. Pay increases are entirely discretionary and are based on individual merit and overall financial performance of the company. All deductions from salary payments, including income tax, National Social Security Fund, and the National Hospital Insurance Fund are indicated on the pay slip. Medical Cover Coverage for the cost of out-patient and inpatient care for staff and their dependants is provided through a policy with reputable health care providers or insurance companies registered in Kenya. Details are provided on the letter of appointment. The terms and benefits of these policies are reviewed periodically to ensure that they are adequate and cost-effective. Medical cover is for all contract and permanent staff members. Permanent staff is covered together with their bona-fide legal dependants up to a maximum of one spouse and three children. Dependent children are covered up to the age limit of 18years. Exceptions are on dependent children of up to 21 years who are still in school or colleges. Proof of enrolment in full time educational establishment is required. Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the principles on Human Rights: Examples • Reference to (statement of support for) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other international standards • Written company policy on respecting Human Rights and preventing potential abuses (e.g. in code of Conduct) • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the principles on Human Rights? • Assessment of Human Rights related risks and impact in industry sector and country (ies) of operation (see Risk Assessment Report at www.humanrightsbusiness.org) • Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming year  We will not undertake work which is intended or designed to mislead, including in relation to social, environmental and human rights issues.  We will consider the potential for clients or work to damage the Group’s reputation prior to taking them on. This includes reputational damage from association with clients that participate in activities that contribute to the abuse of human rights.  We will not for personal or family gain directly or indirectly engage in any activity which competes with companies within the Group or with our obligations to any such company.  We will not give, offer or accept bribes, whether in cash or otherwise, to or from any third party, including but not restricted to government officials, clients and brokers or their representatives. We will collectively ensure that all staff understands this policy through training, communication and by example.  We will not offer any items of personal inducement to secure business. This is not intended to prohibit appropriate entertainment or the making of occasional gifts of minor value unless the client has a policy which restricts this.  We will not accept for our personal benefit goods or services of more than nominal value from suppliers, potential suppliers or other third parties.  We will not have any personal or family conflicts of interest within our businesses or with our suppliers or other third parties with whom we do business.  No corporate contributions of any kind, including the provision of services or materials for less than the market value, may be made to politicians, political parties or action committees, without the prior written approval of the WPP Board.  We will continue to strive to make a positive contribution to society and the environment by: maintaining high standards of marketing ethics; respecting human rights; respecting the environment; supporting community organizations; supporting employee development; and managing significant corporate responsibility risks in our supply chain. Environment As a member of the WPP companies will respect the environment by minimizing their impact from:  Energy use  Transport  Consumption of paper and other resources  Water use  Managing any significant CR risks in our supply chains. WPP sets quantitative targets for reducing our key environmental impacts. We aim to minimize the environmental impacts associated with the advertising and communications campaigns we create for clients. Our operating companies are encouraged to help achieve these goals. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Human rights  WPP companies will uphold the principles contained in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s fundamental conventions on core labour standards.  We support the right of our people and their families to basic human rights including the right to organize, the right to collective bargaining, the right to fair conditions of work, freedom of opinion and expression and freedom from forced labour and child labour. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanism • Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights • Consultation with stakeholders and affected parties • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within your company • Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. TNS RMS East Africa evaluates performance through the Appraisal system whose objective is to establish rational standards for employee’s performance to create the most productive workforce possible, remove, discrimination of personalities and to motivate and reward them Performance appraisal is based on how well n employee meets certain performance standards on set objectives All employees are appraised by their immediate superior and or HOD. The appraisal system also helps identify future learning needs and provides information to assist in a salary progression review. Examples • Specific progress made in the area of Human Rights in the past reporting period • Information about how your company deals with incidents of Human Rights violations • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Human Rights • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of Human Rights performance
