NTUC FairPrice – Communication on Progress The concept of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is not new to NTUC FairPrice where our first supermarket was set up in 1973 with the social mission to moderate the cost of living in Singapore. Since then, this social mission remains an integral part of how we do business today. Over the years, we have extended our responsibility beyond moderating prices of essential items in Singapore. We believe that being a good corporate citizen is about how we conduct our business in a responsible and sustainable way. That is why we aim to be the leading responsible retailer, caring and doing the right things for our customers, our staff, our community and our environment. FairPrice has always strived to integrate CSR into our business operations. In 2005, FairPrice became one of the pioneer signatories of the Singapore Compact, the national secretariat representing Singapore’s CSR interests. We are also a member of the United Nations Global Compact in which we strive to align our operations and strategies with its ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In 2010, we set up the FairPrice CSR Committee helmed by senior management across key departments to consolidate and drive our CSR efforts in a more strategic manner. A CSR Committee at Board level was also put in place to track the progress of CSR work in FairPrice. We have identified four key sustainable priorities for our business, namely ensuring Responsible Retailing, building a Wonderful Workplace, extending Community Care and maintaining a Sustainable Environment. Responsible Retailing is at the heart of our business activity. It determines how we buy and sell the food and daily necessities that pass through our stores to our half a million customers each day. We establish long-standing relationships with our suppliers with regular audits to ensure food safety is never compromised and product quality is upheld. We work in partnership to bring exciting new and healthy ranges to our customers, like our very own Pasar Organics. Through responsible retailing, we deliver our promise to be the Best Place to Shop, providing customers with the best value, quality products and excellent service. An organisation is made up of its people and our strong team of over 9,000 employees is what makes FairPrice a Wonderful Workplace. We value and invest in the teamwork, professionalism and customer focus of every single employee, ensuring FairPrice maintains its focus on being the Best Place to Work. We place great importance to attract, motivate and retain the right people and develop each individual to his fullest potential with a culture of continuous learning. Besides providing competitive remuneration, we believe in providing a satisfying, safe and caring work environment as well as a roadmap for career development. Community Care is synonymous with FairPrice and remains core to our business mission and values. With our stores located islandwide, we are at the heart of the communities we serve, whether we are redistributing used textbooks or fulfilling Christmas wishes for needy families. In addition, we are deeply committed to providing a better life for the community through FairPrice Foundation, where we reach out to the low-income and needy, as well as support nation-building initiatives. As one of Singapore's leading retailer with over 270 outlets, we recognise that our large network has an impact on the environment, which is why Sustainable Environment is another key focus in our CSR framework. Our commitment to be the Best Corporate Citizen means that we manage resources as carefully and as responsibly as we can. We treat our environmental performance as one of our business priorities and that is why we have invested in energy-efficient eco features in our stores over the years. The FairPrice CSR Microsite is our ongoing CSR Online Report that is constantly updated with our practices, targets, activities and updates, as well as our commitments and accomplishments. Please enjoy reading them at www.csr.fairprice.com.sg
