Cho o se sit e language English Simmons& Simmons Co nt rast Te xt Size Enter your search term co ntCo rast nt rast About Us Services & Sectors Online Services People Locations News Careers Contact Us Abo ut Us Co rpo rate Respo nsibility CR Annual Review 20 13 About Us Co rpo rat e Re spo nsibilit y CR Annual Review 20 13 Our Co mmunities Our Wo rkplace Our Enviro nment Our Business Go al Setting Targets fo r 20 13/14 UN Glo bal Co mpact Principles Our 20 12/13 Award Simmons & Simmons Young Talent Students at the Royal Courts of Justice Winners Charitable Fo undatio n Firm at a g lance Co mmunity PDFmyURL.com Co mmunity Enviro nment Ethics Inclusio n & Diversity Pro Bo no Messag e from our Senior Partner At Simmo ns & Simmo ns, we seek to pro vide legal services acco rding to the highest ethical and pro fessio nal standards and we take o ur respo nsibilities to o ur clients, o ur peo ple, o ur suppliers and the co mmunities in which we do business serio usly. We are pro ud o f o ur culture o f co rpo rate respo nsibility (CR) which seeks to go vern ho w we o perate, ho w we interact with clients and each o ther, and ho w we participate in o ur lo cal co mmunities. The challenging times in which we live mean that there have been many calls and pressures o n o ur CR activities o ver the past year. This is no t a co mplaint – just a reco gnitio n that there are so many o rganisatio ns who lo o k to firms like o urs fo r help and suppo rt. I am pro ud that we rise to the challenge, albeit I am o nly to o aware that there is much mo re that we co uld do . We will therefo re co ntinue to fo cus o n having a meaningful impact o n the o rganisatio ns we suppo rt. PDFmyURL.com Our wo rk has particularly fo cused aro und the theme o f “access” – making the legal pro fessio n mo re accessible to peo ple fro m lo wer inco me backgro unds; making the firm, and particularly o ur partnership, mo re accessible to a truly diverse range o f talented lawyers; and making legal services and funding mo re accessible to tho se who canno t affo rd it. We also remain fully suppo rtive o f the UN Glo bal Co mpact’s ten principles in the areas o f human rights, labo ur, the enviro nment and anti-co rruptio n and are co mmitted to building the principles into o ur po licies, o peratio ns and culture. Everyo ne in the firm has an impo rtant ro le to play in implementing o ur CR strategy and we have created o ppo rtunities fo r o ur peo ple to participate in exciting and stretching legal and no n-legal pro jects. The number o f glo bally reco rded pro bo no ho urs has increased by nearly 40 % and we have seen a gro wing co mmitment to co mmunity pro jects, particularly tho se that address so cial inclusio n. We are also increasingly wo rking o n pro jects alo ngside o ur clients and suppliers. We repo rt o n o ur pro gress in this review, but if there is o ne initiative o f which I am cautio usly the mo st pro ud, it is o ur Yo ung Talent pro gramme and o ur asso ciatio n with Frederick Bremer Scho o l in Walthamsto w, Lo ndo n. The scale o f this pro ject and the o ppo rtunities it pro vides (fo r o ur staff and students) have already surpassed o ur expectatio ns. It has the po tential to beco me much mo re than a lo cal co mmunity pro ject. Indeed, I ho pe we are o n the ro ad to establishing a unique scheme that places o ur staff and students o n an equal fo o ting where we are learning as much fro m the students as they are fro m us. Engagement in o ur CR activities means that we ask o ur co lleagues, clients and suppliers to give up time and o ften to make perso nal sacrifices. This can be challenging when we have so many o ther business demands o n o ur time as well as a need to maintain a perso nal and family life. I am immensely grateful to everyo ne who has beco me invo lved in o ur many activities aro und the glo be and I am pleased that we are increasingly building o ur respo nsibilities into o ur everyday business activities. Whilst I am sure 20 13/20 14 will be as challenging pro fessio nally as the last few years have been, we reco gnise the gro wing needs, legal and no n-legal, o f the co mmunities aro und us. We will remain co mmitted to playing a leading ro le in addressing these. Thank yo u to all who have played their part and enabled the wo nderful wo rk captured in this Review. © Simmo ns & Simmo ns LLP 2013. All rights reserved. Registered in England & Wales Company Number OC352713 hisg site al & use TLe R e gs ulat cookie o rys to improve D at yourCuse a Privacy r e xpe o o kie Po licy . By using rie nceAcce Sit eyou y site this ssib ilit Mapagre e to the se cookie s be ing se t. To find out more se e our cookie s policy PDFmyURL.com Le g al & R e g ulat o ry D at a Privacy C o o kie Po licy Acce ssib ilit y Sit e Map PDFmyURL.com
