Top Advertising Pte Ltd 1 Communication on Progress Report 2013 Communication on Progress Report 2013 Top Advertising Pte Ltd July, 2013 Top Advertising Pte Ltd 2 Communication on Progress Report 2013 Content 1. The UN Global Compact principles .……………………………….. 03 2. Company Profile………………………………………………………... 05 3. The Statement of Continued Support ……………………………… 06 4. Implementation of Global Compact Principles …………………. 07  First Principle ………………………………………………. 07  Second Principle …………………………………………. 07  Third Principle ……………………………………………... 08  Fourth Principle ……………………………………........... 08  Fifth Principle ……………………………………………… 08  Sixth Principle ……………………………………………... 08  Seventh Principle ………………………………………… 09  Eight Principle …………………………………………….. 09  Ninth Principle ……………………………………………. 09  Tenth Principle ……………………………………………. 10 Top Advertising Pte Ltd 3 Communication on Progress Report 2013 The UN Global Compact Principles The UN Global Compact principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and area derived from: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development The United Nations Convention Against Corruption Then UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Top Advertising Pte Ltd 4 Communication on Progress Report 2013 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Top Advertising Pte Ltd 5 Communication on Progress Report 2013 Company Profile Our products include Event Displays, Corporate Collaterals, Variable Prints, Customized Publicity Mediums and We are the first to research into and launch Innovative Pop-ups. Table Talkers/Table Top Advertisement as an Alternative Communications Medium. We We have also spun off Advanced Media bagged the “Best in Region” title, up Services, of which include Web Media / against competitive Asia Pacific Region Social Media and E-Commerce contestants, at the PIXI (Printing Innovation Conceptualization, Design and with Xerox Imaging) Awards. Implementation. The spot is on Top Advertising Pte Ltd, We engage Creative Communication established 2002, with the vision to be the Specialists in our lineup, to evaluate and leading Design and Print Innovator in Asia. advise on the appropriate media mix for execution of Integrated Marketing We are an assembly of Creative Communications Roadmaps. Top Professionals in the Design and Print industry, Advertising Pte Ltd is not all about business. commissioned to provide top-of-the-range CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) runs products, advanced and innovative in our blood, even before CSR became a services. We have made a quantum leap hit phrase. It is always our priority to serve. since incorporation, from a finishing service unto a Modern Design and Print Solution We are proud to announce our arrival, in Provider. We serve the complete suite, from both form and function. Conceptualization to Design, Printing/Production and Delivery of any Communications Medium, Traditional or UpTo-Date. Leveraging on Technology to enhance our capabilities, Top Advertising Pte Ltd the latest range of Xerox 5000/J75 productions series. Top Advertising Pte Ltd 6 Communication on Progress Report 2013 Statement of Continued Support As a current Global Compact business participant, Top Advertising is continuing its support to the 10 principles of the Global Compact. By signing the UN Global Compact, Top Advertising acknowledge the importance of supporting the ten principles for sustainable business development with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Global Compact Principle has always been incorporated within our company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day operations, and we engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development of the United Nations. Top Advertising remains committed in its support for United Nations Global Compact 10 Principles, which are associated on our company policies for a responsible business practice. We will continuously improve on implementing these principles especially in the areas of Environment and Human Rights. Top Advertising Pte Ltd 7 Communication on Progress Report 2013 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should make that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Top Advertising’s values and its Code of Conduct Top Advertising Core Values are fundamental of its policies and practices to promote respect for human rights. Excellence Ownership Our values represent the high standards we expect Communication our people to uphold in every interaction with Integrity clients, candidates, colleagues and its stakeholders. Innovative Human right remains to be the important aspect to Teamwork Top Advertising. Value for human rights is an Education integrated element of project planning and finishing, from planning to conclusion of a project. Fun We don’t undertake any activity that could lead to the suppression of the human rights of our employees. All human resource policies are formulated in accordance with these principles and also considering that Top Advertising is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. Top Advertising’s recruitment and career development policies provide equal opportunities for all citizens in the country regardless of their race, language, religion, caste or gender. We always ensure that everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work. The remuneration policy is equal for all equal positions and equal load of work. Alongside with the rights of employees to work in equal, Top Advertising also respects the right of employees to rest and leisure. Leaves are given for entitled employees and other benefits are also provided.  Benefits for the employees Company program for employee’s benefits are as follows: Annual 12 days leave and additional of 1 leave every year with a maximum of 21 days leave per annum 1 day leave during birthday. 16 weeks maternity leave Year-end bonus to all employees. Appreciation gift items to employees with 1 year and plus service every end of the year. Top Advertising Pte Ltd 8 Communication on Progress Report 2013 Company outing, movie watching and dining out together with the company expenses. Every employee is applied for a health insurance. Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Top Advertising’s policies, procedures and corporate values ensure compliance with all lawgiving and regulations relating to recruitment and employment, these includes The Employment Act Ministry of Manpower (MOM), where in all the rights and conditions of employee is being covered. We give our employees the opportunity to join an employee organization, labor association and political parties. It is their freedom to express their opinions. Recruitments are always based on identification of the suitable competent individuals who meet the required job profile laid down. Employment is on the free will of each individual, with no pressure by the Management. Top Advertising is committed not to employ forced labor. An employee is not allowed to work for more than 12 hours within a day except in the following circumstances:  Urgent work to be done to machinery or plant  Interruption of work which was impossible to foresee Overtime regulation is only applied to agreeing employee. Payment for overtime is following the regulation of the government. Top Advertising has a zero tolerance of child labour. We strictly follow the Employment Act of Singapore where in stated that, no child below the age of 13 years shall be employed in an industrial or non-industrial undertaking except in the following circumstances:  A child may be employed in an industrial undertaking in which only members of the same family are employed.  A child who is 12 years of age or above may be employed in light work suited to his capacity in a non-industrial undertaking. We believed that all children under the age of 18 should have the opportunity to pursue their education and do not employ anyone under that age. Top Advertising Pte Ltd 9 Communication on Progress Report 2013 Top Advertising promotes the “equal opportunity” approach which is applied without any reserve through every part of project planning and operations which intended to build a highly motivated employee base. We do not accept any type of discrimination based on race or ethnic, religion, gender, cultural background, age, marital status or political views. Table 1: Top Advertising Construction of Employees based on race and gender Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies We always ensure that waste paper within the organization is re-used wherever possible. Each individual are educated on the importance of contributing towards environmental protection and re-cycling of paper and other materials that can re-used. In respect for the value of the earth and its resources provides, Top Advertising continuous to work ambitiously through continuous improvement, for little environmental impacts. We design our products, develop and use advance machines and technology to produce a minimum adverse effect on the environment, making more efficient utilization of energy and resources. Our health and environment policy applies to all our activities:  From procurement of raw materials  Development of projects and processes  Shipment and storage  Handling of products  Waste disposal and recycling of products Top Advertising Pte Ltd 10 Communication on Progress Report 2013 With our ambition to demonstrate respect and a great sense of responsibility to the environment, the products we are using are FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) Certified. FSC certified forest products are verified from the forest of origin through the supply chain. The FSC label ensures that the forest products are from responsibly harvested and verified sources. The FSC 10 principles and criteria describe how forests can be managed to meet the social, economic, ecological, cultural and spiritual needs of present and future generation. With the FCS certification natural resources are managed responsibly, forest and plantations benefit people – both people dependent on forest and the global community at large. Through the use of these FSC certified products we promote greater environmental responsibility. With the vision to be the leading Design and Print Innovator in Asia we used advance machines and technology from designing to completion of our projects. We make sure that our machines meet the standard environment friendly technology, old ones has been reengineered to fulfill the standard requirement. Top Advertising implements a waste disposal system to ensure that it is sorted to enable recycling of paper and other organic wastes. In this concern, employees are required to segregate waste material such as paper and other organic materials before throwing on the garbage disposal bins. Anti Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Implementation: Top Advertising strictly ensures that the Code of Ethics which binds all employees is observed and practiced. Confidentiality, integrity and transparency are highly emphasized principle. We are honest and fair in all our business, bribery or any other forms of corruption are not allowed to engage.
