2 013 3 CSR REPORT Cor porate Social Responsibility Repor t Business Suppor t a n d C o n t r i bu t i o n M an a g e me n t S y s t e m w i t h E mp l oye e Tabl e of Contents Bu sin e ss Su p p o rt a n d Co n tri b u ti o n 02 Message from the President 19 Social Contributions by KURODA ELECTRIC 20 Educational Support 03 About KURODA ELECTRIC Charity Results ① Company Information Follow-up Activities after Financial Support for the New Building of Ban Parai Elementary School ② Financial Reporting ③ Principal Subsidiaries 21 Environmental Contribution Activities ④ Working with our Partners ① KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Ome, Tokyo) ⑤ Working with our Shareholders and Investors ② KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Kurokawa, Kawanishi, Hyogo) 07 KURODA ELECTRIC Group CSR Outline 22 Regional, Household and other Social Contributions ① KURODA ECO Point System ① Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶Mission Statement ② Used Stamps and Telephone Card Collection Drives ② Joining the United Nations Global Compact（ GC） ③ KURODA ELECTRIC In-House Fund Raising ③ The Relationship between the UN Millennium Development Goals and CSR Activities ④ Investment in the Tokyo Metropolitan Venture Business Development Fund ④ The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct ⑤ 2012 CSR Goals with Principal Corresponding Activities M a n a g e me n t S y s te m ⑥ 2013 Financial Year CSR Activity Goals 23 Quality and Environmental Management Systems 13 Initiatives at KURODA ELECTRIC ① Quality / Environmental Policies ② Quality and Environmental Controls 14 Corporate Governance ③ Environmental Performance 15 Compliance w i th E m p l o y e e ① The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct ② KURODA ELECTRIC Hotline 27 Working with our Employees ① Developing Skilled Human Resources 17 Risk Management ② Employee Welfare Programs ① The Corporate Action Committeeʼs Response to Risk Management ③ Mental Healthcare Programs ② Information Security 31 KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. 2013 CSR Report Third Party Comments 32 The KURODA Roadmap Editorial Policy The purpose of this document is to report on KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs activities and approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). As a vital communicative tool, the objective of this CSR report is to promote dialogue among all stakeholders for the overall betterment of society. We sincerely hope that by introducing the CSR activities of KURODA ELECTRIC Group we will be able to further promote such dialogue. Target Period This report will deal with KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs 78th period, the 2012 ﬁnancial year (April 1, 2012-March 31, 2013) (some information, targets and forecasts from outside this period will also be included). The next report is currently scheduled for June, 2014. Scope of Report This report will cover CSR activities by KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. as well as aﬃliated domestic companies (KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd., KOMURA-TECH Co., Ltd., SOHWA CORPORATION, Sophia Systems Co.,Ltd., NICHIDO-DENKO Co. Ltd.) and major aﬃliated companies overseas. Reference Guidelines The GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006(3rd Edition) ISO26000:2010「Guidance on social responsibility」 01 T ab l e o f C onte nts Messa ge f r o m t h e P r e s i d e nt With the fusion of electronics and telecommunications, our economic system is moving towards a new era. The competition over technological development has led to ever lower costs and higher functionality across a wide range of electronic and electrical goods, resulting in a pronounced spike in the development of new products over a short period of time. Additionally, with the increasing globalization of economic systems, the creation of production and circulation networks which cross national boundaries has become a more pressing matter than ever. However, as we continue to pursue the best response to this changing corporate environment, we must also strive to exist in President and harmony with the environment and to preserve biodiversity. Chief Executive Oﬃcer Takashi Kaneko Since its establishment in 1945, KURODA ELECTRIC has remained active as an independent trading company dealing in electric materials, general electronic parts, semiconductors and machinery. Most important of all, as a supplier of manufacturing parts and materials to the electronics industry, we at KURODA ELECTRIC have always developed our business in close contact with our customers. And since establishment our guiding policy has been to provide services vital to our customers without interruption, in a timely and eﬃcient manner, thus contributing to the development of both the world-wide manufacturing industry and to society, and growing in trust as a corporation. Currently, under this policy, KURODA ELECTRIC Group has expanded to 30 locations within Japan and another 30 in 14 countries overseas. As a customer-oriented supplier of parts, materials, products and services, as well as an active company in the ﬁelds of design and manufacturing, we continue to build a global network of the highest caliber which circulates the latest technologies and information. Additionally, as of March, 2011, KURODA ELECTRIC has signed the United Nations Global Compact (GC). Signatory companies are expected to achieve better corporate management by incorporating the 10 GC principles into their management strategies, day-to-day operations and corporate cultures. It is our intention at KURODA ELECTRIC, under the various principles of the GC, to manage according to global standards, to pursue greater growth and proﬁtability for our company, to develop our business from a global standpoint, to increase the worth of our enterprises, and to always fulﬁll our corporate social responsibilities (CSR). M es s a g e from t he P r e s ide nt 02 Ab o u t KUR O DA E LE C TR I C Business 03 A b o u t KU RODA E LE C TRIC 1 Company Information ⑴ Corporate Name KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. ⑵ Start of Operations October 1945 ⑶ Capital 6,545,761,000 yen (as of March, 2013) ⑷ Annual Turnover 194.9 billion yen (March, 2013 term consolidated basis) ⑸ President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer Takashi Kaneko ⑹ Employees 357 (standalone, as of March, 2013) 3,020 (consolidated companies, as of March, 2013) ⑺ Listed Stock Exchange First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange First Section of the Osaka Securities Exchange 2 Financial Reporting (Aggregated Account Summaries) Sa l e s Ope rating P ro ﬁts (Mil l ions of Y e n) First Half Second Half ( M i l l i on s of Yen ) First Half Second Half 7,000 6 , 445 194,960 200,000 5,816 179,044 6,000 166,066 152,771 4,924 5,000 4,602 150,000 80,917 2,549 3 , 736 110,409 4,000 94,741 78,171 2,707 100,000 2,636 3,000 2,000 50,000 98,127 3,267 74,600 84,551 2 , 709 71,325 1,000 2,217 1,966 75th Period 76th Period 77th Period 78th Period 75th Period 76th Period 77th Period 78th Period March, 2010 March, 2011 March, 2012 March, 2013 March, 2010 March, 2011 March, 2012 March, 2013 Ordinary Proﬁts Cu rre nt Te rm N e t P ro ﬁts (Mil l ions of Y e n) First Half Second Half ( M i l l i on s of Yen ) First Half Second Half 7,000 6,566 4 , 135 6,000 5,786 4,000 3,584 5,003 5,000 4,702 2 , 201 2,493 3,791 3,000 2,803 2,762 1,607 4,000 2,708 2,684 1,556 3,000 2,000 1,687 2,000 3,293 1,000 1,977 1 , 934 2,295 2,775 1,000 2,018 1,247 1,075 75th Period 76th Period 77th Period 78th Period 75th Period 76th Period 77th Period 78th Period March, 2010 March, 2011 March, 2012 March, 2013 March, 2010 March, 2011 March, 2012 March, 2013 Yearl y N e t P r o ﬁ t pe r St ock Ye arly Div ide nds pe r Sto ck (Y e n) First Half Second Half ( Yen ) First Half Second Half 150 134.03 30 30 30 28 29 116.16 100 90.85 8 9 .5 2 71 . 3 3 15 5 2 .0 8 15 16 20 14 50.43 5 4 .6 5 50 10 6 4 .0 8 62 . 7 0 14 14 14 15 40.42 3 4 .8 7 75th Period 76th Period 77th Period 78th Period 75th Period 76th Period 77th Period 78th Period March, 2010 March, 2011 March, 2012 March, 2013 March, 2010 March, 2011 March, 2012 March, 2013 The second half of the 77th period includes a commemorative dividend of 1 yen. For more detailed business reports, please refer to our URL. Business Reports http://www.kuroda-electric.co.jp/ir/ﬁnance/report.html Factbook http://www.kuroda-electric.co.jp/ir/ﬁnance/factbook.html Ab out KU R OD A E LE C T R I C 04 3 Principal Subsidiaries Domestic 1 KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd. 5 2 2 KOMURA-TECH Co., Ltd. 3 SOHWA CORPORATION 4 SOPHIA SYSTEMS Co., Ltd. 3 5 NICHIDO-DENKO Co., Ltd. 1 3 4 1 4 5 2 Overseas A ECOREA & KURODA ELECTRIC INDIA Pvt. Ltd. 1 Z. KURODA (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. B Z. KURODA (HONGKONG) Co., Ltd. 2 KURODA ELECTRIC (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. C KURODA ELECTRIC (SHENZHEN) Co., Ltd. 3 PT. KURODA ELECTRIC Indonesia D KC AUTOMATION (SHENZHEN) Co., Ltd. 4 Z. KURODA (Thailand) Co., Ltd. E RAINBOW METAL TECHNOLOGIES Co., Ltd. 5 KURODA SHINSEI (Thailand) Co., Ltd. F GUANGZHOU KURODA ELECTRONIC Co., Ltd. 6 KURODA Auto-Tech (Thailand) Ltd. G SHANGHAI KURODA TRADING Co., Ltd. 7 KURODA ELECTRIC (Philippines) Inc. H TIANJIN KURODA TRADING Co., Ltd. 8 Z. KURODA ELECTRIC VIETNAM Co., Ltd. I TAIWAN KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. 9 BORAMTEK (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. J KURODA ELECTRIC U.S.A. Inc. 0 KURODA ELECTRIC KOREA Inc. K KURODA ELECTRIC CZECH S.R.O 21 18 10 20 14 17 16 13 15 19 18 4 11 8 12 10 5 6 9 7 2 17 1 3 14 16 13 15 19 8 12 4 5 6 7 9 2 1 3 05 A b o u t KU RODA E LE C TRIC 4 Working with our Partners At KURODA ELECTRIC Group we regularly purchase a wide range of materials, parts and other supplies. At the heart of all our operations, however, is the positive relationship we build and maintain with our trading partners. Therefore, when selecting suppliers, we always adhere to the strictest codes of fairness and impartiality and are careful to observe every applicable law when purchasing. 5 Working with our Shareholders and Investors The support of our shareholders and investors is vital for continued and sustainable development at KURODA ELECTRIC. This is why we emphasize the importance of communication and the disclosure of pertinent information in investor relations. ⑴ I n for m atio n Disclo s ur e and ⑵ S t ock Informat ion I n v e s t o r R elatio ns P o lic ies Total Number of Authorized Shares 120,000,000 At KURODA ELECTRIC we disclose all information pertaining to our Total Number of Outstanding Shares 32,663,240 important social responsibilities, including information pertaining to ( Of them, treasury stocks 1,809,836) ﬁnancial, environment and social matters, to all of our stakeholders. We value transparency, fairness and continuity when dealing with each and Total Shareholders 7,224 every one of our shareholders and investors. Not only do we disclose (As of March 31, 2013) information required by the securities exchangeʼs rules on timely disclosure, but in order to proactively promote fair disclosure of information we also publish documents regarding ﬁnancial results brieﬁngs directly to our website. In addition to the disclosure of information, in order to ensure an accurate and equitable assessment of our company, we also engage each of our shareholders and investors in direct communication thereby creating a proactive dialogue which then enables us, in the course of operations, to consult the many opinions of our stakeholders before making decisions. Our earnest wish is that, in order to maintain the fair and smooth circulation of our marketable securities (KURODA ELECTRIC stocks and bonds), we are able to utilize this dialogue to even further raise the value of our enterprises at KURODA ELECTRIC. Ab out KU R OD A E LE C T R I C 06 KURODA ELECTRIC Group CSR Outline Business 07 K U R O D A E LE C TRIC G r oup CSR Ou tlin e 1 Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶Mission Statement ⑴ C or p or ate P hilo so p hy The items listed below, which form KURODA ELECTRICʼs corporate philosophy, are the root of the company groupʼs CSR policy. It is through this philosophy, unchanged since the companyʼs inception, that we recognize our dues to the community and environment and continue to develop our business with freedom and creativity. It is this very philosophy which speaks to the heart of our existence as a company and our sense of social responsibility. Life Freedom Creativity Dynamic enthusiasm, To allow our employees Most importantly, to grow in independence to always avoid complacency, and appreciation for all and capability through and to pursue new territories that the community and the delegation of and possibilities environment allow. responsibility. with bold resolution. ⑵ C om p a ny Mo tto For human existence, the two most fundamentally important things are Life and Freedom. Thus, for a company to continue developing in perpetuity it must respect and seek to actualize these two philosophies, and to build a corporate culture where the workplace overﬂows in both. With this logic in mind, KURODA ELECTRIC Group chooses the following as its Company Motto: Let us stretch our vital roots deep into the earth, and spread our limbs freely unto the sky. ⑶ M i s s i on Statem ent Additionally, at KURODA ELECTRIC Group, our employees are united in a single fundamental approach which is deﬁned by the following mission statement. Let us remain mindful when dealing with others that we owe our existence 1. to society at large and treat them with honesty and gratitude. Let us value the gift of life, cherish our freedom, 2. and so pursue vital living development. Let us reﬂect always on our actions and, through originality and ingenuity, 3. seek prosperity through business; Let us resolve to build character through our work. KU R OD A EL ECTR I C Group C S R O u tl ine 08 2 Joining the United Nations Global Compact（GC） A set of universal standards proposed by the United Nations regarding human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, KURODA ELECTRIC declared its intention of joining the United Nations Global Compact and formalized its involvement on March 2, 2011. Guided in this decision by our Corporate Philosophy, Company Motto and Mission Statement, in addition to supporting the 10 fundamental principles regarding these issues put forth by the Global Compact we have also chosen the UN Millennium Development Goals as the backbone criteria for our CSR activities. As a global corporation and conscientious corporate citizens, it is our duty to contribute across all corporate fronts towards the realization of a sustainable society on a global basis. Th e 10 Prin c iple s o f t he G C Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Labor Principle 5 the eﬀective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment Principle 8 responsibility; and encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-Corruption Principle 10 including extortion and bribery While the wording may vary slightly, the 10 principles listed above can, for the most part, also be found in the KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct. Meaning that, even before KURODA ELECTRIC formally joined the UN Global Compact, we were already enforcing these principles through the establishment of and compliance with our own code of conduct. 3 T h e Relatio ns hip b et ween t he UN M illennium D e velo p m ent Go als and C S R Act ivit ies Environmental Sustainability and Universal Primary Education are two of the goals put forth by the UN Millennium Development Goals, and we feel that it is our personal duty to contribute to these two matters to the best of our humble abilities. For this reason, we developed Envir onment al Action and Educational Suppor t. Additionally, in order to encourage individual employees to pursue environmental action and volunteerism in their own communities and households, we have introduced the KURODA ECO Point System as company's oﬃcial program since February, 2012.We have been promoting these Activities as the 3 Pillars of our Social Contribution Activities. 09 K U R O D A E LE C TRIC G r oup CSR Ou tlin e 4 The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct ( Herea ft er ʻ Cod e of Co ndu c tʼ ) The Code of Conduct was established as guidelines or principles which every oﬃcer and employee of the KURODA ELECTRIC Group must comply with in all his/her daily business activities. Our Code of Conduct does not stop at only the observance of laws and regulations but also gives heavy consideration to social and corporate ethics. The purpose of the code, rather, is to fulﬁll our social responsibilities and ensure the trust of our stakeholders by providing a set of fundamental rules for employees to follow in the course of their daily activities. The Code of Conduct is comprised of seven core themes, including those prescribed by ISO26000 guidances (Organizational Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices, Environment, Fair Business Practices and Consumer Issues) as well as Community Participation and Development. These seven themes reveal KURODA ELECTRICʼs fundamental approach to its corporate activities. KURODA ELECTRIC CSR Activities KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶Mission Statement The DNA of KURODA ELECTRIC The UN Global Compact Formally Joined March 2, 2011 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact UN Millennium Development Goals The Backbone of our CSR Activities The 3 Pillars of our Social Contribution Activities Un i ver sal E n viro n m e n t al P rimar y E du cat i o n S ust ain ab ilit y Educational Periodic Release of CSR Report Environmental Support Contribution Activities Support for the Construction of KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Ome, Tokyo) Ban Parai Elementary School in Thailand KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Kurokawa, Kawanishi, Hyogo) Community Activities & Household Environmentally-Conscious Action in the Home Environmentally-Conscious Action in the Community KURODA ECO Point System KU R OD A EL ECTR I C Group C S R O u tl ine 10 5 2012 CSR Goals with Principal Corresponding Activities Evaluation Method ◎：Exceeds Goal (value of 120% or higher) ○：Meets Goal △：Unsatisfactory 201 2 F i n a nci a l Y e a r 2 0 1 2 F i n an c i al Year Eval Page No. ̶Goals and Plans̶ ̶P ri n c i p al Ac t i vi t i es̶ Strengthening of CSR Activities and Preparation of the 2012 CSR Report and other Information Information Disclosure in Accordance with ○ ー Organizational Governance Disclosure Participation in the GC ①Inclusion of New Items Deemed Necessary by Revised Ordinances to the Securities Report in Addition to Previous Timely Disclosures Implementation of Highly Transparent ②Inspection of Management Practices by an Audit Committee in Management Practices and Strengthening of Practices Related to Governance which Outside Directors (Two Persons) Form a Majority ○ 14 ③Nomination of One Independent Company Director (March, 2010, Reporting to Tokyo Stock Exchange and Osaka Securities Exchange) Continued Strengthening of Communication with Investors and Securities Analysts as well as Reasonable Disclosure in order to Promote Full Penetration of KURODA Consistent IR Activities ○ ー ELECTRIC Management Policies and Tactics. Further Promotion of Human Rights Inclusion of Respect for Human Rights and Prohibition Against Hu man Awareness Discrimination in the Compliance Education of all Employees ○ ー Rig ht s Promotion of Diversity and Dignity in the Unconventional Human Resource Management in Utilizing and Workplace Appointing Personnel ○ ー ①Web Training for All Employees Reliable Execution and Enrichment of Labor Practices Employee Education Programs ②Global Personnel Training Program intended for Selected Employees ③Support Program aimed at Language Skill Improvement for Employees ○ ー ①Medical Checkups (Company Burden) for all Employees over 35 ②Brain Exams and Lung Cancer Screenings for Employees at the Continuation of Employee Physical and Mental Health Measures Age of 40 or Older ③Support for Gynecological Exams for Female Employees ○ 29ー30 ④Mental Healthcare Program (Company Burden) for all Employees KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forests (Ome City and Kurokawa, Kawanishi City) ○ 21 E nv ir o nmen t Implementation of KURODA ELECTRIC ECO Point System, with Approximately 300 Employees Participating in ECO Activities ○ 22 Strengthened Environmental Conservation Activities All Inclusive Energy Conservation Eﬀorts ○ 26 Investigation of Locations Subject to the “Act on Ensuring the Implementation of Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons concerning Designated Products” and Education to Ensure Compliance ○ 26 Fair Business Compliance Education in Accordance with the KURODA ELECTRIC Continued Compliance with and Group Compliance Code of Conduct ○ 15 Practices Education Pertaining to Related Laws Strict Compliance with the Antitrust Act, Unfair Competition Prevention Law and Foreign Exchange Control Law ○ ー Strengthening of the KURODA Group Customer / System for Legal Compliance in the Procurement of Supplies Proper Understanding and Adoption of Subcontractors Act ○ ー Client Interaction ①Strengthening of the Quality Assurance System as per our 2009 Further Improvement of KURODA QA Policy ELECTRIC Group Quality Measures ②Activities for the Stable Preservation of Quality which Meets ○ 24ー25 Customer Demands Community Participation Visit to Ban Parai Elementary School (whose new building was supported by KURODA ELECTRIC) by Z. KURODA (THAILAND) Volunteers who had an Exchange Meeting (Event) and Donated Furnishings ○ 20 Continued Social Contribution in each of KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Established Support for Overseas Aﬀorestation through the Collection of Areas Used Stamps ○ 22 and Development Vaccination Support through In-House Fund-Raising ○ ー Investment in the Tokyo Metropolitan Venture Business Support for Venture Businesses Development Fund ○ 22 11 K U R O D A E LE C TRIC G r oup CSR Ou tlin e 6 2013 Financial Year CSR Activity Goals Our goal every year at KURODA ELECTRIC is to elevate our CSR activities even further than before. In addition to projects carried over from 2012, we plan to set the following goals for 2013 and hope to meet them with more than 100% success. ⑴ Or ganiz ational G overnance ● Continued Strengthening of CSR Activities and Information Disclosure in Accordance with Participation in the GC ● Implementation of Highly Transparent Management Practices and Strengthening of Practices Related to Governance ● Continued Strengthening of Communication with Investors and Securities Analysts as well as Reasonable Disclosure in Order to Promote Full Penetration of KURODA ELECTRIC Management Policies and Tactics. ⑵ H um an Right s ● Continued Promotion of Human Rights Awareness ● Initiatives for Appropriate HR (Human Resources) Utilization Aimed at Total Group Optimization for Diversiﬁcation of HR ⑶ Lab o r Pr ac t ices ● Construction and enforcement of an employee educational program in alignment with a class and a job. ● Improvement of labor environment, and Enrichment of Employee Physical and Mental Health care program. ⑷ E nvir o nm en t ● Strengthening of Environmental Conservation Activities ⑸ Fair B us iness Pract ices ● Continued Compliance of the KURODA ELECTRIC Group with and Education Pertaining to Related Laws ● Thorough Dissemination and Compliance of The Code of Conduct ⑹ Custo m er / C lient Int eract ion ● Strengthening of the KURODA ELECTRIC Group System for Legal Compliance in the Procurement of Supplies ● Further Improvement of KURODA ELECTRIC Group Quality Measures ⑺ Co m m unity Part icipat ion and D evelopment ● Continued Social Contribution in each of KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Established Areas KU R OD A EL ECTR I C Group C S R O u tl ine 12 Initiatives at KURODA ELECTRIC Business 13 I ni t i at i v e s at KU RO DA E LE CTRIC C orp ora te Governa nce At KURODA ELECTRIC, in order to fully realize our management philosophy and further raise the value of our enterprises, we consider corporate governance to be an issue of prime importance. It is to this end that we strive to follow healthy management systems, to strengthen internal controls and to preserve administrative transparency through the timely and pertinent disclosure of information. Additionally, we at KURODA ELECTRIC consider compliance to be a vital foundation to fulﬁlling our social obligations, and recognize thorough compliance as an indispensable element of business operations. As we strengthen corporate governance, we are also proactively addressing compliance management. It is for this reason that we have established the KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct, a set of principles which all oﬃcers and employers are required to follow in the course of business. At KURODA ELECTRIC we deﬁne the issue of compliance broadly, comprehending not only adherence to laws and internal regulations but also to greater items such as corporate ethics. Thus, the Code of Conduct becomes a concrete standard for the professional behavior we wish to see evinced by all group member oﬃcers and employees. As a committee governed company, we have also appointed several outside directors, independent from and with no stake in the company. Our goal is to strengthen external supervision and company inspection. Under rules of fair disclosure, all oﬃcers are accountable to these outside directors. “The separation of executive and supervisory functions” is a fundamental basis for the management of modern companies. At KURODA ELECTRIC, this means that while the board of directors maintains the right to supervise management practices, the right to direct management of corporate aﬀairs has largely been transferred to executive oﬃcers as the board of directors overlooks their actions. Additionally there are three outside directors on the board, two of whom qualiﬁes by the regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange as an ʻindependent oﬃcerʼ and so reports in this capacity to the exchange. KURODA ELECTRIC Corporate Governance Gener al St ockholdersʼ M eet ing Nomination Selection of Candidates for Board Nominating Committee Board Members (Internal / External) (Majority Outside Directors) Board of Directors Selection Compensation Committee (Majority Outside Directors) (Important Supervision of Decision Making, Management, etc.) Reporting Inspection Committee (Majority Outside Directors) Compliance / Validity Inspection Nomination Reporting Compliance / Validity Inspection Executive Oﬃcers Executive Board (Decision Making, Management, etc. (Decision-Making about management is Carried under Delegation of the Board of Directors) out in Conference by Executive Oﬃcers) I n i t i a t i v es a t KU R OD A E LE C T R I C 14 C omplia nce At KURODA ELECTRIC Group we consider compliance to be a vital foundation to fulﬁlling our social obligations, and recognize thorough compliance as an indispensable element of business operations. At KURODA ELECTRIC Group we are proactively addressing compliance management. To be more precise, the KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct has been established as a guideline which employees must follow during all business activities. Compliance Education based on the Code of Conduct is carried out on an annual basis for all employees to be informed about thorough compliance awareness. The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct System A Basic Stance as a Corporation ⑴ Observance of Laws and Ordinances ⑵ Observance of Internal Regulations ⑶ Regard for Human Rights ⑷ Ban on Association with Anti-Social / Criminal Forces ⑸ CSR Activities C Basic Stance Regarding Business B Relationship with Employees ⑴ Procedure by Written Contract and Adherence to Terms Therein ⑴ Obligation of Good Faith Work ⑵ Fair Competition ⑶ Subcontractor Relations ⑵ Prohibition Against Harassment The T KURODA ELECTRIC Group ⑷ Import and Export Regulations ⑸ Safety of Goods and Services ⑶ Adherence to Labor Ordinances C Compliance Code of Conduct ⑹ Environmental Conservation ⑺ Regulations for Gift-Giving and Entertainment ⑷ Abolition of Forced or Child Labor ⑻ Regulations for Receiving Gifts or Entertainment ⑼ Prohibition against Gift-Giving or Entertainment to ⑸ Preservation of the Work Environment Public Oﬃcials D Development of Sound Financial Practices E Information Strategies ⑴ Protection and Proper Use of Company ⑴ Protection of Intellectual Property Assets ⑵ Third-Party Intellectual Property Rights ⑵ Fair Accounting Procedure ⑶ Accounting and Financial Reporting ⑶ In-House Information Management ⑷ Disclosure to Stockholders and Investors ⑷ Mana g ement o f Client & P ar t ner ⑸ Prohibition against Insider Trading Information ⑹ Promotion of Common Stakeholder ⑸ Protection of Personal Information Interests 15 I ni t i at i v e s at KU RO DA E LE CTRIC 1 KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct Basic Stance as a Corporation : Preserving Laws and Ordinances and Contributing to Society A Observing the law is a basic rule of society, and is essential for the continued existence of any business. In addition to adherence to these laws, KURODA ELECTRIC also aims to realize a more aﬄuent society through social contributions. Relationship with Employees : Our Responsibilities as Employers and Employees B The creation of a better work environment is a group eﬀort which depends on the workplace pride of each and every employee within the company and their desire to create good working environments. It is important that both company and employees recognize the respective rights and joint responsibilities of the other. Basic Stance Regarding Business : Fair and Legal Business Practices C The purpose of trade is to create sound proﬁt. However, while unfair practices in trade may produce large temporarily gains, they will inevitably lead to a drop in public credibility further down the line. By necessity, business transactions must always remain fair and legal. By preserving this basic stance a business will only grow in faith, leading ultimately to even better reputation and proﬁts. Information Strategies : Proper Management and Utilization of Information Assets D The information revolution continues at an accelerated pace, and we are constantly surrounded by a diverse and astounding network of information exchange. Included in that network is proﬁtable information, such as patents and other intellectual properties or private customer information which can be used during business. Such information is not a regular possession but rather a vital management resource, an informational asset to operations, and for this reason it must be handled appropriately. The proper management and use of information assets is a necessity for the development of sound business. Development of Sound Financial Practices : A Stable Financial Basis and the Preservation of Stakeholder Trust E The stockholders and investors who contribute funds to KURODA, as well as legislative bodies, expect absolutely trustworthy ﬁnancial reports. Management must always be completely forthright when addressing stockholders and investors. As KURODA ELECTRIC Group continues to pursue greater proﬁts and funds in order to develop and expand further we must always adopt duly appropriate management and ﬁnancial practices. 2 KURO DA E LE C TR I C H o t l i n e The KURODA ELECTRIC Hotline (an internal reporting system) was developed as Compliance Breach one available method for reporting internally when compliance has been breached. If a breach comes to light in this way the Compliance Committee then deliberates as to the proper response. Report via KURODA Hotline If employees witness a violation either of the law or of company regulations, witness actions of an unethical or immoral nature, or have questions regarding the Compliance Committee laws or Code of Conduct, they may contact the hotline anonymously at any time. Investigation of Proper Response Anonymous Hotline ❶ Access Specialized Website and Report Information ❸ Notiﬁcation sent by Email tected y is Pro Securit eport No. ❷ Report No. Issued by a R sword ❹ Conﬁrm Content of Report s and Pa Informant Controller ❺ Report on Resolution or ❻ Conﬁrm Resolution or Progress Progress of Investigation Se r v e r (P r o v id ed by D Q u est, In c. ) I n i t i a t i v es a t KU R OD A E LE C T R I C 16 Ri s k M a na ge ment 1 The Corporate Action Committeeʼs Response to Compliance and Risk Management Our response to Compliance and Risk Management is one of most important problem to our Corporate Social Responsibilities. The Corporate Action Committee was established in order to raise the value of our enterprises, prevent against loss of credibility and to enforce trustworthy risk management practices. The Role of the Corporate Action Committee Regarding Risk Management ● Formulation of Basic Policy and Risk Management Control ● Risk Extraction and Analysis Risks Extracted by all Departments (via Committee Members) (Assessment by Risk Factor Analysis) Factor Analysis Company-Wide Risk Departmental Risk Risks Pertaining to a Departmental Cross-Section of the Company Risks to be Handled by a Speciﬁc Department Assign Priority Assign Priority Priority Risks Requiring Risks Requiring Attention Priority Risks to be Handled Risks Requiring Attention Action by the Committee but no Immediate Action by Each Department but no Immediate Action ● Measures for Prevention of Important Priority Risks Extracted and Analyzed Risks are Selected by the President for Priority 1st Priority ❶ Business / Investment Risk Investment Review Subcommittee Company-Wide Risks Addressed by 2nd Priority ❷ Product / Credibility Risk Corporate Action Committee (Expert) Committee ❸ Information Risk Information Security Subcommittee ❹ Legal Risk Legal Intellectual Property Division Departmental Risk Risks to be Handled ❺ Employment Risk Human Resources by a Speciﬁc Department ❻ Crisis Management General Aﬀairs ● Prevention Measures and Risk Management Systems Inspection / Revision Continual Improvement of Risk Management Through PDCA Risk Extraction → Factor Analysis → Assign Priority → Select Prevention Measures Plan Correction by Management Act Do implementation of Measures Awareness / Training / Familiarization Check Inspection / Revision of Prevention Measures and Risk Management Systems 17 I ni t i at i v e s at KU RO DA E LE CTRIC 2 I n f o r m a t i o n Se c u r i t y In 2008, in order to protect the private information and business secrets of clients and stakeholders alike, we formed the Information Security Subcommittee, establishing rules for Basic Information Security Policies, Rules for Information Security and Information Security Standards. Using these regulations as a guideline we strive to maintain and improve security through periodic web training for all employees as well as Information Security Self-Monitoring. KURODA ELECTRIC Basic Information Security Policies At KURODA ELECTRIC, we consider informational assets to be one of our vital management resources. The Basic Information Security Policies were established to ensure appropriate management and protection of our own informational assets as well client assets in our holding. KURODA ELECTRIC Basic Information Security Policies ● KURODA ELECTRIC will enforce appropriate security measures regarding its informational assets in accordance with their priority. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will also take the utmost care to ensure the security of informational assets of clients which are handled in the course of business, and will take constant measures to prevent risk of loss, destruction, falsiﬁcation or unauthorized disclosure. ● Together with the establishment of the Information Security Subcommittee, KURODA ELECTRIC will appoint managers to oversee the information security of all departments handling informational assets and through the company organizational structure will work to enforce and promote strategies for the security of informational assets. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will implement continuous information security training for all oﬃcers and employees and work to spread general and total awareness of information security policies. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will periodically review the operational status of information security measures and take corrective measures, as necessary, to ensure security. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will adhere to any laws and regulations pertaining to information security. I n i t i a t i v es a t KU R OD A E LE C T R I C 18 S o c ial C o n t ribu tio n s by K URO D A E LE C TR I C Support upp an d Contribution 19 S o c i al Cont r ibut i ons by KURODA EL ECTRIC Ed u cationa l S upport Financial Support for the Construction of Ban Parai Elementary School in Thailand Located approximately 500km northeast of the capital of Bangkok, in the Phayu District of Thailandʼs Sisaket Province, Ban Parai Elementary School is located near the Cambodian border, in an area where there are a lot of people who speak local languages such as Lao and Khmer. The three pillars of Social Contribution Activities at KURODA ELECTRIC are “Educational Support”, “Environmental Contribution and “Community & Household Activities”. In August of 2010, as a link in our overseas educational support activities, the executive committee approved a ﬁnancial support for the new school building construction project for Ban Parai School resulting in donating 1.7 million baht (approx. 4.7 million yen) to the public interest incorporated foundation, Plan Japan. Phayao Thailand Statistics LAOS Population : 69.12 Million MYANMAR Phrae Death Rate of Children Under 5 : 13/1000 Primary School Attendance : 98% (Completion Ratio: 99%) Sakon Nakhon Nong Bua Gross National Income per Person (GNI) : 4,210 USD Lamphu (Courtesy UNICEF State of the Worldʼs Children, 2012) Kalasin Sisaket Kanchanaburi Bangkok Sisaket Province Phayu District CAMBODIA VIETNAM Follow-up Activities after Financial Support for the New Building of Ban Parai Elementary School The second Saturday of January in Thailand is National Childrenʼs Day. On January 12, 2013, to celebrate Childrenʼs Day, many government related oﬃces and facilities were opened to children and a variety of events were held, such as children being given the opportunity to sit in the Prime Ministerʼs chair. On January 12, employee volunteers from Z. KURODA (THAILAND), a subsidiary of KURODA ELECTRIC, visited Ban Parai Elementary School to have an exchange meeting (event) and present donations such as computers, sports goods and stationery. We plan to continue building strong cooperation with local people, including local children, as well as school oﬃcials. Soci a l Con t ri b ut i on s b y KU R OD A E LE C T R I C 20 E nvi ron men tal Contribution Ac tivitie s Ome Ome Kurokawa Kurokawa KURODA ELECTRIC Forest Building (Company Forest Program) Since 2004, as a component of our Environmental Contribution Activities, KURODA ELECTRIC has implemented aﬀorestation, planned thinning, and other forest preservation and agricultural experience projects in Thailand, Kagawa, Kumamoto and elsewhere. Additionally, beginning in 2008, in order to oﬀer the opportunity for steady participation in areas closer to home, our forest preservation projects were extended to Ome City, in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area. In 2011, similar activities were began in Kurokawa, Kawanishi City, Hyogo Prefecture. KURUDA ELECTRIC Company is a supporting member of a public interest incorporated foundation, OISCA (The Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and Cultural Advancement-International） . 1 KURO DA E LE C TR I C C o m pa n y F o r e s t ( O m e , To k y o ) Focusing on the Tama area forests, the Ome City, Tokyo Company Forest relies on cooperation between three axis̶companies and organizations, forest owners and the Tokyo Development Foundation for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries̶to administer and develop the woods. Through support from companies and organizations, the Company Forest project continues in its mission of building low-pollen forests. 2 KURO DA E LE C TR I C C o m pa n y F o r e s t ( K u r o k aw a, K aw an is h i, H y og o) The high-grade “kiku-zumi” charcoal used in tea ceremonies has been made in Kurokawa, Kawanishi, in the Hokusetsu region, since the Muromachi period. At the Kurokawa Company Forest, KURODA ELECTRIC cultivates the sawtooth oaks from which this charcoal is produced, helping to promote biodiversity and contribute to local scenery and culture. 21 S o c i al Cont r ibut i ons by KURODA EL ECTRIC Household, Regional and other Social Contributions Strengthening Our Bond to Society and Community KURODA ELECTRIC Group is involved in a variety of social and regional activities both within and without the company. Through these contributions, we hope to strengthen bonds not only within the company but with the society and community at large. 1 KURO DA E C O P o in t S y s t e m We have introduced the Kuroda ECO Point System in February 2012 in order to encourage environmental contribution activities on the part of employees and their families, not only within the company but in the broader society and community as well. KECO(KURODA ECO)points are distributed based on activities carried out. 2 Used Stamps and Telephone Card Collection Drives KURODA ELECTRIC supports overseas aﬀorestation via the Defense of Green Earth Foundation. In 2012, we collect one full cardboard box worth of used stamps, Disneyland tickets, etc. The proceeds earned through these collection drives are used to purchase seedlings for use in aﬀorestation at Mt. Nansi in Tongchuan, China or at Mt. Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. 3 KURODA ELECTRIC In-House Fund Raising Collection boxes are placed at each company location, and the money collected is donated to the Fund for Children in Crisis carried out by World Vision Japan. The Fund for Children in Crisis is used for education support, job training and improving family incomes in the Tamil Nadu Province of India, improved healthcare support for expectant mothers and infants in the Dien Bien Phu Province of Vietnam, and so on. Investment in the Tokyo Metropolitan 4 Venture Business Development Fund KURODA ELECTRIC invested as a private business in the Tokyo Metropolitan Venture Business Development Fund (hereafter: the Fund), which was established on January 1, 2013 primarily under the direction of the metropolitan government. The Fund oﬀers development capital (capital investments) to smalland medium-scale manufacturing companies with the international technological strength who are trying to create new technologies and marketplaces in ﬁelds such as energy, medical equipment, semiconductors, electronic parts, and green industry, and aims to raise the corporate value of companies receiving investments. Through the Fund, KURODA ELECTRIC oﬀers multifaceted support for key smallto medium-scale businesses with the latent potential for growth. In addition to such cultivation, KURODA ELECTRIC aims to actively pursue business incubation leading to the creation of new business ﬁelds, the expansion of hiring, and the revitalization of local economies. 【Overview of the Fund】 (1) The Fund is comprised of the following two associations: ●The Tokyo Metropolitan Venture Business ●The DCI High Technology Manufacturing Development Investment Association Industry Development Investment Association (est. by the metropolitan government, capital of 2.5 billion yen) (est. primarily by Daiwa Corporate Investment Co., Ltd., capital of 3.0 billion yen) (2) The two associations cooperate to provide investment and backing to small and medium companies. KURODA ELECTRIC is one of ﬁve private corporate investors comprising the DCI Association. (3) Principal Investment Targets (expected) Unlisted venture companies dealing in energy, semiconductors, electronic parts, medical equipment, green technologies, aircraft/robotic components, and home appliances, with total capital stock or investments of 300 million yen or less, or no more than 300 regular employees. Soci a l Con t ri b ut i on s b y KU R OD A E LE C T R I C 22 Q u ali ty and E n v iro n m en t a l M anage m en t S y st em s Management ag System 23 Q ual i t y and E nvir onme nt al Man agemen t Systems OUR QUALITY POLICY As a supplier of products and solutions oﬀering a clear added value to the customer via design / prototyping, provision of components, distribution of inventory and more, KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs ﬁrst priority is to ensure the trust and satisfaction of our customers by oﬀering a reliable source of quality which fulﬁlls customer demand. We therefore adhere to the following policies regarding quality at KURODA ELECTRIC : ⑴ As a business primarily concerned with supplying materials for production it is our duty to fully grasp the business environment, to conform to our clientʼs vision and demands, and, furthermore, to proactively oﬀer products and services which will contribute to our customersʼ proﬁts. ⑵ In the area of manufacturing, we will work with associated domestic and overseas companies in order to form a global response and further maintain and improve partnerships with our customers. ⑶ We will fulﬁll our social obligations by adhering to all applicable laws and regulations, will establish pertinent quality management systems, and through punctual implementation of the PDCA cycle will continually work to improve the eﬀectiveness of quality management. ⑷ In order to reduce the environmental burden and contribute to a recycling society we will manage our environmental burden and promote environmentally friendly products, thus raising environmental quality. ⑸ In order to continually oﬀer higher quality products and services we will analyze prior problems and complaints and adopt appropriate prevention measures. In addition, through eﬀective development of this analysis, we will also work to prevent possible future problems and complains. We will fully fulﬁll our administrative responsibilities, including the provision of appropriate management resources, in order to ensure, through the concrete objectives and plans of individual departments, all possible implementation of the above policies. June, 2009 K U RO D A Gro u p K U RO D A ELECT RI C Co ., Lt d . Pre si d e n t a n d Ch i e f Ex e c u t i v e O ﬃ c e r T a k a sh i K a n e k o 1 Quality / Environmental OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Policies As environmental awareness grows increasingly Fundamental Philosophy pressing, ecological care has become a valued At KURODA ELECTRIC we are aware that, in every sphere of business, global environmental conservation is the most important issue shared by component in the development of new products. us as human beings. In order to promote environmental awareness and conservation we aim to proactively contribute to such issues as energy In addition to recycling and the elimination of and resource conservation, waste reduction and the recycling of resources. environmental pollution, the presence of radiation, noise pollution and electromagnetic waves are all Environmental Policies ⑴ To pursue work in a manner which reduces the environmental burden to important issues for companies to address. its utmost minimum and to engage in environmental conservation and precautions against pollution. ⑵ To set environmental objectives and targets, to provide a framework for revision, to periodically review our environmental actions and to work for At KURODA ELECTRIC, in order to eﬀectively continual betterment. ⑶ To adhere to all laws and internally accepted regulations regarding deal with problems of quality and the environment environmental conservation while addressing the following: we have established oﬃcial quality and ① CO 2 Reduction ② Waste Reduction environmental policies, as well as specialized ③ The Sale of Environmentally Friendly Products ⑷ To show appreciation for the ecological services we are gifted with through in-house organizations. the supply chain, to work to reduce the eﬀect of business activities on biodiversity, and to promote biodiversity conservation. ⑸ To concretely manifest and maintain these policies, and promote their awareness among all employees. ⑹ To publish these policies widely and also furnish other appropriate information. Revised March, 2012 (Original Policy Adopted June, 2009) KURODA Grou p KURODA EL ECTRIC Co., L td . P resid en t an d Ch ief Ex ecu tiv e Oﬃcer Tak ash i Kan ek o Qua l i t y a n d En v i ron m en t a l M a n a g em e nt S y s te m s 24 2 Quality and Environmental Controls ⑴ G l ob a l l y-Integr ated ISO Cert iﬁcat ion KURODA ELECTRIC acquired globally integrated ISO certiﬁcation in September 2009 and renewed its certiﬁcation in 2012. 25 Q ual i t y and E nvir onme nt al Man agemen t Systems ⑵ En er g y Co ns er vatio n A ct ivit ies With the electricity shortages due to the Great East Japan Earthquake, we at KURODA ELECTRIC consider contributing to counter measures (in order to prevent wide-spread blackouts and planned power outages) to be a major aspect of fulﬁlling our social obligations, and will adhere to the following Voluntary Action Plan Concerning Electrical Power. Voluntary Action Plan Concerning Electrical Power Turning Lights oﬀ During Lunch Breaks Strict Limit of 28℃ in summer Turning Lights oﬀ in Unused Rooms, and 20℃ in winter on Interior Temperatures Lavatories, Kitchenettes, etc. Adoption of ʻCoolbizʼ Program, Limiting Air Conditioning in Meeting June 1-September 30 Rooms and Receptions to 8:00-17:30. Reduction of Idle Power Consumption Turning oﬀ Interior Lights whenever Possible by Computers (by Thinning Frequency of Fluorescent Lights, Turning oﬀ Lighting in Unused Rooms, etc.) Reduction of Idle Power Consumption Promotion of Energy Reduction by Unused Machinery Awareness (Posters, Stickers, etc.) Additionally, a variety of environmentally friendly features such as sun shade ﬁlm, solar power generation, rooftop greenery and the use of natural wind were included in the May, 2011 construction of the new Tokyo Headquarters building. ⑶ Management of Chemical Substances in Products In order to comply with all domestic and international laws and to meet customer demand, we at KURODA ELECTRIC are strengthening the reasonable management of chemical substances in products along all stages of the supply chain. Additionally, in order to provide pertient information to suppliers, we will hold periodic information sessions, maintain the newest version of client Green Procurement Guidelines, hold audits and more. In order to enforce reasonable management of chemical substances in products, we strive to work as a capable medium between our clients and suppliers. ⑷ I n v e s t i gatio n o f Co nﬂ ict M inerals Detailed rules based on Section 1502 of the Dodd‒Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), which were adopted by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (hereafter: SEC) on August 22, 2012, require companies listed on the US exchange to report on eﬀorts to avoid the use of conﬂict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold) originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and /or adjoining countries to the SEC. While the KURODO ELECTRIC Group is not listed on the US exchange, through its supply chain, in order to respond to customer requests (for investigation), KURODO ELECTRIC gathers information on conﬂict minerals from its suppliers. In 2012, in response to requests from a total of 66 customers, KURODA ELECTRIC gathered information on conﬂict minerals from a total of 319 suppliers and provided customers in question with responses based on the information gathered from its suppliers. ⑸ T h e W as te Managem ent and Public C leansing Law In order to adhere to the Japanese Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law and to suitably process industrial and business-related general wastes which arise in the course of operations, KURODA ELECTRIC provided pertient web training for all employees. Additionally, in order to prevent incorrect waste treatment and achieve total and thorough compliance, we have established a system whereby the quality assurance department conﬁrms all waste before processing. 3 Environmental Performance (Reported Scope of environmental performance data is intended only for the sites of Kuroda Electric Co., Ltd reported in Globally-Integrated ISO Certiﬁcation.) Data Concerning KURODA ELECTRICʼs Environmental Performance 2010 Financial Year 2011 Financial Year 2012 Financial Year ① Energy Consumption (Unit : MWh) 2,006 1,976 2,060 ② CO Emissions (Unit : t-CO ) 2 2 764 753 979 ③ Business Paper Use (Unit : 1,000 Sheets) 3,391 3,126 2,972 ④ General Waste (Unit : kg) 44,633 45,497 65,502 ⑤ Recycled Waste (Unit : kg) 31,518 31,911 51,315 ⑥ Recycling Rate (Unit : %) 71% 70% 78% ※Since the management subject was changed, Higashi-Osaka LC had been excepted the environmental performance data including the past data. Data Concerning Group companies in Japanʼs 2011 Financial Year 2012 Financial Year Energy Consumption & CO 2 Emissions Energy Consumption CO2 Emissions Energy Consumption CO2 Emissions MWh t-CO 2 MWh t-CO 2 KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd. 251 94 228 1 06 KOMURA-TECH Co., Ltd. 4,047 1,260 4,307 1 , 9 39 SOHWA CORPORATION & SOPHIA SYSTEMS Co., Ltd（only headquarters） 373 140 338 1 57 NICHIDO-DENKO Co., Ltd. 2,032 651 2,072 6 83 Qua l i t y a n d En v i ron m en t a l M a n a g em e nt S y s te m s 26 Working with o u r E m p l o y ees with Employee mp oy 27 W o r k i n g w it h our E mpl oye es 1 Developing Skilled Human Resources ⑴ J ob Sp eciﬁ c E d ucatio n an d Training KURODA ELECTRIC has implemented web-based job speciﬁc education and training. These programs target not only regular employees but also part-time and dispatched employees. The web-based training carried out in 2012 consists of 7 modules utilized by a total of 2,412 trainees. New employees also receive introductory training in spring and follow-up training in autumn. ⑵ G l ob a l H R Res o ur ce Sup port and Training In the future, in order to cultivate HR capable of acting on the global business stage, we are working to have all employees undertake the TOEIC examination. In addition, we are implementing linguistic and intercultural training for those who have been selected from young mid-level employees. ⑶ S k i l l s M anagem ent and L ifelong Learning KURODA ELECTRIC has instituted educational and training programs speciﬁc to the individual job categories and classes of employees. Most importantly, as part of this training, we strive to not only provide the information and knowledge base necessary in their professional duties, but also to oﬀer “Lifelong Learning” which will provide employees with chances to grow as members of society and the organization, and ultimately to become members of the core management staﬀ. The following is an overview and outline of our Lifelong Learning programs. Global Skills ［ Top Management Training ］ Business Accounting ● Team Building ● Fundamental Management Knowledge ［ Expatriated Workers ］ ● Intercultural Training ● Linguistic Ability Training ［ New Management Training ］ ● Management ● Labor Management ● Accounting ［ Leadership Training ］ ● Communication Skill Up ● Global Mind Set Presentation ［ Basic Awareness Reinforcement Training ］ Communication ［ Specialist Skills ］※ External ● Compliance ● International Trade ● Information Security ● Distribution ● Accounting ［ Training / Follow-up Training for New Employees ］ ● Morale Training ● Professional Manners ● Work Process (PDCA Cycle) Specialist Skills W eb Tra in in g All Linguistic Training (Self-Study / Recommended Lectures) Employees Sales Training Professionalism Training W ork i n g wi t h ou r E m p l o y e e s 28 2 Employee Welfare Programs G r ou p L ong T er m Dis ab ility I ncome Indemnit y I nsurance (G LT D) At most companies, when an employee is unable to work for an extended period of time due to illness or injury they are often entitled to Special Paid Absence so long as their tenure continues. But if they are still unable to return to work at the end of their appointed leave and their employment is thus terminated, the strain of hospitalization and doctorʼs fees on their household budget can be extreme. However, in order to create a work environment where employees can enjoy consistent peace of mind, and to help guard against any worst-case scenario, we at KURODA ELECTRIC provide Group Long Term Disability Income Indemnity Insurance (GLTD), guaranteeing a portion of an employeeʼs regular salary as compensation, potentially until the age of retirement, should they be unable to work for an extended period due to illness or injury. Additionally, this insurance provides ﬁxed period compensation for employees who take a temporary leave due to mental disorder. 3 Mental Healthcare Programs In order to help support our employeesʼ mental health, an employee assistance program was introduced in 2007. In order to ensure primary, secondary and tertiary precautions concerning workplace mental health, the program has adopted the following measures. Mental Checkups In order to ensure early detection and treatment of those at risk for mental disorders, all employees undergo web based stress checks once per year. Follow-up by External Specialists Just as follow-up exams are carried out when cause is found to worry after a physical exam, in the event that a stress check should show that something is amiss follow-up exams and treatment guidance are carried out by external specialists (psychiatrists or clinical psychologists) (consultation regarding employees or family members also available). EAP Consultation A consultation window is open for those with physical or mental health concerns. In principle, this window is available 24 hours a day to oﬀer support via email, phone and direct consultation. Mental Training This training, for management, focuses on mental illness prevention tactics and the appropriate response to those with mental disease in the workplace. 29 W o r k i n g w it h our E mpl oye es The Ment al H e a l t h ca r e P r o g r a m An Employee Assistance Program (EAP) oﬀering support to employees and family via external specialist institutions. Overview of Support Programs The incidence of mental health related workmanʼs comp claims and settlements is on the increase, with some reports placing the ratio of disabled workers out due to mental disorders at 40%, thus making workplace mental healthcare more important an issue than ever before. In previous years, while employees were required to have periodic physical checkups, no such checkup was carried out for similar mental issues. With the addition of mental checkups to regular physical exams, our goal is to provide more comprehensive total healthcare. Periodic Examination Results & Feedback Reexamination as Necessary Appropriate Treatment Phys Yearly Diagnosis of Notiﬁcation / Diagnosis of Health Health Exam Physical Results Reexamination Physical Results Mental Health Diagnosis of Follow-up Early Treatment Mental Counseling Health Check Mental Results via Clinic, etc. with Doctor Implementation of period mental checkups makes regular diagnosis simple and possible. Additionally, EAP consultation need not only apply to personal problems, but may also concern coworkers, family members and other people close to the consulting person. When necessary, medical treatment and consistent follow-up care by a doctor is also possible. Diagnosis / Consultation Treatment / Countermeasure Mental Checkup via Counseling Specialist Assessment By Specialist or Counselor At Fixed Intervals as Appropriate per Individual EAP Consultation Medical Treatment Medical Care Geared Towards Physical and Mental Consultation Early Treatment and Recovery, via Reliable Specialists as Necessary W ork i n g wi t h ou r E m p l o y e e s 30 T h e K U R O DA E L E C T L I C Roadm a p This is an image after joining a company until we retire. Preparation will be made to fullﬁlling employment life by three systems, Personnel and Labor Relations,HR Development, Employee Beneﬁts&Welfare. ● Retirement Allowance ● Reemployment ● Special Incentive Leave ● Life-Planning Seminar The KURODA Alumni Club GOAL ● Nursing / Family Care Leave ● Adjusted Hours Commendation ● Employee Aid Programs for Long Service ● Employee Stock Options ● Promotion to Management ● Transfer to New Work Category Personnel and Labor Relations HR Development ● Volunteering Leave Commendation for High Results Employee Beneﬁts & Welfare ● COMPREHENSIVE INSURANCE ● GLTD INSURANCE ● Maternity Leave ● Childcare Leave / ● Job Speciﬁc Training Adjusted Hours Skills Training by Welcome to Position & Work Class the Company! ● Housing Subsidies for TOEIC Examination Young Workers ● Promotion of Property English Conversation Asset Building School Subsidies Mentoring System ● Jiseikai Club Support START ● Honeymoon 31 2 0 1 3 C S R RE PO RT KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. 2013 CSR Report A Company with a Global Perspective: Third Party Comments Honoring Life and Creating a Future for Man and Environment through Freedom The most important characteristic of Additionally, in regard to social CSR activities at KURODA ELECTRIC contributions such as HR resource is perhaps their insistence on support and training and establishing the code of conduct and environment al action, KURODA CSR objectives for KURODA ELECTRIC has discovered several ELEC TRIC Gr oup f r om a global unique approaches, such as the perspective. Having signed the United introduction of the KURODA Eco Nations Global Compact in March, Point System. Their serious approach 2011, and operating under the 10 to mental health as part of their principles of the GC, KURODA employee welfare program also ELECTRIC is clearly leading the way promises a strong coping system for towards a truly Global Standard of problems. management. It should also be noted that the above Every year KURODA ELECTRIC sets principles, impressively, existed as CSR goals across seven ﬁelds̶ part of KURODA ELECTRICʼs Organizational Governance, Human corporate philosophy, company Vice President & Director of Rights, Labor Practices, Environment, motto and mission statement even Social Cooperation, Meiji University Fair Business Practices, Customer / before joining the GC. Professor, Department of Public Management Client Interaction, and Community Participation and Development̶then In addition to these positive PhD, Kyoto University (Economics) strives diligently to achieve these characteristics, however, there are Masatsugu Fujie g o als. A s a globally d e v eloping also some areas for concern. For business dedicated to the creation of instance, considered from a global the environment and the future, their perspective, the ʻEnergy Saving Born in 1954, Masatsugu Fujie clear stance, and reliance on the GC, Measuresʼ included under graduated from the Economics sends an important message not only ʻEnvironmental Management department of Kyoto University. After within Japan but to the world at large. Systemsʼ are an important issue withdrawing from a doctorate at Kobe (On a related note, Meiji University is which should demand a widespread University Fujie went on to teach as a likewise working in cooperation with universal approach and change of full-time lecturer at Iwate University, the United Nations through lifestyle. A title which recognizes this then as an associate professor at Tokyo University of Agriculture and participation in the UN Academic importance and speaks to a larger Technology, and ﬁnally as an associate Impact initiative.) scale beyond the workplace may be professor at Meiji Universityʼs necessary. Department of Public Management A second important characteristic of before being promoted to his current CSR activities at KURODA ELECTRIC Likewise, I feel the report would also position of full professor in 1993. As a is their establishment of a Compliance beneﬁt by touching on the visiting researcher at Portland State Code of Conduct and overarching contributions KURODA ELECTRIC University he served as the director of the Research Center for Management of compliance system which proactively products themselves add to society̶ Sustainability. His published works addresses compliance management in in other words, the manner in which include Transfer Pricing Regulation and regards to their general corporate KURODA ELECTRIC unites social Local Tax Return (Chuo Keizai), An stance, their relationship to contributions to its main business Introduction to Program Evaluation employees and to business partners, activities. (translation, Azusa Publishing), Business their information strategies and their Economics (Azusa) and others. ﬁnancial practices. In addressing risk Considered collectively, however, the management (including environmental above points clearly show that the performance), their creation of a KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. 2013 corporate action committee speaks CSR Report is of a superb quality, volumes of their dedication to this deserving of the companyʼs good issue. name. 2013 CSR REPORT 32 Publisher K U R ODA E L E CT R I C Co., I n c . C SR / I SO D i vi si on Production K U R ODA E L E CT R I C Co., I n c . C SR / I SO D i vi si on Inquiries CS R / I S O Di v i s i o n Te l:(06)63031066 Ma il:k rdc s r@kuro da e le c tric .c o .jp
