u Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Cloetta’s corporate responsibi­ different GRI performance indicators can be ORGANISATION FOR found. SUSTAINABILITY WORK lity rests on a balance between The sustainability report is designed to Cloetta’s sustainability work is overseen by social, environmental and reflect the company’s economic, environthe Director Corporate Responsibility, who financial aspects in all parts of mental and social impacts. The performance functions as a conduit for issues related to operations. Cloetta’s commit­ indicators and metrics that Cloetta has chosen corporate responsibility and is charged with to present have been selected in view of their identifying prioritised areas, acting as a link ment to corporate responsibility significance and relevance to the company’s between the company’s stakeholders and is founded on the company’s operations. management and supporting the implemencore values. Cloetta’s code of tation of Cloetta’s strategy for corporate Cloetta’s corporate responsibility conduct contains guidelines for responsibility. the employees’ actions in rela­ Environmental AWARDS DURING THE tion to consumers, customers, responsibility FINANCIAL YEAR suppliers, shareholders and During the year, Cloetta in the Netherlands colleagues. Social Economic was presented with the “Lean and Green” responsibility responsibility award. The award was granted for a commitment to reducing CO2 emissions from transports by 20% over a five-year period. Cloetta’s Following the merger between Cloetta and commitment has resulted in an action plan Leaf, a process has been started in which SCOPE together with business partners where the Cloetta’s total corporate responsibility is beThe sustainability report covers Cloetta’s focus is on: ing reviewed. own operations, meaning Cloetta’s direct u Using a modern fleet of transport vehicles. impact on the environment and people. All u A training program for drivers (eco-driving). REPORTING PERIOD AND GUIDELINES of Cloetta’s production and virtually all sales u O ptimising use of freight capacity in the This is Cloetta’s third sustainability report in take place in Europe and all of Cloetta’s direct vehicles. accordance with the Global Reporting Initiasuppliers, with a few exceptions, are found in tive (GRI) guidelines, G3. The report meets Europe, where there are laws that regulate CLOETTA’S STAKEHOLDERS the criteria in level C and has not been exterhuman rights. Cloetta’s stakeholders and target groups nally assured. The contents refer the financial Product responsibility and product safety include customers, consumers, employees, year from 1 January 2012 to 31 December are an integral part of Cloetta’s production shareholders, investors, business partners/ 2012 and include all of Cloetta’s activities process and are described on page 28. suppliers and the public/society. These groups unless otherwise specified. Cloetta’s ambition However, Cloetta has a certain responare crucial for Cloetta’s long-term survival. is to report on its sustainability performance sibility for the entire product value chain, Cloetta has a continuous, open dialogue with every year in the annual report. Changes comfrom raw material supplier to recycling of the the most important stakeholders based on pared to the previous report are mainly related product packages. All of Cloetta’s suppliers of the expectations and requirements of each to the merger between Cloetta and Leaf, direct materials undergo an approval process stakeholder group, see page 39. which has affected parameters such as the key in which their sustainability work is evaluated. performance indicators that are presented in This process is described under “Purchasing” INTERNATIONAL SUSTAINABILITY this sustainability report. on pages 28–29. INITIATIVES The sustainability report and corporate For raw material suppliers with which Cloetta is involved in industry associations governance report are part of the annual Cloetta has no direct supplier relationship, and non-profit/non-governmental organisareport for the financial year 2012. To avoid such as growers in developing countries, tions that are working to accelerate developredundancy, references are sometimes made Cloetta is responsible for promoting development towards more sustainable raw mateto these two reports including the section with ment toward better environmental and workrial production, primarily of cocoa but also the message from the CEO on pages 4–5. On ing conditions. Read more about Cloetta’s palm oil. Read more about this in the section page 5 Cloetta presents a summarised table involvement in international initiatives on “Responsibility for raw material producers” that shows where in the annual report the pages 50–51. on page 50. Cloetta – Annual report 2012 38 t Core stakeholder issues for sustainability Stakeholder Key issues – sustainability Communication and cooperation Customers/consumers Product safety and quality. Our brands. Clear declarations of With consumers through various surveys and via the websites ingredients. Eco-friendly packages. Cloetta takes responsibility and social media. With customers through personal customer for the environment and working conditions as far as possible. and sales meetings and via customer surveys, but also collaboEthics in general. Efficient transports to the retail trade. rative initiatives for eco-friendly transports. Employees A good and stimulating working situation. A safe working enviDaily meetings to discuss occupational health and safety in ronment. Health and fitness activities. Ethical issues in general, the factories, annual performance reviews with all employees, but also good financial development for the company. systematic skills development activities, up-to-date information via managers, the intranet and union representatives. Since 2011 Cloetta conducts the Great Place to Work survey every other year. Shareholders and investors Sustainable long-term financial value growth. Ethical issues in Annual report, website, analyst and investor meetings, interim general. reports and the annual general meeting. Suppliers and other business Ethics and business codes in procurement. Product safety. Collaborative projects for sustainability. Supplier evaluations, partners Sustainable long-term development. Support of human rights. sponsorship evaluations and development projects. The public/society Cloetta takes responsibility for the environment and working The local communities/municipalities around Cloetta’s factoconditions as far as possible. Laws, regulations and standards. ries with regard to the local environment, public authorities in Cloetta makes a positive contribution to social development, areas related to occupational health and safety, environmental including the local environment. and product responsibility, schools and universities, certification bodies for ISO and BRC and key opinion leaders. Economic impact Economic value generated and distributed (SEK M) Stakeholders 2012 2011 Production and sales of Revenue Customers 4,859 4,658 Cloetta’s products generate Other operating income Business partners 13 1 Financial income economic values that benefit including exchange differences Business partners 25 –1 stakeholders. Total generated value 4,897 4,658 Distributed as Costs excluding payroll Suppliers/business partners –3,454 –3,217 Payroll and other compensation Employees 1,293 –1,082 Financial expenses Business partners –290 –599 Income tax Government 67 172 Loss for the year –73 –68 Cloetta has the opportunity to receive indirect support from the public sector over a ten-year period through a tax credit in Slovakia. 39 Cloetta – Annual report 2012 u Cloetta in society Cloetta in society Cloetta has always been per­ is active. These can include environmental facilities are based, but can also consist of projects that are driven within the framework other activities. Cloetta maintains an ongoing meated by a commitment to of Cloetta’s environmental work and projects dialogue with local authorities in the locations corporate responsibility. It is to promote an active and healthy lifestyle. where it has factories, as well as with the mepart of the company’s culture They can also be focused on global issues, such dia and schools/universities, among others. and tradition to safeguard as development projects, where the aim is to achieve sustainable cultivation and producCLOETTA’S CODE OF CONDUCT people, society and the envi­ tion of raw materials in countries of origin. Cloetta’s code of conduct guides the way in ronment. Cloetta is primarily Read more about our projects and commitwhich the company is managed from a social, involved in its local markets ment on the next few pages. environmental and financial perspective. It is but also takes part in projects based on Cloetta’s core values: Focus, Passion, LOCAL COMMITMENT Teamplay and Pride. at the global level. The local commitment to sustainable developThe code of conduct covers the entire ment is aimed at strengthening the surroundvalue chain, from raw material to consumer, ing community but also Cloetta’s brand both and applies to all activities in all markets and within and outside the company. This commitcountries where Cloetta is represented. The This commitment is expressed in projects ment is mainly focused on consideration to the principles in the code of conduct are consistthat support the local markets where Cloetta local environment where Cloetta’s production ent with: Value chain uuuuuu uu uuuuuuuuuuu Suppliers Production u A ll suppliers of raw materials and other manufacturing ENVIRONMENT materials undergo an approval process in which both uD  evelopment of more energy-efficient processes. product safety and corporate responsibility aspects are uW  aste is sent to material recycling and energy recovery. evaluated. uS  ystematic environmental management in all production units. u Cloetta promotes sustainable production of raw materials like cocoa and palm oil. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY u A ll packaging material can be pre-sorted. u A focus on personal safety. u Cloetta strives to avoid unnecessary transport packagu OHS activities with systematic monitoring and follow-up. ing and optimise use of freight capacity, and thereby reduce emissions of CO2. PRODUCT SAFETY u Product safety system. u A focus on measures to prevent serious product returns. Cloetta – Annual report 2012 40 Cloetta in society t u T he UN’s Declaration of Human Rights Cloetta committed to product content When it comes to product content and quality, u ILO conventions Jenkki project u OECD guidelines for multinational enterCloetta is subject to a number of national and Cloetta conducted a survey prises international laws and rules. However, Cloetta among Finnish dental hygienu ICC framework for responsible marketing of wishes to take its responsibility further and is ists to chart their views on the food and beverages a forerunner in developing the content of the dental health of Finnish young u The European Brand Association products. For example, Cloetta is conducting people. The results were alarming and a long-term programme called NAFNAC (No showed that young Finns don’t seem to be GENERAL PRINCIPLES Artificial Flavours No Artificial Colours), adequately concerned about their teeth. Cloetta – every day which is aimed at offering a portfolio of Hanna Korhonen, Marketing Director in For Cloetta, it is important to have clearly products that contain no artificial flavours or Finland, explains: defined guidelines for mutual respect and a colours. “The results of the survey were shared set of core values. Cloetta recognises dismaying and at Cloetta we started to and supports the ten principles in the UN’s Cloetta’s environmental impact think about how we could take responsiGlobal Compact and works to promote these Systematic environmental management bility and contribute to turning this trend in the communities and environments where provides a foundation for Cloetta’s efforts to around. Our Jenkki brand is the best the company conducts business. Special emminimise its environmental impact. Cloetta’s known and most sold chewing gum on the phasis is placed on: environmental work is governed by the code Finnish market and it contains xylitol, u Equality and non-discrimination of conduct, which states an ambition to which has a positive effect on dental u Freedom of association and collective comply with the applicable laws and rules, health. So our idea is to let Jenkki inspire bargaining involve the employees and focus on continuFinnish young people to take better care u Occupational health and safety ous improvements in the environmental area. of their teeth. u Working hours Cloetta’s foremost environmental impact “The goal is for 100,000 Finnish arises through water and energy consumption, young people to learn more about how to From raw material to cherished brands wastewater emissions, waste and transports. take care of their teeth. We will launch Cloetta works with responsibility throughout an educational programme in which we the entire supply chain, from raw material to Cloetta supports plan to bringing together 100 dental hyfinished product. Cloetta supports the relevant Cloetta continuously supports various types gienists and 1,500 teachers with 50,000 ILO conventions and complies with the laws of projects and initiatives in the markets where young Finns. We look forward to raising and rules in the countries where it conducts the company is represented. The scope and the level of knowledge about good dental operations, and places the same demands on focus of these projects varies over time. In the health among Finnish young people,” the company’s suppliers. In order to become projects where the Group is involved, Cloetta says Hanna. Read more about the Jenkki an approved supplier to Cloetta, the supplier strives to promote an active and healthy project at www.leaf.fi must undergo an approval process and accept lifestyle. Cloetta’s general supplier requirements. uuuuuuuuu uuuuuuuuu Transport Customers u A s a rule, products are delivered to a central warehouse rather u Recyclable packaging. than to a large number of stores. u In general, our customers require us to uO  ptimisation of freight capacity in the transport vehicles. have BRC certification. Consumers u Recyclable packaging. u Feedback on comments and product returns. 41 Cloetta – Annual report 2012 u Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility Cloetta works to reduce its of Cloetta’s operations and environmental significant environmental impact connected aspects are taken into account when making to production of raw materials and packaging. environmental impact through decisions. Frequent evaluation and follow-up The priorities for Cloetta’s environmental systematic environmental of measures increases awareness about the work have been set based on how the direct opman­agement. Cloetta’s effects of different working methods on the erations impact the environment, the extent of greatest environmental impact environment. this impact, the probability of unplanned environmental events occurring, the requirements comes from water and energy WORKING METHODS of public authorities and other stakeholders consumption, wastewater Every year, Cloetta carries out an assessand, finally, the extent to which Cloetta can emissions, waste and trans­ ment of environmental aspects to identify the influence development. The prioritised areas ports. Viewed over the entire existing risks and opportunities. Cloetta has for Cloetta’s environmental work are: an action plan that defines and governs the u Energy consumption life cycle of the products, the activities to be carried out in order to reduce u Volume and attributes of wastewater most significant environmental the company’s environmental impact. u Waste volume, type and recycling impact arises in raw material and packaging production. PACKAGING ENERGY CONSUMPTION The packaging materials must perform several The Group’s aggregate energy consumption functions, such as protecting the product on its during the financial year was around 215 GWh way to the consumer, enabling easy handling (226). Approximately 25 per cent of the total of the product and communicating the brand. energy usage is independent on the production ENVIRONMENTAL The most commonly used consumer packagvolume, i.e. related to heating and cooling of MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ing method is flexibles, a material that can be properties, while 75 per cent is directly linked All of Cloetta’s factories conduct systematic recycled or incinerated. to production. environmental management that includes action plans and monitoring in a number of difENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CO2 emissions ferent areas. In addition, seven of ten factories AND PRIORITIES Alongside efforts to reduce energy consumpare certified according to ISO 14001. Environmental impact in the confectionery tion, Cloetta is also working to choose energy industry arises among other things from types with the smallest possible negative ENVIRONMENTAL WORK water and energy consumption, wastewater impact on the environment. For that reason, Cloetta complies with the statutory environemissions, waste and transports. Certain the total amount of energy used is converted mental requirements and the Group is not environmental effects are also caused by to the amount of CO2 equivalents generated by party to any environmental disputes. Envicoolants, other chemicals, noise and particles. the chosen energy types. ronmental initiatives are an integral part Outside Cloetta’s direct influence, there is also Energy sources Energy consumption CO2 emissions Steam 11%   Oil 13% Mwh/prod. tonne kg/prod. kg 2.5 0.5 2.0 0.4 Totalt 1.5 Gas 34%  0.3 215 GWh 1.0 0.2 0.5 0.1  Electricity 36% 0.0 0.0 District heating 6%  2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 C0 2 equivalents linked to the Group’s use of different energy types. Transports are excluded. Cloetta – Annual report 2012 42 t Key environmental performance indicators 2012 2011 2010 Total production, tonnes 96,700 98,400 109,600 Total energy consumption, GWh 215 226 243 Energy consumption per produced tonne, MWh 2.23 2.32 2.27 CO 2 per produced kilo, kg 0.42 0.46 0.46 Wastewater per produced tonne, m 3 5.0 4.4 4.2 COD* per produced tonne, kg 28.1 22.6 24.6 Waste per produced tonne, kg 80 70 62 Recycled waste, % 49 64 63 * C OD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) measures the amount of oxygen consumed in complete chemical decomposition of organic compounds in water. Energy optimisation With a supply chain consisting of 10 and compressed air systems. One valuable rally share our experience between the diffactories, energy-saving activities play an lesson has been to include energy optimisaferent units on an ongoing basis. In Levice, important role. Lower energy consumption as part of our regular maintenance. This for example, new drying cabinets have been tion means lower costs, and also decreases ensures that energy optimisation is part built based on experience from other parts Cloetta’s ecological footprint. Senior Project our day-to-day activities and continuous of the Group. In 2013 we will start a project Engineer Martien Tromp explains: improvements in our factories. to study whether we can also decrease “All of Cloetta’s factories are covered by Aside from joint activities, each factory energy usage for drying cabinets in the other a centrally steered energy optimisation prodrives unique projects to reduce energy factories according to best practice,” says gramme. Among other things, all factories consumption. The nature of these projects Martien. conduct projects related to our steam traps varies from factory to factory, but we natu43 Cloetta – Annual report 2012 u Marknader WASTEWATER The volume of wastewater was 5.1m3 (4.6) per In 2012 the factory in Roosendaal took and define the flows. Once this was done, produced tonne. steps to increase the pH level of its wastewawe could steer the flows more effectively so One key environmental target is to ter. A pH level that is too low has a negative that a larger share of the acidic wastewater improve the wastewater quality. Cloetta rates impact on the wastewater system as such, is transported to an internal tank where we this quality among other things in terms of and a number of measures were therefore can handle it instead of releasing into the COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand), which taken during the year to raise this level. wastewater system. measures the amount of oxygen consumed in We have also devoted a lot of time to complete chemical decomposition of organic “By testing the system, training our factory operatives. When it compounds in water. There are several prowe were able to comes to the environmental impact of our jects underway to improve the quality of the understand and define operations, knowledge is vital and training wastewater. For example, read more about of our operatives was focused on showing efforts at the factory in Roosendaal, at right. the flows” how to handle acid wastewater and how to Conny Slot, QE Manager at the factory clean the pipes and WASTE MANAGEMENT in Roosendaal, says: tanks as effectively All of Cloetta’s production units pre-sort their “One problem we’ve had with our wasteas possible. So far, waste. The goal is to continuously develop water is that it has sometimes been to acidic, we are satisfied with waste management and reduce the total so we started a project to find out why. By the visible effects of volume of production waste and other waste. studying the wastewater system in the facour efforts and will A decrease in raw material wastage has a tory and conducting tests where we injected continue to monitor positive impact on both the environment and contrast media at different points in the development in 2013,” the Group’s total costs. At present, 49% of the system, we were able to better understand concludes Conny. waste is recycled and the remaining 51% is used for energy production. Wastewater COD Waste m /prod. tonne 3 kg/prod. tonne kg/prod. tonne 5 30 80 25 70 4 60 20 3 50 15 40 2 30 10 20 1 5 10 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 One effect of the relocation of up to 40% of the Group’s total production between different factories over a two-year period is an increase in the number of test runs. This, together with a lower production volume, has had a negative impact on the performance indicators above. Cloetta – Annual report 2012 44 Employees t Employees Cloetta is driven by a conviction position as an attractive and innovative partLeaders at Cloetta ner not only for the employees but also for the To continue developing, Cloetta must be able that value is created by the customers, suppliers and business partners. to attract, retain and develop the right managemployees, and that the ability A learning-driven organisation that works in ers, who aside from professional expertise to attract and retain the best project form and the use of interdisciplinary must also have intellectual capacity, entrepreand most competent people teamwork in day-to-day activities are imporneurial spirit, an understanding of the Group’s tant components of Cloetta’s skills developoperations and a will to achieve results. A it is crucial for the company’s ment. All skills development is designed to good leader must have the ability to prioritise, success. support Cloetta’s strategies, to be businessmotivate, communicate and develop others, oriented and to promote the individual’s and must possess courage in their leadership. interests and needs. Based on these criteria, Cloetta fosters new Cloetta therefore works determinedly to creThe main focus areas are to develop the and existing talents. ate an attractive workplace for all employees right people for the right positions and to Cloetta conducts regularly occurring and promotes the development of a high-peralways clarify and improve roles, responsibiligroup exercises for the Group’s managers that forming organisation by continuously developties and working methods throughout the orare aimed at enhancing the performance of the ing its staff, designing competitive incentive ganisation. Cloetta strives to be an attractive group and the individuals, among other things systems, upholding an inspiring corporate employer in the markets where the company through exposure to each other’s conscious culture and building a clear corporate identity. is active, thereby making it possible to retain and unconscious leadership drivers. They also valuable employees. serve as an important platform for discussion THE RIGHT EXPERTISE All recruitment takes place locally with of Cloetta’s values. Cloetta is characterised by a commitment the support of centrally developed tools. For to continuously renewing the company’s agall positions, the selection is based on an Employee survey gregate expertise. Competent employees that agreed set of competencies against which the Employee feedback is vital in understanding are given scope to realise their full potential candidates’ performance is measured among how Cloetta is perceived as an employer and create the conditions to maintain Cloetta’s other things using psychological tests. providing a basis for development. Since 2011, Helena Persson is one of Cloetta’s sales retailer’s confectionery range. We have tools representatives to the grocery retail trade in to help the retailer calculate the profitability of Malmö, Sweden, who was given a wider brand increased volumes for different brands. Based portfolio during the year as a result of the on this, we work on how to expose the brands merger between Cloetta and LEAF. in the stores. It’s a matter of both ensuring high visibility for the products and finding “Working with our smart, new sales points in the store. brands is a pleasure, Our goal in the store is to present consumers with the right offering at every possible it’s almost magical” sales point for confectionery, to meet their “The retailers have been very positive toneeds and thereby increase sales and profitwards our expanded portfolio, and now there ability for the store. is only one sales meeting instead of two. For us Working with all of Cloetta’s brands is a on the sales force, it’s an exciting challenge to pleasure, it’s so easy for people to love them. have responsibility for such a large share of the It’s almost magical!” Helena Persson 45 Cloetta – Annual report 2012 u Hållbarhetsredovisning Cloetta conducts a survey called Great Place out to ensure that the company’s remuneraworking climate where each individual can to Work every other year. tion levels are competitive from a European feel secure and pursue personal development. The Finnish organisation was awarded perspective and in line with the applicable pay One essential part of a secure working envithe status of “Great Place to Work” in the latlevels in the countries where Cloetta operates. ronment is to ensure that no one is subject to est measurement. discrimination or sexual harassment. Cloetta In the intervening years, the results are RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE aims to be a workplace where diversity and the followed up and improvement programmes COMPANY AND THE EMPLOYEES different qualities, knowledge and skills of all are pursued. In the Netherlands, for example, Cloetta strives to uphold a relationship of employees are respected regardless of gender, improvement efforts led to an increase in the mutual respect and trust between the comreligion, ethnic background, age, race, sexual confidence index from 61 to 73 in one year. pany and its employees. This also steers the orientation, etc. company’s way of working with the European In production, employee safety is always Restructurings Works Councils, local company councils and the top priority. All factories carry out conIn 2012 Cloetta was forced to close factories, union organisation. Cloetta complies with the tinuous risk assessments to minimise the risk which meant that a number of employees have applicable laws and regulations in the counfor accidents. All incidents and injuries are left the company. In addition to the support tries where the Group is active and respects lofollowed up and reported. The Lean method provided by the public sector and from differcal norms and values. In addition, the Group’s is used to prevent and reduce productionent insurance solutions, Cloetta’s focus has principles are consistent with the relevant ILO related occupational injuries. Thanks to these been on helping the employees to find new conventions. systematic efforts, the number of occupational jobs. Cloetta encourages a good balance beinjuries has been reduced in recent years, read tween professional and personal life. It is immore on the next page. Remuneration structure portant to help both men and women combine Each manager is responsible for avoiding In order to recruit and retain the right experthe demands of their jobs with responsibility occupational illnesses and accidents through tise, it is crucial to build up and maintain a for home and family. The Group therefore follow-up and corrective measures. Cloetta’s competitive incentive system based on results supports flexible work arrangements like flexHR department has developed tools for use, and development. Cloetta applies a uniform time and part-time hours, when possible. together with managers with staff responsibilprocess in assessment of past performance ity, for early detection of signals that could be and oversight of the organisation. The system A GOOD AND SAFE WORKING caused by illness and could lead to a risk for is based on three main areas: Strategic ExcelENVIRONMENT long-term absence. lence, Performance Excellence, Leadership & Efforts to improve and develop the working Change Management. environment are a natural aspect of operationDuring the year, an external review of al development and the goal is to create a good Cloetta’s remuneration structure was carried physical working environment and a healthy Cloetta – Annual report 2012 46 Employees t Age distribution Number 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 <25 26–35 36–45 46–55 56> NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES The average number of employees in 2012 was 2,579 (2,192). The increase is due to the merger between Cloetta and LEAF. Of the total number of employees, 57% are employed under collective agreements and 43% are salaried employees. Employees by country Gender distribution Employee categories Norway 2.1%  31 December 2012 31 December 2012 Denmark 1.8%   Germany 0.3% Belgium 4.1%  Salaried  Sweden 27.5% Men 50%   Women 50%  Employees Finland 10.4%  employees under 43%  collective agreement Netherlands 57% 12.6%  Italy 18.3%   Slovakia 22.9% The Employees Sweden Slovakia Italy Netherlands Finland Belgium Norway Denmark Germany UK Other Total Average no. of employees 699 623 467 342 238 106 54 33 7 5 5 2,579 of whom, women 334 442 188 88 174 21 22 14 4 3 5 1,295 Sickness abscence, % 3.7 3.6 4.8 4.9 4.0 3.8 3.2 2.4 5.0 – – 4.0 By developing the Group’s safety awareness, improvements and working according to our Accidents on the job or Cloetta has succeeded in reducing the number safety behaviour program. during business travel of work-related accidents by 53 per cent since “We believe that all accidents can be (> 1 day of absence) 2010. Piet Vandenbroucke, Manufacturing avoided, but that it is not possible to eliminate Number 50 Director in Turnhout and Roosendaal and reall risks. Any further reduction in the number sponsible for “Lean and Safety” in the Group, 40 explains. “Of course we are proud of this, but at the “Safety first” 30 same time we are humble since every accident can lead to suffering for the individual and of accidents will depend on our ability to 20 we are continuing our determined efforts to renew the focus and strengthen our safety reduce the number of accidents that occulture in combination with alert and deter10 cur. For us, safety means handling risks in a mined efforts towards continuous improveprofessional manner, focusing on continuous ment”, adds Piet. 0 2010 2011 2012 47 Cloetta – Annual report 2012 u Employees Organisation President and CEO Accounting/Finance HR Corporate Marketing Communications & IR Business Development/ M&A Production/Purchasing Scandinavia Finland Middle Italy/Rest of the World A FLAT ORGANISATION FOR SHORTER companies into a centrally led, locally mantions for both the local sales and marketing DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES aged group that is headed by a multinational organisation and for production. ResponsiCloetta has around 2,600 employees in 12 management team. bility for business development, corporate countries who are active in sales and marketCloetta is organised according to function communications, business control, marketing ing, production, innovation and support and its commercial organisation is separate strategies, HR and certain financial activities functions. Cloetta’s head office is located in from the production organisation. Personnel, like tax, financial administration, insurance Stockholm, Sweden. The organisation has finance and administrative units are found in and financial control are handled by central been developed from a number of individual each main market and serve as support funcstaffs. Cloetta’s HR Wheel Update of job descriptions and preparations JAN Employee evaluation for the upcoming evaluation process DEC u Individual goals V FE NO B u Individual development measures OCT MAR Skills development with a focus on Target levels established the organisation’s challenges for the coming year Strategic plan SEP APR Salary audit Semi-annual follow-up of employee evaluation AU G AY M JUL JUN Management review Cloetta’s HR work follows an annual cycle with activities aimed u Succession planning at building and raising the level of expertise in the organisau Identification of new and follow-up of existing talents tion. Most of the activities in Cloetta’s HR wheel as described above are primarily attributable to salaried employees. Cloetta – Annual report 2012 48 Core values t Core values Cloetta has established four core values that guide our way of working and acting, both within and outside the company. These core values are Focus, Teamplay, Passion and Pride. Focus is about doing the fundamentals with self-confidence, ambition and a “will do” attitude. Focus means continuous, diligent work across the essential parts of our business. We will only be successful by focusing and delivering on prioritised activities. We therefore treasure the ability to be a role model in execution, consistently being practical and fact-based, creating clarity, setting priorities, making consistent choices and always having a sense of urgency, speed, drive and discipline as well as the agility to change and adapt when required. Blended with a “will do” mentality, built on self-confidence, ambition and realism, Focus brings both success and the admiration of the competition. Teamplay is about mutual responsibility: doing your part and supporting each other. Team Play is based on both individual and mutual responsibilities and mutual support for one another. It extends beyond Cloetta, reflecting in the way we aspire to cooperate with our external stakeholders, customers and suppliers. We therefore treasure the ability to understand, value and respect people, to address each other in a creative, open and transparent way, to communicate with honesty and without fear and to share knowledge and learn together. Team Play manifests itself in cross-functional cooperation, shared learning and together acting as “One Cloetta”. Passion is about “going the extra mile”, being positive and having fun. Passion is at the core of our business and characterises all of our actions. It releases the energy and inspiration that provide us with the drive to develop, produce and market great products that, in turn, make our customers and consumers as passionate about them as we are. It feeds the drive to take ownership, to realise goals and to win. We therefore treasure the ability to inspire and motivate, to see change as an opportunity, to go the extra mile, and to be positive and to have fun. Passion manifests itself in the way we understand the business, deal with customers, help each other to succeed and communicate about Cloetta . Pride is about being proud of our company, our brands, our products and our personal contribution. Pride is the driving force that motivates Cloetta’s employees to perform to the best of their ability and to take ownership of the company’s direction. It is about pride in both your own and your colleagues’ contribution to the company, its brands and its products. Pride is fuelled by the employees’ confidence and belief in Cloetta as a company and as an employer. This is based on a safe and sustainable working environment and a working relationship based on mutual trust. We nurture a company culture that empowers people with insight into our business goals and vision, so that everyone feels engaged and committed to where we are headed as a company. Open lines of communication encourage employees to take responsibility for their jobs and take pride in what they do. 49 Cloetta – Annual report 2012 u Responsibility for raw material producers Responsibility for raw material producers In its code of conduct, Cloetta daunting challenges such as poverty, a lack PALM OIL of education and weak economic developFrom a sustainability perspective, there are a has collected all of the gene­ ment. For Cloetta it is important to play an number of concerns surrounding cultivation ral principles that govern the active role in influencing development. For and production of palm oil and palm kernel oil. company’s commitments in that reason, Cloetta and other major players Malaysia and Indonesia account for around areas such as raw materials. in the chocolate industry collaborate through 80% of total global production. Both countries industry organisations to provide education are struggling with major problems related to Since Cloetta never purchases about good farming practices and promote destruction of rain forest, which among other raw materials directly from better conditions in the cocoa plantations and things has a negative impact on the indigenous the growers, compliance with communities. The goal is to achieve environwildlife. Cloetta’s rules is dependent mentally, socially and economically sustainCloetta has chosen to actively support able cocoa farming. sustainable production of palm oil/palm on the company’s raw material Cloetta is taking part in the recently kernel oil by purchasing GreenPalm certifisuppliers being in agreement started CISCI project, an initiative driven by cates for parts of the product portfolio. For with Cloetta on these issues the United Nations Development Programme each tonne of palm oil/palm kernel oil that is and that they in turn demand (UNDP), where the goal is to work towards used in production, Cloetta pays a premium to more sustainable production of cocoa in the a palm oil/palm kernel oil producer that works the same of their own suppliers. Ivory Coast. The focus areas are improved according to the rules for social and environliving conditions for cocoa farmers and their mental responsibility defined by the RoundSuppliers must be approved families and higher quality and productivity table on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). These All suppliers to Cloetta are evaluated and from the cocoa plantations. There are many rules prohibit destruction of rainforest and approved before they are permitted to deliver members in the project, which is its strength. set out requirements for working conditions, materials to the factories. Certain suppliers In addition to the Nordic chocolate producers prohibition of child labour, etc. are physically audited at regular intervals by and each country’s industry association, deIn 2013 Cloetta will increase the share Cloetta’s employees. The aspects covered in velopment agencies from the Nordic countries of GreenPalm certificates to cover the entire an audit are product safety, ethics, quality, are participating together with representatives company’s needs. environmental performance, what challenges from the Ivorian government. Other memand problems exist and how the supplier bers of the project include the World Cocoa Further initiatives addresses them. In connection with this, the Foundation and the International Cocoa As a result of the merger between Cloetta and suppliers are also assessed for their applicaInitiative, with their expert knowledge about Leaf, the new company has a larger raw mation of a code of conduct that is consistent with the challenges facing the cocoa industry in the terial portfolio. Initiatives in addition to those Cloetta’s rules. countries of origin. described above are currently being evaluated. COCOA Around 70% of cocoa on the world market and most of Europe’s cocoa comes from West Africa, mainly the Ivory Coast. The majority of cocoa farms are very small and there are some 700,000 growers in the Ivory Coast alone. Local intermediaries then distribute the raw materials to international cocoa distributors, after which the cocoa is sent to Europe for processing into cocoa butter, cocoa liquor and cocoa powder. Every year, Cloetta buys approximately 2,700 tonnes of cocoa in the form of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder from suppliers in Europe. The West African cocoa farmers face Cloetta – Annual report 2012 50 Table of contents, GRI t Collaboration in organisations Cloetta is active in a number of collaborative initiatives aimed at promoting more Table of contents, GRI* environmentally sustainable cultivation of raw materials and improving the conditions for growers in developing countries. The following collaborations are the most important. uT  he World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) manages a range of programmes 1 Strategy and analysis page aimed at increasing the cocoa farmers’ 1.1 Message from the CEO 4–5 incomes and promoting sustainable cultivation. Examples of initiatives 2 Organisational profile include teacher training programmes, training in cocoa processing, micro 2.1 Name of the organisation 85 loans for cocoa growers and health2.2 Primary brands 14–17 related issues. 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 47, 62 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 85 uC  aobisco (Chocolate, Biscuit & Con2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 21, 30, 47 fectionery Industries of the EU) sup2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 34–37, 85 ports International Cocoa Initiatives, 2.7 Markets served 20–26 for example through the development 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 1, 30–31, 47, 80 of control and certification systems for 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 34–37, 53–56 cocoa production. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 38 uT  he Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) is committed to promoting 3 Report parameters the growth and use of sustainable palm 3.1 Report period 38 oil worldwide. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 38 uT  he UN’s Global Compact, where 3.3 Reporting cycle 38 Cloetta is a member. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 38 3.5 Process for defining report content 38 uC  hokofa is a Swedish industry associa3.6 Boundary of the report 38 tion that contributes contacts, exper3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 38 tise and projects in which Cloetta takes 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries and leased part, such as a project in which 5,000 facilities 38 cocoa farmers in Ghana and Ivory 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information Coast are being given practical training provided in earlier reports 38 in ways to increase their profitability 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in while at the same time preventing the report 51 accidents. 4 Governance, commitments and engagement uF  NLI (The Dutch Food Industry Federation), VBZ (Association of the 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 61–69 Dutch Bakery and Confectionery 4.2 Independent/non-executive status of the Board Chairman 66 Industry), the Netherlands. 4.3 Number of independent/ non-executive Board members 62 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recuA  IDI (Italian Confectionary Industry), ommendations or direction to the Board or Executive ManageIBC (Italian Branded Products Indusment 45–49, 64–65 try), ISA (International Sweeteners 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 39 Association), Italy. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 38 uE  TL (Finnish Food Industries’ Federation), Finland. Performance indicators Economic impact, EC1, EC3, EC4 39, 102, 105–108 uD  I (Danish Chocolate and ConfectionEnvironmental impact, EN3, EN5, EN16, EN21, EN22 42–44 ery Industries), Denmark. Social impact – Employment, LA1, LA2, LA4, LA7, LA13 41, 45–47, 74–77, uC  hoprabisco, Belgium. Social impact – Human rights, HR2 28–29, 38, 50–51 uH  SH (The Federation of Norwegian Social impact – Community, SO1, SO5 40–41, 50–51 Commercial and Service Enterprises), Social impact – Product responsibility, PR3 28 Norway. * G lobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organisation whose founders include the UN. GRI has pioneered the development of a framework for the structure and content of sustainability reporting. 51 Cloetta – Annual report 2012
