SMALL FOOTPRINT BIG IMPACT “The smallest technology can make a big, global impact” SAMTEC 2013 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter from the President 3 Company Profile 4 About this Report 5 People Matter 6 Society 8 Ethics & Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI Content Index 11 2 Every day we are working with our customers to develop products and philanthropic contributions; and have now in place, the ability to that meet their needs; while also striving for solutions that minimize launch a disaster response giving portal anytime there is a disaster our environmental impact; and improve the quality of life for our that affects our associates again. We also quadrupled our hydraulic associates and communities in which we do business. oil efficiency by introducing a new filtering recovery system in our molding equipment. At Samtec, we believe that acting with integrity This is our second year as members of the United Nations Globin all areas of our business is a fundamental value, which generates al Compact (UNGC). We submit our Samtec Sustainability Report long-term success within our company, our people, and within the for 2013 with over 8,700 companies and other stakeholders from communities we live and do business. more than 130 countries in supporting the UNGC’s ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the enviLooking ahead, we realize that our sustainability priorities will conronment and anti-corruption. Our report’s theme for the 2013 fiscal tinue to evolve with the ever-changing global economy. Samtec will year, “Small Footprint Big Impact”, reaffirms the fact that we are continue to meet these challenges and understands that though our a global company whose operations touch the lives of many peoproducts may have a small footprint, we as a global company, we ple and communities all over the world. At the heart of this report, have an opportunity for big impact. is a conviction that while our product footprint may be small (and getting smaller with advancements in technology), our potential for Thank you for your interest in the progress Samtec has made in impact and responsibility within every one of our communities, is achieving our vision and in helping to make our world more socially significant. It is critical that Samtec, our associates, and our business and environmentally sustainable both today and for future generapartners operate in a transparent and responsible manner. tions. Our sustainability efforts this past year have been predominantly to better engrain our efforts from our first report throughout our company while identifying even more opportunities to make changes that affect each of us as global citizens. In the past year, we took various internal processes even further by offering to our associates an online payroll deduction platform to increase volunteerism John Shine, President 3 Headquartered in New Albany, Indiana, USA, Samtec is a global company COMPANY PROFILE with locations in 18 countries. Samtec is the service leader in the electronic interconnect industry. Founded in 1976, we are a privately held, SALES $500,000,000 global manufacturer of a broad line of electronic interconnects, including high speed, micro pitch, rugged/power, and flexible $500,000,000+ board stacking systems, cable assemblies and components, IP68 sealed I/O, and RF components and cables. Our term “Sudden Service” is equated with providing an unparalleled customer service experience throughout the connector/cable HEADCOUNT assembly industry. Our underlying philosophies (we call our DNA because they determine how we act and think) are Speed, Innovation, Flexibility, and Win/Win. 3,900 Samtec is ISO/TS 16949:2002, ISO 9001:2000, and ISO 14001:2004 registered with a 5-A1 Dun and Bradstreet rating, the highest available for a corporation this size. We employ PRODUCTS 3,900 people at five primary manufacturing locations: New Albany, IN, Costa Rica, China, 600+ SERIES* Malaysia, and Singapore and sales and support offices spread throughout 18 countries. * which result in 100+ trillion product options Global manufacturing and sales locations allow redundant manufacturing, component sourcing, molding, stamping, and assembly in both hemispheres, and this manufacturing location strategy optimizes your cost and delivery. 4 ENVIRONMENT: ABOUT THIS REPORT This, our second annual Social Responsibility Report, covers activities that have occurred since our last UNGC submission in Energy, Water, Emissions, Waste & Recycling. December of 2012. Our reports are published on an annual basis. This 2013 Social Responsibility Report has been prepared SOCIAL: in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Employment, Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices, Supguidelines for reporting at the core level. The guidelines define plier Human Rights Assessment, Anti-Corruption and Corpospecific reporting topics and a process for determining the sigrate Local Impact and Involvement. nificant economic, environmental and social metrics on which an organization should report. The GRI G3 aspects relevant to This report has been prepared according to the principles for the organization were prioritized by information gleaned from defining report quality with a focus on presenting material customer audits and various surveys throughout the year. The in a clear and accurate manner that is conducive to regufinal selections of material aspects for this report were then valilar annual comparisons. While the material aspects serve as dated by a cross-functional team, including representatives from the foundation for the information provided in this report, we Communications, Human Resources, Quality, and Environmental also present specific examples to highlight the many ways Health and Safety. our facilities and people have demonstrated a commitment to impact over the course of the past year. The boundary of the material aspects identified through the materiality assessment process is limited within the organization, The data presented in this report has been generated by our with the exception of supply chain impacts, which apply outside internal management systems and has not been assured by the organization. The following is a list of material aspects by an external agency. Please direct any comments or questions category (as defined by the GRI): about this report to social.responsibility@samtec.com. 5 We know that people are our most valued assets, and because of this, we are committed to providing our associates with opportuniPEOPLE MATTER ties for global collaboration and accelerated career growth. Associates have opportunities for career development across functions, divisions, locations and roles, depending upon individual skills and goals. Samtec offers a multitude of programs catering to every associates individual and collective development and to ensure we stay current with the latest computing technology. That is way in 2013, we undertook a nine month process to upgrade our learning and performance management systems to provide a GRANTS FOR ASSOCIATE IN global system that is dynamic for our workforce as well as provides digital metrics that are tied to every associates profile. We also have subsequently gone HOME COMPUTERS back through much of our old training to evaluate its effectiveness in knowledge transfer and have instituted better instructional design processes to cut training 2013 $27,150 time and to make the time spent off the line, more productive. REGION TURNOVER NUMBER OF NEW HIRES North America 0.54% 81 Central America 2.68% 285 GLOBAL TRAINING & DEVELOPEMENT Asia 2.74% 488 Europe 0.14% 4 2013 $390,000 We believe that we have strong relationships with our associates and it is reflected in our committed workforce. People Matter isn’t just a passive phrase that is seen on posters throughout our facilities, but a part of the Samtec DNA and a significant contributor to our overall success as a company. As we continue to grow exponentially year-after-year, Associates still feel like they are part of a close-knit Samtec family. .006% 4% 3% 9% TRAINING HOURS IN 39% 55% EDUCATIONAL EXPENSES $604,000 58% 2013 84,943 32% ASIA EUROPE CENTRAL AMERICA NORTH AMERICA 6 DEMOGRAPHICS TOTAL WORKFORCE 55% DIRECT LABOR 45% INDIRECT LABOR 58% 42% 75% 50% 25% 0% M F M F M F M F WORKFORCE BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION MANAGEMENT BY GEORGRAPHIC REGION REGION BY GENDER ASIA EUROPE CENTRAL AMERICA NORTH AMERICA 7 Samtec encourages involvement at each of its locations and COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT routinely hosts donation drives and invites non profits into our various facilities to encourage participation. In our annual survey of associate community involvement some of the highlights are: Environmental protection through new park establishment Youth mentorship Raising money through various races and awareness walks from diabetes to special needs to wounded warriors Working with rescued animals and animal protection Donating blood through Samtec sponsored drives Various church, homeless shelter, and school volunteer efforts Samtec is also launching its first ever “GIVE NOW” Campaign and payroll deduction opportunity for associates in North America (*not yet possible/available outside US through various payroll services) to make contributions to their charities of choice directly from their paycheck. This service will be launched across the United States in January 2014. Associates in Action Costa Rica Our associates in Costa Rica model our desire for big impact within our local communities by partnering with the Costa Rica Children’s Hospital & the Palliative Care Foundation. The Palliative Foundation exists to coordinate the necessary resources and materials so that children and adolescents that suffer conditions of limited living capacities and/ or are in the terminal phase of a condition, receive effective, efficient, and timely treatment. Since 2010, Samtec associates have worked closely with this foundation to donate a percentage of their salary annually to support this amazing work and this year 289 associates collaborated to donate over $7,000! Our Costa Rica Associates also worked with another group to provide over 350 children in marginal regions of the country with new toys and clothes. 8 ETHICS & SUPPLY CHAIN Our high standards extend beyond Samtec to include the suppliers we depend on and engage with everyday. We rely on a global supply chain to support the manufacturing of our products in each of our locations, with 74 percent of our supply chain located in North America and the remaining spread across the various manufacturing regions we service. We evaluate risks based on factors such as location of operation, types of products and services provided, child labor avoidance practices, working hour management, pay and compensation practices, & ethics management policies and engagement. Finally, we have continued 15% SUPPLY CHAIN 2% NORTH AMERICA EUROPE 9% 74% CENTRAL AMERICA ASIA to expand awareness and understanding across our supply chain. We have spent the better part of 2013 implementing a brand new Learning Management System and improving our materials to better deploy the proper training to the associates within our organization that need it most from key internal procurement resources to the new Global Harmonization Standards to anti-corruption. It is also because of the United Nations Global Compact and our desire to continually improve our accountability of our business practices, that we added (for the first time) specific information pertaining to our policy on anti-corruption and trained all necessary associates to this standard and have incorporated it into all New Hire Orientation moving forward. Because of our commitment to people and communities, Samtec has a policy to not hire any associates under the age of 18 (despite the fact some countries still do not have laws prohibiting child labor). This year with the introduction of Samtec’s new Firefly, we moved into the realm of optical connections. This brought with it new responsibilities as the parts utilize a laser to transmit information. Certified by UL they carry a label to communicate exposure risk to anyone who may handle the product. 9 ENVIRONMENT Environmental Management Wastewater Discharge We take great pride in our operations. We continually As the need for more electronic components has increased, the need strive to reduce our environmental impact by integratfor water and the chemicals used to produce these components coning environmentally-conscious practices into our prodtinues to increase. This year, North America (alone) is on track for a uct design and manufacturing processes as well as the 10% reduction in wastewater. actions of our associates. 2012 – 13,623,138 Gallons Our Environmental Management System (EMS) is an important aspect of manufacturing at Samtec — from the 2013 – 11,974,787 Gallons selection of the materials in our products, to the efficient use of natural resources and the careful control of This was accomplished by shifting plated parts to Costa Rica & China facility wastes. which have more effective systems allowing a reuse of 60%+ of their water and all of this was done while growing sales by 10+%. Hydraulic Oil Efficiency In April 2013, we implemented a hydraulic oil filtering recovery process in our molding equipment that has the potential to make a dramatic impact on extending the Single Stream Recycling useful life of oil used during manufacturing. All amounts in pounds At the most basic level, machine oil that could once only 2012 2013 be filtered while machines were off, can now be filtered Office Paper 3,221 3,203 while machines are still in production. This extends the Cardboard 12,147 12,293 life of the oil in use significantly by allowing it to be filtered much more frequently. This improvement not only Tubes (PVC Plastic) 868 495 allows for more efficient use of the oil which reduces Polystyrene (Pocket Tape/Trays) 1,903 1,731 environmental waste, but also improves efficiency in the Plastic Bottle & Aluminium Recycling 1,355,325 3,247,886 manufacturing process by reducing production downWaste Ratio 0.37 0.31 time. This improvement alone is projected to quadruple oil “Samtec continues to see greater efficiencies in manufacturing result in conservation efforts in the areas in which it has been more product and less waste overall. The waste ratio reflects sales to waste implemented, and can still be tweaked to make an even and since 2005, has drastically reduced from a ratio of 1.5+ to a steady (and larger impact as the filtration process improves even furslightly declining) 0.31 average this year.” ther. 10 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI CONTENT INDEX G3.1 Indicator Description Location Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement 3 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 4 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 4 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 4 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 2.7 Markets served by the organization 4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 4 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Nov 2013 announced closing of Panama facility Bishop & Associates Customer Service Award as #1 Overall in Connector Industry (14th time); The Greenways Foundation of 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Indiana for Outstanding Corporation (February 2013); Arrow’s Gold Level Supplier for on-time delivery and quality (December 2012); Celestica TCOO Supplier Award (2012 & 2013) Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 4 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 4 3.3 Reporting cycle 4 3.4 Contact point for questions 4 3.5 Process for defining report content 4 3.6 Boundary of the report none 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report none 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, none outsourced operations and other entities 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier none reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods none SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G3.1 Indicator Description Location EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and used 10 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and none regulations EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operations 6 HR2 Percentage of suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screenings 9 HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken to con9 tribute to the effective abolition of child labor SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 8 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 9 PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and % of significant products and services subject to such 9 information requirements LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender 7 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 7 11 www.samtec.com 1-800-SAMTEC-9
