The Ethico Report 2012 Efico Group based on the Communication On Progress of the United Nations Global Compact COP Year 2012 Antwerp, March 2013 HAMBURG ANTWERP ZEEBRUGGE PORRENTRUY GUATEMALA CITY ADDIS ABEBA KURU SANTOS EVOLUTION, PROGRESS, SOLUTIONS & INNOVATION FOR A SUSTAINABLE GREEN COFFEE SUPPLY CHAIN EFICO GROUP SUPPORTS THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES SINCE 2003 This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. “ Statement of continued support 2012 2012 was a FOREWORD Ongoing Commitment complicated T by Patrick F. Installé HE ANNUAL COMMUNI In Switzerland, where we are Time has come for effectiveness of CEO Efico Group CATION OF THE ETHICO increasingly active, we also note the organization and consolidabut interesting REPORT IS BASED ON THE that the UNGC-awareness is rising. tion of the structure. Sustainability C O M M U N I C AT I O N ON is part of the Group’s DNA. The year.” PROGRESS (COP) REQUESTS OF All of this contributes to greaambitious sustainable approach THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL ter recognition of the UNGCembedded in each division of our COMPACT (UNGC) . framework, demonstrating more Group is reflected throughout this IT IS A SUMMARY AND A DEMONeasily our corporate engagereport. All new activities are deveSTRATION OF THE EFICO GROUP’S ment. We observe that by extenloped within the same spirit. COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED ding ‘best’ and ‘responsible’ NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT AND business practices, sustainable As part of the learning process, ITS PRINCIPLES. entrepreneurship is now increwe proposed a GC ACTIVE LEVEL, asingly part of the corporate as detailed in the UNGC requireDear partner, Since 2003, as a Global Compact mainstream. ments report. Dear stakeholder, N signatory, Efico is committed to publicly communicate annually SCOPE OF REPORTING IMPROVING REPORTING ine years already... we are a UNGC member, sharing sustainability experience demonstrating that a voluntary about its annual progress made in initiative works. A strong high level commitment is needed to make it successful. It needs to be integrated in every implementing the ten principles Being a member for nine years, For this ETHICO REPORT 2012, we step. Therefore you need dedication, clear focus and above all the will to stay focused. aiming to stimulate and enhance our earlier editions contained followed UNGC requirements sustainability and transparency a lot of information about the expressed during the workBefore any assessment, I remind you of the difficult onset of ‘sustainability’ in the view of the economic context of 2012. towards internal and external UNGC principles on our strategies shop organized by the Belgium Last year was a huge financial challenge to all European companies. Our sector didn’t stay at bay: most of our customers stakeholders. and operations. Network. For the first time, the and partners were concerned. Paradoxically, even in this difficult climate, it becomes clear that the universal principles are printed report was distributed at now widely recognized as to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. SHARING COMMITMENT Description of our ACTIVITIES, in several meetings. the COP 2010, essentially Today, many companies and organizations around the world have started the hefty journey of complying with these prinEfico shares its UNGC commitremained the same www.efico. Highly interested readers appreciples and integrating them into their own strategies and operations. ment in all communication matecom/un-global-compact ciated its transparency and the rial and during all face-to-face description of our actions on Entrepreneurs intuitively apprehend its business case as being aspiring for sustainability. meetings. We received increaEfico business model based on each principle. How far they have evolved in that journey is not the question, as this continuous process of improvements will lead them on singly positive remarks about our the green coffee supply chain For this new edition we follow the right track. Global awareness has already risen to some extent. membership. Within the internamanagement in the 2011 the specific webinar which we tional and business-to-business edition, the ETHICO REPORT. recommend: www.youtube.com/ We are sure that the development of adequate tools and technology provides instruments to boost sustainability as a context the UNGC-awareness is watch?v=mGPBU9SmlpY mainstream concept. The green coffee sector is a test case for other commodities. For instance, Efico was a founding T significantly growing. member of the sustainable 4C initiative. The Group also remains member of the Trade and Industry Chamber and its his new ETHICO REPORT 2012 REPORTING PERIOD Technical Committee. In Belgium, as an Advisor of the issue focuses on the new local network, we follow the actistructure of the Efico Group. This report contains the Efico In 2012, Efico’s sustainable journey intensified. The reinforcement of good practices was very enriching... A vities to obtain more visibility for Group’s main implemented susthe UNGC initiative. tainable activities achieved by chievements in consuming countries? each company in 2012. • Seabridge passed the Ethical Performance SMETA Audit for Responsible UNGC AWARENESS in producing countries? Sourcing conform the ISO 26000, 2011 Report: • creation of a new HR department to facilitate smooth, safe and secure Recent new members, in the busiprogress on each UNGC www.efico.com • we submitted a supplier to our UNGC principals relations within the Group, ness-to-consumer environment principle in all supply chain steps. www.seabridge.eu audit, • internal and external tools to inform stakeholders and improve their are providing a wider coverage. www.eficofoundation.org • promoted production of first co-developed satisfaction and knowledge, Climate Friendly Coffee, • Efico managed to maintain its ISO 9001 (Quality Management) certifi• supported best practices, community empowercate. Seabridge obtained both ISO certifications 9001 and 22000 Food ment, quality improvements, waste management, Safety Management & Traceability, • provided safe drinking water to farmers’ families via • recognition of Efico and Seabridge by the EU as an Authorized women’s associations, Economic Operator the AEO certificate provides customers simplified • collaborated closely with the expansion of our offiprocessing and operational excellence in logistics, supply chain and ces abroad, freight management, • visited producers to strengthen long-term • strenghtening of the environmental performance, relationships. • consolidation of all our partnerships. It is our ambition to inspire you with our sustainable business model. Patrick F. Installé CEO Efico Group 2 3 1 3 GROUP’S COMMITMENT CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT Efico is a Group of companies As a Group with family values we It is compliant with internatioThe Efico Group aims to differenThe United Nations Global nomically and environmenestablished in 1926, active in strive for excellence following nal standards and legislations. tiate its business through innoCompact’s ten basic princitally responsible manner. Being green coffee and cocoa trading, highest Quality and Food Safety, Continuous improvement of our vation, challenges, optimizing, ples are the cornerstones of our demanding with high requirecoffee quality, sustainable logisTraceability and Sustainability performance is key to deliver sharing knowledge and capaGroup’s sustainable entreprements at all stages of our coffee tics, IT-service, multimedia, and standards. These requirements qualitative, safe and traceable bilities, creativity and exchanneurship and ethical behavior. supply chain will contribute to sustainable development. are implemented through an products and services. ging ideas with all stakeholders. We are active in a socially, ecosustainable improvement of our integrated management system. sectors. 4 VISION Creation Coffee Trading Company E Emile Constantia Trading A long-term approach combined IMPLEMENTATION: • Providing high-qualitative, Family F François Member of becomes with expertise in the coffee grotraceable and sustainable logisWuyts & I Installé & UN Global Efico Binary Efico SA (CH) wing community, trading, logistic • Enforcing activities, knowledge tic services for the European Installé CO Company Compact Foundation Seabridge Services Group HQ services and IT-solutions adds to and contribution in coffee producoffee market the Group’s sustainable coffee cing countries via our local offices and cocoa supply chain. • Ensuring a safe, user-friendly • Supporting innovative, sustaiand empowering work environ1926 1990 2003 2005 2009 2011 2013 Within this chain the Efico Group nable multi-stakeholder projects ment for its personnel provides tailor-made solutions through the Efico Foundation; “with a personal touch” via innoagricultural training, advice, vation and partnerships based on education programs, infrastruc• Openly communicating with its > Management > Outsynergies and mutual trust. tures, to empower rural growing stakeholders and engaging them Duo Team: sourcing communities to share the same values Patrick F. Installé Stock & & Michel Germanès Logistics Our vision serves all activities. It describes what we need to fulfill • Personalizing business relations • Developing high-end IT solutions our commitment to provide inteand obtaining high customer Trading + 14,000 MT + 60,000 MT grated, sustainable and secured satisfaction Volume eq. 235,000 bags eq. 1,000,000 bags supply chain solutions. By implementing this, challenges become opportunities for coffee New Offices > 2004 > 2006 > 2007 > 2010 > 2011 and cocoa producing regions up Germany Switzerland Guatemala Ethiopia Brazil to the consumers. Efico developed a group of companies with added value for the trading activities. All those companies contribute to strengthen its commitment and reflect its global engagement. 4 5 5 VALUES Our corporate values describe ORGANIZATIONAL LEVEL towards customers, colleagues, what we strive for and how we RESPONSIBLE communities and all stakeholders build an ethical climate. ENTREPRENEURSHIP to maximize long-term return. They are inspired by the United We are concerned by the evoluEmbedded Sustainability: we N at i o n s G l o b a l Co m p a ct tion of compliance screenings. attempt to leverage worldwide framework. global issues to ensure profit, susReliable: our legacy is acting with tainable growth and empowerhighest values and principles: a ment of our sustainable and ethistrong foundation for our future. cal supply chain. INDIVIDUAL LEVEL Transparency: we continuously We reduce any negative environETHICAL BEHAVIOUR improve our performances with mental impact as much as possimeasurable and economically ble. The Group is conscious of its Integrity responsible objectives, as well as influence on the environment. Tailor-Made our Corporate Policy. Passion It is proactively looking for solutiRespect Stimulate Partnership: requires ons for waste management and Open Minded inspirational and highly effective reducing CO2 emission levels in Values teamwork. Our winning culture the supply chain. Ensure Quality highlights our attitude to share added value. New ideas are nurtured throug= IMPROVE hout our global operations. Tailor-Made Service: flexibility The sum of the values is the meets our clients’ requirements Those values shape the ethical ethical foundation for better with excellence and a ‘personal personality of our Group. day-to-day touch’. operations, with a speThey guide and determine the cific focus on individual Accountability: willingness to way we trade, the services, the improvements. endorse our responsibilities, awaproducts and the support we proreness of collective responsibility vide to all our stakeholders. 6 Our common goal: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT implementing good governance to strengthen all stakeholders. Our ‘Best Corporate T Governance Practices’ are based on ethics and HE ETHICO REPORT 2011 As coffee is the world’s second Our capabilities allow us to coltransparency. detailed the EFICO busitraded commodity -after petrolaborate effectively with our local ness model based on the leum our trading practices have privileged partner. Also on knowledge and green coffee supply chain solid impact on local level. skills exchange and skills management. Our model hasn’t changed. The in a macro-economic resBesides the usual trade practices, analysis of the end-to-end supply ponsible model. Achievements 2012 we made improvements in the chain is more than ever valid to Strategic responsible sourcing Ethiopian coffee supply chain in identify quality improvements, Improving benefits, efficontinued and supplier’s enga2012. More details on page 13. ser vices and envi ronmental ciency and economic gement was analyzed through Added value is based on experiimpact to be optimized across all growth. our UNGC Supplier Audit. ences in the field and abroad. stages of the supply chain. 6 7 7 CO2 REDUCTION A s detailed in the article Network partnerships and trans‘The European UN port are optimized, train transport Global Compact promoted, waste reduced, recyEMBEDDING OF THE UNGC PRINCIPLES THROUGHOUT EFICO’S GROUP SUPPLY CHAIN Companies Towards cling increased, re-usable packaRio+, Best Practices Collection’, ging/palets are encouraged. we developed our sustainable PRINCIPLE 1: concept throughout the green All measurements are detailed on Support and respect coffee supply chain. page 25. HUMAN RIGHTS the protection of Acting with due attention human rights to avoid infringing on the principles rights of others, and treat With those tools we build innovaIn doing so we provide an inteHigh performance can be delivebased on the Universal any inconvenience that tive models that will benefit socigrated business model with sustaired by leveraging our sustainable Declaration PRINCIPLE 2: would be caused ety on the long run. nable services and products. supply chain. Ensure no complicit in human rights abuses PRINCIPLE 3: Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining LABOUR PRINCIPLE 4: Elimination of forced Ensuring a safe, well-organized, principles and compulsory labour user-friendly, empowering resulting from work environment striving the international PRINCIPLE 5: to generate added value Labour organization’s Effective abolitions of child through strategic Declaration labour long-term partnership PRINCIPLE 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation PRINCIPLE 7: Precautionary approach to environmental challenges Supporting sustainable agriculture 8 ENVIRONMENT practices, carbon footprint PRINCIPLE 8: assessment, green energy PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCES HR MANAGEMENT principles Promote greater production and efficiency, train derived from environmental responsibility transport, waste management, the Rio Declaration sales and communication of PRINCIPLE 9: sustainable products Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly W technologies e created a new As an interactive department, it Job descriptions were refined HR department this will keep our teams informed and i n v i ew of m a n a g e m e nt PRINCIPLE 10: Respect of all engagements, year. Its contribution interconnected around the straperformance. ANTI-CORRUPTION Prec Businesses should work transparent company, long-term will be immense. tegic goals of the organization. against collaboration with reliable partners, Building an effective policy We also intend to develop a comprinciple corruption in all its forms, guidelines for investments framework to support the corThe HR business plan focuses on plete training program. based on the UN Convention including in producing countries combatting porate sustainability objectives is the uniformity of measures used against Corruption extortion and bribery illicit drug trafficking and key to all our companies. for continuous improvement. money laundering 8 9 “ EFICO Efico sources its commodities from 36 different countries around the world. We can offer a large variety of TRADING GREEN COFFEE AND COCOA flavors and aromas to meet each WITH A PERSONAL TOUCH SINCE 1926 coffee roasters’ expectations.” Raf Vermeire, Trade Officer AS AN ACTOR IN THE GREEN COFFEE AND COCOA COMMODITY TRADING MARKET, WE SOURCE GREEN COFFEE AND COCOA FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD. OUR FOCUS LIES ON SOURCING TOP QUALITY CONVENTIONAL AND SUSTAINABLE GREEN COFFEES. O ur team of multilinPRACTICAL demand, speculation being very the world. Our local offices have a real picture and impression of the In 2013, Efico headquarters will gual and experienced RESPONSIBLE SOURCING present, the need for a quick resbetter view on the way the coffee situation of our coffee suppliers. move to Porrentruy in Switzerland. traders continues to ponse is a must. Besides the local is produced. Aside, we created Efico Agency will be the Belgian uphold the values of a We work closely together with commercial support those offices two specific and dedicated tools Some high-risk regions/countries agent. longstanding family business. our offices in producing counalso provide performed quality to evaluate the local situation: are avoided because we can not tries and our reliable suppliers. controls, value logistics flows, susUNGC SOURCING SUPPLIERS AUDIT get a clear image of what is hapQUALITY & FOOD SAFETY, The traders keep up minute by Our offices are located in Brazil, tainable solutions and any proand the EFICO FOUNDATION. pening, or we don’t risk to work in TRACEABILITY minute with the London and Guatemala and Ethiopia, where ject support. unstable economies. New York commodity futures and we can count on a privileged ASSESSMENTS IN Through Efico’s standardized world currency markets, offering company-partner KURU. IMPORTING FROM RURAL GROWING REGIONS Ver y realistic, we know that coffee laboratories, over 280 clients the best price at the right COFFEE GROWING AREAS the root causes of child labor is varieties of coffee beans and time. Our long-term relationships in Minimum one supplier per year poverty. By encouraging sustaiblends are tested and selected, coffee producing countries allow Annual export earnings from is audited against the UNGC nable/verified programs and prosamples analyzed, comparing Aside from top quality coffee, us to pinpoint excellent coffee green coffee usually represent principles. jects we provide more education physical and sensorial paramecommodity market analysis and all over the world. Our offices the principal income for the groIn 2012 the green coffee exporpossiblities in those areas. ters according to international hedging assistance, we have deliver immense support to our wing regions, since it is the world’s ter Co-Honducafé was audited standards. Cupping samples are solid backgrounds in the sustainadaily activities selecting all those second valuable traded comin Honduras. Recommendations INTERNATIONAL PLAYER roasted in the traditional or the ble programs. involved in the coffee supply modity. Rural development is a have been provided to the high-tech way. chain, forging reliable long-term strategy improving the economic m a n a g e m e nt e n co u ra g i n g In Europe, Efico has trading offiWe guide our partners through partnerships, responding to any and social life of the rural commuimprovements in sustainable ces in Belgium, Germany and All traders take part in the daily the process of becoming a sustaicustomer’s requirement. All of nities. Green coffee export has a development. Switzerland. Efico shares sustaicupping sessions before deciding nable actor in the coffee sector. them provide us with a direct field significant impact on the local nable know-how with its stakeholwhether or not to buy and sell a report. economy and the well-being of Efico Foundation projects are ders and circa 450 of its European particular coffee. Efico shares this sustainable knowthose communities. It provides detailed on page 20. coffee roasting companies. From how with its stakeholders and 450 In a volatile commodity market direct support to the livelihoods of the very first bag to the 300-bag Since 2003, Efico is ISO 9001 quaof its European coffee roasting where fluctuations are not only 25 million growers, and indirectly Our experience coupled with container, our flexible sales facilility management certified. companies. determined by offer and about 100 million people around these two tools allow us to get a ties can respond to any demand. 10 11 ISO certification plays a crucial role in Efico’s Quality & Food Safety policy. The daily commercial contact of our trading team directly monitors our continuous customer’s satisfaction. “ CLIENT’S SATISFACTION Customer’s complaints are handled case-by-case. Necessary preThe supply chain of green coffee ventive and corrective actions and measures are taken. A close in Ethiopia is very specific and monitoring of the registration of all quality claims guarantees the requires our presence in proximity. internal follow-up of all departments involved. This procedure is Efico has assigned me in Addis part of the KPI’s monitoring. Ababa since May 2012 to assess In 2012, with the high price level market fluctuations much more the situation and improve the flow of daily opequality claims were registered. Not only the traded volume rations. Thanks to smooth collaboration with our increase generates more quality claims. Also the continuous preslocal partner KURU we make it all work.” sure on prices and the price rise within the commodity market Nicholas Marcet, Trade Officer had an impact on the amount of quality claims. It was a rollercoaster, with a lot of non-deliveries worldwide. SPECIFIC QUALITY flow. Green coffee is a very sensiIMPROVEMENTS ON THE tive natural product which has to ETHIOPIAN COFFEE SUPPLY be handled quickly and with a lot COMMUNICATION CHAIN of care as from the very first step SUPPORT of the chain. This year, in partnership with KURU, A daily digital Coffee Market our privileged company-partner The total management of the proNews bulletin with the latest in Ethiopia, we initiated a special duct flow was examined. Efico movements of the market is sent project to improve the monitoring appointed a dedicated person to to more than 150 stakeholders, and performance of the logistic implement this. also to be downloaded on: www.efico.com/market-news. A coffee origin’s library is available. The full description of every coffee variety acquaints the final consumer with its coffee preferences. Our trading team can use different PowerPoint presentations to present the Group, its green coffee supply chain training, coffee market pricing, climate change issues, the sustainable projects of the Efico Foundation, etc. Tailor-made presentations are provided on demand. Our Communication Team is also at disposal of customers to support any advertising campaign towards sustainability. Michel Germanès, Managing Director, visiting Efico Central America 12 13 “ SEABRIDGE Flexibility and sustainability are essential in state-of-the-art logistics operations” TAKING CARE OF YOUR COFFEE Patrick F. Installé, CEO SEABRIDGE IS A EUROPEAN STATE-OF-THE-ART SUSTAINABLE FACILITY CENTER IN THE PORT OF ZEEBRUGGE, DEDICATED TO THE STORAGE, QUALITY ENHANCEMENT AND DISTRIBUTION OF GREEN COFFEE. A s a n i n d e p e n d e nt ETHICAL AND Bureau Veritas in May 2012. During the two-day audit colleAEO DOUBLE ISO company within the RESPONSIBLE PRACTICE SMETA SEDEX Members Ethical agues of different departments AUTHORIZED ECONOMIC CERTIFICATIONS G r o u p, Seabridge Trading Audit is an international were interviewed and business OPERATOR shares the same vision Striving for constant quality improguideline for analyzing sustainaprocess documents provided. Seabridge obtained both the of quality, traceability, tailorvements is crucial. Therefore, ble and ethical supply chains and ISO 9001 Quality Management made services and sustainable Seabridge aims to challenge its the preferred standard used for The auditor concluded that we Our Group has always worked System and the ISO 22000 Food entrepreneurship. activities to the highest possible SEDEX audits. SMETA audit follows are strongly engaged for improwith the customs’ services, Efico Safety Management System and standards. Being demanding at the ISO 26000 guidelines on social vements in business practices and having signed a first MOU in Traceability www.seabridge.eu/ The 20,000 m 2 warehouse distriall the stages of our coffee supply responsibility, have a common ethical responsibility in the global 2003, followed by a MOU on Drug certifications. butes green coffee throughout chain will contribute to a qualimethodology, and are used as green coffee supply chain. Prevention of Seabridge in 2011. Europe by rail, road and sea. tative and sustainable improvethe basis for many ethical audits. Since 2003, Efico has already Our high-quality standards are ment throughout the sector. Seabridge became member of Thanks to the efforts of our teams been certified by Lloyd’s for reflected in the choice of mateSMETA: SEDEX www.sedexglobal.com, we received in September 2012 the ISO 90 01, Management rials, building concept, material For those reasons, we are con• A best practice guidance on fully in line with its engagement the status of AEO. This achieveprocess and CSR Corporate choice, state-of-the-art technocerned by the evolution of comconducting ethical trade audits in terms of innovation, improved ment allows us to be a proactive Social Responsibility and since logy, just-in-time services and an pliance screenings. • An audit report format and supply chain management solupartner in the development of the second half of 2008, the ISO unique track-and-trace system. • A corrective action plan format tions; reducing the risk to protect the “Green Trade Lane” which 22000. On request of one of our custothe company’s and its partners’ will have a significant advantage Through on-site green energy mers, Seabridge was pleased Seabridge values its customers’ reputation. for all our partners of the green Seabridge has been certified for production of 4,600 photovolto be submitted to an external requirements and believes that coffee supply chain in the future. its own core activity as a separate taic panels, recycling waste, independent audit. By doing so, business is committed to contientity in the Efico Group. on-site rail connection and CO2the company’s current position nuous improvement of the ethical We were ver y pleased to reduction, we create a sustainaon ethical and responsible pracperformance and responsible announce this event to the press Seabridge can now be confident ble coffee supply chain. tices came in to a clear overpractices goes hand in hand with that covered the event see press about all its procedures. view. Seabridge very successfully transparency through the provirelease passed the SMETA Audit by sion of data exchange. 14 15 Seabr idge has been awarded with the “Green Building” cer tificate by the European Commission and is also approved by the FASFC Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. The HACCP Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point has a solid track record for identifying and preventing contamination to ensure safer food production. These investments reflect our commitment to conduct our business efficiently and effectively. QUALITY LABORATORY EXPERT TEAM Our laboratory services team: Stéphane Cuchet, Ivan Lamilla Munoz, Seabridge harbours a state-ofLoïc Installé and Bart Van Sanden the-art laboratory offering a customized analysis of green coffee samples on physical and sensorial aspects. BART VAN SANDEN works with Besides, our team keeps track of All green coffees samples are the Efico Group since 1998, he the traceability of all stock-linked daily tasted following standardiwas Belgium Champion, in 2008 samples. zed procedures. Automatic sam& 2009, Vice World Champion pling is made on bag per bag in 2009 and the Vice Belgium Ever y sample has been barbasis and homogenized to get a Champion in 2010 of the SCAE coded and part of the laborarepresentative sample. Cuptasting. tory inventory. Samples are stored under same temperature and the Our lab team takes great care in Our customers consult them at relative humidity as in storage individually roasting and cupping any time in order to discuss a new zone, for two years. This allows of all arrival samples, as well as all blend, to improve it and to search our customers to recall samples offered and pre-shipment samfor the best or optimal aroma, at any time to eventually control ples from producers around the etc. their conformity. world. Daily cuppings are organized, registered, the results being reported back to growers, shippers and offices completing the purchasing process. An international team: IVAN LAMILLA MUNOZ started at the Efico Group at the beginning of 2012. Since 1997 he is working in coffee quality control in Colombia. He is an Agronomist Engineer and Q-Grader from the Coffee Quality Institute. He accepted the challenge to move with his family to another continent, to pursue his career with an international actor based in EU. see press release Nadine Van Rompay, Kurt Osaer and Patrick F. Installé, receiving the AEO certificate from the Belgium Customs, accompanied by Joachim Coens, from Zeebrugge Port Authorities 16 17 “ BINARY SERVICES IT is man-made, so is teamwork” Koen De Cooman, PASSION FOR IT, WITH A PERSONAL TOUCH Head Software Division BINARY SERVICES IS AN INDEPENDENT ICT COMPANY WITHIN THE EFICO GROUP FOUNDED IN JULY 2011, WITH BRANCHES IN SWITZERLAND AND BELGIUM. DELIVERING HIGHLY PERSONALIZED AND PROFESSIONAL IT DEVELOPMENT AND ADVICES TO THE EFICO GROUP. B inar y Ser vices provides PURCHASE POLICY Binary Services provides holistic Binary Services provides total NETWORKING Binary Services also provides mulinsight and key guidelines assessing the updating of the approach with software solutisolutions and sources out services timedia solutions: to the whole management inventory needs of laptops, deskons based on Microsoft Dynamics for software, hardware, infrastrucAll servers secured centralized at website development, copywriprocess of developing tops, printers, hard and softNAV with industry-focused expeture and networking. the same location ting, photography and video tailor-made solutions, add-on serware and also phones when rience for optimization of waredocumentaries. vices, offering management tools possible from environmentally housing, finance and commodity ADDED VALUE for trading, logistics, finance and eco-friendly/sustainable trading to consolidate all the actiSOFTWARE The team strives for quality, tracereporting. manufacturers vities of our Group by offering: • Professionalism ability and sustainability througMicrosoft Dynamics NAV as hout the entire supply chain. DATA CENTER • guarantee of top quality Central ERP System • Modular capacity By responding to requirements to improve processes and • technology with high added They can assist with any IT implefrom several departments we are procedures value Scanning software warehouse • Personalized services mentation project by providing making a distinct effort to ensure • independent structure experienced project and prothe maximum efficiency whilst The implementation will be finali• total solution: software, HARDWARE • Centralization of all data, gram management capabilities providing and using practical zed in 2013. hardware and infrastructure our four websites and the multileveraging new methodology. tools: • methodology: “sure step” Database server SEABASE media division Internal training sessions are Microsoft organized. Assessment is plan• fast availability of reliable data Terminal server SEATERM • Dense network of optical fibres GREEN IT STRATEGY ned to evaluate real working lower operational and structuconditions, energy, effectiveness International references of the Scanning devices • Sensitive and active partner in ral cost; by optimal energy utiliimprovements. used software: www.microsoft. in the warehouse sustainable development zation, cooling capacities and com/belux/nl/dynamics/successcabling By defining high performance stories/nav/default.mspx objectives, we track efficiency, effectiveness, and the follow-up of the obtained results. 18 19 “ EFICO FOUNDATION A well-informed coffee growing community rewards our sustainable support” COFFEE FOR PEOPLE, PEOPLE FOR COFFEE Katrien Delaet, Head Sustainable Projects THE EFICO FOUNDATION IS THE PRIVATE FOUNDATION OF THE EFICO GROUP ESTABLISHED IN 2003, SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE MULTI-STAKEHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS IN COFFEE AND COCOA PRODUCING COUNTRIES, IMPROVING THE LIVELIHOODS OF MANY. We support the Millennium Development Goals I t provides a structural tool to of a project and amplifies its ations, local partners, cooperaNEW WORKING METHOD Growing efficiency and the creathree main achievements this encourage sustainability in results. tives, coffee and cocoa prodution of added value are only posyear, illustrating the way the Efico both producing and consuming cing organizations. With our par tner the King sible when being present with a Foundation is practically working. countries to have an impact To date, the Foundation supports Baudouin Foundation we orgagood knowledge of the local situon farmers’ livelihoods, families, 46 sustainable development proThe Efico Foundation does not nized a brainstorming session in ation. Since we do not have the CLIMATE-FRIENDLY communities and environments. jects in 15 coffee and cocoa proimplement the projects. 2012 to improve the methodology opportunity to be present everyFARMING PRACTICES ducing countries amounting of our call for new projects. where, we decided to establish IN GUATEMALA, COSTA It empowers beneficiaries to + € 1,466,765. Projects are implemented with an exhaustive list of countries. RICA, HONDURAS AND develop entrepreneurial skills. Efico’s resources, as well as the These two last years this resulted EL SALVADOR Coffee becomes an attractive A FLEXIBLE TOOL FOR financial support of 48 European in an unprecedented turnout of Also the demand for ‘tailorcrop to grow, through improving SUSTAINABLE coffee roasting companies. applicants. The management of made’ projects increases, these Since 2009, the focus lies on clifarming operations. We strive to DEVELOPMENT OF THE about 170 new proposals this year requiring preliminary preparatimate change in coffee regions. strengthen the entire agricultural ENTIRE SUPPLY CHAIN Together with our customers and is a real concern. ons. Assistance is needed to find value chain. donors we were able to invest in more pragmatic solutions to the The project aim was the co-deveBy federating the sector and sti2012 € 132,520 in twelve projects. Years of experience plus the most current environment and lopment of a Climate Module. This By encouraging the empowermulating partnerships, coffee expansion of our group with more development challenges. Due Module consists of criteria for mitiment of rural communities, we roasting companies or donaThis is less than last year. Following local offices, all those facts allow to the overwhelming success the gation and adaptation to climate increase local participation in tors can choose to support the a visit to a particular project, our us to appreciate the needs of current call for new projects is change, reinforcing the current decision-making, promote indeFoundation, a selected project teams concluded this project was development projects. This requimomently closed until the deciRainforest Alliance certification pendence and mainstream resor a ‘tailor-made’ project in not conducted as agreed. res close monitoring and control sion of the Board end 2013. criteria and provide additional ponsible practices support coffee particular. for best results, which was possible value. women’s associations. After our remarks concerning the thanks to the support of Renaud MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS All projects are carried out in partfailed project objectives, the proCuchet and his team in Central 2012 Farmers/producers will be able We believe that this kind of nership with local or governmenject partner decided to return the America and Nicholas Marcet to: method guarantees the success tal organizations, NGOs, research granted funds. and the Kuru team in Ethiopia. Even if all our projects are of • assess the risks of climate institutes, national coffee associequal importance, we focus on change in farms and communities 20 21 • review practices to quantify These two projects were finanAs a result the beans tend to slide and reduce emissions of greencial ly suppo r ted by AFALto the middle of the wire mesh, house gases generated by groAssociation des Femmes not being homogenously dried. wing, harvesting and processing d’Amérique Latine and EURACEN • increasing levels of carbon Chamber of Commerce Europe PILOT-PROJECT stored on their farms through the and Central America. restoration of degraded lands, The cooperative will build sustaireforestation and improvements Thanks to the fundraising events nable drying beds enhancing in soil conservation practices of their members two new proquality conditions, based on local • adapt their production systems jects will be launched in Salvador know-how gathered in other cofto changing growing seasons and Honduras next year. fee-producing countries. and other conditions resulting from effects of climate change. BUILDING SUSTAINABLE Cross-information of techniques COFFEE DRYING BEDS IN used elsewhere suggest to test Efico Central America provides FERO COFFEE FARMERS three different materials and roofsuper vision and coordination COOPERATIVE and roofless constructions. The of the projects. The project 2012 core objective of the project is to consists in the application of the The project responds to the implement qualitative, environmodule on different countries in need of the Fero cooperative to ment-friendly and cost-effective Central America. enhance its coffee by improving coffee drying beds. More info: press release commudrying beds. Traditional coffee nication www.efico.com/press drying beds in Fero are made of After the harvest an in-depth evawood and must be frequently luation follows in partnership with This project was financially suprebuilt due to bad weather all stakeholders. ported by the Efico Group and conditions. Franke. A Dutch roasting company supAt night or in the rain season the ported this project financially, Franke Coffee Systems is a Swiss drying beds have to be covered having been a trusted partner of manufacturer of professional to prevent the coffee from humithe Efico Group for years. coffee machines, also member of dity. Life expectancy of wooden the UNGC. drying beds is short resulting in In August and November a large wood consumption, time-consudelegation of the Efico and our WATER FILTER PROJECTS ming reconstruction and covecustomer’s team visited the proHEALTHY LIFE AND ring of the beds at night. ject to assess progress. LEVERAGE FOR SUSTAINABLE It affects the quality of coffee Efico and Kuru supervise DEVELOPMENT because the wire mesh on which and coordinate the project the coffee beans are spread on management. The World Water Situation gets loose over time. According to United Nations Global Compact “Nearly 900 million people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water; almost half of them are children” Source: report: SCALING UP Global Food Security and Sustainable Agriculture 2012 In 2012, the Efico Foundation implemented two water filter projects in partnership with two members of IWCA International Women’s Coffee Alliance in Guatemala and in Nicaragua, in total 858 water filters were distributed to more than 4,000 beneficiaries. Efico Central America provides super vision and coordination of and to the projects. Other costs for training sessions and logistics were supported by the Association’s voluntaries. Pilot-project Fero Cooperative Sidamo region Ethiopia 22 23 EFICO GROUP ENSURING A CONTROLLED GREEN COFFEE SUPPLY CHAIN 1 4 INCREASING ENERGY EFFICIENCY WATER AND ECOSYSTEM PROTECTION Water efficiency management, minimal use of chemical Offices and warehouses or toxic products. 2 5 REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS EFICO FOUNDATION GREEN ENERGY PRODUCTION INVESTMENT IN SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS 100% use of the green energy by Seabridge: green energy The Efico Foundation supports 46 sustainable developis certified, partly produced on-site by 4,600 photovoltaic ment projects in 15 coffee & cacao producing countries panels. In 2012 this lead to a CO2 reduction of 454 tonnes, amounting to ± € 1.466.765. or 33% compared to 2011. The 2012 investment is about € 132.520 in 12 projects incluIn Belgium, we are prone to uncertain weather conditions. ding five new projects. Projects can request a maximum of € 20.000 per year and PROMOTE TRAIN TRANSPORT 3 years support. Establish a strategic partnership with Belgian rail facilitating the reception and distribution of all goods by on-site FINANCIAL MEANS direct access to rail transport. 100% of Efico Foundation’s financial resources A reduction of 28% in CO2 emission by keeping trucks of the road. goes directly to projects and are generated in 4 In 2012, 95% of inbound transport by train and more than differents ways: 50% outbound by train. 1. Coffee Roasting Companies 2. Efico Group transfers, at least € 50,000/year 3 and all the operational support-costs REDUCE WASTE 3. Public donations 4. Private donations SORTING AND RECYCLING Policy of all waste streams; polyethylene, paper, plastics, wood, cardboard and jute. Partly with high value 21% Coffee Roasting recuperation and recycling 76.84%; an increase of 15% 33% Companies compared to 2011. Partly by energy reduction 23.16%; a 8% Efico's Grants decrease of 14% compared to 2011. Public Donations 38% RECYCLING SERVICES FOR PACKAGING MATERIALS can be used by our customers. Private Donations 6 COMMUNICATION PRESENCE OF THE EFICO GROUP ON YOUTUBE PRESENCE OF THE EFICO GROUP ON WWW.YOUTUBE.COM/EFICOGROUP WWW.EFICO.COM 2010 2011 2012 2010 new 2011 2012 Views 2,489 9,745 17,230 Visitors 31,535 25,857 25,284 Most viewed films New visitors 64% 61% 63% 1) Mechanical Harvesting Returning visitors 36% 38% 37% in Brazil 175 3,523 10,845 Average time on site 2’16 2’39 2’46 2) Seabridge 390 569 N/A Average page per visit 3 3.6 3.28 Taking care of your coffee N/A 223 455 Most viewed pages A bridge between coffee, men Efico/Home 14,689 11,927 11,291 and machines N/A 167 N/A Seabridge/Home 9,861 5,954 5,785 Ethiopia N/A 741 967 Efico Foundation/Home 10,242 5,253 4,338 From Flower to Cup N/A 519 444 Efico/UN Global Compact 454 696 695 Climate-Friendly Seabridge/UN Global Compact 236 178 84 Farming Project As of October: 79 73 353 Efico Foundation/UN Global Compact 141 196 61 24 25 FUTURE PERSPECTIVES Over the years, Efico has main2013 will have its challenges. tained the same values, and has For our tenth anniversary we embarked on structural reforms in will continue our current proItaliëlei 181, B-2000 Antwerpen how a business can conduct and gram and the upgrade our Tel.: +32 (0)3 233 78 65 improve sustainable economy. performance. efico@efico.com www.efico.com In March 2003, Efico joined the Next, we will support the coGlobal Compact with the purd eve l o p e d ‘Cl i m ate’ p ro pose to generate, disseminate duct and we will launch a new and ensure its legal compliance ‘Implementation Guide of the UN among all parties involved in the Global Compact Principles’. Koffieweg 10, B-8380 Zeebrugge supply chain. Tel.: +32 (0)50 36 70 80 We will also develop qualitative office@seabridge.eu As a driving force in our supply agriculture production programs, www.seabridge.eu chain, our proposed sustainable reduce greenhouse gas emissisolutions provide added value to ons of the supply chain, increase the sector in producing countries green energy production, optiand in Europe. mize the Efico Group’s transport policy and of course continue our Koffieweg 10, B-8380 Zeebrugge Long-term partnerships strengsupport to the Efico Foundation. Tel.: +32 (0)50 36 70 80 then our actions. As in previous years, this ‘Ethico The success of our sustainable Report’ will be shared with all our approach is mostly due to constakeholders. tinuous knowledge sharing and The link to this document publisItaliëlei 181, B-2000 Antwerpen exchange with our stakeholhed on the website of the UNGC Tel.: +32 (0)3 233 78 65 ders, following our values and will be mentioned in all our cominfo@eficofoundation.org requirements. munication material. www.eficofoundation.org This Ethico report is also available on the United Nations Global Compact Website. For the printed version please consult www.efico.com/un-global-compact. Consulting this document on the web gives you the opportunity to discover more information.
