SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 His Highness His Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani Heir Apparent Emir of the State of Qatar REPORT STRUCTURE OUR REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY SUSTAINABLITY AGENDA AT QAFCO • Content and structure • Returning Value To Our Shareholders • Feedback form Financial Highlights Projects under development • Assurance Statement Financial Risk Financial Opportunities due to Climate Change CEO’s STATEMENT • Nurturing Our Workforce Equal Opportunities for our diversified workforce Employment and Benefits ABOUT QAFCO Qatarization and Developing Talent • Profile Occupational Health & Safety in the Workplace • Vision, Mission, Values and Main Objectives Internal Surveys • Ownership Structure • Supporting Our Communities • Organizational Structure Building Our Community Education & Development of the Community • Awards and Recognitions Events & Conferences • Sustainability Overview 2011-2012 (Highlights) Contributions • Respecting Our Environment STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Water & Effluents • Material Topics and Data Energy Air Emissions • Engaging with Stakeholders Materials • Commitment to GRI Guidelines and UNGC Principles: Waste & Spills Biodiversity a framework for sustainability Environmental Training and Awareness • Developing our products CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT QAFCO Product Marketing Communications and Management • Board of Directors & Governance Committees Customer Health and Safety and Product Labelling Product Stewardship • Risk Assessment, Management and Risk Control Customer Engagement and Privacy • Code of Conduct and Ethics Life-Cycle and OH&S and Environment • Associations GRI Application Level GRI Index Our Report Scope and Boundary Content and structure This is the second Sustainability Report produced by Qatar Fertiliser Company The basis for reporting on subsidiaries does not significantly affect (“QAFCO”). It covers responsibilities to its stakeholders and the contributions comparability from period to period. On the other hand, in 2012 report, QAFCO has made to sustainable development. new expansion projects commissioned in 2011-2012 period (QAFCO 5 & 6), have been included affecting comparability in production, exports, and In 2012, QAFCO issued its second sustainability report and the company consumption parameters. commissioned comprehensive stakeholder analyses and materiality tests to identify and highlight major issues of interest to its stakeholders (Qatar QAFCO has continued its commitment to provide detailed disclosure on Petroleum, Workforce, Community, Customers, Shareholders, Government, indicators and provide clear performance trends. In this Report the group etc.) and developed its approach to these issues. The reporting structure and has also tracked data and statistics of its performance to date and evaluated framework showcase these material sustainability issues and aligned them its progress in achieving targets. Some indicators are partially reported and to the Qatar National Vision 2030 and the National Development Strategy only relate to certain divisions or activities as indicated in the text. 2011-2016. It also highlights QAFCO strategies, achievements and future plans for sustainability management especially in the areas of sustainable QAFCO Management Systems are used throughout QAFCO and helps environmental management, community and social contributions, ethics in accomplish meaningful data capture and aggregation. Key elements of the marketplace and its corporate culture. these systems are measurement policies and requirements. As part of these Feedback Form requirements, measurements are established and performance is monitored This Report is also part of the Qatar Energy and Industry Sector Sustainability to ensure consistent performance that meets QAFCO’s objectives and targets. Feedback and Contact Details Report 2012, third report produced as an annual output of the Sustainable Management systems set expectations on calibration, measures, measuring This report is available to all Development Industry Reporting (SDIR) Programme. This is an unique and equipment, measurement systems and critical instruments. Several data stakeholders in hard copy on visionary programme promoted by Qatar’s Ministry of Energy and Industry, management systems address specific requirements and are unique to request and can be downloaded aiming at supporting the sector’s implementation of sustainability and the particular needs of the respective measures. Examples, among others, from our website. For further commitment to the State of Qatar. include the QAFCO Safety Information System (SIS) that tracks incidents, information and comments, please accidents and injuries. contact: QAFCO strives continually to improve the materiality and reliability of the information presented and the company has adopted an approach aligned The Report has been examined by Ernst & Young to measure its application Mr. Hamed Ahmed Al Hamed Alwith the Global Reporting Initiative and the UN Global Compact primarily and against the GRI 3.1 Guidelines. Their conclusions are presented in an Marwani, considered oil and gas sector specific reporting requirements such as that of Assurance Statement which can be found at the end of this Report. QAFCO’s Chief Administration Officer, the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association sustainability report will be published annually and will be distributed to all Qatar Fertiliser Company (S.A.Q.), (IPIECA). its key stakeholders. P. O. Box: 50001, Mesaieed, Qatar. Tel: +974 4422 8888 The QAFCO Sustainability Report covers the entire organisation Qatar Fax: +974 4477 0119 Fertiliser Company (Q.S.C.C) and its subsidiaries (together referred to as Email: hmarwani@qafco.com.qa QAFCO Group)and includes quantitative and qualitative data for Financial Year 2012, starting from January 1st 2012 to December 31st 2012, as well as some relevant information for 2011. 06 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Assurance Statement Ernst & Young Doha Al Gassar Tower Majlis Al Tawoon Street P.O. Box 164 Qatar Tel: +974 4457 4111 Fax: +974 4111 4649 Website: www.ey.com The Board of Directors and Management Qatar Fertiliser Company (QAFCO) Mesaieed Industrial City, Qatar Verification statement to QAFCO management The sustainability information collated and verified by Ernst & Young form part of QAFCO’s (“the Company”) Sustainability Report (“the Report”) for the calendar year 2012. QAFCO is responsible for the presentation of information reported. The accuracy of selected sustainability data related to Sustainability Key Performance Indicators presented in the Report was verified. Our responsibility in performing our work is to the management of the Company only. We do not accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organization. Any reliance any such third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. This statement should not be taken as a basis for interpreting the Company’s overall performance, except for the aspects outlined in the scope below: Scope of Verification The scope of our verification covers the numerical data relating to the Company’s sustainability key performance indicators for the period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012. Our Approach Our approach involved assisting the relevant data owners in collation and reporting of the data for the QAFCO 2012 Sustainability Report and sample testing the accuracy of the data during the process. Limitations Our scope excludes aspects of the Report and data/information other than those mentioned under Scope of Verification and the economic performance data included in the Report, which we understand is derived from the Company’s audited financial records. Our Conclusion On the basis of our verification, nothing has come to our attention that would cause us not to believe that the information covered under the Scope of Verification is accurate. Ernst & Young, Middle East Head Office Amjad Rihan, Partner 25 April 2013 For Ernst & Young A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 CEO’s Statement Sustainability is more than reducing 46 GJ in older plants built before 1980. We have also undertaken many initiatives to further improve energy efficiency. emission and community initiatives, we go beyond. Apart from that we are also looking at partnering with neighboring companies in improving energy efficiency. Risks, opportunities and initiatives Sustainbility Risks, Opportunities and Challenges At QAFCO, sustainability is more than reducing emission and community initiatives, we go at Qafco In 2012 beyond. A case in point is the Sahara Forest Project, a pilot project, where in we have taken the initiative to develop a self sustaining ecosystem which uses only sun and water to After the inauguration of Qafco-6 facility in December 2012, Qatar has become the 4th produce vegetables. This is an initiative in sustainable farming methods which if successful largest urea producer in the world. This achievement brings with it huge responsibilities can be implemented at a larger scale. The project has created a lot of interest in the to the environment we live and operate in. The recently concluded UN Climate Change academia here in Qatar. Conference in Doha, reaffirmed Qatar’s commitment towards formulating an unanimous global response towards climate change. This commitment which is part of the Qatar Apart from these initiatives, we also support, through our association with International National Vision 2030 document embarks Qatar on a mission to cut its carbon dioxide Plant Nutrition Institute, scientists around the world working to help farmers prevent or emissions, improve energy efficiency, minimise water use, and invest in renewable energy mitigate environmental impacts of soil deterioration due to over use of fertilizers. This is the solutions. We are in tune with the Qatar’s National Vision 2030 and have been doing our highest environmental impact associated with fertilizers as overuse of fertilizers may lead part towards the realization of the glorious vision. to soil deterioration near rivers due to nitrogen runoff which triggers algae growth in the sea. The proliferation of algae in the sea blocks sun rays thereby reducing the concentration In our second sustainability report, we reassert our commitment to the principles of of oxygen in water and consequently impacting fish population. Global compact as we focus on our new initiatives in the field of community engagement, employee relations, safe workplace and on progress on the environmental front. We In late 20O6, QAFCO was granted the ‘Environmental Custody’ of the Al-Besheriya, an see this as an opportunity to share our experiences in our journey towards becoming a island situated off the coast of Qatar. QAFCO has since been monitoring the environmental sustainable organization. status of the island and later on carried out the Baseline Ecological Survey of the Island. Based on the study conducted for the island (by Environment Studies centre of Qatar Fertilizer, a sustainable business University), it has been observed that the island is majorly favored by nesting and migrating In this rapidly expanding world population, importance of fertilizers can never be birds. We are taking care to ensure that the nesting season for the birds is undisturbed, and overemphasized as they form an inseparable link in the food chain. This is further emphasized at the same time will carefully monitor the movement of these birds. Apart from that, we by the steady increase of 3-4 % in demand for nitrogen fertilizers alone worldwide. Apart have deployed artificial reefs near Mesaieed coast to improve marine life in this area. from that, a maturing agricultural landscape in developing economies will give a further boost to the fertiliser industries. Hence, fertiliser industries like ours are one of the most Our Environment is our responsibility sustainable businesses. We have implemented safety improvements and monitoring systems for GHG emissions that are inherent to our processes, such as level of NOx and SOx emissions. Our process Energy efficiency at QAFCO improvements have helped us to reduce our NOx emissions to 50 mg/l against the Qatari At QAFCO, we seek to become one of the leaders in our sector in energy efficiency. In the regulation limit of 150 mg/liter. next coming years, we want to conserve energy and at the same time we want to increase the production both in ammonia and urea and be able by the end of 2013 to reach up to At QAFCO, we exercise environmentally responsible practices. The Waste Exchange 5.6 million tons of urea. We have those capacities, with the support of energy efficiency Donation System (WEDS) is one such initiative to serve Qatar and possibly the Gulf Region. measures, we will achieve our targets. The system is a free and confidential non-hazardous waste materials exchange system developed on the philosophy what may be unwanted materials to one business could be a Over the years, we have brought tremendous improvement in energy utilization at our raw material for another. plants with our new plants using just 36 Giga Joules (GJ) per tonne as compared to earlier 08 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CEO’s Statement Part of our duty at QAFCO is to educate the world regarding “fertilizers”. A lot of people misunderstand “fertilizers”. Some people think that it is only a chemical to be used on the plants. At QAFCO we say that we are mineral fertilizers. We restore the minerals back into We are part of that industry that has played a stellar role in making the most of the existing the ground. arable land and protecting the earth’s vulnerable forest cover. Safety, we take it very seriously Sustainability makes business sense and it can never be a cost, however, it is a challenge Occupational health and safety issues are priorities at QAFCO. We have initiated many to quantify the intangible benefits. Nevertheless, we have reaped benefits from our steps to ensure safe working environment for our employees. We have implemented a environmental projects that reduce waste. Our energy efficiency projects are bound to comprehensive occupational health and safety management system that conforms to give us financial benefits in the years to come, for example our new cogeneration units are the latest international standards. Our safety system comprises an incident prevention bound to save more than 20% energy at QAFCO plants. However, I strongly believe that program, including emergency preparedness plans, training, safety procedures, protective the impact that you can create in the environment and in the community that you function, equipment, hazard inspection and communication, and incentive schemes. We have go a long way in helping a business grow and sustain itself. initiated the Behaviour Based Safety Program to further reinforce the culture of safety in our work force. We increasingly say that ‘being good in sustainability and being able to talk about that becomes a competitive advantage’, especially in a global market. Today, sustainability has One of the other significant safety initiatives was strict implementation of carrying evolved from mere talk to being more action oriented. More and more companies and ammonia gas mask, all the time in the plants. We are one of the first companies in Qatar customers want to understand your approach to sustainability issues, and that is where our to do this. sustainability report comes into picture. We are just as much concerned about our contractors as our employees. We provide our Into the future contractors with a lot of safety training and ensure that processes are in place in the multi In the year ahead, Muntajat would have assumed exclusive responsibility for the marketing, cultural, multi lingual working atmosphere. We also care of contractor welfare. We make sales and distribution activities of Qatar Fertiliser Company (QAFCO). This will complete sure that all our contractors live in comfortable, safe and hygienic accommodations and the second phase of a comprehensive marketing consolidation of Qatar’s chemical and that their salaries are always paid. petrochemical industry. Muntajat’s marketing of QAFCO’s products will have a material effect on the fertiliser industry by creating efficiencies in sales and distribution channels, Community engagement thereby reinforcing Qatar’s strong market position in the growing global fertiliser market. QAFCO engages with its community in various ways. Of these, QAFCO Flower and This transition of marketing, sales and distribution to Muntajat allows us to focus on Vegetable Show is one of the most popular of QAFCO’s community engagement. Apart expanding our production capacities and will further strengthen the key role QAFCO plays from that we also sponsor QAFCO Open Tennis Championship. These are over and above in the global fertiliser market. many other initiatives of social engagements that we undertake. I thank HE Dr. Mohammad Saleh Al Sada, Minister of Energy and Industry and the QAFCO Innovation and QAFCO board that has guided us all through to contribute towards realizing the vision of HH Innovation is also very important at QAFCO. We strive to find new markets and opportunities Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani, Emir of the State of Qatar and HH Sheikh Tamim Bin for new applications of our products. We are studying the possibilities of using urea to Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani, the Heir Apparent. I am grateful to QAFCO’s Board of Directors, improve nutrient capacities of certain plants. A case in point is Cassava root is used in Management and employees who are helping QAFCO achieve its goals. Africa. This root does not have any protein. The idea is to introduce nitrogen or urea and hence add proteins to the root. The theory being Nitrogen creates amine, amine creates amino acids and the chain of amino acids creates the protein. Studies are also underway to look at the possibility of urea being used to increase protein and reduce the administering of antibiotics in poultries. This again reasserts that what we produce at QAFCO is one of the most important elements in life. Sustainability makes business sense The role of the fertilizer industry like ours can never be underestimated in helping to feed Khalifa A. Al Sowaidi billions of people and also in raising the living standards of farmers from across the world. QAFCO vice-Chairman & CEO QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 09 About Qafco Profile Qatar Fertiliser Company (S.A.Q) was founded on 29 September 1969 QAFCO at a Glance 2012 as a joint venture between the Government of Qatar and Norsk Hydro Norway, Davy Power and Hambros Bank, to produce ammonia and QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY urea. The country’s first large-scale venture in the petrochemical sector, Company (or business unit) assessed: QAFCO was established with a view to diversify the economy and utilize (S.A.Q) QAFCO the nation’s enormous gas reserves. After successfully implementing several expansion projects over the past three decades, the Company has Headquarter P.O Box 50001, Mesaieed, Qatar evolved into a world-class fertiliser producer. QAFCO is now owned 75% Year Established 1969 by Industries Qatar (IQ) and 25% by Yara Netherland. Total number of employees: Approx. 1501 With a sizable annual production capacity of two million metric tonnes (MT) of ammonia and three million MT of urea from four ammonia and Annual production volume Ammonia 3,210,560 four urea plants, QAFCO is now the world’s largest single-site producer of (MT per year) Urea 4,554,766 urea. The QAFCO-5 expansion project, which was completed in late 2011, raised QAFCO’s annual production capacity to 3.8 million MT of ammonia and 4.3 million MT of urea. Today, QAFCO is the world’s largest single-site Scope of activity (HPV manufacturing, producer of both ammonia and urea. The QAFCO-6 project, which started blending, downstream distribution Production, storage, marketing, in 2012, increases the Company’s annual production capacity of urea to activities, supplier of raw material, Sales and Delivery of Ammonia, Prilled and Granulated Urea 5.6 million MT. Consequently, the project will strengthen the Company’s marketing to end use, international trading ...) position as a key player in the global fertiliser market. To cater to the world markets, which are showing increasing developed Number of locations Single location fertiliser consumption patterns, the Company currently seeks to maximise (own and sub-contracted): its production of granular urea as opposed to urea prills. Granular fertilisers are considered more suitable for the technology-dependent Profile of storage and transportation cultivation methods adopted in developed countries. In addition, QAFCO activities (on-site/off-site storage; On-site storage and sea transportation is planning to produce Sulphur-Coated Urea (SCU), a product that will road, rail, sea, barge transportation…) increase nutrient recovery and improve crop yields. It will also reduce the negative environmental impacts of urea. Product range = typical product types At present, QAFCO exports ammonia and urea to more than 35 nations produced/sold (AN, Urea, Ammonia, Ammonia and Urea phosphate rock, acids, NPKs,…) across the globe, with its primary markets being the countries of South East Asia, North America, Australasia and South Africa. We pursue a policy of retaining existing customers while forging ties with new ones. This has enabled the Company to maintain a large network of distributors, Valid management system ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, certificates, if any: OHSAS 18001:2007, with utmost care being taken to ensure that all are satisfied with the quality ISO 9001, ISO 14001, RC 14001:2008 and of our products, services and level of commitment. OHSAS 18001 etc ISO 17025:2005 (for Laboratory) 10 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 QAFCO Site at Mesaieed About Qafco Our journey over the years First sale of Construction starts Aqueous Amonia for QAFCO 6 for DeNOX application Qatar Melamine QAFCO 3 expansion project Company QAFCO 1 1997 QAFCO 4 2010 QAFCO 5 Inaugurated established 2006 1973 2004 QAFCO adopts new brand identity 1 2 4 5 6 8 9 10 11 Inauguration of Qatar Melamine QAFCO 2 Company Publish Gulf QAFCO's ammonia Foundation stone laid 1979 inaugurated Sustainability Formaldehyde vessel Al Marona for QAFCO 5 Report 2012 Company 2003 2004 2008 First Sustainability QAFCO 6 Report 2010 Inaugurated QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 11 About Qafco Vision, Mission, Values and Main Objectives QAFCO’s vision, mission, main objectives, and strategy for the next year • Increase the competency of personnel and use of adequate describe why the Company exists, who we are, what we intend to do, and technology to enhance Customers Satisfaction, environmental, how. All of these guide our practices and priorities. safety, health and security performance. At QAFCO, we are committed to promoting socially responsible conduct • Prevent pollution and control operational and security risks in that aligns with the 10 universally accepted principles of the United order to protect the environment, the safety and health of our Nations Global Compact. These principles are woven throughout the employees, contractors, visitors, the neighbors and the Code and are also consistent with our expectations of suppliers and community. business partners. We are also striving to reduce the impact in the • Steward our products and services through each life cycle stages environment without compromising our growth and to share our nonin order to protect people and the environment. financial information through a sustainability report consistent with GRI Guidelines and IPIECA and aligned to Qatar National Vision (QNV) 2030 • Implement Occupational Health & Safety, Environmental, and National Development Strategy (NDS) 2011-2016. Quality and Responsible Care Integrated Management Systems as a prime line responsibility at all levels of our organization and MISSION continually improve their performance and effectiveness. We shall operate the plants Efficiently, Safely, and in an Environmentally Responsible manner to Produce and Supply Ammonia, Urea, Urea • Involve and consult with our employees on matters related to our Formaldehyde and Melamine at the Quality required by our Customers Integrated Management Systems. and to carry out investments to Maximize Shareholders Returns. • Comply with all relevant Qatari Legislations, Regulations and Standards adopted by the Company. VISION • Largest Quality Ammonia and Urea Producer. • Communicate this Policy and systems performance measures to • Satisfy QAFCO’s Need For Urea Formaldehyde. our employees, contractors and other stakeholders including public and make it available to them and other interested parties. • Quality Melamine Producer. • Monitor, study and record the environmental impacts of our Our Main Objectives Are To: operations caused by discharges to the sea and emissions to air • Achieve highest possible production at comparatively low cost. for possible reductions. • Operate the plants with maximum online factor. • Encourage re-use and recycling and manage our solid waste to reduce environmental impacts. • Design and operate the plants in a safe, secure and environmentally responsible manner. • Conduct regular reviews of relevant Occupational Health, Safety, • Meet customers’ expectations with regard to Quality and Security, Environmental, Quality and Responsible Care activities Timely Dispatch of our products. for compliance with the adopted Standards. • Supply QAFCO with quality Urea Formaldehyde and sell the • Open information, communication and share experiences with surplus. all parties affected by or interested in our activities on safe use, transportation and disposition of our products and to recognize, We Are Committed Through Our Occupational Health & Safety, respect and respond to our community concerns about our Environmental, Quality And Responsible Care Integrated Management products and operations. Systems To: • Work with Governments, Agencies and Associations at all levels in • Lead QAFCO in ethical ways that increases the benefits to the development of effective and efficient health, safety, security society by protecting our people, environment and community. and environmental laws and industry standards and support research. 12 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 About Qafco Ownership Structure The shareholders and their shareholding in the Company are as follows: Name of shareholder Country of incorporation Interests Remarks Industries Qatar (IQ) Qatar 75% IQ is the immediate parent of QAFCO, which is a 70% owned subsidiary of Qatar Petroleum (QP). Thus QP is the ultimate parent of QAFCO. Yara Netherland BV Netherlands 25% Gulf Formaldehyde Company (Q.S.C) was incorporated on 3rd March 2003 as a private shareholding Qatari Company in the State of Qatar. The company is engaged in the production and sale of Urea Formaldehyde Concentrate (UFC). The Shareholders and their shareholding interests in the company are as follows: Name of shareholder Interests Qatar Fertiliser Company 70% Qatar Industrial Manufacturing Company 20% United Development Company 10% Qatar Melamine Company was established following a Shareholders and Services agreement between Qatar Fertiliser Company and Qatar Holding to produce and sell melamine. Name of shareholder Interests Qatar Fertiliser Company 60% Qatar Holding 40% QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 13 About Qafco Organization Structure (2012) Chief Executive Officer Projects Coordinator Legal Manager Head of Safety Head of Internal Audit SEQ Manager Head of Environment Head of Quality Chief Chief Chief Chief Chief Financial Officer Administration Officer Marketing Officer Technical Officer Operations Officer Head of IMT Sr. Management Medical Advisor Production Manager Production Manager Head of Laboratory Head of Projects Q 1-4 Q 5&6 Head of Product Support Head of U 5 Industrial Relations Human Resources Head of Urea Sales Maintenance Manager Head of U 6 Head of Information Technology Head of Ammonia -1 Manager Manager (America, Europe) Head of A 5 Head of Office Administration Head of Ammonia 2 Head of A 6 Head of Treasury Head of Urea Sales Head of Ammonia 3 Head of Utilities (Asia & Africa) Head of Purchase Head of Ammonia 4 Head of Stores Head of Catering & Clubs Head of Ammonia Sales Head of Personel Planning Head of Maintenance Head of Material Handling Head of General Accounting Head of Housing Head Physician Head of Melamine Sales Planning Head of Urea 1 Head of Support Service Occupational Health Head of Planning & Budgeting Head of Urea 2 Head of Chatering Head of Maintenance Head of Personnel & Shipping Support Head of Urea 3 Administration Head of Training & Head of Urea 4 Head of Marketing Head of Civil Development Administration & Head of Melamine Commercial Affairs Head of Mechanical (Q 1-4) Head of Mechanical (Q 5&6) Head of Electrical (Q 1-4) Head of Instrument (Q 1-4) Head of Electrical & Instrument (Q 5&6) Head of Rotating Machinery 14 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 About Qafco Awards and Recognitions QAFCO has received various certifications from international bodies and institutions for its compliance against international standards. The details of the certifications received are highlighted below. Qatar Fertiliser Company (QAFCO) Certifications Management System ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health & Safety Management System RC 14001:2008 Responsible Care IFA Protect & Sustain Product Stewardship Programme (Excellence Level) ISO /IEC 17025:2005 Requirements for the Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point) certification for QAFCO catering and clubs Gulf Formaldehyde Company (GFC) Certifications Management System ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health & Safety Management System Qatar Melamine Company (QMC) Certifications Management System ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health & Safety Management System QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 15 About Qafco Sustainability Overiew 2011-2012 (Highlights) Sustainability Overview 20112012 (Highlights) National Development Strategy Issue Achievements Qatar National Vision 2030 2011-2016 Environment • Environmental Management System (EMS) which is benchmarked against • An environmentally aware population that values the preservation of the natural • Ensure harmony among economic growth, social international standards including ISO14001 heritage of Qatar and its neighboring states development and environmental protection • Online Environmental Management System (EMS): Systematic data collecting and • Effective and sophisticated environmental institutions that build and strengthen monitoring of all environmental indicators including water, energy, waste and emissions public awareness about environmental protection, and encourage the use of • Biodiversity and conservation of our flora, fauna and marine life through the Sahara environmentally sound technologies. These institutions will also conduct Forest Project, reef balls and Al-Besherriya Island awareness-raising campaigns, employ environmental planning tools, and carry out • Online Exchange and Donation System (WEDS) environmental research • Continuation of Environmental Training and Education: Environmental Housekeeping • Encouragement of regional cooperation to put in place preventive measures to Tours & Certificates, Supplier Evaluation, School Environmental Awareness Programs mitigate the negative environmental effects of pollution arising from development activities • A proactive and significant international role in assessing the impact of climate change and mitigating its negative impacts, especially on countries of the Gulf Labour Practices • Happy workplace with attractive benefits, career development plan and effective two-way • Preserve Qatar’s national heritage and enhance Arab and Islamic values and identity • Enable all of Qatar’s people to sustain a prosperous society and Decent communication system: 53 Scholarships and Sponsorship Students, 10 QAFCO • Educational curricula and training programs responding to the current and future • Mould modernization around the preservation of Work members completed Sponsorship Programs needs of the labor market Qatari culture and traditions • Focus on achieving the success of Qatarization: Intake of 104 nationals in 2012 • Recruitment of the right mix of expatriate labor, protecting their rights, securing • Zero accident severity and frequency rate during 2012 their safety, and retaining those who are outstanding among them • QAFCO Safety Information System re-engineered on a web based platform • A solid grounding in Qatari moral and ethical values, traditions and cultural heritage • Behaviour-Based-Safety (BBS) Tool • Incentives for Qataris to enter professional and management roles in business, • 8,524 Contractor Employees trained in Safety and Environment Practices • Increased opportunities and vocational support for Qatari women Targeted Participation of Expatriate Labor • Recruitment of the right mix of expatriate labor, protecting their rights, securing their safety, and retaining those who are outstanding among them Social • Local socio-economic development and nurturing diversity of cultures through • Enhance women’s capacities and empower them to participate fully in the • Maintain a just and caring society based on high moral Al Banush Club political and economic spheres, especially in decision-making roles standards and capable of playing a prominent role in the • Building the nation through the sponsorship and development of different events, • Develop a spirit of tolerance, constructive dialogue and openness towards global partnership for development conferences and forums which empower education, sports and women role others at the national and international levels in the society • Sponsorship and support of dialogue among civilizations, promoting • Public policy development to fight corruption, anti-competitive, anti-trust and coexistence between different religions and cultures anti-monopoly behaviour • An effective system for funding scientific research shared by the public and private sectors and conducted in cooperation with specialized international organizations and leading international research centers Financial • Simplification of variation order approval process • Reasonable and sustained rates of economic growth that secure a • Achieve a competitive nd diversified economy capable • Review of the tendering process high standard of living for this generation and for future generations of meeting th needs of, and securing a high standard of • Full implementation of E-banking • Expansion of industries and services with competitive advantages derived living for, all its people for the present and for the future • Higher net profit mainly due to the effect of increased sales prices as well as new from hydrocarbon industries • Manage growth and avoiding uncontrolled expansion expansion projects and the consequent increment in sales volumes of Ammonia and Urea Product • Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) being issued for all QAFCO products • Provide high quality services that respond to the needs and the desires of • Align economic growth with social development Stewardship • Close engagement with stakeholders especially the suppliers, customers, distributors individuals and businesses and environmental management and user groups in communicating responsible care and product stewardship • Integrated marketing services with sales, service, operations and information technology • Improve production and marketing capabilities. First achievement of its kind in the world of urea exports: 5 ships simultaneously loaded heading to Brazil, Thailand, Bangladesh, Australia and Pakistan 16 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Strategy and Analysis Material Topics and Data Material Topics and Data External stakeholders can impact the QAFCO Sustainability process and report, economically, politically, or strategically. Determining materiality is important to identify, prioritize and Mother company i.e. Qatar Petroleum, can influence regulation embed key sustainability issues and concerns of QAFCO’s that govern the operations. Competitors and peers can affect stakeholders in the process of defining our Sustainability targets corporate policies, goals and targets. External materiality, and Sustainability Reporting scope, while gaining insight into was measured by identifying sustainability issues and Key non-financial corporate risks and opportunities. This enables Performance Indicators (KPIs) from annual (sustainability) QAFCO to: reports, websites, brochures, papers, news, etc. of key external • Gain insights into non-financial corporate risks and prioritize stakeholders (competitors, peers, mother company, partners, and address risks and opportunities; etc.). • Develop distinctive, effective sustainability strategies, The matrix was created by plotting identified internal and external commitments and targets around the most significant and sustainability issues along two axes: materiality to stakeholders relevant issues for each business unit, maximizing the (“Level of Concern to Stakeholders”) and materiality to QAFCO impact of efforts made; (“Level of Impact”). As such, it inherently reflects the principles • Build and maintain a strong reputation and gain competitive of materiality and inclusiveness, and where they are captured in Materiality Matrix showing the Level of advantage; and the development of sustainable competitive advantage. • Proactively address and manage change. Concern of Issues to our Stakeholders and their Impact Levels In 2012 we conducted materiality analysis using a materiality Level of concern to stakeholders matrix to determine the priority of issues that we should address Sustainability issues 2 1 in the long term. 1 Occupational Health and Safety 7 Among all QAFCO staff, key internal stakeholders were listed 2 Impact on the Environment 8 3 4 based on their influence over and dependency on QAFCO. The 16 3 Human Capital Development 14 higher the level of responsibility in QAFCO, the more material the stakeholder’s interests and concerns. 4 Impact on the Community 9 5 5 Customer Health and Safety and Product Labelling 11 QAFCO Management, represented by chiefs, managers, heads, 6 Environmental Performance Indicators 10 6 and team leaders from different units were considered as key 7 Product Stewardship 15 Internal stakeholders, and were therefore requested to attend 8 Qatarization the ‘QAFCO Sustainability Workshop’. This workshop explored, 12 9 Biodiversity among others, what materiality means, why materiality is 13 10 Public Policy important for QAFCO and how materiality analysis is approached. 11 Stakeholder Engagement Workshop enabled a preliminary assessment of main sustainability 12 Corporate Governance interests and concerns from internal key stakeholders. By carrying 13 Direct Sector Comparison out a workshop, new key stakeholders were also identified and included in the stakeholder analysis. 14 Direct economic value generated and distributed 15 Human Rights 16 Energy Efficiency Current or potential impact on QAFCO QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 17 Strategy and Analysis Engaging with Stakeholders Engaging with Stakeholders Employee Engagment Engaging stakeholders is an important part of sustainability performance QAFCO Day because their interests, expectations, QAFCO-Day is an annual get together and needs not only inform where function held in January every year, we should focus its economic, for QAFCO’s management and staff. environmental, and social efforts, but also help define what sustainability At the outset of the event in 2012, performance or success means to QAFCO’s CEO delivered a speech in our organization. Identifying important which he outlined the company’s stakeholder groups and understanding achievements for the previous year how we impact each other is not only 2011 and set out its plans and good organizational practice, but also objectives for the year 2012. good financial practice. During the function Qatari employees Indeed, stakeholder engagement is a who had completed their training two-way process, and can involve a programmes and taken up established significant investment of time and resources. However, the benefits of doing so certainly pay off, both in terms of improved social and environmental positions were honoured. This comes performance, but also financial performance through a number of mechanisms including reduced brand and reputational erosion, increased customer in the context of QAFCO’s Qatarization attraction through stakeholder support, improved ability to partner with other leading sustainability firms, and maintained social licenses to operate. and performance improvement plans. In 2011, we achieved the Responsible Care certification. This commits chemical companies to be open and transparent with stakeholders at the local, The function program included several national and international level. entertaining items and lucky draws were given away to lucky winners and a Identifying and selecting stakeholders is based on the level of interaction and impact from or to our business. Dialogue and cooperation helps our industry sumptuous dinner brought QAFCO-Day work much more closely with local communities, governments, contractors, our employees, international organizations, and others to understand and 2012 to its close. address their concerns. We also promote co-operation with governments and organizations in the development and implementation of effective regulations and standards. This helps companies meet or exceed these requirements. Qafco Day 18 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 QAFCO Stakeholder Engagement Strategy and Analysis Engagement with various stakeholder groups was carried out during 2012. The overview of this engagement is as follows: Stakeholders Concerns QAFCO Response Customers Product  information  We ensure that all our customers are well-informed about our products and  Quality and cost of services their satisfaction is monitored regularly Response  to complaints  Communication with customers in relation to product information, enquiries, contracts Safety  Information (including amendments) and customer complaints and feedback Shareholders and Investors  Shareholder value Transparency  and good Governance  We acknowledge risk associated with investment and inform our shareholders and Return  on Investment (ROI) investors on the projection of return  Benefits, prospects and historical trends Analysts and Media  Ability to find information  We continue to engage in a wide network of media to ensure transparent disclosure on Disclosure  and media coverage our activities and events Attendance  and event agenda Employees  Qatarization and local hiring  We are committed to maximising the number of Qatari Nationals in our workforce Employee  benefits  We respect employee rights and individuality while valuing diversity in the workplace Communication  with management  We implement fair remuneration and promote shortand long-term employability  Decent labour practices (non-discrimination,  Telephone and Facsimile systems career mobility and training)  We provide opportunities for Career development  Response to issues, future plans, current positioning  (training, employee development programmes) and available prospects Scholarships for family members  Open door approach to discuss with top management Government and  Income generation, lobbying issues and compliance  We comply with local and international laws in addition to a fair contribution Regulatory Authorities to laws to the Government  Quarterly Environmental performance reporting to the Ministry of Environment (MoE) Value Chain Partners/Contractors  Transparent and logical procurement channels  We include Sustainability as part of our supplier audit process  Supplier training content, method of communication,  We engage actively with suppliers to ensure a smooth sustainable supply chain process sustainability supply chain and coverage of training Meetings with contractors and suppliers Industry Peers  Fair trade and competition practices  We support fair competition among peer companies Partnerships   Joint effort with peer companies Scope  of industry peers  Communication with neighboring companies for mutual aids during possible emergencies Local Community  Impact of products and operations on the community  Impact analysis was conducted on our projects Communication  with management  We implement good corporate citizenship and dialogue with the public and NGOs Environmental  Awareness Programmes  Environment Corner at Flower Show, Education   QP Environment Fair and School Awareness Programmes Water  & Energy access  QAFCO School Programme  CEO Brochures  QAFCO has a direct (Hot) line to the Civil Defense in Mesaieed R&D Institutions  Environment and climate change issues  Educational/Scientific Events  Roundtable discussions and participation on a regional agenda for petrochemical sector  Education Programmes/Studies with Universities such as Texas University or Qatar University QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 19 Strategy and Analysis Highlighting Our Internal Communication at QAFCO  On-line (electronic) system has been developed for Quality, Environmental, OH & Safety and Security Management Systems, which incorporate various information about systems performance and to register Non-Conformities, Environmental Aspects, OH&S and Security Risks, related information, Reports etc by employees.  On-line Controlled Document System, which is accessible to all relevant employees.  Management Reviews are established through regular dedicated meetings for the review of the QAFCO Management Systems and the minutes are communicated through the On-line system.  “QAFCO Safety (including health and security) & Environment Committee (QASEC)” meetings are periodically conducted to discuss activities and projects related to Health, Safety, Security and Environment and their impact, where the employees representatives also participates. It also evaluates effectiveness of communications programmes with its stakeholders.  QAFCO Management Systems activities / environmental legal compliance are reported in the monthly Organisation Reports and Management / Board Meetings, as relevant.  Environmental & Safety Communication Stations are used to display various documents like Integrated Policy of QAFCO, GFC & QMC, Information Booklets / leaflets etc.  Trainings are provided at various levels of the Organisation.  Consultation with appropriate levels in the Organisation for the development of Management Systems related Procedures etc.  Notice Boards are used to display information decisions and minutes of meetings etc. related to theManagement Systems.  Information about the impact of chemicals on the environment, methods of handling spills, ecological and waste disposal considerations are made available On-line in the form of general chemical database of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS).  QAFCO Brief is being published periodically where the information and statistics of Management Systems are also included. This periodical is made available to all the interested parties both internally and externally.  Internal E-mail system is used to communicate the information related to Management Systems.  Campaigns, Exhibitions etc. are also used to communicate and create awareness about the Management Systems.  Internal Telephone and Intercom systems.  Incident statistics display. 20 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Strategy and Analysis QAFCO became a signatory of the UN Global Compact on 25th January 2010. The UN Global Compact›s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization›s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • The United Nations Convention against Corruption We embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment to GRI Guidelines and UNGC Labour Principles: a framework for sustainability • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Global association and the effective recognition of the right to Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI collective bargaining; G3.1) offer a widely recognized and well tested platform for • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and sustainability that is already used by thousands of companies compulsory labour; across the world. • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines help in the preparation employment and occupation. of the Global Compact’s annual Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations. The COP is the mechanism through Environment which UNGC participating companies communicate their • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary alignment to the ten UNGC Principles. approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater GRI’s Guidelines provide sustainability reporters with a framework environmental responsibility; and for reporting Principles, Disclosures on Management Approach, • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion and Key Performance Indicators, all organized in a way that of environmentally friendly technologies. clearly responds to each of the three key sustainability areas, Anti-Corruption otherwise known as triple bottom line reporting: economic, social and environment. This enhances the quality of the company’s • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in sustainability report. all its forms, including extortion and bribery. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 21 In February 2009, the Qatar Financial Markets Authority (QFMA) Corporate Governance at QAFCO announced a Corporate Governance Code for public companies in Qatar which was developed in line with international practices Board of Directors & Governance Committees and guidelines, and in collaboration with the Hawkamah Institute of Corporate Governance. Since then, we have been upgrading our Corporate Governance practices to align with this Code. Our Board of Directors is committed to adopting the highest standards Governance Committees of Corporate Governance as a fundamental part of our responsibilities of managing the business and affairs of the Company. We ensure To ensure the effective discharge of its fiduciary duties, the Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the respective that new issues from our stakeholders such as the Government of Committees of the Board. These include: Qatar are incorporated into our Corporate Governance structure. Committee Duties and Responsibilities Board of Directors Oversees areas such as the Company’s financial statements, compliance with legal and Internal Audit Committee regulatory requirements, internal control framework and the management of internal and Duties and Responsibilities external auditor’s activities. The Board of Directors is a body of elected or appointed members who jointly oversee our activities. The Board has the following Project Steering Committee Oversees expansion projects, i.e. Urea 1 Revamp, Melamine Project and QAFCO 5 & 6 specific responsibilities which facilitate the discharge of the Board’s stewardship responsibilities in the best interests of QAFCO: Oversees the tendering and contract award process for all Purchase Orders and Contracts General Tender Committee above QAR 10 Million and below QAR 50 Million. • Provide strategic oversight for operations and monitoring its Oversees the tendering and contract award process for all Purchase Orders and Contracts Limited Tender Committee execution. above QAR 500,000 and below QAR 10 Million. • Board leadership and composition. • Monitoring the conduct of business to evaluate whether the Oversees the tendering and contract award process for all Purchase Orders and Contracts Small Tender Committee above QAR 100,000 and below QAR 500,000. business is being properly managed and sustained. • Identifying risks and threats and ensuring the implementation of Oversees the approval of internal projects for capacity enhancement, safety, environment, appropriate systems to neutralise these issues. Project Approval Committee minor plant modifications etc. • Reviewing the adequacy and integrity of our internal control systems including mechanisms for compliance with applicable Oversees the screening of “Project Ideas” (Concepts) initiated by various groups within the laws, regulations, rules, directives and guidelines. Concept Screening Committees organisation to be passed on to the Project Approval Committee for further deliberation and decision making. Seven out of eight of our Board members are independent, nonEnsure that the various resources and facilities are optimally utilized in the best interest executive members. The highest governing body in QAFCO is the of the company. Keep abreast of advancements in Technology and sponsor the ones that IT Strategies Committee Board of Directors and its Chairman is not an executive officer. The enhance effectiveness and efficiency, thus increasing internal and external customer Chairman is independent and does not participate in Company satisfaction and ultimately maximizing QAFCO profit. operations. All members of the Board are males and suitably qualified Ensure optimal coordination of the various IT activities in QAFCO with regard to systems in view of their respective qualifications and experience which IS Coordination Committee solutions, resource sharing, system support, standards and methodologies, policies and provide the Board with a good mix of industry-specific knowledge, guidelines, and priorities setting as directed by the IT Strategies Committee. broad business sense and commercial experience. This balance enables the Board to provide clear and effective leadership to the Safety and Environment Established under the Chairmanship of the CEO to discuss, promote and consider policy Committee matters in occupational health & safety and environmental issues of significant importance Company and bring information and independent judgment to many to the Company. aspects of our strategy and performance. Each Director has fiduciary duties and must at all times act in good The Board and each Committee make an annual self-evaluation of its performance with a faith and with proper care and diligence act in the best interests of particular focus on overall effectiveness. The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for the Company. The appointment of Directors is solely under the power overseeing the self-evaluation process and conducts an annual review of the performance of the of shareholders. Chief Executive Officer. 22 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Corporate Governance at QAFCO Board Meetings and Supply of Information to the Board The Board holds scheduled meetings regularly during the year. The Board has Board of Directors & Governance Committees arranged to hold at least four meetings each year at the Head Office. In addition to the formal meetings of the Board, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer maintain frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss any issues of concern they may have relating to the operation of the Company. The Board met a total of four times during 2012 and all Directors attended more than half of the meetings held during the financial year. Issues discussed include financial and other information deemed suitable such as new statutory and regulatory requirements concerning their duties and responsibilities; risk management and risk management updates; customer satisfaction; product and service quality; market share and market trends; manpower and human resource; and environmental issues. The Board meetings are governed by a structured formal agenda and schedule of matters arising for approval or documentation with sufficient time given for consideration. Our shareholders nominate their representatives on the QAFCO Board of Directors which provides them with a mechanism to present their recommendations or direction to the governance body (i.e. QAFCO Board). In 2012, we continued to implement a whistle-blower system which will provide employees an opportunity to highlight their recommendations or concerns to the governing body (i.e. Internal Audit Committee). Remuneration System of the Board There is no compensation paid to QAFCO Board members other than the annual remuneration determined by Special Resolution of the Shareholders but is not directly linked to company performance. The compensation of senior managers and executives is directly linked with annual Company performance. The remuneration of directors and other members of key management during 2012 were as follows: Compensation of key management personnel 2012 2011 (QR) (QR) Short-term benefits 13,884,535 14,346,231 Directors’ remuneration 2,064,333 1,602,453 Qatari employee’ pension fund contribution 496,032 426,727 16,444,900 16,375,411 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 23 Corporate Governance at QAFCO QAFCO aims to adopt some common methods of fraud detection such as tips and whistle blowers, internal audit, discovery of fraud by Code of Conduct and Ethics accident, internal control reviews and enhancement, external audit and alertness/ notification by the regulators, etc. Fraud Awareness and Whistle Blowing No organization is exempted from fraud. However we can all take steps Policy Facts to (i) determine fraud occurrence, and (ii) mitigate losses due to fraud. Our organization aims to adopt 3 focal approaches to minimize the • The Policy allows us to recognize the costs commission and likelihood of fraudulent acts, as well as to mitigate the associated with corporate malpractice or the magnitude of loss associated with fraud. Initiatives that QAFCO aims to perception that can arise and damage put in place to prevent fraud include: QAFCO; • Formalizing our fraud policies and fraud management and • The value of this policy lies in giving QAFCO awareness framework; an opportunity to deal with any problems • Putting in place strong internal controls four our expanding identified in-house, away from the glare of business activities; public scrutiny; • Willingness to prosecute and enforce disciplinary measures/procedures; • It is part of a wider corporate governance • Constant awareness and ethics training for our employees; program about setting up structures and • Discreet or anonymous fraud reporting escalation mechanisms behaviours to regulate internal an external i.e. whistle blowing structure; relationships and interactions with our • Providing Induction Program with specific section on Ethics and stakeholders; Compliance Policy for all employees at QAFCO. Code of Conduct and Ethics • Employee tips are the most common method of fraud detection, second only to the Conflict of Interest accidental discovery of fraud; The Directors continue to observe the Company Directors’ Code of Focal 3 way approach to tackle fraudulent acts Ethics in carrying out fiduciary duties and responsibilities. We ensure • QAFCO needs a mechanism to test whether its high ethical standards are upheld and the interests of our stakeholders compliance efforts are working. This include are always a priority. We have implemented appropriate controls to regular reports to the board and senior ensure the systematic identification of potential conflicts of interest and management, to periodically assess effectiveness; Awareness procedures and have mechanisms to address such conflicts of interest Employee's level of if they arise. Our Related Party Policy monitors related party transactions awareness is heightened to ensure fair rules for employee and board member share trading. • Unfiltered complaints are delivered directly to Education through education, the secure environment where they are Educate employees on information, and our Consequences control environment We have implemented the Ethics and Whistle-Blowing Complaints evaluated for merit, then passed to the misconceptions linked that fosters the Employees understand with fraud that tere are Procedure and the Fraud Awareness Framework. Annual “conflict of chairman of the Audit Committee; and prevention and consequences associated detection of fraud This goes a long way in interest” declarations are obtained from all employees. The internal preventing and with the commision of fradulent acts, including audit process operates independently and reports to the Internal Audit • By enabling employees to report suspected detecting fraud All employees are aware disciplinary actions at QAFCO of what Committee which reviews all business units based on a risk based audit misbehaviour, “you can get in there, take constitutes fraud plan. corrective action and manage the problem Employees are able to quickly before employees get frustrated and identify risks conditions Fraud Awareness Framework run to the enforcement authorities or, or factors associated with fraud The QAFCO Board of Directors, senior management and all employees sometimes, worse, the media”; and in our organization aim to create a positive and transparent environment and organizational culture which is committed to the prevention, • It is not always the case that information given detection and avoidance of fraud; to undertake prompt action to by whistleblowers is accurate and this will need eradicate fraud in the event it does occur. to be handled and investigated discretely. 24 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Corporate Governance at QAFCO Ethics & Whistle Blowing Complaints Policy Code of Conduct and Ethics Employees are often the first to realize that there is something occurring or that has occurred in the Company that is wrong, dishonest or illegal. They may not want to express their concerns because of feeling disloyal to their colleagues or to the Company. They may also fear harassment or victimization. In these situations, it may be easier to ignore the concerns rather than report what may appear to be suspicion of malpractice. QAFCO is committed to adhering to the highest possible standards of ethical and legal conduct within its operations and those of its subsidiaries with the full support of all its stakeholders. In line with this goal, it now provides an additional avenue of raising concerns related to Fraud, Corruption or Misconduct and to assure all our staff and stakeholders that any person who discloses such information relating to Fraud, Corruption or any other Misconduct will be protected from retaliation by the Company. The Head of Internal Audit is designated as the advocate for the whistleblowers and is authorized to implement this policy as approved by the QAFCO Board. The Head of Internal Audit is responsible for undertaking all investigations under this policy and is authorized to report all such matters directly to the QAFCO Audit Committee and the Managing Director. The Scope Voluntary Disclosure Program All QAFCO employees are required to disclose all acts related to Fraud, Corruption QAFCO encourages it staff, individuals or other stakeholders involved within or any other kind of Misconduct that comes to their attention. All operations are also its activities to volunteer information on any Fraud, Corruption or Misconduct integral part of QAFCO’s ethics and compliance policies. The type of disclosures of which they have information, knowledge or to which they are privy. The required of QAFCO staff and concerned third parties include the following: voluntary disclosure scheme is QAFCO’s attempt to deter and prevent Fraud and Corruption or Misconduct within its operations at the earliest point it is • Unlawful acts requiring the violation of a law, gross waste of Company detected which has the full support of the Company. resources, mismanagement, abuse of authorities and specific health or safety issues related to our operations; Channels and procedures for Whistle Blowing • Fraud, which basically means any act or mission, including QAFCO personnel are expected to whistle blow on transactions, operations and misrepresentation that knowingly misleads, or attempts to mislead a any other activities that involves Fraud, Corruption and Misconduct whether party to obtain financial or other benefits or to avoid an obligation; internal or external that have an impact on the Company. Parties external to • Any activity that deliberately attempts to undermine the organizations QAFCO are encouraged to bring allegations and complaints of Corruption, operations and aims; Fraud and any other Misconduct or non-compliance to QAFCO policies in a • Corruption, which means any attempt to offer, give, receive or solicit, transaction for further review and mediation. directly or indirectly anything of value with the intent of influencing the actions of another party. Staff is encouraged to report allegations or concerns through the internal hotline web or directly via post. Employees that are unsure whether or not to Whistle blowing and a complaint procedure has been developed with the belief whistle blow shall be free to seek advice of Internal Audit or simply send an that what is being reported is factually true. Allegations and concerns expressed anonymous disclosure on the subject matter via the internal web link. anonymously will be reviewed at the discretion of the Head of Internal Audit in discussion with the Audit Committee and the Managing Director. In performing this On receipt of any allegation the issue will be automatically registered and if the role, the factors to be considered shall include the seriousness of the allegation, its identity of the staff is known, acknowledgment on receipt will be provided. Staff credibility, and the extent to which the allegation can be confirmed or corroborated making a known disclosure should expect an official correspondence within by other sources. three months to a preliminary evaluation on the subject matter. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 25 Corporate Governance at QAFCO Associations Initiatives QAFCO Endorses and Associations QAFCO believes that working in partnership and association with others and committing to voluntary initiatives are important in demonstrating leadership. Responsible Care is a comprehensive Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) performance improvement initiative. It helps QAFCO to improve performance by identifying and spreading good management practices, and promotes mutual support between companies and associations through experience sharing. It promotes openness and transparency with our stakeholders. The other initiative QAFCO is committed to is International Fertilizer Association's (IFA) Product Stewardship. This initiative is based on IFA›s 12 Safety, Health and Environment Principles, which further enhances sustainable production and use of fertilizers. QAFCO also signed the UN Global Compact in 2010. The annual Communication on Progress is accomplished with this report. In addition, we participate in many associations at the regional, national, and international level such as Gulf Petrochemical & Chemical Association (GPCA). Being a GPCA member enables QAFCO to establish contact with industry executives, potential customers and influential decision makers in various parts of the Arabian Gulf region and throughout the world. 26 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablility Agenda at QAFCO Returning value to Our Shareholders Our long-term success relies on a business strategy that promotes sustained growth. QAFCO is dedicated to Developing Returning Value to building and maintaining a robust and resilient business Our Products Our Shareholders model to ensure that growth and value creation for our shareholders can be sustained. Our employees play an important role in creating value for Nurturing Our Workforce QAFCO and its stakeholders. That is why we are committed to creating a productive and healthy workplace. QAFCO focuses its Community engagement aims at building trust and sustained social benefits. We try to understand our role within the efforts to become a community and explore where it can make useful sustainable more sustainable Supporting Our Communities contributions. We rely on its ability to offer jobs, income and in 5 areas development opportunities to our community, and focus on areas where QAFCO can create a societal impact. As we continue to grow its business, QAFCO commits to protecting the environment and promoting sustainable Respecting Our Environment development. We uphold international standards and encourage internal consistency and improvements in its Nurturing environmental performance. Our Workforce Respecting Our Environment We strive to maintain our reputation as a company that cares by pursuing the welfare of contractors’ employees and HSE standards as well as implementing QAFCO’s Developing our Products commercial principles and values. We manage supplier performance by establishing company expectations for, and ensuring supplier and contractor commitment to sustainability. Supporting Our Communities QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 27 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Returning Value To Our Shareholders Financial Highlights Country of Effective shareholding Name of entity Principal activity incorporation percentage The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 were authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors. Production and sale of Gulf Formaldehyde Urea Formaldehyde The structure of the Group, incorporated in the consolidated financial statements of Qatar Fertiliser Company (S.A.Q.) Qatar 70% Concentrate Company (Q.S.C.C.) is as follows: Qatar Melamine Production and sale Actual 'QAR million Company (Q.S.C.C.) of Melamine Qatar 60% Description 31-Dec-12 31-Dec-11 Total Non Current Assets 17,626 17,407 The consolidated statements of the Group were prepared in accordance with International Total Current Assets 4,859 2,764 Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issue by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the applicable requirements of Qatar Commercial Companies’ Law No.5 Total Assets 22,485 20,170 of 2002. Total Equity 16,977 13,423 The consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated statements of financial position, consolidated statement of income, consolidated statement of comprehensive Total Non current 2,569 3,942 income, consolidated statement of cash flow and consolidated statement of changes in Liabilities equity of the Company and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2012. Total Current & Liabilities 2,938 2,806 Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date when such Total Equity & Liabilities 22,485 20,170 control ceases. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. All intraTotal Loan QAFCO 5 3,540 4,915 group balances, transactions, unrealized gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions and dividends are eliminated in full. 28 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Returning Value To Our Shareholders Projects under development The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk. The Board of QAFCO has an established process for due diligence and implementation phases Directors review and agree on policies for managing each of these risks which are of mergers, acquisitions and joint venture formations. The Environment, Health summarised below. & Safety Section facilitates a review of all human rights risks, among others, prior to the completion of an acquisition or the formation of a new entity. This review Interest rate risk includes the topics of our Code of Conduct and Ethics practices and policies at The Group is minimally exposed to interest rate risk on its interest bearing assets QAFCO. and liabilities (short term deposits and term loan). QAFCO 5 The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates QAFCO Group signed an agreement with Hyundai Construction & Engineering primarily to the Group’s financial assets and liabilities with floating interest rates Co Ltd. and Snamprogetti S.P.A. (“Main Contractors”) for its plant expansion and fixed interest instruments. To manage the risk of changes in floating interest project namely, “QAFCO 5”. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, the rate on its interest bearing loan, the Group has entered into interest rate swaps. Group made a 10% advance payment to the main contractors and this amount is Under the swap agreements, the Group will pay an agreed fixed interest rate and recovered at the same percentage through progress billings and included in the receive a floating interest rate. capital work-in-progress. Credit risk On 29 February 2012, the project was completed. Accordingly, outstanding advances were transferred to property, plant and equipment. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is as indicated by the carrying amount of its assets which consist primarily of account receivables, bank balances and QAFCO 6 derivatives. The Group signed an agreement with Hyundai Construction & Engineering Co Ltd. and Snamprogetti S.P.A. (“Main Contractors”) for its plant expansion project The Group seeks to limit its credit risk with respect to banks by only dealing namely, “QAFCO 6”. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, the Group with reputable banks. With respect to customers, the marketing department made a 10% advance payment to the Main Contractors and this amount is has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed recovered at the same percentage through progress billings and included in the individually for creditworthiness before Group’s standard payment and delivery capital work-in-progress. terms and conditions are offered and monitoring outstanding receivables. The Group is engaged in production and sales of Urea, Ammonia and Melamine. The On 1 August 2012, the project was completed. Accordingly, outstanding advances five largest customers of the Group account for 62% of outstanding receivable at were transferred to property, plant and equipment. 31 December 2012 (2011: 68%). With respect to credit risk arising from the financial assets of the Group, the Group’s Financial Risk exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments. Objectives and policies The Group’s principal financial liabilities comprise interest bearing loan, trade Liquidity risk accounts payable and amounts due to related parties. The main purpose of these The Group’s approach to managing liquidity risk is to ensure, as far as possible, financial liabilities is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under various financial assets such as trade accounts receivable, amounts due from both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or related parties and bank balances, which arise directly from its operations. risking damage to the Group’s reputation. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 29 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Returning Value To Our Shareholders The Group limits its liquidity risk by maintaining adequate funds in the banks and ensuring bank facilities are available. The Group’s terms of sales require amounts to be paid within 30 days of the date of invoice. Trade payables are normally settled within 45 – 60 days of the date of purchase. Currency risk As the Qatari Riyal is pegged to the US Dollars, the balances in US Dollars are not considered to represent significant currency risk. Capital management The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balances. The Group makes adjustments to its capital structure, in light of changes in economic and business conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, or issue new shares. During 2007, the Group obtained a loan facility to finance the QAFCO-5 Plant. Opportunities due to Climate Change Aqueous ammonia, a chemical compound composed of 19% ammonia, is used as an agent to absorb nitrogen oxides produced on the utilization and burning of gas in power generators and industrial plants. As reported earlier, QAFCO had signed an agreement with Mesaieed Power Company Limited to annually supply 13,000 tonnes of aqueous ammonia. This agreement is for 24 years and the aqueous ammonia solution will be used in the power generators at the Mesaieed Power Plant. A similar agreement was also signed with Ras Qirtas Power Plant to annually supply 15,000 tonnes and new deals with a number of leading industries in the country to reduce the national NOx emissions are envisaged. We intend to supply aqueous ammonia to various companies and gas-operated industrial plants in Qatar to utilize it as an agent to reduce NOx emissions and help comply with the Qatari environmental regulations. 30 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce People are QAFCO’s most valuable resource. As such, the company is committed to contributing positively to the intellectual and physical wellbeing of all of its employees in order to improve performance, keep absenteeism and turnover rates to a minimum and create a great working experience, regardless of their race, colour, religion, gender, national origin, age, disability or any other basis protected by Qatari laws. QAFCO’s commitment and dedication to motivate its employees has gradually improved through training & development programmes that serve as a key to continual improvement and enable the achievement of employees’ goals, provide quality employee development programmes, and develop employee skills & potentials. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 31 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce 7% workforce increased Equal opportunities in 2012 for our diversified workforce Australasia 2 Europe 13 Australasia 1 Our success relies on the dedication and engagement of our employees Africa 15 Europe 2 across all divisions of our Company. All of our employees work in Qatar South America 1 Africa 15 and we are committed to creating a workplace where employees are North America 12 South America 1 valued and have the opportunity to maximise their full potential and fulfil QAFCO is committed to fair and equal opportunities to all employees. North America 12 their career development expectations. At the end of 2012, QAFCO has The company believes that every individual’s unique background and 1,501 employees (59 in management position, 1,296 technical, and 146 experience contribute to its success. Discrimination in hiring, promotion Rest of Middle East 82 in administrative roles). Our workforce has grown sustainably each year and all other employment decisions on the basis of race, colour, religion, Rest of Middle East 74 since 2007 (980 employees) and from 2011 to 2012 has experience a 7% gender, national origin, age, disability or any other basis protected by increment in its workforce. Qatari laws is prohibited. QAFCO is also very proud of its diverse, multi-talented and multicultural Although women account for only a 2% of our total workforce, we believe workforce. We actively pursue diversity in our workforce composition, the in the employment of women thus we encourage and support them to markets we serve, and the services we provide because the technical join us and contribute to our company growth and success. It is also challenges we solve require their different perspectives and experiences. worthy to highlight that women are treated fairly and provided equal if This diversity has enabled us to grow by attracting talented employees not more benefits to encourage their employment. For example, we pay from around the world. fairly regardless of gender. Our salary ratio between men and women is 1:1. Although there is no minimum wage law in Qatar, we follow a very QAFCO supports the employment of people from different nationalities and competitive remuneration system that is practiced within the downstream people of various ranges of ages maximizing on the value brought in from companies. There is no discrimination in position between men and such different cultural backgrounds and perspectives while collectively women within QAFCO. Equity of remuneration is also a factor in retaining working to achieve business objectives of the company. The majority of qualified employees in our workforce. At QAFCO, there is no gender gap our employees (51%) are in the 36-50 age category. It has a 43% young in wages among men and women with similar roles and responsibilities. demographic which represents the younger and newly appointed national college graduates. Senior employees account for 13% as well. Succession In 2012, QAFCO conducted special safety training for female employees. plans are developed and are being continually updated to facilitate The training was conducted in collaboration with the Medical & knowledge transfer from senior personnel to others. Environment Sections and covered three areas, namely Health Hazards for Female Employees at Work, Hazard Identification Techniques and General Currently, QAFCO engages approximately with 200-300 contractors who Safety in Offices and Office Ergonomics. The training was well received by are on a fixed term engagement with our company for a specific service the participants and was a positive step in demonstrating our commitment or period. to diversity and in particular, opportunities for women. 32 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce Interview with Maryam Mattar, Head of Environment How did find out about QAFCO? QAFCO was one of the selected plants to be visited as part of the Graduation Programme offered by Qatar University. In 2001, I joined the company for 40 days as a Summer Trainee through the Summer Training Program offered by the company on an annual basis. In those times, there were not many females working in a technical environment at QAFCO. The Group was good and supportive and the experience was excellent. Our workforce in numbers from 2011 to 2012 After my graduation, I applied directly to QAFCO and they hired me as Laboratory Engineer for three years and then I was promoted to Senior Management Technical Administrative 20 35 36 50 51+ Chemist in 2004. In these times, all the shifts in the laboratory reporting to 1296 720 me, which were a group of more than 25 employees. 1178 672 600 562 What were the main challenges you found in your career within QAFCO? Males 1,473 The workplace is incredible and people have been very supportive at all 2012 levels including top management. Effort and hard work were appreciated 181 167 by the management and very soon I graduated from a trainee to Lab 146 168 Engineer and then was promoted to Senior Chemist, under the direct 59 55 Female 28 supervision of the Head of Laboratory. My efficiency and hard work was 2012 2011 2012 2011 again recognized and was promoted to Head of Environment. It was also a milestone, since I was the first female promoted to that position. What do you believe that QAFCO has added to your career? My twelve years with QAFCO have been a very fruitful experience as I got I have also been involved in the process of maintaining the Quality exposed to various profiles while working with different sections across Management System (ISO 14001) Certification as part of an auditing team QAFCO. Working in the Environment section, I got the opportunity to which was a totally new experience for me. communicate and engage with legal and regulatory bodies like Ministry of Environment, Mesaieed Industries City, Qatar Petroleum, which in itself And what do you think you have added to QAFCO? had a very positive impact on my career growth. I have always enjoyed the environment and the challenges that QAFCO offers. Now I can see more and more female presence, spread in different Working in the Environmental section of QAFCO, I got an opportunity to work sections including technical departments. QAFCO is doing its best trying on significant environmental projects like Sahara Forest Project, Artificial to encourage females to work in QAFCO. The Company offers equal Reef Balls, Al-Besheriya Island, all these were purely environmental work opportunities for everyone who wants to work at QAFCO and it does not and projects for our community, for Qatar. These gave me the chance to limit growth. I believe that my particular experience at this company could meet the public, understand their concerns and explain QAFCO's activities encourage and serve as an example for those Qatari females hesitating to our stakeholders. whether to come and join QAFCO or not. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 33 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce are eligible for an air ticket from home to Doha and a return ticket home on final departure. This is extended to the employee’s spouse and children provided they have stayed in Qatar for at least six months during the previous 12 months. Incidental travel expenses are also provided to employees upon final repatriation to their base countries. There is a provision for reimbursement of airfreight for the first arrival and final departure which Employment and Benefits extends to spouses and children if the employee is married. We also Central to this commitment, QAFCO provides all its employees with provide generous travel expenses to our employees travelling outside of comprehensive compensation and benefits programs. These programs Qatar. An allowance is paid for each day/night of absence (inclusive of are designed to be competitive and to ensure that key talent, who will drive travel time) to cover accommodation, meals and incidentals. An advance future growth, will remain with the company. on travel expenses is also available upon application. In addition to the basic salary, we offer a comprehensive and attractive The maternity leave and paternity leave granted to working parents is benefits package to our workforce. A housing allowance or accommodation aligned to Qatari laws. Female employees benefit from forty days of is provided to employees in Mesaieed, Wakrah or Doha. Transportation is maternity leave on full pay, while new fathers are granted with one day of also provided to and from work and this is extended to employees’ school paternity leave. All QAFCO employees on Indefinite and Definite Contracts going children. of employment shall, at the end of their service with the Company, be entitled to appropriate End of Service Benefit (ESB) payments as determined by the Company based on their last basic salary. Phase 1 of the new It is our policy to provide education assistance to employees’ children within the State of Qatar. Education assistance is payable for a maximum Al-Banush Club is operational of four children of the employee in any one academic year which covers As Qatar is an Islamic State, all Muslim employees are allowed the tuition fees of the basic schooling levels or equivalent in the State of Qatar. necessary time off for praying at the appropriate time and place of worship. Owned by QAFCO and is mainly used by The QAFCO Mosque has been built for this purpose. We provide educational assistance, for a maximum of 13 years per child in the senior staff at QAFCO. It is the largest Qatar, up to the age of 19. club in Mesaieed and has many facilities, Notice Period for Operational Change including a main hall, a football ground, Employees whose children are attending schools in the State of Qatar are At QAFCO, we engage with our employees and their representatives tennis, basketball courts, swimming pool generally provided with company arranged transport for their children. throughout the Company to ensure discussion of significant operational and restaurant. Children attending schools which are not covered, receive a monthly changes to minimize any adverse impact from operating changes on our School Transport Allowance, in-line with education assistance eligibility. workers and related communities. The Human Resources Department The Al Banush Club Committee continues to organize activities for QAFCO members and is required to notify all employees via email or other electronic modes. A one-time furniture grant is provided and a renewal furniture grant is These platforms are used by the management to communicate updates its families (cricket & tennis tournaments, given on the completion of each four years of service. Employees who have and changes within QAFCO. We recognise the importance of having a twodrawing and keyboard classes for children, passed their probationary period are also eligible for furniture loans. Auto way dialogue between the management and employees, regardless of how musical evenings, insurance and AXA medical insurance is also provided to all employees. major or minor the changes are. among others) There is also an annual bonus scheme. Membership to the QAFCO clubs, gyms and swimming pools is provided for a nominal fee. There is also a mechanism for employees to request compensation for the damage or loss Notification period Position of spectacles during working hours. 3 months Senior Staff Car loans can be applied for by senior and junior employees. All loans can be repaid by the expected time of retirement or upon termination of 2 months Junior Staff (>5 years in QAFCO) employment. 1 month Junior Staff (<5 years in QAFCO) Travel assistance is also provided for employees. All expatriate employees 34 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Qatarization and Developing Talent Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO QAFCO strongly believes that proper training and development of its workforce is a fundamental function of its overall business objectives. Nurturing Our Workforce QAFCO has gradually motivated its employees through Training and Development Programmes that serve as a key to the following, aiming for a professional and highly effective workforce in the technical and nontechnical areas; • Continual Improvement, • Provide Quality Employee Development Programmes, and • Develop Employee Skils & Potential. We work hard to retain our talented staff, and in 2012 our employee turnover rate was reduced from 5.5% in 2011 to around 3.3%. Newly recruited staff by 2011 Newly recruited Turnover by 2012 Qatarization is a strategic comprehensive program led by H. H. Sheikh staff by 2012 133 Employees 49 Employees Turnover by 2011 Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani, Emir of the State of Qatar. The programme 77 Employees 182 Employees aims to increase the number of Qatari nationals to 50% of the workforce in the Industry and Energy sectors among the State of Qatar. Qatarization is also a prime objective with high importance and priority for QAFCO’s Management. Within this context, the Human Resources Department is responsible for the Qatarization plans and for the realization, liaison and monitoring of these plans to ensure that National employees are developed and trained up to their full potential. By its resolute efforts and commitment to achieve QAFCO’s Qatarization Plans, Training & Development Section has achieved a Qatarization intake The objectives of the Qatarization and Development is achieved through of 104 nationals in 2012. Although these figures are below our initial target selection, training and development an adequate supply of suitably trained of 50% Qatari employees, we increased the number of Qatari employees and experienced personnel to maintain the Company’s continued efficient and vendors in 2012. We are also putting efforts to increase the number and economic operations at all levels with particular regard to train and of Qataris among senior management level which is currently below 50%. develop all Qatari employees who have the necessary ability, potential and This is due to our rapidly growing business which requires the employment aptitude. of new employees quickly for our expanding business. This effect has been magnified by the commissioning of QAFCO-5 and QAFCO-6. This objective is achieved through regular Human Resources Planning Meetings at which manpower requirements are identified and the individual No of Qatari Recruited per Job Title Year 2011 Year 2012 Qatari Nationals Trained Year 2011 Year 2012 development and training needs are reviewed. During the course of the year, whenever any Manpower Request or Manpower Transfer Form is Trainees 11 10 Trainees 33 30 initiated, the availability or readiness of National employee is also verified upon. Developees / Graduate Trainees 1 3 Developees 20 21 Following are some of the programmes that we follow with focus on Sponsorship Students 2 4 Scholarship and Qatarization: Sponsorship Students 46 53 • Development Programs (OJT, OJDP, Scholarship) Established Position 1 1 • Training Programs (In-house, Local and Abroad) TOTAL 99 104 • Summer Training TOTAL 15 18 • Graduation Projects • Recruitment • Networking (Schools, Universities, Educational Sectors) QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 35 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce Employee Development Programmes Excellent opportunities for skills and career development for all our employees play an essential role in retaining the most talented employees at QAFCO. On Job Development Programs (OJDP’s) are tailor-made for individual employees who are being developed to meet the specifications of the job(s) to which they are being targeted. QAFCO provides programs for development of its employees in three major Groups. New Employees National Staff will be recruited on the basis of targeted jobs. Such As part of their Training and Development, employees are also sent overseas employees, depending on their educational background, will have their on courses or assignments, and appropriate allowances in addition to OJDP’s discussed with them individually with a view to obtaining their their Basic Salary are paid depending on the duration of the course’s/ commitment prior to implementation. During the program the employee›s assignment Long Term Academic Courses (QAFCO Scholarships) and progress will be monitored and every effort will be made to ensure his Short Term Overseas Training. motivation and commitment. Consistent with these objectives the following administrative guidelines will apply to new employees allocated to the Career Development are also offered among potential Qatari Employees Company. who has the ability and capabilities holding a key position in QAFCO were given the opportunity to pursue and further developed academically. Established Employees Employees in QAFCO other than new employees may, on the basis of their As part of the comprehensive employee development programme, performance, potential, re-deployment needs or any other appropriate recommended National Employees were objectively sent for scholarship factor that are identified by their Department Manager and/or the Training studies and recruited high flyers with quality and potential were send and Development Section of the Human Resources Department, are given on Sponsorship, to attain the required academic credentials in their further training and/or development. Appropriate programs are prepared respective career in QAFCO. Currently there are 41 Scholarship Student for approval and discussed with the employee. studying in Universities/Colleagues, locally and abroad. Technological Developments ACHIEVEMENT Year 2011 Year 2012 In order to keep employees abreast of technological developments in their discipline or developments associated with their jobs they are sent on Promotion from seminars, courses or postings as are identified for them by their Department Developee to Established 16 16 or by the Training and Development Section of the Human Resources Position Department. Subject to operational requirements these courses etc., are planned and recommended at the time of the Training Needs Assessment Promotion from Trainee to Review. (Such courses could also be part of the development programs Developee 6 6 of new or established employees). Full Time Trainees (Employee Level Staff) Promotion to Senior Staff Position 2 10 At the beginning of each academic year QAFCO recruits young Nationals on Training Agreements to train and develop them for employment in our Completion of company. They are only established as employees depending on their Scholarship / Sponsorship 11 10 progress which is subjected to regular review and the recommendations Programs of Human Resources Department’s Training and Development Section of QAFCO and the Trainees respective Section. 36 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO QAFCO Training Programmes (in-house, local, abroad) Nurturing Our Workforce As part of QAFCO’s commitment to continuous improvement and development of its employees, , several in-house, local and abroad courses were arranged and documented to achieve developmental goals of training an efficient and highly competitive workforce i.e. English, Standard First Aid Accredited Courses. Some if these courses are tailored to employees’ needs as identified through the Identification of Training Need (ITN) System at QAFCO. Employee Performance Appraisal Additionally, some standard training courses are periodically provided for all new joiners and QAFCO personnel: System (EPAS) EPAS aims to improve performance • Plant Process Introductory Training for newly joined Production Plant through fair and constructive feedback Operators by Production Training Coordinators. The employees get once each year and maximize their training in their respective plants processes. competence in contributing to the • Plant Process Familiarization Training imparted by Production achievement of QAFCO’s objectives. Training Coordinators for Non-Production Department Performance appraisal system is used for Employees. It includes classroom presentation on overview of all all employees regardless of their categories production processes and plant field visits. and staff class. • Gas Testing Training for newly joined Production Operators and imparted by Production Training Coordinators. EPAS employs seven performance factors in its method of appraisal • Induction Program session for all new employees to acquaint with the Organization and is imparted by representatives of involved Sections. • Job performance • Discipline safety awareness • Other Induction programs such as Safety, Environment and Quality Management systems are also conducted in QAFCO by the respective Sections. (quality and environment) Statistics of Training Courses • Personal qualities Summer Training for Students Year 2011 Year 2012 • Cost effectiveness QAFCO Employees During the summer months, QAFCO offers Summer Training Employment • On-the-job training and to National Secondary School Students or undergraduates selected in Total Training Programs development 170 240 conjunction with the Ministry of Education and Labour Department, State conducted and attended of Qatar for a period not exceeding three months. The purpose of such Employees’ performance is measured training is to provide the students with knowledge of the Industry and to Total Employees participated against objectives and performance factors. 1562 2208 EPAS provides a mechanism to motivate widen their own academic horizons. in Training employees’ output and usefulness to our Average attendance per Company. 9 9 Training Program This process helps employees understand Educational Institutions Total Number of Students their role and what is expected of them. Average Number of Training 17 16 It also identifies training requirements to Qatar Independent Technical School 7 hours per year per Employee narrow skill gaps and for the enrichment Ministry of Labour 3 of skills. In 2012, QAFCO hosted a total of 23 students from different educational Qatar University 4 institutions to provide them an actual experience of a corporate setting that QAFCO Employees Children 9 will help and assist them in their field of study in line with the Company’s commitment to support Student’s Career Development. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 37 Occupational Health & Safety in the Workplace Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO QAFCO believes that a safe workplace is a material issue for productive Nurturing Our Workforce and efficient work and consequently and essential element of a successful, growing and sustainable business. In accordance with our sustainable commitment with our employees, the conditions required for a safe and healthy work environment are made available to all QAFCO’s stakeholders. We give a high priority to excellence on all fronts and adhere to international standards of quality, safety, occupational health and environment protection. We boast three ISO Management System Certifications: ISO 9001: 2000 Quality Management System; ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System; and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety QASEC is a forum for discussing major Safety and Management System. With these certifications, we enjoy the prestige of a Environment issues of significant concern to us and Lost Time Accident & Days in 2012 globally recognised manufacturer in the field of chemical process industry. agreeing actions. 5 QAFCO’s progress in improving its health and safety performance is the QASEC reviews: 5 result of the dedication of its employees and the success of its Safety 4 Limit Actual Information System (SIS) for managing QAFC’s OHSE performance. • Incident statistics and monitors the progress of safety and 3 environment projects. 2 1 QAFCO’s progress in improving its health and safety performance is the • New projects involving major plant modifications, new plants 1 0 result of the dedication of its employees and the success of its Safety and extensions for consideration of safety and environmental 0 0 Information System (SIS) for managing QAFC’s OHSE performance. consequences. • Safety, environment, industrial hygiene, health and fire Lost Time Accident Days Lost QAFCO is committed to conducting its business in a manner that protects protection procedures. the health and safety of its employees, contractors, and the community by implementing policies to manage personnel and process safety. QAFCO Incidents Statistics Comparison in Towards maintaining such progress, we established a high level “Safety 2011 2012 & Environment Committee” (QASEC) under the Chairmanship of the CEO 2011 2012 to discuss, promote and consider policy matters in occupational health 1000 957 and safety and environmental issues of significant importance to QAFCO. 900 800 700 600 571 500 400 Incident (Classification & Definitions) 300 200 9 7 2012 2011 2010 100 2 0 Classification of Incidents 0 0 1 13 16 First Aid 2 6 Lost Time Accidents Near Accidents Env. Miss/Unsafe Accident Frequency Rate = Cond Release Property Damage Minor Fire (No. of Lost Time Accidents x 200,000/ Man Hours Worked 0 0.122 0 Contractor Incident Statistics Comparison in 2011 2012 Accident Severity Rate [ASR] = 30 (No. of Days Lost x 200,000/ 2011 2012 Man Hours Worked) 0 0.306 0 20 30 18 Accident Severity Indicator [FSI] = 10 1 1 5 2 (AFR x ASR / 1000 0 0.006 0 0 Lost Time Note: 2010 Data have been amended since QAFCO underwent internal Accidents Day Lost First Aid Accident validations after the submission of 2010 Sustainability Report 38 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce QASEC consists of 11 permanent members; Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (Chairman), Chief Technical Officer, Production Manager, Maintenance Manager, Head of Material Handling, Head of Mechanical Section, Head of Electrical Section, Head of Medical Section, Head of Environment Section, Head of Safety Section (Secretary) and the Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) Employees Representative. There are also three section heads selected from the production plants on a rotational basis. The entire workforce is represented in the committee by the Occupation Health and Safety Employees Representatives. The Committee meets to an agreed schedule three times per year and monitors progress against set sustainability objectives, targets and action plans in regards to OHSE. The Secretary to the Committee coordinates the schedule. The chairman calls the committee to convene at any time if deemed necessary. The Committee is in charge of reviewing QAFCO incident statistics; status of action(s) from previous meeting; progress of Safety and Environment projects; discuss and approve long and short term safety and environmental goals; and fire protection issues with local authorities, agencies and the neighboring companies, among others. QAFCO Safety Information System (SIS) In 2012, QAFCO Safety Information System was re-engineered on a web based platform consist of a flexible set of software applications to effectively manage all aspects of QAFCO’s safety program. The system manages, track, and report all of QAFCO’s safety metrics in real-time, streamline incident and OSHA reporting, seamlessly comply with standards such as OSHAS 180001, RC 140001 and drive continuous improvement across organization with this user-friendly interface. • OH&S Hazards & Risk Assessment: this software application SIS’s Key Business Benefits facilitates the identification, scoring, ranking and mitigation of both • Streamline QAFCO safety processes existing and potential hazards and risks throughout QAFCO. Incident and eliminate duplicate data • Safety Bulletin: centralized communication infrastructure that greatly • Evaluate QAFCO’s safety performance improves QAFCO’s ability to share information, follow up on activities in an instant and increase efficiency between staff, departments, locations and Near Miss Or Accident external parties. • Reduce safety-related incidents and save time, money and resources • Safety Policy: software application streamlines the control, tracking Personal Enviromental Property • Comply with OHSAS 18000, RC14001 and communication of all documents and activities associated with Fire/Explosion Injury Release Damage regulations QAFCO’s environmental, quality and safety policies. • Make the most of QAFCO safety • Safety Information: software that enables QAFCO to track critical meetings and drive results dates and activities to ensure compliance with permitting First Aid Lost Time Fatal requirements and regulatory commitments. It manages the review, updating, and implementation of legislative requirements from Local and other regulatory agencies. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 39 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce Occupational Hazards, Risk Assessment, Control classification of the Risks as Major, Medium and Minor. Hence, supports in prioritizing the corrective action for those risks where QAFCO supports the Precautionary Principle as defined in Principle safeguard in not sufficient. 15 of the Rio Declaration. As a responsible corporate citizen, we continue to use a well-defined process for assessing and managing The risk classification as Major, Medium and Minor is arrived at from risks in the face of uncertainty. This process is science-based, the risk score calculation, which is a product of the likelihood and ensuring decision-making includes an appropriate evaluation of risk consequence of a hazardous event. Some of the significant risks that and benefits. It applies to current products as well as those being are identified are related to the following hazard categories: contemplated for development. • Chemicals We view the Precautionary Principle as an application of the principles • Combustibles of risk assessment and risk management. Risk assessment includes • Mechanical hazard identification, characterization, exposure assessment and • Pressure risk assessment. Risk management encompasses the identification, • Material Handling selection and implementation of alternative actions for addressing • Ergonomics risk through the control of identified hazard(s) and/or exposure. • Transport • Work Environment (working at height, Physical conditions etc.) Register of Identified Occupational Hazards, Risks Assessment and Determining Controls Each area (sections & departments) identifies the Hazards relevant to their area of responsibility, carry out the risk assessment, come QAFCO has established and maintained documented procedure out with the Risk control measures, as required and register them for Occupational Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk electronically in the Safety information System “SIS”. Control. The purpose of this process is to establish a Register for Identified Occupational Hazards, Risk Assessment and Risk Control. The form for recording the Risk Assessment, its flow to different All sections in QAFCO carry out Risk Assessment, for their respective levels for review & action, registering of the risk(s) and its further activities. An organizational set-up involving employees at different updating, is done electronically. As a result the compilation of all levels, Heads of Sections and Department Managers are assigned electronically registered risks pertaining to different areas in QAFCO with the responsibility for the implementation of this process. Risk is called the “Register of Identified Occupational Hazard, Risk assessment shall be carried out for significant hazards associated Assessment and Determining Controls”. All personnel having access with changes in the organization, OH&S Management System or to lotus notes, by getting into the SIS, can view this register. This its activities, prior to introduction of such change. Any employee in register is dynamic and will be updated as and when the respective QAFCO is allowed to report hazards for risk assessment, thus the area responsible incorporates any changes. This register provides the process ensures that there is employees involvement / participation. input for monitoring and implementation of appropriate risk control The Head of Sections have the responsibility to ensure that the measures, which subsequently helps in achieving the organization’s risk assessment process functions adequately within their area of OH&S Objective(s). responsibility. The Department Managers are responsible to followFurthermore, risk assessment is a proactive measure to monitor up Risk Assessment process within their respective department and the adequacy of compliance with OH&S Management Program, support the Head of Sections suitably to implement Risk Control operational criteria and applicable legislation’s and regulatory measures. requirement. Risk Assessment process is being used as a main tool to enhance and strengthen the work place precautions. Further it helps in 40 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce The line organization is responsible for monitoring and controlling of Contractor’s Safety, Environment and Conduct & Ethics Requirements the relevant significant Occupational Hazards and its consequential risk Our stringent safety requirements also extend to our external contractors. We aim (Major and Medium without sufficient Safeguard). at ensuring the protection of life, property, environment and values and promoting efficiency through the selective use of safe work practices and the establishment and The Major risks (safeguard not sufficient) are included in the QAFCO maintenance of working conditions. Action Plan and followed up in the Action Plan meetings to discuss the Progress of Action Plan. The registered risk(s) will be reviewed by relevant Contractors are required to follow the “QAFCO Contractor’s Safety Rules and Sections on an annual basis or whenever required and updated in the onRegulations” and to understand our “Code of Conduct & Ethics”, and ensure that his line system, as relevant. Based on the Annual review an Annual Review manpower is aware of and complies with all Environmental requirements as updated Report (electronic format) for the respective Sections is sent to the OH&S from time to time. Contractors should also document the specific responsibility, Management Representative. authority and interrelation of all personnel who implement this policy. It is the responsibility of the contractor to ensure all sub-contractors and others comply with The OH&S Management Representative compiles and presents the status the approved Safety and Environmental programme and core values and principles of Risk Assessment and it’s effectiveness to the Management in the at QAFCO. Management Review Meetings, which is held three times a year. We require that each contractor ensures that all personnel for whom they are responsible receive a thorough orientation related to safety, environment and our Security Vulnerability Assessment (SVA) corporate values, which includes, among others: Security risk is an expression of the likelihood that a defined threat will target • Requirements of the Safety and Environment Programme and their a critical facility / asset and successfully exploit a specific vulnerability of responsibilities. an asset and cause a given set of consequences. • First Aid arrangements and reporting requirements. • Use of personnel protective equipment. Method of Security risk assessment: • Unsafe acts, conditions and reporting requirements. • Threat analysis • Safe work and environmental practices. • Vulnerability analysis • Attendance at safety and environmental meetings. • Security countermeasures • Other safety hazards and safety instructions. • Mitigation & emergency response • Code of Conduct and Ethics at QAFCO. The risk of security event is estimated qualitatively. The basis are: We ensure our contractors make available appropriate personnel protective devices. • Consensus judgment of knowledgeable people on the likelihood and Accident reports are compiled so that a site-wide record may be kept. Regular safety consequence of an undesired event. meetings are held to exchange safety instructions and suggestions. Contractors make • Best available information a proactive contribution by reporting any risks outside their control which might place • Experience and expertise their personnel at risk. At QAFCO, based on the identified critical threats an SVA is carried out and Our Corporate safety culture is reflected in different aspects including the safety registered in a dedicated and confidential file, which is accessible only to concept and behavior of our employees and contractors; decision attitude and essential personnel within the company. directional behaviour of the management level; employees and contractors’ response toward safety and the requirements of operation codes. Continuous improvement of The SVA register identifies the threat type, likelihood, vulnerabilities and OHSMS actually promotes the development and creation of corporate safety culture. consequence. Based on which the risk is estimated (Using risk matrix) and accordingly relevant counter measure(s) are recommended. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 41 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce Occupational Health & Safety and Environment Training for QAFCO Employees Occupational Health & Safety and No.of QAFCO Type of Training Employees Trained Environment Training for Contractors No.of 2011 2012 Type of Training Employees Trained Safety Training 109 160 2011 2012 Shutdown 499 913 Shutdown 4200 4830 Safety/Fire Nil 23 Crane Operator Nil 10 Permit Authorization Nil 224 Confined Space Nil 862 Security Nil 5 Aqueous Ammonia 16 4 Office Safety (Female staff) Nil 14 Catering Nil 30 CP&EP 54 115 Special Training 19 137 Chemical Handling 12 6 Chemical Handling Nil 32 Spill Kit Nil 7 Safety Officers Nil 17 Risk Assessment Nil 27 Rescue Nil 17 Permit Authorization Nil 164 Confined Space Nil 82 Construction Safety Nil 3 Emerg. Response 363 103 General Safety 1000 2435 Grand Total 1037 1511 Grand Total 5235 8524 Examples of Courses Department Responsibility Duration OHSE Training & Development Gas testing, Field Lab T&D and Laboratory 3 hrs (Prior to major shutdown) Shutdown Activities 2012 Safety ane Environment Training was imparted to QAFCO Employees as well Safety & Fire, OH&S Safety Section One day (Prior to major shut down) as Contractors Employees to make them aware of Safety and Environment Practices to be following during Shut Down. In 2012, a total of 8,524 Environment Environment Section One day (Prior to major shut down) Contractor Employees and 1,696 QAFCO employees were trained. Basic First Aid Medical Section 2 hrs Quality Quality Section 2 hrs 42 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce Behaviour-Based Safety (BBS) 2012 Our Safety Section, as part of Continual Improvement of its Safety systems, identified that behaviour of the people is one of the most important elements to be addressed to achieve the desired Safety Targets. All our departments have adopted a behavioural-based approach to health and safety. This approach recognises that best practice guidelines and policies are not enough to achieve a safe working environment. It is how well people adhere to them which makes the difference. Keeping this in mind, QAFCO selected BBS (Behaviour Based Safety) as a Safety Tools to be an integrated part of its Safety Information System. In order to implement BBS in a systematic manner the BBS Steering Committee was formed. The committee evaluates the bid received from Training agencies, Monitor BBS Implementation & Progress within QAFCO, present the progress/status in meetings, among others. A BBS and Root cause Analysis (RCA) ‘Sixth Workshop’ was conducted with the aim to introduce and reinforce BBS and continue training on the “Root cause analysis (RCA)” technique, so as to improve the quality of incident investigation by identifying the root cause(s) and thus arriving at specific preventive action(s) to avoid reoccurrence. The workshop also highlighted the importance of investigating Near misses incidents, specifically those with potential for high consequence and risk. The meeting was attended by 108 participants including Production and Maintenance Managers. Head of Safety made a presentation on “BBS”. The presentation was followed by the workshop on Benefits of implementation of BBS in QAFCO and RCA for 3 selected case studies, from QAFCO’s incident records. BBS helps employees A total of 12 teams were formulated for the workshop (4 teams worked on BBS and 3 different cases/ activity were allotted for 8 teams. After identify safe behaviour the workshop, constructive and good examples on the benefits of BBS were presented by Production Manager Q14, Maintenance over an unsafe one, Manager, A/Chief Technical Officer and Head of Medical. Their presentation with examples from real life revealed the conclusion on by clearly identifying the benefits of implementation of BBS in QAFCO. hazards, recognizing the risk involved and adopting the principle for any change in task QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 43 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce QAFCO Safety Person of the Year Award to safety. Additionally, Daily Contractor briefing was carried out by Workshop Engineer for around 1/2 Hour , for full QAFCO believes that the best investment the company can shutdown duration of 20 days, to motivate the complete make in its community is to ensure that their employees come contractor staff of around 60 persons, the need for enhanced back home safely. QAFCO emphasizes the importance of safety in Workshop. strong safety leadership to its staff and contractor workforce to further strengthen its safety culture. What are the main impact of this initiative in QAFCO and its employees? Annually, during the QAFCO Day commemoration the CEO addresses all employees, where he presents the previous Working conditions and Housekeeping became better in year’s achievements and the goals for the current year in Workshop. Employees also became more motivated to do terms of operations and OH&S. Also awards are presented to Hard work and our Contractors were more motivated to recognize the selected employees for reporting value adding do the job safely, after noticing this initiative. Furthermore, near-miss and risks. Incidents were reduced to minimum. Do you have in mind any future developments or ideas for the Interview with Mr. Essa Al Romaihi coming award 2013? Instrument Workshop Engineer, one of the Safety Person of I would like to implement a “Instrument Workshop Safe2012 awardee. guard” which is based in the idea that an Employee will be assigned as Workshop safeguard, who will look at the One of the achievements of the award came from the overall safety of the Job and the person carrying out the job. enhancement of QAFCO operational Performance Quality, Another initiative would be an Indoor safety self training that Safety and Environment and Management support. is planned to install 55” TV in Workshop, which will play safety related themes. Films or Presentations can be made What was the main motivation for undertaking this initiative? and shown to workshop crew, External Visitors, Contractors, New Employees. I wanted to create a Safe Environment for all concerned staff In Instrument workshop, at the same time creating a role The concept is that QAFCO is expanding to become one of model for all other employees / Staff & contractors coming to the World's largest companies. The Workshop’s aim is also Instrument Workshop. to become one of the Best in the industry in terms of Safety, Quality and Environment to match QAFCO progress. What were the actions carried out to implement this initiative? A big safety signboard with Safety signs and posters was displayed at the entrance and inside workshop. Motivating signboards were also displayed at Strategic locations in Instrument Workshop, to remind them continuously relating 44 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Nurturing Our Workforce Internal Surveys Lighting Surveys We use several methods of employee engagement such as The aim of this occupational hygiene survey on interior newsletters and the company intranet. There are several events lighting in QAFCO’s premises is to prepare a base-line data / which are held, allowing informal discussions between employees information on illumination provided for persons in the interior and senior managers. Section parties are held one to two times a of QAFCO’s premises, in line with the “Baseline Study Survey year. New Year parties, a QAFCO Day and shutdown parties are also Report on Occupational Hygiene Exposure Workplaces held annually. Project completion parties are also held periodically. Hazards” which has been earlier initiated in 2003. Noise Surveys Furthermore, the personnel occupying QAFCO’s premises were also interviewed during the baseline survey to identify There are a number of different reasons why noise surveys are any concerns / complaints, related to interior lighting, they required to be carried out in QAFCO. These include: might have. Legal Compliance Survey Ergonomic Surveys That is carried out as stipulated in the Consent to Operate, issued Quick, and in some certain cases, full ergonomic advisory by the Ministry of Environment, in order to check compliance with visits are normally conducted on all sections occupying new legal exposure limits. The results are reported to the ministry on a buildings. The main objectives of such ergonomic advisory quarterly basis. visit are to: Occupational Hygiene Survey • Check the workplace ergonomics in the new offices of Sections which have relocated, with the The sound pressure level/equivalent sound level is measured to aim of preventing adverse health effects to the determine the employees’ noise exposure in the workplace, and users. hence identify the areas where employees are likely to be exposed • Report the main concerns of the Sections’ to harmful levels of noise and respond to any noise complaints. The personnel and, accordingly, state the necessary survey’s results are conveyed to the concerned area responsible. A Requirements / recommendations to upgrade the base-line data / information on the intensity of existing noise levels ergonomic quality of the workstation and offices. to which the personnel in plant areas are exposed to, has already been carried out in all QAFCO plants. QAFCO has also implemented Quality, Environmental, Occupational Health & Safety, Responsible Care and Noise Levels Generated by a Particular Source: IFA Product Stewardship Management Systems, as a This survey can identify the equipment that generates harmful noise commitment to ensure continual Customer Satisfaction, levels, and/or verify manufacturing values. The survey’s results are maximum efficiency and effectiveness from the resources conveyed to the concerned area responsible. and technologies. Based on the measurement, customer satisfaction & dissatisfaction level is identified and utilized for the continual improvement. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 45 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Supporting Our Communities Our main operations are located in Mesaieed, managed by Mesaieed Building Our Community Industrial City, a subsidiary of Qatar Petroleum, in the state of Qatar. Mesaieed was established in 1949 as a tanker terminal by Our Clubs Qatar Petroleum on a previously uninhabited site along the coast. Al Banush and Al Maha Club are our sports clubs and social QAFCO recognises that a long-term view is required to understand centres which are available for our employees. Al Banush is the the cultural and societal values of local communities, as well as their largest club in the city and has many facilities including a main economic and development needs. Understanding communities hall, a football ground, bowling green, tennis and basketball courts helps us to ensure that they benefit from our presence and that and many more indoor and outdoor activities. It has an outside these benefits are fairly distributed. However, there are often swimming pool with a slide, diving board and a fabulous hot spa significant barriers to winning local stakeholders’ support. tub and a cricket field is located near the club. There are several classes available including spin, karate, football and badminton. Al QAFCO implements the Responsible Care® Guiding Principles Maha Club, although is smaller than Al Banush club, but it has the at all its operations setting out a framework for achieving these same facilities as Al Banush club. overarching objectives across our businesses and ultimately satisfying the societal aspects of our business values. This process These Clubs are non-revenue generating: all operations of the identifies all potential for negative impacts on communities, the clubs are subsidised by QAFCO. Membership of the clubs is characteristics of most risk within the individual location, the points open to all employees. Considering the diverse culture in QAFCO, of vulnerability and leads to an improvement and stakeholder we introduced various exciting activities in these Clubs including engagement plan where needed to reduce the potential for negative social get-togethers, Ramadan celebrations, children talent shows, impacts in the community. cultural activities and artist performances. The Clubs host various personal development programmes to enhance the skill levels of We prevent from any community to be affected from our direct our local community. In addition, the Clubs support their purpose operations. Our buildings and foundations, including the industrial as a ‘ladies club’ or meeting point for females in the surrounding plant, office site and administrative facilities are located at Mesaieed community. Industrial Area, to prevent neighboring communities from any negative impact of our activities on the culture, livelihood, health, The annual QAFCO flower and vegetable show is also held in Al safety, lifestyle, security and economic development. Our staff Banush club. We have also allocated QR 65 million to a project for housing complexis located on the land leased from the Industrial the redevelopment of our clubs over a period of 15 years. Development Technical Centre, approximately 50 kilometres south of Qatar's capital. QAFCO Canteen Many Companies around the world operate in very developed All employees can use the company canteen for a nominal monthly cities which already have local infrastructure, amenities, schools, fee. There is no segregation based on the working grade in the public transport, entertainment venues, housing and hotels, leisure canteen and employees are free to eat any of the available dishes. centres, etc. As Mesaieed is a purpose built industrial city, very few of these amenities are provided by the local council and small The dishes in the canteen represent the many races of our workers. businesses. QAFCO invests in providing our employees, other The food is of very high quality and we are pleased to have been stakeholders and the community of Mesaieed with these facilities certified with Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP). Our in order to restore their standard of living and livelihoods. HACCP certification is updated on an annual basis. 46 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Education & Development for the community Supporting Our Communities Sponsoring Education and Building the Nation QAFCO Primary School (Non-Arab), Mesaieed QAFCO Primary School established in 1974 caters to children of QAFCO employees as well as children of all the other companies for people residing in Mesaieed and Wakra. During the academic year 2011 – 12, the school had had 225 students and 16 staff working full time in the school. Some examples of the activities conducted within the academic year are Parent Teacher Meetings, Annual Day, Dress Competition or the Sports Day , a highly valued activity which contributes to the development of the student. Over the years our school has taken various initiatives towards Our students & staff per gender category increasing environment awareness in students. They are taught to think and act in ways that will conserve our nature. They are Students Staff Support Staff involved in programs which include water conservation; planting Male 90 0 1 of trees or the participation in QP Environment Fair in Doha. Our environmental program is supported by the Environment Team of Female 135 15 QAFCO. Total 225 15 Student competitions such as Recitation Competition, Talent Competition, and Colouring Competitions are held in the school Company wise classification as part of their curriculum to compare the skills levels and Students Staff Support Staff creativity with that of their classmates. Our students have actively participated and won prizes in the QAFCO Flower and Vegetable QAFCO 142 Show, Drawing and Colouring Competitions conducted by IAAD, Non QAFCO 83 Friends of Thrissur Doha etc. They are also taken for educational trips to Islamic Museum and gardens in Mesaieed for bringing them closer to nature. Our International students & staff Students Staff Support Staff As part of our social obligation, fee concession is given to deserving India 74 13 students from low income groups. Pakist’ni 71 1 The QAFCO School is run by the school committee which is Bangla 20 1 represented by QAFCO employees. All students are awarded full Indo’si 48 scholarships comprising of tuition fees, accommodation, meals, a monthly allowance and books. Selected on the basis of their family Sudani 4 1 income, leadership qualities and academic excellence, we hope Phillipino 1 that these talented students will contribute to the socio-economic Ghana 1 development of the community and especially their country of Egyptian 6 origin. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 47 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Networking with our Educational Institutions QAFCO’s part of Networking Strategies among Educational Supporting Our Communities Institutions, a close relationship with Universities, Schools and Other Educational Sectors actively participated and involved on School Activities: Thank You PartnersQatar University Involvement with schools (2008 2012) October 4, 2012 • Number of schools engaged: 17 (Schools, Universities) QAFCO was given a token of • Type of involvement: appreciation on the continuous o Summer Training & Internship Program o Career Fair and Sponsorship Day support and assistance on Student’s o Plant Design Projects Work Term Project, Summer Training o Plant and School Visits Program, an internship Day and for o The involvement included site visits: School Visit to QAFCO, providing an overview about QAFCO including providing professional support on Plant Visit, giving presentation and/or awareness their Academic Development about QAFCO. Scholarships for children of employees and community Sponsorship and Internship 2012(2008 2012) Qatar University October 15 to 18, 2012 • Number of scholarships bestowed in last four years (2008-2012): 83 Qatari Employees QAFCO participated in the • Level of scholarships e.g. secondary school, university etc.: ‘Sponsorship & Internship 2012’ o Diploma Studies of Qatar University on October o Advanced Diploma o Higher National Diploma 2012. This activity gives QAFCO the o Bachelor Degree / Bachelor of Engineering Studies opportunity to meet, recruit and offer • Number of scholarships for community children possible sponsorship & internship (not employees of the company): NONE but we are providing an internship program among the children of QAFCO to students pursuing graduation in employees that will help them on their future career path and line with QAFCO’s requirements and academic studies. • Number of scholarship-holders university graduates joining the needs and it’s Qatarization Plan. organization: 40 Representative image from Doha esplanade 48 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Supporting Our Communities QAFCO conducts heat stress campaign Represented by its Safety Section, QAFCO conducted a 3-phase heat stress campaign on May 2012 where heat stress leaflets, juice and insulation bags were distributed. The campaign rose awareness on Heat Stress Management for QAFCO employees and contractor personnel. Through the campaign, the organizers focused on preventing heat stress by regular fluid replacement, consumption of water/water substitute, taking additional breaks, control on the tie workers are exposed to the heat of the sun and preventing dehydration. Upon instructions from QAFCO Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Khalifa Abdullah Al-Sowaidi, the campaign was carried Flag Water colour Work: requirement Heat out under supervision of the Chief Technical Officer. Speaking on the Index to be Controls Rest Period (1 cup = occasion, the CEO stressed on the importance of the campaign for posted (Minutes) ¼ litre) the employees and contractors alike, affirming that all companies Up to No Flag shall care for the safety of their employees. 26 Continuous This campaign was a collective effort of Safety Section in the lead Yellow monitoring 1 cup every 27 38 and No 40:10 supported by Medical and Catering Sections. The campaign was Flag 20 minutes working alone well received by all employees and QAFCO’ contractors. Work under Joint Auxiliary Fire Fighting Training shade Above 49, 39 10 1 cup every 39 53 Red Flag Elevated Work 15 minutes As a part of mutual learning process we have started inviting Stopped neighbouring companies to participate in our Auxiliary Fire Fighting Training. This was welcomed by the neighbouring companies and 54 Black Flag Stop work and also by MIC. above Awareness Training for Serious Diseases We have a state-of-the-art medical centre within the QAFCO Although all employees receive medical insurance and benefits, we site and ensure that all employees are provided with medical are one step ahead in fighting the spread of serious diseases. We assistance including medical consultation and vaccination recognise a number of serious diseases which are prone in our services when required. The medical centre includes offices; country including rabies, tetanus and hepatitis. In responding to consultation rooms; an observation room for patients; this issue, we conducted a comprehensive education programme, audiogram, eye examination and lung testing facilities; a providing all employees with the provision of guidelines on laboratory for blood testing; and an emergency room which prevention approaches. allows patients to be admitted quickly by ambulance. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 49 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Qatar International Agricultural Exhibition (AGRITEQ) The 3rd Qatar International Agricultural Exhibition; AGRITEQ Supporting Our Communities 2012 was organized at Doha Exhibition Center on March 2012. The exhibition was inaugurated by H.E. the Minister of Environment; Abdullah bin Mubarak bin Labboud Al Moudadi. Irrigation systems, water processing and running techniques, pumps and pipe systems, sprinkling machines, farming machines Events & Conferences and equipment, food processing and packaging, fertilisers and soil nourishing products, and gardening accessories and equipment QAFCO Flower & Vegetables Show were among the exhibits. The 25th QAFCO Flower & Vegetable Show 2012 was organized at Al-Banush Club in Mesaieed, on March 2012. In the last twenty H.E. the Minister of Environment visited all the stands of AGRITEQ five years, the event has grown by leaps and bounds in terms of 201. During his visit to QAFCO stand, QAFCO’s Vice Chairman participation and popularity that it has become a melting pot where and CEO briefed him about the present ongoing an future planned people from all walks of life get together to showcase their creativity projects. QAFCO highlighted present online as well as future and celebrate the bounty of nature. projects in hand like Sahara Forest Project, etc. Games were also provided for children to increase its environmental awareness. QAFCO Stand at AGRITEQ The annual tradition showcasing the artistry of home grown plants featured at the QAFCO Qatar Flower and vegetable Show 2012 has become more meaningful as it falls into the event’s silver anniversary celebration. Housed at a large tent at Al-Banush Club in Mesaieed, the event sponsored by QAFCO once again proved to be a crowd puller with over 9,000 people coming in droves to witness the big show. A bigger celebration this year with 45% increase in the participation from the more than 400 competitors with about 5,000 exhibits on display sprawled around the tables inside the ten. The flower arrangement competition for ladies in the amateur category and open at the professional category added colour to the event. 50 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Supporting Our Communities Qatar Career Fair QAFCO has actively participated as Pearl Exhibitor in Qatar Career Under the generous sponsorship of H.H. Seikh Tamim Bin Hamad Fair 2012 and launched a major recruitment campaign that Bin Khalifa Al Thani, the Deputy Emir, Heir Apparent, the Qatar achieved highest standard in progress and development. A number Career Fair, part of Qatar Foundation, conducted the event of 5th of qualified staff attended to visitors at QAFCO stand, answered annual fair, which run on April 2012 at the Qatar National Convention queries pertinent to available work opportunities at the company Center. 130 public and private companies participated in this fair. and helped interested candidates in completing application forms. The venue was divided into ‘Villages’ on the basis of various sectors, On the sidelines of the Fair, QAFCO highlighted the company’s namely: Energy & Industry, Communication, Tourism, Insurance, ambitious plans to meet future challenges. QAFCO participated in Education, Media and Sports. This year, the fair took on special the event as part of its efforts to attract young Qataris and strengthen significance, as it aligns itself with the objectives of Qatar Vision Qatarization process, adding that the Career Fair is an important 2030 launched by His Highness. forum to promote QAFCO. Further, QAFCO present employment opportunities and requirements, enables young Qataris discover This economic, cultural and social event is the culmination of great areas of work specialization, know benefits at QAFCO and training efforts by the organizers, Qatar Foundation for Education, Science opportunities the company provides to young Qataris who work with and Community Development, Qatar Petroleum, Amiri Diwan, it. Qatar University and the Ministry Labour. It will offer Qatari students education, recruitment, training opportunities and development in QP Environmental Fair order to enhance their abilities and strengthen their skills, enabling them to meet the challenges in national development. The 3-day exhibition was organized at Doha Exhibition Center on April 2012. The exhibition was inaugurated by the Minister of Energy Through effective participation in this fair, public and private and Industry, H.E. Dr. Mohammed bin Saleh Al-Sada. The Minister institutions can provide the largest number of jobs to Qatari citizens, of Energy and Industry highlighted the importance of the message provide the right employment opportunities and meet the objectives of the event, that ‘The Environment is Everyone’s Responsibility’. of the Qatarization policy. This is done by selecting students who meet the criteria defined by companies and sponsoring their higher The exhibits on display gave a glimpse of the wide range of education depending on the needs of their jobs. environmental programs that are currently being implemented throughout the country. The Fair featured a variety of displays showcasing environmental initiatives and a range of activities for families who visited the show, such as a children’s play area, a marine and desert life area and a plantation area. Eight directorates & departments from QP as well as 25 other companies and organizations participated in the event. The Minister of Energy and Industry visited all the stands of QP Environment Fair 2012. During his visit to QAFCO stand, QAFCO’s Vice Chairman and CEO, Mr. Khalifa Abdullah Al-Sowaidi briefed him about the present ongoing and future planned projects. QAFCO highlighted present online as well as future projects in hand, like Al Beseriya Island, SCR Technology and Sahara Forest Project etc. For children, i-pads games were provided & quiz books (like Save Energy, Save Nature, & Save Water) were distributed in order to increase the environmental awareness in children. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 51 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Supporting Our Communities QAFCO Sponsors the 5th Rehabilitation Conference Recognising its social responsibility, QAFCO signed an agreement with the Rehabilitation International Arab Region to sponsor the 5th Rehabilitation Conference of this organization, that was held on September 2012 in Doha. QAFCO’s contribution to the conference is part of its concern for people with disabilities. It further expresses QAFCO’s keen intention to support the efforts deployed by the State of Qatar in caring for this National Sports day celebrations at QAFCO social group, adding that people with disabilities deserve special attention from the entire society because they are an indispensable 40th Independence & National Day celebration of Bangladesh part of the manpower and can that contribute to the economic development if they receive due rehabilitation and acre. QAFCO contributed towards the socio-cultural event held at the Bangladesh Embassy in Qatar to celebrate their 40th Independence QAFCO Texas A&M University at Qatar (TAMUQ) Chemistry & National Day of Bangladesh. Conference 2011: As an opportunity bond with its partner TEXAS A&M University Contributions at Qatar and as an endeavour to chart a framework for future Extending a Helping Hand to a Neighbouring Company cooperation between industrial establishments and academic On March 2012 we received a call for help from E/C from QP Port institutions. (Mesaieed) to help fight a fire which took place at Al Kharara Area. There was fire in waste material yard at DSWMC (Domestic Solid QAFCO Open Tennis Tournament Waste Management Center). QAFCO extended immediate help by QAFCO also conducts QAFCO open tennis championship, an providing a Fire Truck and Fire Fighting Crew as per the need. annual event sponsored by QAFCO under the patronage of Qatar Tennis Federation. It is one of the oldest events in the sports history Blood Donation Campaign of Qatar. The tournament has very rich history and many leading In collaboration with the Blood Donation Unit of Hamad Medical national level players have had their initiation at the QAFCO Open. Corporation, the Industrial Relations Department at QAFCO and the company’s Medical Department held a blood donation drive on the Indian community in celebration of heritage 5th of December 2012 at QAFCO premises in Mesaieed. QAFCO sponsored the celebration of 63rd Republic Day of India. A large gathering of Indian community attended a grand cultural Prior to the campaign, awareness emails were circulated about the programme organised by the Indian Cultural Centre on 4th February donation highlighting its benefits. To donate blood benefits both the at Doha Cinema to celebrate India’s 63rd Republic Day. Children donor and receiver of the blood and gives us all an elated feeling from eight Indian schools, two teams of ICC dance students and of having helped saving more lives on Earth. The blood donation performers from 10 affiliated organisations presented a variety of campaign has become an annual activity organized by QAFCO in patriotic, semi-classical, fusion and folk dances and skits. fulfilment of its social responsibility. 52 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Our initiatives in the past... QAFCO hosts the GPCA Fertiliser Convention: Represented the views of 16 international companies and organizations involved in the fertiliser industry. The conference discussed many issues affecting the fertilizer industry. It also provided a networking forum for influential international producers, consumers, traders, and operators in the industry. QAFCO participates in the 20th World Petroleum Congress (WPC): Also known as the Olympics of the oil and gas industry, drew to a close on December 2011 gave Qatar and the Middle East the privilege of hosting the coveted event for the first time. QAFCO hosts GPCA Fertilizer Convention: Objective of the conference is to provide a platform for experts from around the world to discuss latest development in the field of fertilizer industry for greater production efficiencies, cleaner environment, and sustainable growth. Alkhor Independent School for Girls Books Fair: We sponsored a book fair at Alkhor Independent School for Girls in 2011. The event was organized by the school library. 3rd Civil Defence Exhibition & Conference Qatar 2011: was one of the biggest and most specialized events of its kind in the Middle East and North Africa region. Held under the patronage of the Minister of Interior and the Administration of Civil Defence, the event showcases the many facets of public safety and security. QAFCO sponsored the 31st GCC Hand Ball Tournament: The Championship featured various prominent teams namely Al Ahli of Bahrain, Al Shabab of Bahrain, Mudhar of Saudi Arabia, Al Shabab of UAE, Al Arabi of Kuwait, Muscat of Oman, Army of Qatar and hosts Al Rayyan of Qatar. World Environment Day: we were platinum sponsors of the World Environment Day 2011 celebration in Qatar. Organised by the International Academy for Intercultural Development, Doha the event showcased various initiatives by Qatar to promote environmental sustainability. Pakistan Quadi-e-Azam Day: we sponsored the Quadi-e-Azam Day, the Birthday of Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah founder/father of Pakistan. 4th Gala Dinner Party of Reach Out to Asia (ROTA) Organisation (Fund Raising event): To raise much needed funds to continue and build upon ROTA’s work in Asia and the Middle East. ROTA holds a bi-annual fundraising gala dinner in which it hosts VIPs and celebrities from around the world to raise funds. National Sport Day: This is a pioneering initiative adopted by H.H. Seikh Tamim Bin Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani, the Deputy Emir and Heir Apparent wherein Tuesday in the second QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 53 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO • Consider the possible phasing out of Ozone Depleting Respecting Our Environment Substances in-line with the country’s “National Strategy”. • Meet the expectations of our shareholders, management and other stakeholders. As an environmentally responsible company, continual efforts • Conduct an International Study on Chlorine with the participation are made at QAFCO to reduce environmental impact through an and supervision of the Ministry of Environment. extension beyond mere statutory compliance. • Conduct a study on the feasible NOx abatement technology that will enable QAFCO to meet the legal environmental Our motto, “Environment is Our Responsibility” stems from our permissible levels. management’s strong commitment to care for and protect the • Develop a system to recover, treat and use the sewage from a environment while carrying out our core business of producing Sewage (Wastewater) Treatment Plant for environmental fertiliser. This intention is reflected in our policies, objectives, various improvements initiatives (irrigation and recycling to the projects and our employees. We understand that we have our own process etc). share of emissions to air, discharges to sea and various wastes to • Reduce the high coliform in treated effluent, to comply with the manage. Strict environmental considerations are in place to minimise legal requirements. air emissions and discharges to the sea as well as recycling and managing waste. With the recently completed Urea-1 Revamp We have established a procedure for identifying the environmental project, we have successfully eliminated the discharge of urea and aspects of our activities, products and services that are under our ammonia to the sea. Various projects are ongoing to reduce our NOx control or can be influenced by our operations. The identified aspects emissions, SOx emissions, energy consumption as well as to monitor cover present, past and future planned activities. The identification RISK IDENTIFICATION AND ASSESSMENT ambient air and water quality. and review of the environmental aspects of our activities, products and services are conducted annually. The “Environmental Aspects / a) Regular Environmental and Safety The QAFCO Environmental Policy upholds the Environmental Impacts” System is computerised and different sections can conduct Inspections: Management System (EMS), which has been externally benchmarked the identification and evaluation of aspects on-line. The system Safety Tours, Safety Walks, against international certifications including the ISO 14001. The automatically identifies significant aspects. Management Safety Walk, Safety relevant authority conducts regular environmental auditing and Surveys etc. inspection of our production and environmental impacts which grant The identified significant environmental aspects are considered us the consent to operate. in setting QAFCO’s environmental objectives and management b) Environmental Aspect / Impact programmes / action plans. Identification: We established and maintained documented environmental objectives and targets during 2011 and 2012 and the objectives are quantified We have established a procedure for identifying the environmental • Identification of the wherever practicable. In our objectives, we have considered not aspects of our activities, products and services that are under our Environmental Aspect/Impact only environmental legal requirements, significant environmental control or can be influenced by our operations. The identified aspects Evaluation based aspects and views, interests and concerns of interested parties. Our cover present, past and future planned activities. The identification on company’s activities, products & objectives are also aligned to financial and operational requirements and review of the environmental aspects of our activities, products services is a core requirement of and take into account best technology practices to prevent pollution and services are conducted annually. The “Environmental Aspects / the ISO 14001. QAFCO conducts and mitigate the negative impacts of our operations on our nature Impacts” System is computerised and different sections can conduct its evaluation of the aspects and resources and communities. the identification and evaluation of aspects on-line. The system impacts on an annual basis. automatically identifies significant aspects. Environment management meetings, chaired by our CEO, are held • Based on the evaluation and twice a year. During these meetings, all environmental issues and The identified significant environmental aspects are considered identification of the Significant performances to date are discussed with various relevant heads of in setting QAFCO’s environmental objectives and management Aspects, the Environmental departments. programmes / action plans. Objectives are identified and Our Environmental Objectives are to : For aspects associated with projects of plant modifications (planned relevant Environmental • Implement legal environmental compliance projects, studies or activities), the Projects Section maintains a system that identifies and Programs are developed to reduce/ programmes for the control and monitoring of non compliance evaluates the aspects of the different phases of new projects. The eliminate impacts due to these areas in accordance with the conditions of the Consent identified and evaluated aspects (for significance) are maintained, for Significant Aspects. to Operate Permit. each project, in soft or hard copy. 54 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Respecting Our Environment Water & Effluents QAFCO understands business risks and opportunities relating to water scarcity and is committed to promote responsible water management. The strategy adopted by QAFCO is to use water efficiently, recycle and reuse wherever possible. Water is discharged into the sea in a way that our operations do not affect the flora and fauna since environmental controls are Our environmental impact relating to water use is relatively high due to implemented to manage soil, waste and other materials to prevent the nature and size of our operations. At QAFCO, water is mainly used them of being washed into the sea. in our plants for cooling machinery. Sea water intake flow is calculated based on sea water pump discharge valve flow characteristics Water conservation is a matter of extreme importance for QAFCO and while the returned water is estimated based on Balance approach. Qatar as a whole. We recycle as much water as we can. Actions to Municipal water flow is measured based on Invoices/bills. reduce water consumption included the flow restriction devices on The total water consumed increased by 19% compared to 2011 due taps and the upgrading of toilet cisterns. Water saving awareness to new projects QAFCO 5&6 starting operations in 2012. Of the total poster are displayed in our restrooms. water used by the company, around 97.15% was taken from the sea (after discounting water returned back to the sea) and approximately During 2012, 61,000 m3 of the treated sewage water was used for 2.47% was supplied by local municipal water authorities. irrigation and landscaping purposes. Operations Department 2011 2012 Increment Sea Water Intake/Returned (m3) Sea water intake from Sea 1,290,000,000 1,320,000,000 2% QAFCO Discharges into Sea from 2006 to 2012 Sea Water Returned Back to Sea 1,280,000,000 1,308,000,000 2% Water Consumed/used (m3) Net water intake from sea after discounting water returned 10,000,000 12,000,000 20% back to the sea Municipal Water Supplies or other QAFCO (1-4) 330,896 305,293 -8% water utilities QAFCO (5-6) 60,000 46,293 Total Ground water extracted by QAFCO Nil Nil Rainwater collected directly and stored by the reporting Nil Nil organization TOTAL water consumed/used 10,390,896 12,351,586 19% Water recycled/reused (m3) Process and steam condensate re-used within QAFCO (1-4) and QAFCO (5-6) & Melamine Plants 11,589,900 15,584,900 Treated sanitary waste water used in irrigation 60,500 61,000 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 55 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Respecting Our Environment Study of Residual Chlorine and Chlorinated By products Meeting the current limits of the free residual chlorine is a challenge faced by all industries in Qatar. QAFCO led the way in initiating this study in order to review the regulation on the free residual chlorine and it was conducted by Texas A&M University and the Environmental Studies Centre-Qatar University. The study was co-financed by Qatar Petrochemical Company (QAPCO) and QP-Gas Operations. The study found that the biodiversity of water bodies and habitats was not significantly affected. We aimed to re-evaluate the residual chlorine limits for the state of Qatar and the thermal discharge points. The study was conducted under the supervision of the Ministry of Environment and an amendment of the environmental law with respect to the residual chlorine limits was requested. Marine EIA on the Use of Dechlorination chemicals QAFCO also led a study to learn the marine impacts of three most commonly used dechlorination chemicals in Mesaieed Sea. The chemicals studied were sodium bisulphite, sodium metabisulphite, and sodium thiosulfate. The study was carried out in 2011 and the recommendations were supported by the Ministry of Environment. This study provides with the scope for negotiation over effluent limit levels with the Ministry of Environment at Qatar. Total Residual Chlorine (Legal Limit: 0.1 mg/L) Environment-friendly Steam Cleaning Machine at QAFCO The new machine operates two cleaning streams concurrently. This environment friendly, zero water wastage, zero soap is an effective solution for equipment cleaning. 56 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Energy Respecting Our Environment Our sources of energy are gas and electric power. Most of the electricity consumed at QAFCO is catered from internal generation. Direct Energy Consumption by primary energy source 2011 2012 Direct Energy sources purchased (GJ GHV) for electricity, heating, conversion units Carbon Dioxide Gas supply from QAFCO to QAFAC Direct non renewable 139,429,948 The CO2 gas to be used as feed stock by QAFAC, will be supplied by Urea-3 via M.P Compressor Natural Gas 139,429,948 K1231 to QAFAC. M.P.CO2 compressor (K-1231) is installed at U-3 to supply CO2 to QAFAC on a Coal Nil Nil continuous basis as per the excess CO2 availability LNG, others… Nil Nil from QAFCO. Direct renewable Nil Nil The CO2 supply shall conform to following operating parameters: Direct energy sources produced (GJ) NA NA • Max. Flow rate: 500MTPD • Operating Pressure: 24bar (g) minimum at delivery Direct energy sources sold (GJ) Nil Nil • Operating Temperature: Maximum 560 C TOTAL Direct Energy Consumption (GJ) 139,429,948 CO2 Custody transfer metering: Indirect Energy Consumption by primary sources The metering of export / import of Carbon Dioxide gas Indirect energy sources purchased (MWH is through custody transfer meters (Micro motion Coriolis mass flow meters) installed at QAFCO & Electricity 420,295 294,411 QAFAC ends of the export / import pipe line. Heat & Cooling Nil Nil Both mass flow meters are of same make, model, and size. Steam Nil Nil Electricity generated at QAFCO (MWh) The flow data is displayed in the both plant control room. A field mounted, non-resettable password protected flow QAFCO (1-4) 451,319 379,865 totalizer (part of flow meter) is available at the flow meter. QAFCO (5-6) 146,272 655,216 Total Elect. Power generation 597,591 1,035,081 After decommissioning old PS (1.7), A-1 & A-2 old Aux boilers, Avons Gas turbines (5#) and Cogeneration -1 unit fully operational it is expected that about 20% of energy will be saved for QAFCO (1-4) plants. This will be fully implemented by 2016-17. Energy efficient Desktop PCs & monitors Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Emissions The Desktop PCs, monitors and other peripherals purchased by The total direct GHG emissions at QAFCO were estimated quantities GHG emissions reduction are achievedthrough: the IT section are selected based on many criteria, and one of and resulted in 4,683,855 MT in 2012 and 3,142,000 MT. 2012 • CO2 exported to QAFAC & QVC in 2011. In 2012, them is being energy efficient. This is a very important aspect figures are higher because of QAFCO 5&6 coming in operations. exports to QAFAC were stopped after Urea-6 came in in buying hardware, as most of the PCs in QAFCO are switched These emissions are from all sources owned or controlled by the line in the same year on 24 hours a day. If the PCs are not energy efficient, lot of company: • Maximising use of Process CO2 for Urea Production power will be wasted daily and this multiplies each day the in Qafco-5&6 plant computer is not switched off. The total direct & indirect CO2 emissions are generated from Fuel combustions units, venting of excess Process CO2 and indirect Greenhouse gas emissions reductions achieved during the emissions equivalent to electric power imported for QAFCO (1-6) reporting period as a direct result of these initiatives were 345,951 plants. MT in 2012 and 66,209 MT saved in 2011. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 57 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Respecting Our Environment Air Emissions Emissions of ozonedepleting substances We have conducted detailed studies on alternative substances, their QAFCO is leading the way in reducing NOx emissions by using Desuitability and subsequently planned and executed the phasing out NOx Technology. To have the De-Nox solution available to users, an of HALON (chloroflurocarbons (CFCs) / HCFs) as fire fighting agent. infrastructure has been built up for the preparation, storage and As an alternative, water mist and NOVEC 1230 agents are used in export of those solutions. QAFCO has invested more than QR 31.72 the total flooding fire fighting system. This initiative demonstrates our Million as a NOx Investment. And now 19% Aqueous Ammonia dedicarion to environmental preservation and our people. All Ozone Solution, 192 T/day and 32.5% Urea Solutions, 144 T/day is being Depleting substances are being phased out completely and these produced in QAFCO's De-NOx infrastructure as a part of the Deprojects are ongoing. NOx Technology. QAFCO also completed the process of revamping auxiliary boilers to reduce NOx emissions and installed De-NOx test NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions units in the plants. Calculation is based on Laboratory analysis on flue gas OR direct In 2007/08, the NOx emission concentration from Ammonia 3 measurement through online analyser wherever applicable and plant was 194 mg/Nm3; and after implementation of NOx technology corresponding estimated stack flows as per plant load conditions. project in 2009; the concentration is sustained below 49 mg/Nm3 ( Lab measurements are based on fortnightly analysis frequency. 75% reduction). Particulate matter reported is in form of Urea dust from prilling tower & granulator stacks Supporting other industry sectors reducing NOx Relevant industries in Qatar, especially the power plants like Qatar Significant air emissions 2012 2011 Aluminium Company (Qatalum), Mesaieed Power Company Limited (MPCL), Ras Girtas Power Company; have shown their great interest Tonnes NOx 1,862 2,291 in our ability and readiness to supply the De-NOx solutions. In addition to the De-NOx infrastructure, a number of NOx reduction projects are in progress in QAFCO. Tonnes SOx 4,606 2,634 The Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) Technology is one of the most cost efficient and effective means of controlling NOx emissions from Tonnes Particulate matter (PM) 1,061 1,335 diesel engines. This technology uses liquid ammonia and a catalyst to reduce NOx emission from diesel engines. We are exploring this initiative in Qatar and we have planned to collaborate with Qatar Fuel NOx Abatement at QAFCO Company (WOQOD) to implement the use of this technology in all heavy duty diesel trucks and bus engines in order to reduce NOx The current stringent environmental emission standard set by the emissions. Ministry of Environment of 125 mg/Nm3 constitutes a challenge to industry. While considering the best ways of meeting that; QAFCO decided to go a step further; not only to meet QAFCO’s NOx reduction challenge, but also to help other industries in Qatar and Gulf Countries to meet their NOx challenges too. The two chemicals used to reduce NOx are urea and ammonia and QAFCO is the only producer in Qatar, of these chemicals. 58 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Respecting Our Environment Materials Waste & Spills Ammonia is a chemical compound made of Nitrogen 82% and QAFCO manages and controls different wastes generated by the Hydrogen 18% produced using Natural gas as the main feedstock. concerned trades, as per the national and international legal guidance The other feeds required are Steam and Air. Urea is a solid fertiliser and laws.The waste generator is responsible for the disposal of wastes containing 46.6% of Nitrogen. It is produced by the reaction of and maintains a record of each waste treatment and disposal and if Ammonia and Carbon dioxide under high pressure, both feedstocks the waste is sent outside of QAFCO for treatment, then a Certificate of being supplied by the ammonia plant. UFC-85 is a viscous liquid Consumption is obtained for the treatment /disposal of the generated containing 60% formaldehyde, 25% urea and balance water. waste. Formaldehyde is first produced by the reaction of Methanol with Air. This is then absorbed in urea solution to form UFC-85. The table Both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are generated inside below displays the input materials and consumption for 2011. The QAFCO; however, they are well managed/disposed of in a planned figures are listed daily, monthly and annually. and environmentally responsible manner, as follows: Hazardous Waste Input Materials and Production Consumption 2012 Spent Catalyst: Ammonia (metric tonnes) 2,507,868 All types of spent catalysts in QAFCO are filled (immediately after being unloaded from plants’ vessels) into labelled metal drums and Urea to UFC (metric tonnes) 10,753 kept in a temporary special store yard awaiting sale for the purpose of Urea to Melamine (metric tonnes) 181,757 recycling/ metal recovery by a third party, who provides a “Certificate of Consumption” stating the details of each catalyst treatment and Methanol to UFC (metric tonnes) 30,908 the ultimate fate of the components of the catalysts. Spent catalyst is Gas (KNm3) 4,063,324 the only type of waste is sent out of the Mesaieed Industrial City (MIC) Hazardous Waste Treatment Center (HWTC). Quantity Generated Sent for Recycling Online Systems to reduce paper work Spent Catalyst (Tons) (Tons) The traditional method of sending papers around in the 2011 107 164.7 office is slowly fading out in QAFCO. With the introduction of Online services of Huma Resource, such as Leave Requests, 2012 134.8 137.3 Compensation claims, Employee Pay slips, etc., have almost vanished the papers being floated around the company. Employees make requests through an online system and The third party is selected through tendering, and evaluating the their Supervisors and Managers approve requests with digital bidders on technical, environmental, and commercial criteria. The signing. These paperless procedures are a way forward in bidders are required to specify the intended catalyst treatment always keeping the Environment under check. method and commit to provide the Certificate of Consumption at the end of the treatment process. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 59 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Waste Lead-Acid Batteries Quantity Collected Quantity sent for Recycling Respecting Our Environment 2011 47 131 2012 62 67 Waste Tires Generated Sent for Disposal 2011 35 35 Used Oil: 2012 64 64 All types of used oil (lube, hydraulic, transformer, and grease) that are generated from QAFCO’s plant machinery/equipment are QAFCO’s Hazardous Waste sent to Mesaieed Industrial collected into labelled used oil drums, labelled with information on City (MIC) Hazardous Waste Treatment Center (HWTC) origin and type of used oil. The used oil drums are then transferred to a designated used oil yard temporarily, until being taken out by Cement Asbestos the oil supplier, who takes back the used oil from QAFCO site for Waste off-Spec Urea reuse/reclamation. The oil supplier also provides a “certificate of consumption” describing where the collected oil/grease has been Waste Paint used or the ultimate fate of the oil/grease. Used Activated Carbon Expired Lab Chemicals 2011 2012 Waste Off-Spec Melamine 250000 229,600 226,800 Waste Digestion Soln for COD Waste Molten Salt 200000 Spills Liters of Used Oil 101,800 Chemicals handling by Ammonia 4 are Ammonia, Hydrazine 150000 98,132 (NH2-NH2), Methyl diethanolamine (MDEA), aMDEA, Nalco-8539, Nalco-8514 Oil and Grease. Spillage of these 100000 chemicals can mix with water of the trench during operational activity. To avoid the impact to environment, following 50000 precautions needs to be taken. • Contain any spillage, seepage of above mentioned 0 chemicals. Generated (L) Sent for Recycling (L) • Chemicals, Oil must not wash out in the trench while plant washing/cleaning activity. • MDEA filter backwash water from system 00 and 05 must Miscellaneous Hazardous Wastes: not be lined out to the trench. Other hazardous wastes, such as waste lead acid batteries, cement • U0503, U1201, U1202, U1203 condensate must not be asbestos sheets, spent laboratory reagents, that are generated drained in the trench. from concerned areas are generally transferred to a relevant • Routine cleaning of compressor house oil pit to be followed designated storage temporarily, until being taken out for treatment/ strictly. disposal at a licensed hazardous waste treatment facility, which is • Urea 4 granulation section washing to be carried out committed to provide the certificate of consumption at the end of without draining contaminated water to the trench. the treatment process, describing the ultimate fate of the waste • Urea conveyor belt washing to be done without draining components. contaminated water in to the surface trench. 60 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Respecting Our Environment Non-Hazardous Waste 2011 2012 8,070 8,400 In QAFCO, the waste segregation principle is being implemented 10,000 m3 of Waste Disposal on the non-hazardous wastes by classifying them based on the 8000 following groups: 6000 2,442 • Food Waste 4000 2,352 2,208 2,520 • General Domestic Waste 2000 • Non-Hazardous Industrial Waste 00 Food Waste (m3) General Domestic Non Hazardous Each type of the above is required to be contained in a designated Generated Waste (m3) Industrial Waste colour coded rubbish skip: • Food Waste (Green Skips) is produced from the canteen and contractors eating halls on a daily basis. The food waste is collected and sent for landfill at the Domestic Solid Waste Management Centre, a local licensed Landfill located in Mesaieed city. • General Domestic Waste (Yellow Skips), such as cardboards and office refuse, is collected and sent for landfill at the Domestic Solid Waste Management Centre, a local licensed Landfill located in Mesaieed city. • Non-Hazardous Industrial Waste (Blue Skips) refers to construction/industrial wood, glass, small empty plastic cans, small empty metal containers, rubber/fabric/plastic materials, spent resins, metals, concrete/ceramics/soil, ammonia converter iron oxide catalyst, alumina balls/lumps, and ceramic balls/rings. They are collected and further segregated into plastic, glass, steel, and paper waste to be recycled locally. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 61 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Respecting Our Environment Apart from re-using servers, Magnetic tapes that are used for Initiatives to Re-use and Recycle of our Waste backup are used again, after data on the tape expires based on the data retention period. This procedure helps in saving on the At QAFCO, encouraging the re-use and recycling and management cost, area space and the environment by re-using old tapes. of our solid waste to reduce out environmental impact is a fundamental part of our Company Vision. We believe in the 3R’s Innovating in Waste Management: Online Waste Exchange and of reduce, reuse and recycle which has been considered to be a Donation System (WEDS) base of environmental awareness and a way of promoting ecological QAFCO has initiated a practical tool to promote environmental balance through conscious behaviour and choices. We believe responsibility and care by developing and operating an online this pattern of behaviour leads to savings in materials and energy Waste Exchange / Donation System (WEDS) in order to help the which will benefit the environment and our Company. During 2011, industrial sectors as well as government in solving the waste around 80% of our waste materials were recycled. We are pleased accumulation concerns. to report that there were no significant spills during this reporting period. The new web-based application aims to prevent the accumulation of non-hazardous waste / obsolete materials / chemicals. What may Paper Waste Segregation, Shredding, and Recycling be unwanted material of one industry can be a raw material for A systematic paper collection process has been developed in another business. WEDS here will act as a facilitator for industries QAFCO, wherein any and all kinds of papers, printed materials, to provide a platform to connect parties, the waste owner and the newspapers, magazines, carton/cardboard materials are collected requestor. In this way the potentially polluting and bulky materials in individual customized recycling boxes from each office in are re-used, and thus, handled in an environmentally responsible QAFCO, and then taken to a central location for shredding, after manner. which the shredded material is taken outside QAFCO for recycling. The volume of paper shredded in QAFCO and sent out for recycling The WEDS is the first of its kind website in Qatar, that provides a during 2012 (Feb Dec) was 64 m3. medium to companies to share their information on wastes in a database accessible to registered members, and the use of the A Paper shredding company is hired on a call off basis, which is website is absolutely FREE. Presently, membership is limited to all responsible for ensuring that any and all confidential document industries/workshops in Qatar only. is shredded within QAFCO Premises, in the presence of QAFCO authorized personnel. A certificate of destruction is given by the The system is limited to only non-hazardous materials / wastes paper shredding company after the completion of the paper that can be used by others, and will exclude hazardous materials shredding job. / wastes, such as spent catalyst, waste lead acid batteries, used lubricating oil, explosive materials, etc Recycling/reusing outdated hardware and tape cartridges In addition to establishing, operating, and maintaining WEDS, Most companies by new hardware products (servers, printers, QAFCO functions as the overall administrator of the system. So desktop PCs) to keep up with the latest technology available in far 23 companies are registered as members in WEDS and flyers the market. This is a general practice, and to a great extent is advertising the website and encouraging to exchange waste was followed by QAFCO IT too. However, in the process of buying new sent out to 1,000 companies in Qatar together with PO emails and products, we do not scrap our old servers. Many old servers are Fax Letters. being currently used for our low capacity applications, some are used for Test environments where new upgrades are tested, and QAFCO’ waste management initiative has been supported by the some servers are used for applications that are under research. Ministry of Environment, and the website system proudly boasts the MoE logo on the website thus proving that MoE accepts appreciates and validates QAFCO’s efforts in the area of Waste Management. 62 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Biodiversity Respecting Our Environment We believe Biodiversity has an intrinsic value that is worth protecting regardless of its value to humans. QAFCO is not aware of any event in 2012 causing significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. QAFCO is located in Mesaieed Industrial Area, approximately 50 kilometres (31 mi) south of Qatar's capital, far away from any community and protected area of high biodiversity value. Our Environmental, Health & Safety section manages historic environmental liabilities associated with known or suspected contamination of soil at QAFCO, which includes operating sites and legacy sites. In addition, we support several projects which help protect and restore our delicate ecosystem outside Mesaieed Industrial Area. Nest with Eggs Newly Hatched Chicks Preservation/ Conservation Al-Besheriya Island since 2006 The first ecological study was carried out by the Environmental Studies Centre on the Al-Besheriya Island, in 2009, and documented in the form of a book. Birds Found On The Al-Besheriya Island The Book has been distributed to various schools as an educational tool and has also been highlighted during all the publicity events that QAFCO participates in. QAFCO is the environmental custodian of the island since 2006, and frequently visits the island to clean the island and to update on the environmental status of the island. Presently efforts are ongoing to declare the island as protected area and to restrict any movement on the island during the migration and nesting season. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 63 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Respecting Our Environment The Sahara Forest Project The production of key resources, such as clean water, clean energy and a sustainability production of food represents some of our greatest challenges in the Middle East. The Sahara Forest Project is a new environmental solution to create re-vegetation and green job through profitable production of food, water, clean electricity and biomass in Going large scale… desert areas. It is designed to utilize deserts, saltwater and CO2 to produce food, water and energy. The Sahara Forest Project can be implemented in many of the world’s To develop the project on the ground, The Sahara Forest Project entered hot deserts. Exploring a scenario of a into a cooperation with QAFCO and Yara ASA. After successfully truly large-scale Sahara Forest Project completing a feasibility study on Qatar, the partners signed in February reaching out over 4,000 hectares 2012 an agreement to build the first fully operational Sahara Forest situated in the northern part of Africa, Project Pilot Plant in Qatar. With this project, QAFCO, together with its this mega-facility could provide: partners, set out to contribute to Qatar’s objective of increased food • Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) security through sustainable water and energy production. powering all the Oasis’needs and exporting 325 GWh/year Sahara Forest Project combines solar thermal technologies with technologies for saltwater evaporation, condensation of freshwater • Self-sustained thermal and modern production of food and biomass without displacing desalination of fresh-water for all existing agriculture or natural vegetation. irrigation needs It makes use of concentrated solar power (CSP), but with a difference. • 300 hectares of saltwater In place of the water-thirsty cooling towers of a typical CSP plant, greenhouses, yielding 190,000 the Sahara Forest Project facility uses a saltwater cooling system and annual tons of tomatoes and greenhouse roofs to dissipate waste heat. The heat from the CSP melons mirrors drives a desalination system which produces distilled water • 2,000 hectares of new for plants grown in the greenhouse and outside in the desert. Waste outdoor revegetation and crops, heat is used to warm the greenhouses in the winter and to regenerate yielding 30,000 tons/year of the dessicant used for dehumidifying the air. fodder crops These processes integrated into the Sahara Forest Project work • 150 hectares of algae optimally in Qatar as it requires sunny and arid conditions. This cultivation, capable of yielding project can potentially restore desert areas to biological activity and 7,500 tons/year of biofuel-ready sequester large amounts of carbon in plants and soil. The solar algae oils power technologies have the potential to meet a huge part of future energy needs. A single SFP-facility with 50 MW of concentrated solar power and 50 ha of seawater greenhouses would annually produce 34,000 tons of vegetables, employ over 800 people, export 155 GWh of electricity and sequester more than 8,250 tons of CO2. The pilot project will be expanded in near future. In some cases, we collaborate with officials and universities in running the project. 64 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Artificial Reef Balls Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO In 2006, QAFCO deployed 150 Artificial Reef Balls in the Mesaieed Sea to improve marine life. These Artificial Reef Balls are being periodically Respecting Our Environment monitored to check on the marine environment of the area. Efforts are ongoing to seek protection of the reef ball area from the Ministry of Environment. Some Environmental Impacts Environmental Training and Awareness All QAFCO Employees & Contractors are provided with the Induction Ammonia Emission to Air training, which is a mandatory one day training. Besides this, tailor made training courses are also provided in environmental work related Solvex Discharge to the Sea areas to any and all employees as per the requirement. Gas or liquid leaks Assessment Audits, Evaluation and Continuous Improvement Initiatives a) Environmental Housekeeping Tours & Certificates: Suppliers/ High Coliform in discharge water Contractors are to ensure that the work area is clear of waste, debris after completion of work. A Housekeeping certificate is Heat Loss to Air issued to the contractor after inspection of worksite, for release of payment. Catalyst Dust Emission to Air b) Supplier Evaluation: Environmental performance and environmental responsibility is one of the Vendor Selection Criteria. Potassium Metavanadate Discharge to the Sea Online Environment Management System (EMS) Oil Soil/Ground Water Contamination Accessible to all employees which is a home to all environment related issues pertaining to QAFCO, whether it is reporting a complaint or reviewing historical data. Some of the key menus that Acidic/Caustic Water Soil can be found in the EMS are: Di-Ethanol-Amine (DEA) discharged • Compliance Requirements : Consent to Operates, Regulations & to the Sea Legislation, Environmental Objectives, ISO 14001 Standard, • Aspects/Impacts : Identification of Aspect and Scoring of Aspects as Significant Aspect. • Reports, Statistics and Charts for Spent Catalyst, Used Oil ,Waste Lead Acid Batteries ,Waste Tires ,Rubbish Skip • Environmental Plant Tours and Environmental Releases: Reports and Observation Status, Statistics, year wise. • Monthly Reports, Quarterly Reports to the Legislators, Environmental Bulletins, Environmental Literatures, • Occupational Hygiene Surveys, Reports and Charts • Photo and Video Gallery • Options for Suggestion • Links to WEDS and MSDS QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 65 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO School Environmental Awareness Programs Respecting Our Environment Annual School Painting Competition used to be held till 2007 to make one of the Environment days in the year. This competition was later replaced with a more interaction based learning program targeting more children and different schools. The School Environmental Awareness program initiated in 2008, wherein QAFCO staff personally conducts the school campaigns. QAFCO strongly believes that environment education starts at a very young age. Keeping this in mind, QAFCO has been conducting environment awareness campaigns for various schools in Qatar. The campaigns are targeted towards children of the age 4-8 years, as QAFCO believes that they can make a difference to our present and future. All the campaigns place a lot of emphasis on interaction and discussions with children on various good environmental habits and their views on how to protect and sustain our environment. 66 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Developing Our Products At QAFCO, we affirm to all our stakeholders, including our employees, contractors, customers, shareholders and the community, that we will conduct our business with respect and care for the environment. We continuously analyze and improve our practices, processes and products to reduce their risk and impact through the product life cycle. We develop new products and processes that have increasing margins of safety for both human health and the environment. We work with our suppliers, distributors, and customers to achieve similar product stewardship and we provide information and assistance to support their efforts to do so. A major factor contributing to QAFCO’s steady growth and achievements is its commitment to management systems. It was certified for ISO 9001 (quality management systems) in 1996, ISO 14001 (environment) in 1997 and OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) in 1999, becoming one of the few organizations in the Middle East to achieve this distinction at the time. Our company’s commitment is also reflected as we were one of the first chemical companies to obtain IFA’s Product Steward Excellence Certification for its management processes that ensure safe, health, environment friendly and secure use of its products right through its life cycle. It also guides QAFCO in sustainable development and in taking care of the safety and security of its employees, contractors, customers and suppliers – along the supply chain, in neighboring companies and in the community. QAFCO has also led efforts to expand Responsible Care® to encompass advances such as security, public reporting of metrics, and management systems certification. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 67 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Developing Our Products Product Marketing Communications and Management In 2012, our production facilities produced 3.21 million MT of ammonia, of which 683,194 tonnes of ammonia (increase of 26% Our forward thinking and strong commitment to customer satisfaction over 2011) was sold predominantly to India, S. Africa, S. Korea and is an integral philosophy of our Company where on-time delivery and Jordan during 2012. Meanwhile, QAFCO facilities produced 4.5 million long term relationships with customers are of the utmost importance. MT of urea, of which 4.2 million MT (an increase of 45% over 2011) was sold to mainly Australia, Thailand and USA among others. The world population expected to rise from 6.8 billion today to 9.1 billion in 2050, with most of the population growth expected in developing In the year 2012, QAFCO achieved a net profit of QAR 4.6 billion. A countries especially in sub-Saharan African. This will obviously lead firm market ensured higher ammonia prices meanwhile a high urea to increase in the demand for food from the decreasing arable land demand especially in the USA saw an increase in urea price. These resources. Hence, it becomes pertinent to improve the quality of soil factors, together with the new expansion projects and the consequent to increase the crop yield. Product quality, geographical location and increment in production, contributed to the high profit margins efficient on-site logistics provide us with strategic marketing advantages achieved by QAFCO in 2012. for a competitive edge in a free market environment. Our marketing responsibilities range from exploring potential world Capitalizing on these opportunities and advantages, we currently markets for our products, to the development and implementation export to over 35 countries worldwide and have become a key player of comprehensive marketing programs, long term agreements and in the international fertilizer market. With the inauguration of QAFCO’s promoting the QAFCO image internationally. Our Sales and Logistic 5th plant on December 2011, start operating on 2012, QAFCO took a teams work hand in hand to ensure the smooth loading and shipping giant stride towards becoming the largest producer of ammonia and of our products to worldwide destinations from QAFCO’s jetties. urea in the world. With this, along with QAFCO-6, started up in the late 2012, QAFCO will become the 4th largest urea producer in the world. We integrate marketing, sales, service, operations and information The two new trains will argument QAFCO’s ammonia production by technology to deliver value-added products and services to our 40% and urea production by 39% in 2012 compared to 2011 and customers more effectively. We are pleased to report that there subsequently, advance Qatar to the position of the largest exporter of have been no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for nonurea in the world. compliance with laws and regulations regarding marketing issues during 2012. Ammonia Production Ammonia Export Urea Export Urea Production 4,554,766 4,215,635 5,000,000 4,500,000 4,500,000 4,000,000 4,000,000 3,217,025 3,210,560 3,500,000 3,500,000 2,906,110 3,000,000 3,000,000 2,298,260 2,500,000 2,500,000 MT 2,000,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 683,194 540,447 1,000,000 1,000,000 5,00,000 500,000 0 0 2011 2012 2011 2012 68 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Urea Exports 2012 Ammonia Exports 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO S.Korea 5% India 4% Pakistan 7% Developing Our Products Thaiwan 1% S.Africa 7% Madagascar 1% Thailand 1% Jordan 61% Thailand 13% South Africa 21% Japan 1% QAFCO sets a record by loading 5 ships simultaneously at its berth in 3% Korea Mesaieed New Zealand 3% South Ships were heading to Brazil, Thailand, Bangladesh, Australia and Pakistan. This is the first achievement of its kind in the world in urea India 61% export; affirming QAFCO’s pioneering role and importance in fertilizer Bangladesh 6% production an marketing. It is also considered as a big and vital step in boosting the Company’s position in the global fertilizer market. This step Brazil 12% Malaysia 1% is an essential aspect of QAFCO’s commitment to achieving customers’ Mexico 1% Canada 1% France 1% satisfaction and gaining their confidence through huge production and Australia 16% marketing capabilities which the Company enjoys, especially after the Belgium 1% Sudan 2% L.America 1% successful operation of QAFCO-5 expansion project that made QAFCO Philipines 5% the world’s largest single-site producer of ammonia and urea. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 69 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Developing Our Products Customer Health & Safety and Product Labelling Our Production Department is responsible for the control, update and distribution Packaging Materials that are reclaimed by Product during 2012 of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for all QAFCO products. The vast majority of Percentage of our products are dispatched in bulk by road and sea. Each shipment is sent with MSDS which identify the product name along with commonly used synonyms and packaging recycled its molecular formula. MSDS also contain our company contact details including Ammonia 100 a dedicated hotline for general or emergency information. Handling and storage information is supplied and the MSDS contain specific information on identifying Bulk Urea Prilled 100 hazards including: Bulk Urea Granular 100 Human Health: How the product affects human health including if the product is harmful if it Bagged Urea 0 comes into contact with skin or eyes, if it is ingested or inhaled and any long term effects of the product. Product Stewardship Environment: Meanwhile in the period 2011-2012, QAFCO further strengthened its If the product has any adverse effect on the environment and animal life. processes. We achieved the International Fertilizer Association (IFA) – Other Hazards: Whether there are any additional hazards such as spillage Product Steward Excellence Certification for our management processes consequences and fire, heating and explosion. that ensure safe, healthy, environment friendly and secure use of its First aid measures are also documented in the MSDS including emergency products right through its life cycle. With this achievement, QAFCO has procedures to be followed in event of eye contact, skin contact, ingestion or become one of the pioneers to attain this distinction in the international inhalation. Fire fighting measures are also documented including suitable fertilizer industry. Apart from this, QAFCO also achieved RC 14001 extinguishing media and fire fighter’s protection such as protective clothing and Responsible Care certification. QAFCO is one of the first few companies equipment. Exposure control information is provided for personal protection. certified in RC 14001 among GPCA member companies and other Scientific, physical and chemical properties also accompany the product. companies in the Middle East. The MSDS also contain: • Stability and reactivity information. • Toxicological information. “One of our products is the aqueous ammonia, which acts • Ecological information. as an agent to reduce Nitrogen oxides, which are pollutants, • Disposal considerations. from the atmosphere. QAFCO sells these to some of the power • Transport information. producing companies in Qatar. Now, before we started sending • Regulatory information. aqueous ammonia to the companies, we ensured that all those The majority of our products are sold in bulk which allows us to reuse the involved, right from the truck drivers to the accompanying civil vessels and containers many times. Our Bagged Urea reaches our customers in defence officers were trained on handling the product packaging. We encourage our customers to recycle these packaging materials but and safety measures to be taken in case of emergency” we have no control of the product once it leaves QAFCO. Mr. Khalifa Abdullah Al-Sowaidi, We have not faced any significant incidents of non-compliance with regulations relating to the labelling of our products. CEO QAFCO 70 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Developing Our Products Customer Engagement and Privacy We have established a process to assess the customer satisfaction for continual improvement through a documented procedure which demonstrates our commitment to, and method of measuring customer perception in meeting our customer requirements. Our customers’ perception of QAFCO including our products, shipping and customer service is very important to us. We monitor the satisfaction levels of our customers biennially with our customer perception/satisfaction questionnaire. Our customers are asked to rate a number of areas with a score from one (totally dissatisfied) to 10 (totally satisfied). They are also asked to indicate how important these areas are from one (extremely unimportant) to 10 (extremely important). Customers are also asked to rate their overall satisfaction. Areas which are evaluated include: • Product information such as quality, composite, availability, product handling and the general end-user image of the product. • Logistics information such as delivery time, shipment size, shipping terms, loading rate, berth facility and inspection. • Customer relations such as sales service, staff attitude, efficiency, knowledge, coordination and cooperation. • Other forms of communication including documentation accuracy, complaint handling, claim handling and variety of communication. Our customer satisfaction tools limit access to detailed customer contact lists. This secured layered access to customer data is instrumental in preventing any breaches of customer privacy. Information affecting corporate bodies, customers and employees • Appropriately trained Internal Auditors. cannot be disclosed in any manner without proper authorization. It is • Identification and allocation of measuring equipments, our obligation to protect and preserve such proprietary, confidential or test facilities, Laboratory etc. sensitive information of our customers. Customer privacy is protected • Regular monitoring of QAFCO Objectives, through Action Plans. and regulated throughout QAFCO Code of Ethics. There have not been • Allocation of Budget for projects related to Product Quality, OH & any breaches in customer privacy or loss of customer data during the Safety and Security Risks and Environmental Legal Compliance. period under review. Complaints received from the Customers are registered through The resources needed to enhance the Customer Satisfaction by non-conformity system and reported to the Management. In 2012, meeting Customer Requirements, are identified, and provided through: no incidents of non-compliance with regulations an voluntary codes concerning marketing of our products or breaches of customer privacy were reported. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 71 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Developing Our Products Life-Cycle Stages and OH&S and Environment Monitoring QAFCO Management System also facilitates the planning and monitoring of all sales, shipping contracts, agencies, and distributorship transactions as Planning of Product Realisation is carried out at our company, based well as other marketing activities, which are defined through a documented on our Integrated Policy of QAFCO, GFC & QMC, objectives and other procedure. Shipping agencies, distributors and dealers are evaluated organisational practices and in consistency with the other processes of on their awareness and practices in Quality, Environmental, OH & S and the QAFCO Management Systems. The system demonstrates QAFCO’s security based upon the criteria as set in the Management systems. commitment and method to preserve the product conformity, which includes; identification, handling, packaging, storage and protection during The Products of QAFCO are of fixed nature, hence requirements related to internal processing and delivery to the intended destination, through various the products are established during the installation of the plants. QAFCO documented procedures and practices. reviews the requirements related to the Products prior to the commitment to supply the Product to the customer through the Contract Review and We identify Significant Environmental Aspects and OH & Safety and Security ensures that: Risks related to the operations and activities during product life-cycle stages through documented procedures. The Consent to operate conditions • Product requirements are defined. as specified by the environmental legal requirements also helps us in • Contract or order requirements differing from those in the identifying the Significant Aspects. Activities related to the identification of tender or quotation are resolved. Environmental Aspects and OH & Safety and Security Risks in our products • QAFCO has the ability to meet defined requirements. are planned and controlled by: The results of the Contract Review and subsequent follow up actions are • Establishing and maintaining documented procedure as relevant. detailed through a documented procedure. Where the Customer provides • Stipulating operating criteria. no documented statement of requirement, the customer requirements are • Communicating the relevant documented procedures and the confirmed before acceptance. Key activities related to requirements to suppliers and contractors. Product Planning Whenever Product requirements are changed, QAFCO ensures that the We have established some key procedures that facilitate us the identification relevant documentation is amended and relevant personnel are made • Production, storage, of Environmental Aspects and OH & Safety and Security Risks: aware of the changed requirements. Marketing, Sales and Delivery of the products. • Hazardous area classification. • Handling of domestic and non-hazards industrial waste. QAFCO has implemented processes needed for purchasing activity and • Budgeting. has defined the requirements by establishing documented procedures, • Toxic waste management. e.g.: Catalysts, Used oil, Waste Lead Acid • Measuring and monitoring Batteries, Radio Active sources etc. which demonstrate its commitments and method. QAFCO ensures that of process is carried out • Evaluation and selection of contractors and suppliers based on their the purchased products confirms to the specified purchase requirements, through KPIs of the Quality, Environmental, OH & Safety and Security performance. relevant controls are applied to the suppliers and to the purchased products QAFCO processes. • Safety Inspections. according to the established procedures and practices. Purchasing • Incident reporting, Investigation and Prevention. information, apart from describing the product shall also include where • Measuring of QAFCO appropriate the following: • Security Services in QAFCO. Objectives is carried out • Contingency plans and Emergency Procedures. • Approval requirements. through QAFCO Action Plan. • Competency requirements of personnel. During the enquiry stage, QAFCO determines customer requirements • Other requirements related to the three Integrated Management including those for delivery and post delivery activities. We also identify Systems and the Responsible Care. other product requirements not stated by the customer but necessary for specified use or known and intended use. Additional requirements determined by QAFCO are also taken into account i.e. obligations related to product, including Statutory and Regulatory requirements. 72 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Developing Our Products The adequacy of purchasing information shall be ensured prior to QAFCO production process is a continuous process, hence there communication with the supplier. QAFCO has ensured verification of is no in-process identification is applied. Incoming materials are purchased products according to the following: identified with name and code and incoming gaseous raw materials are identified with its components status. Final products are • Establishment and implementation of inspection activities on the identified with the name and specification and stored accordingly. received materials. • Other verification arrangements and methods in line with The facilities, equipments etc, required for monitoring and purchasing information. maintaining the product quality requirements are provided and • Where required by QAFCO or its customers, arrangements are maintained. QAFCO has established processes to determine the made for verification at the suppliers’ premises and the intent of monitoring and measurements that have to be undertaken for such arrangements are stated in the purchasing information. product realization, controlling key characteristics of activities that can have significant impact on Quality, Environmental, OH& Safety The evaluation and selection of suppliers including shipping agencies, and Security risks and ensure that the monitoring and measurements contractors and third-party providers based on the ability to supply are carried out, through procedures and practices. according to the Organisation’s requirements are carried out, with set criteria, which also include their Quality, Environmental, OH & Safety Wherever necessary the following are applied: and Security awareness and practices. Records of the evaluation • Selection of instruments with acceptance criteria. results and actions are being maintained accordingly. • Calibration methods and conditions. • Steps for ensuring calibration against national and international Documentation requirements and routines to be carried out for the standards. shipments of urea and Ammonia are controlled and defined through a • Identification to reflect the calibration status through tags. documented procedure. • Safeguarding and Protection methods. • Assess and record the validity of previous measurement results Benefits of implementing systems & QAFCO has established a system to plan and carry out its activities when not confirmed to the requirements on calibration and take under controlled conditions to produce according to product documentation for Product Realisation appropriate actions to rectify the equipment and any specification. The controlled conditions are: affected products. • Safe operation and maintenance activities • The availability of information that describes the characteristics of • Conditions of usage. sufficient to achieve policy, objectives, the product. • Verification of the ability of computer software to satisfy targets and programs. • The availability of work instructions including those related to OH intended application related to monitoring measurements of & Safety and Environment. specified requirements. • Managing risks associated with change for • The use and maintenance of suitable equipments. products, processes and activities. • The availability of and use of monitoring and measuring devices • Protection of the environment and and the competency to handle these devices. conservation of resources. • The implementation of monitoring and measurement and the records of the results. • Protection of worker health and safe and • The implementation of release, delivery and applicable postsecure work environment. delivery activities. • Guidance and training along supply chain for risk management. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 73 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Developing Our Products The infrastructure facilities like appropriate location, area, machinery 4. Incentive schemes for contributing to Management systems / equipment and building floor space are identified, provided and performance such as reporting NCs, Unsafe and unsecure maintained to suit to the growing and potential needs to achieve the conditions, Near misses etc. conformity to product requirements. 5. Suggestion schemes (as per the established system). • Supporting facilities like computer hardware and software are 6. QAFCO provides a secure working environment by made available and maintained for establishing online implementing security access control for the entry and exit of information regarding the Management Systems. personnel, contractors, visitors as well as control of entry and exit of materials. • Advanced facilities for effective communications (alarm 7. Report on worker health and industrial diseases to systems, TMRs etc.) during emergencies are made available the Management by Medical Section. and maintained. • Safety and Security Surveillance cameras are provided in the appropriate locations. Contractor Time Entry Contractor Time Entry 120,000 Total Man Days (2011) Total Man Days (2012) • Scope of new infrastructure facility determination and provision will be decided by Board of Directors / Managers based on 100,000 Processes and Market requirements. 80,000 QAFCO Top Management reviews the suitability of work environment 60,000 needed to achieve the conformity to product requirements and 40,000 to achieve Integrated QAFCO, GFC & QMC Policy, Objectives and Customer Satisfaction, through Management Review Meetings. 20,000 Detailed system has been defined and implemented to maintain the 0 suitability of work environment through various Documents. y ry ar ril ay ne ly st be er be ar ua ch Ap M Ju Ju gu r to De r nu M te b m ce Ja Febr Au m Oc ov m e be The work environment is maintained to ensure product quality by Se p N r the following: Our life-cycle stages and safety monitoring efforts have been 1. Determination, Establishment, Implementation of rewarding. We have been certified against Occupational Health and House keeping, Safety Procedures and Protective equipments Safety Assessment Service (OHSAS) 18001:2007 standard and in is done through OH & Safety Management System. 2011 we became “Responsible Care” certified by Bureau Veritas. 2. Welfare facilities are also provided to the employees like, The tables below display our range of products with its stringent social welfare (clubs) & functions, transport to and from the quality handling cycle and specifications. We are pleased to report accommodations etc. that there have been no incidents of non-compliance concerning 3. Bonus is also provided based on various factors including the the safety of our products at any stage of our processes. employees’ performance and their contribution to the profit made by the Organisation. 74 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Developing Our Products Range of products AMMONIA UREA UREA FORMALDEHYDE MELAMINE Ammonia is a chemical compound Urea is a solid fertiliser containing UFC-85 is a viscous liquid containing Melamine is primarily produced in made of Nitrogen 82% and Hydrogen 46.6% of Nitrogen. It is produced by 60% formaldehyde, 25% urea and Europe, Asia and North America. The 18%. It is produced using Natural gas the reaction of Ammonia and Carbon balance water. Formaldehyde is first chemical is used in laminates, surface as the main feedstock. The other feeds dioxide under high pressure, both produced by the reaction of Methanol coatings, flame. required are Steam and Air. These feed feedstocks being supplied by the with Air. This is then absorbed in urea materials undergo a series of reactions ammonia plant. The urea produced in solution to form UFC-85. It is also used as an additive in highin the ammonia plant, before ammonia solution is turned into a solid fertiliser resistance concrete. The melamine is produced in gaseous form. This is of spherical granules, in the final Urea Formaldehyde Condensate (UFCproject was proposed in 2003 to turned into liquid under pressure and section of urea plant called granulation 85) is an additive, which is added to the improve the downstream activities cooled down. Ammonia is stored at unit. urea product to improve its strength. of Qatar's petrochemical industry a temperature of minus 33°C in a UFC-85 is used as an anti-caking agent and also to take advantage of refrigerated ammonia storage tank. A Also known as carbamide, urea can for the urea. Around 65% of the UFCopportunities in the global market. major part of the ammonia produced be produced as prills, granules, flakes, 85 produced is used in QAFCO’s urea in our Ammonia plants is consumed pellets, crystals and solutions and it plants, with the remainder exported to internally, as feedstock for the Urea is exported to over 20 countries, in all neighbouring GCC countries. plants. The surplus ammonia is exported regions of the world. More than 90% through ships. of world production is destined for use as a fertilizer. The main uses of ammonia are in the production of fertilizers, explosives and polymers. It can also be used as an ingredient in certain household glass cleaners, as a refrigerant and can used as disinfectant when added to drinking water (with chlorine). Approximately 80% of the ammonia produced is used as a feedstock for urea production, with the rest exported to India, Jordan and the United States of America. The exported ammonia is used as a feedstock for urea and ammonium phosphate production. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 75 Sustainablity Agenda at QAFCO Developing Our Products QAFCO Ammonia QAFCO urea Product Specification Melamine Process product specifications product specification UFC: 85 Technology Fully Refrigerated Anhydrous Prilled Urea Formaldehyde Concentrate: 60 ± 0.5 Melamine is produced using Ammonia (Fertilizer Grade) Nitrogen: 46 % Minimum % by Weight Eurotecnica's High Pressure (HP) Biuret: 1 % Maximum Melamine Technology. Urea is heated Ammonia: 99.5% By Wt Min Moisture: 0.5 % Maximum Urea: 25 ± 0.5 % by Weight in a high pressure reactor, which is Nitrogen: 81.9% By Wt Min Particle Size: 1-2.8 mm: 90 % Min. similar to a heat exchanger. Melamine Moisture: 0.5% By Wt Max White, Prilled, Free Flowing and Free F / U Molar Ratio: 4.8 ± 0.2 is produced through a single-stage, Oil Content: 10 PPM Max from harmful substances at time of liquid phase reaction. Impurities: Negligible loading. Methanol Content: 0.21 % by Weight, Temperature: Minus 33 degrees Max. The process produces melamine Celsius or below. Granular Urea by using the chemical's intrinsic Nitrogen: 46 % Minimum Formic Acid Content: 0.005% by properties without adding any other Biuret: 1 % Maximum Weight, Max. chemicals or catalysts. It does not Moisture: 0.5 % Maximum use any recycle loops, compressors or Particle Size: 2-4mm: 90 % Min. fluid beds. White, Granular, Free Flowing and Free from harmful substances at time High pressure in the reactor is of loading. maintained in the downstream equipment and in the off gases produced as a result of the reaction. By-products and co-products of the process are converted either into melamine or back into ammonia and carbon dioxide. The ammonia obtained is mixed with the off gases and returned to the urea plant. The process completely recovers all the products and thus causes zero discharge. It means no raw materials are wasted and no solid, liquid and gaseous products are released into the environment. 76 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI Application Level Check QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 77 GRI and UNGC Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of QAFCO. Fully Pages 6 and 7 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully Pages 6,7,8, 27, 28, 38, 66 2. Organizational Profile Profile Disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully Page 8 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully Pages 6, 8, 73, 74 and 68 2.3 Operational structure of QAFCO, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Fully Pages 11, 12 and 26 and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of QAFCO’s headquarters. Fully Page 8 2.5 Number of countries where QAFCO operates, and names of countries with either major Fully Page 8 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Pages 8 and 26 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of Fully Pages 6, 8, 66, 67 and 73 customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully Pages 8 and 66 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Fully Page 6, 7, 9 and 27 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully Page 13 3. Report Parameters Profile Disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully Page 4 78 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI and UNGC Content Index 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully Page 4 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Fully Page 4 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully Page 4 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully Pages 4, 15 and 16 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, Fully Page 4 suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully There are no specific limitations. (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, Fully Page 4 and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and Fully Page 4 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, Fully There are not any re-statements of information. and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement Fully Data provided in 2010 amended since QAFCO underwent methods applied in the report. an internal validation after submission of the report. More information on page 36. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully Page 77 onwards 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Fully Page 5 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Disclosure Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure 4.1 Governance structure of QAFCO, including committees under the highest governance body Fully Pages 11,12, 20 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Fully Page 20 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the Fully Page 20 highest governance body that are independent and/or Non-executive members. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 79 GRI and UNGC Content Index 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Fully Page 20 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the Fully Page 20 highest governance body that are independent and/or Non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Fully Pages 20, 21 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, Fully Page 21 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and QAFCO’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Fully Page 22 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest Fully Page 20 governance body for guiding QAFCO’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles Fully Page 19 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing QAFCO’s identification and Fully Pages 19-24 management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with Fully Page 20-23 respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by Fully Pages 20-23 QAFCO. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, Fully Page 19, 24 or other initiatives to which QAFCO subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international Fully Page 24 advocacy organizations in which QAFCO: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by QAFCO. Fully Page 17 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully In 2010 on the occasion of our first Sustainability Report, we began to develop an organization-wide strategy and process for systematically engaging with our stakeholders. We used a mapping and prioritization 80 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI and UNGC Content Index process to establish a comprehensive list of our stakeholders. We then prioritized our stakeholders based on their interests and potential influence or impact on QAFCO (i.e. workforce, QP, government through regulations) and vice versa, stakeholders being affected by QAFCO activities and operations such as community, customers etc. In addition, we also carried out industry benchmarking, obtained informal stakeholder feedback and conducted stakeholder impact assessments for specific projects such as new facilities ongoing such as QAFOC 5 & 6 . Through these activities, we were able to: identify and prioritize our stakeholder groups; deepen our understanding of stakeholder expectations and interests; select a variety of stakeholder engagement mechanisms. Additional information on Page 17 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Fully Page 17 More information about specific initiatives & activities in the following chapters: Nurturing our workforce, Supporting our communities, Respecting our environment, Developing our products stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how Fully Page 17 QAFCO has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) G3.1 DMAs Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure IPIECA Indicators UNGC Principles DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Economic Performance Fully Pages 26-28 • Incorporating financial data • SE13. Transparency of payments to host governments QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 81 GRI and UNGC Content Index Market presence Fully Pages 6-8 and 67 • Local content • SE5. Local content Actions Taken practices to Implement • SE6. Local hiring Principles practices 1, 4, 6 and 7 • SE7. Local procurement and supplier development Aspects • Community and Indirect economic impacts Fully Pages 6-7, 8, 15, 23, 44, 52 and 63 society • SE4. Social investment • Business ethics and transparency • SE13. Transparency of payments to host governments DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN IPIECA Indicators UNGC Principles Materials Fully Page 57 • Local environmental impact • E10. Waste • Climate change and Energy Fully Pages 6 and 55 energy • E1. Greenhouse gas emissions • E2. Energy use • E3. Alternative energy sources Actions Taken Water Fully Pages 53 and 54 • Ecosystem services to Implement • E6. Fresh water Principles 7, 8, and 9 82 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI and UNGC Content Index Aspects Biodiversity Fully Pages 6163 • Ecosystem services • E5. Biodiversity and ecosystem services • E1. Greenhouse gas Emissions, effluents and waste Fully Pages 55 60 emissions • Local environmental impact • Other air emissions • EN8. Spills to the environment • EN9. Discharges to water • E10. Waste HS4. Products and services Fully Page 65 -74 Product stewardship Compliance Fully Our Internal Audit Committee, supported by Safety and Environment Committee regarding Environmental Aspects, oversees areas such as compliance with legal and No Specific IPIECA regulatory requirements, internal control Requirement framework and the management of internal and external auditor’s activities. There were no cases of non-compliance reported in 2012 concerning environmental aspects. • E1. Greenhouse gas emissions Transport Not Not available • EN8. Spills to the environment Overall Not Proprietary information DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA IPIECA Indicators UNGC Principles • Incorporating financial Employment Fully Pages 30, 32, 33, 34 and 49 data • SE15. Workforce diversity and inclusion Actions Taken to Labor/management relations Fully Pages 7, 14, 30, 43, 46 and 49 SE16. Implement Principles Workforce engagement 1, 3 and 6 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 83 GRI and UNGC Content Index Occupational health and safety Fully There is one person responsible of all • Workforce protection occupational health and safety aspects of the company: Head Physician • HS1. Workforce Aspects Occupational Health. There is also a Safety participation and Environmental Committee • HS2. Workforce who promotes and considers policy health matters in occupational health & safety and environmental issues of significant • HS3. Occupational importance to the Company. additional injury and illness information: Pages 36-42, 65 and 68 incidents Training and education Fully Pages 6, 14, 17, 22, 30, 33-35, 40, 41, 45, SE17. Workforce 46 and 63 training and development Diversity and equal opportunity Fully Pages 30 and 31 SE15. Workforce diversity and inclusion Equal remuneration for women and men Fully Aligned to Qatar Labor Law, a working woman is paid wages equivalent SE15. Workforce to wage payable to a man, if the nature of diversity and inclusion work is the same, and shall be offered the same opportunities for training and promotion. More information page 30 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR IPIECA Indicators UNGC Principles Investment and procurement practices Fully Please refer to HR2 indicator. More • SE8. Human rights information on Pages 67, 68, 70-72 due diligence Information about Significant investments in • SE9. Human rights Page 27 and suppliers Aspects Non-discrimination Fully Pages 19, 30-31 • SE8. Human rights Actions Taken to due diligence Implement • SE18. Non-retaliation Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and grievance and 6 systems 84 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI and UNGC Content Index • Human rights Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully Qatar's constitution and laws provide for • SE8. Human rights freedom of association, within limits based due diligence on public order and morality concerns. • SE9. Human rights and suppliers Child labor Fully We abide by and obey Labor Law which prevents us from Child Labor practices in our workforce, contractors and suppliers. Please find more information about Qatar • Human rights Labor Law in HR2. Additionally, our workforce, contractors and suppliers are • SE8. Human rights aware of QAFCO's Code of due diligence Conduct & Ethics, which is aligned to Qatar Labor Law. More information can be found in pages 23, 39, 69 Forced and compulsory labor Fully We abide by and obey Qatar Labor Law which prevents us from Forced and Compulsory Labor practices in our workforce, contractors and suppliers. • Human rights Please find more information in HR2. • SE8. Human rights Additionally, our workforce, contractors and due diligence suppliers are aware of QAFCO's Code of Conduct & Ethics, which is aligned to Qatar Labor Law. More information can be found in pages 23, 39, 69 Security practices Fully All our contractors are trained in QAFCO's Code of Conduct & Ethics aligned to Qatar Labor Law. Qatar Labor Law states SE10. Security and procedures and behaviors to be human rights followed regarding human rights compliance. More information can be found in pages 23, 39, 69 SE2. Indigenous rights Not Not applicable Indigenous peoples QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 85 GRI and UNGC Content Index Fully All our operations undergo an environmental SE8. Assessment impact assessment and we ensure that are Human rights due aligned with our code of ethics and conduct. diligence Fully Our Internal Audit team is responsible for overseeing and resolution of any internal grievance issues. Any grievance from the SE18. Customers are registered through nonNon-retaliation and Remediation conformity system and reported to grievance systems the Management. Marketing department ensures the implementation of the procedures. Pages 68 and 69 IPIECA UNGC DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Indicators Principles • Community and Local Communities Fully Pages 44-51 society • SE1. Local community impacts and engagement • Business ethics and Corruption Fully Pages 19, 23 transparency • SE11. Preventing Aspects corruption • Business ethics Public policy Fully Pages 14, 15, 22 and 23 and transparency • SE14. Public Actions Taken to advocacy and Implement Principle lobbying 10 Anti-competitive behavior Partially Pages 22-24 There is no contribution in 2012 to any No Specific political party. IPIECA Requirement 86 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI and UNGC Content Index Compliance Fully Pages 20, 43, 52, 63, 66, 68, 69, 72 • HS4. Product In 2012, there were not cases of non stewardship compliance with laws and regulations. • HS5. Process safety • SE3. Involuntary resettlement IPIECA UNGC DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Indicators Principles HS4. Product Customer health and safety Fully Pages 68, 69 stewardship HS4. Product Product and service labeling Fully Page 68 stewardship Actions Taken to HS4. Product Implement Principles Aspects Marketing communications Fully Pages 66, 67 stewardship 1 and 8 No Specific IPIECA Customer privacy Fully Page 69 Requirement No Specific IPIECA Compliance Fully Pages 69 -71 Requirement STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators IPIECA UNGC Indicator Disclosure Living of Reporting Location of disclosure Indicators Principles Economic: Economic Performance EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Fully Page 26 Additional, Annual report • Climate change and energy report including revenues, operating costs, • Incorporating financial data employee compensation, donations and other • SE4. Social investment No Specific community investments, retained earnings, • SE13. Transparency of payments to host COP Requirement and payments to capital providers and governments. governments • SE14. Public advocacy and lobbying QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 87 GRI and UNGC Content Index EC 2 Financial implications and other risks and Fully Page 28 Actions Taken to opportunities for the organization's activities Climate change and Implement due to climate change. energy Principle 7 EC 3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit Fully Pages 26, 32 No Specific No Specific plan obligations. IPIECA Requirement COP Requirement EC 4 Significant financial assistance received Fully QAFCO did not receive any financial SE13. Transparency No Specific COP from government. value assistance from the government of payments to host Requirement in 2012. governments Economic: Market Presence EC 5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by Fully There is no minimum wage established in Outcomes from SE15. Workforce Implementing gender compared to local minimum wage at the State of Qatar diversity and inclusion Principle 1 significant locations of operation. EC 6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Fully Pages 33-35 Qatarization • SE5. Local content locally-based suppliers at significant locations practices of operation. No Specific • SE7. Local COP Requirement procurement and supplier development EC 7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Fully Pages 33 -35 Qatarization Actions Taken and SE6. Local management hired from the local community at Outcomes from hiring practices significant locations of operation. Implementing Principle 6 Economic: Indirect Economic Impacts EC 8 Development and impact of infrastructure Fully Pages 62 63 investments and services provided primarily for SE4. Social investment No Specific public benefit through commercial, in-kind, COP Requirement or pro bono engagement. EC 9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Fully Pages 6 7, 8, 15, 23, 44, 52 and 63 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. SE6. Local No Specific hiring practices COP Requirement 88 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI and UNGC Content Index IPIECA UNGC Indicator Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure Indicators Principles EN 1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully Page 57 No Specific Outcomes from IPIECA Requirement Implementing Principle 8 EN 2 Percentage of materials used that are Fully Page 55 E10. Waste Outcomes from recycled input materials. Implementing Principles 8 and 9 Environmental: Energy EN 3 Direct energy consumption by primary Fully Page 55 E2. Energy use Outcomes from energy source. Implementing Principle 8 EN 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully Most of the electricity consumed at QAFCO is catered from Internal generation. A small share (294,411 MWh) is purchased from Qatar General Electricity & Water E2. Energy use Outcomes from Corporation (KAHRAMAA), the sole Implementing transmission and distribution system owner Principle 8 and operator (TDSOO) for the electricity and water sector in Qatar. EN 5 Energy saved due to conservation and Partially Page 55, 62 E2. Energy use Outcomes from efficiency improvements. Implementing Principles 8 and 9 EN 6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Fully Page 55, 62 E3. Alternative Actions Taken to renewable energy based products and energy sources Implement Principles services, and reductions in energy 8 and 9 requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Actions Taken to consumption and reductions achieved. Fully In 2012 there were no initiatives in E2. Energy use Implement Principles place to reduce indirect energy consumption. 8 and 9 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 89 GRI and UNGC Content Index Environmental: Water E6. Fresh water Outcomes from EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully Page 53 Implementing Principle 8 E6. Fresh water Outcomes from EN 9 Water sources significantly affected by Fully Pages 53 54 Implementing withdrawal of water. Principle 8 E6. Fresh water Outcomes from EN 10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Fully Page 53 Implementing and reused. Principle 8 and 9 Environmental: Biodiversity EN 11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Fully Page 61 E5. Biodiversity and Outcomes from in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of ecosystem services Implementing high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Principle 8 EN 12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Fully Page 61 products, and services on biodiversity in protected E5. Biodiversity and Outcomes from areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside ecosystem services Implementing protected areas. Principle 8 EN 13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully Page 61-63 E5. Biodiversity and Outcomes from ecosystem services Implementing Principle 8 EN 14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Fully Page 6163 E5. Biodiversity and Outcomes from managing impacts on biodiversity. ecosystem services Implementing Principle 8 EN 15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Not Not available E5. Biodiversity and Outcomes from conservation list species with habitats in areas ecosystem services Implementing affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Principle 8 90 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI and UNGC Content Index Indicator Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure IPIECA UNGC Environmental: Emissions, Effluents and Waste Indicators Principles EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Fully Page 55 E1. Greenhouse Outcomes from emissions by weight. gas emissions Implementing Principle 8 EN 17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Not Not available E1. Greenhouse Outcomes from emissions by weight. gas emissions Implementing Principle 8 E1. Greenhouse Actions Taken and EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Fully Page 55 gas emissions Outcomes from and reductions achieved. Implementing Principles 7, 8 and 9 EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Fully Page 56 Other air emissions Outcomes from by weight. Implementing Principle 8 EN 20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Fully Page 56 Other air emissions Outcomes from by type and weight. Implementing Principle 8 EN 21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully Page 53 EN9. Outcomes from Discharges to water Implementing Principle 8 EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Fully Pages 57 59 E10. Waste Outcomes from method. Implementing Principle 8 EN 23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully Pages 59 Outcomes from EN8. Spills to the Implementing environment Principle 8 EN 24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, Fully Page 57 or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Outcomes from terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, E10. Waste Implementing and VIII, and percentage of transported waste Principle 8 shipped internationally. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 91 GRI and UNGC Content Index EN 25 Identity, size, protected status, and Fully Pages 53, 54, 61 and 63 • E5. Biodiversity and Outcomes from biodiversity value of water bodies and related ecosystem services Implementing habitats significantly affected by the reporting • EN9. Discharges Principle 8 organization's discharges of water and runoff. to water Environmental: Products and Services EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Fully Pages 52 64 HS4. Actions Taken to products and services, and extent of impact Product stewardship Implement Principles mitigation. 7, 8 and 9 EN 27 Percentage of products sold and their Fully Packaging material not reclaimed No Specific IPIECA Outcomes from packaging materials that are reclaimed by Requirement Implementing category. Principles 8 and 9 Environmental: Compliance EN 28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully No non-compliance in 2012. No Specific IPIECA Outcomes from number of non-monetary sanctions for Requirement Implementing non-compliance with environmental laws Principle 8 and regulations. Environmental: Transport EN 29 Significant environmental impacts of Not Not available • E1. Greenhouse gas transporting products and other goods and emission Outcomes from materials used for the organization's Implementing • EN8. Spills to the operations, and transporting members of Principle 8 environment the workforce. Environmental: Overall EN 30 Total environmental protection expenditures Not Proprietary information No Specific Actions Taken and and investments by type. IPIECA Requirement Outcomes from Implementing Principles 7, 8 and 9 92 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI and UNGC Content Index Indicator Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure IPIECA UNGC Social: Employment Indicators Principles LA 1 Total workforce by employment type, Fully Page 30 and 31 • Incorporating employment contract, and region, broken down financial data No Specific COP by gender. emissions by weight Requirement • SE15. Workforce diversity and inclusion LA 2 Total number and rate of new employee hires Fully Page 33 • Incorporating Outcomes from and employee turnover by age group, gender, financial data and region. Implementing • SE15. Workforce Principle 6 diversity and inclusion LA 3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Fully Pages 32 35 No Specific IPIECA No Specific are not provided to temporary or part-time Requirement COP Requirement employees, by major operations. LA 15 Return to work and retention rates after Fully There were no employees entitle to No Specific IPIECA No Specific parental leave, by gender. parental leave in 2012 Requirement COP Requirement For more information Page 32 Social: Labor/management relations LA 4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Fully Collective bargaining agreements are not • Human rights Outcomes from bargaining agreements. allowed in the State of Qatar • SE8. Human rights Implementing due diligence Principles 1 and 3 • SE16. Workforce engagement LA 5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Fully Page 32 SE16. Workforce Outcomes from operational changes, including whether it is engagement Implementing specified in collective agreements. Principle 3 Social: Occupational Health and Safety LA 6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal Fully Page 37 HS1. Workforce Outcomes from joint management-worker health and safety participation Implementing committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs. Principle 1 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 93 GRI and UNGC Content Index LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Fully Pages 36 and 37 HS3. Occupational Outcomes from lost days, and absenteeism, and number of injury and illness Implementing Principle 1 work-related fatalities by region and by gender. incidents LA 8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, Fully Pages 33-35 ,40, 41 and 47 Qatarization and risk-control programs in place to assist Actions Taken to HS2. Workforce health workforce members, their families, or Implement Principle 1 community members regarding serious diseases. LA 9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Fully Trade unions are not allowed in the • HS1. Workforce Actions Taken to agreements with trade unions. State of Qatar. participation Implement Principle 1 • SE16. Workforce engagement Social: Training and Education LA 10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Fully All our employees receive at least 16 hours SE17. Workforce No Specific COP gender, and by employee category. of training per year regardless gender and training and Requirement employee category. Page 35 development LA 11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Fully Pages 33 35 SE17. Workforce No Specific COP that support the continued employability of employees training and Requirement and assist them in managing career endings. development LA 12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Fully Page 35 SE17. Workforce training No Specific COP performance and career development reviews, and development Requirement by gender. Social: Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Fully All Board of Directors' members are males. There are 2 members under 30-50 years group and SE15. Workforce Outcomes from of employees per employee category according to 6 members above 50 years old. For additional diversity and Implementing gender, age group, minority group membership, information please consult Pages 20-21 inclusion Principles 1 and 6 and other indicators of diversity. Social: Equal remuneration for women and men LA 14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Fully Page 30 SE15. Workforce Outcomes from men by employee category, by significant locations diversity and inclusion Implementing of operation. Principles 1 and 6 94 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI and UNGC Content Index Indicator Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure IPIECA UNGC Social: Investment and procurement practices Indicators Principles HR 1 Percentage and total number of significant Fully Pages 27, 39 and 72 Outcomes from investment agreements and contracts that include SE8. Human rights Implementing clauses incorporating human rights concerns, due diligence Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or that have undergone human rights screening. and 6 HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers, Partially In 2012 none of our contractors & suppliers was Actions Taken and contractors and other business partners that declined as a result of human rights screening. SE9. Human rights Outcomes from have undergone human rights screening, More information on Pages 39-41 and 72 and suppliers Implementing Principles and actions taken. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 HR 3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Fully Page 35 SE8. Human rights Outcomes from procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Implementing Principles are relevant to operations, including the percentage due diligence 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of employees trained. Social: Non-discrimination HR 4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Fully No incidents reported in 2012 • SE8. Human rights Actions Taken and corrective actions taken. due diligence Outcomes from • SE18. Non-retaliation Implementing and grievance systems Principles 1, 2 and 6 Social: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining • Human rights Actions Taken to HR 5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in Fully Qatar's constitution and laws provide for which the right to exercise freedom of association freedom of association, within limits based on • SE8. Human rights Implement and collective bargaining may be violated or at public order and morality concerns. due diligence Principles 1, 2 and 3 significant risk, and actions taken to support these • SE9. Human rights rights. and suppliers Social: Child Labor HR 6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as Fully No incidents reported in 2012 • Human rights Actions Taken to having significant risk for incidents of child labor, • SE8. Human rights due Implement and measures taken to contribute to the effective diligence Principles 1, 2 and 5 abolition of child labor. • SE9. Human rights and suppliers QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 95 GRI and UNGC Content Index Social: Forced and Compulsory Labor HR 7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as Fully No incidents reported in 2012 having significant risk for incidents of forced or • Human rights Actions Taken to compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to • SE8. Human rights Implement the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory due diligence Principles 1, 2 and 4 labor. Social: Security Practices HR 8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Fully Security personnel are also contractors. All Outcomes from organization's policies or procedures concerning contractors undergo induction trainings on SE10. Security Implementing aspects of human rights that are relevant to Health & Safety and QAFCO Code of Conduct and human rights Principles 1 and 2 operations. & Ethics. Social: Indigenous rights HR 9 Total number of incidents of violations involving Not Not applicable SE2. Indigenous peoples Actions Taken and rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Outcomes from Implementing Principles 1 and 2 Social: Assessment HR 10 Percentage and total number of operations that Fully We abide by and obey Qatar Labor Law. We SE8. Human rights No Specific COP have been subject to human rights reviews and/or ensure that our operations are developed due diligence Requirement impact assessments. to comply with local laws. All our operations undergo an environmental impact assessment and we ensure that are aligned with our code of ethics and conduct. More information Page 27, 70-72 Social: Remediation HR 11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, Fully No incidents reported in 2012 SE18. Non-retaliation No Specific COP addressed and resolved through formal and grievance systems Requirement grievance mechanisms. 96 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI and UNGC Content Index Indicator Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure IPIECA UNGC Social: Local communities Indicators Principles SO 1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Fully All our contracts undergo an evaluation of SE1. Local community community engagement, impact assessments, environmental impacts associated. Please impacts and engagement and development programs. find additional information in Pages 61-64 SO 9 Operations with significant potential or actual SE1. Local community No Specific COP negative impacts on local communities. Fully Pages 61 64 impacts and engagement Requirement SO 10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in Fully Pages 60 64 SE1. Local community No Specific COP operations with significant potential or actual impacts and engagement Requirement negative impacts on local communities. Social: Society Corruption SO 2 Percentage and total number of business units Fully Pages 22 23 • SE11. Preventing analyzed for risks related to corruption. corruption Outcomes from Implementing • SE12. Preventing corruption involving Principle 10 business partners SO 3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's Fully All employees receive induction in QAFCO's anti-corruption policies and procedures. Code of Conduct & Ethics i.e. Fraud Outcomes from SE11. Awareness Framework, Whistle Blowing Implementing Preventing corruption Policy, QAFCO values and principles, Principle 10 behavior, etc. SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully No non-compliance • SE11. Preventing corruption Actions Taken to Implement • SE12. Preventing Principle 10 corruption involving business partners Social: Public Policy SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public Not SE14. Public advocacy Actions Taken to policy development and lobbying. and lobbying Implement Principles 1-10 SO 6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Fully No contribution in 2012 SE14. Public advocacy Outcomes from political parties, politicians, and related institutions and lobbying Implementing by country. Principle 10 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 97 GRI and UNGC Content Index Social: Society Anti-Competitive Behavior SO 7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Fully No non compliance No Specific IPIECA No Specific behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and Requirement COP Requirement their outcomes. Social: Society Compliance SO 8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Fully No non-compliance No Specific IPIECA No Specific COP of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Requirement Requirement laws and regulations. Indicator Disclosure Level of reporting Location of disclosure IPIECA UNGC Social: Customer health and safety Indicators Principles PR 1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts Fully Pages 70 -74 Actions Taken and of products and services are assessed for HS4. Product stewardship Outcomes from improvement, and percentage of significant products Implementing Principle 1 and services categories subject to such procedures. PR 2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully No non compliance Outcomes from regulations and voluntary codes concerning health Implementing HS4. Product stewardship and safety impacts of products and services during Principle 1 their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Social: Product and Service Labeling PR 3 Type of product and service information required by Fully Page 68, 73 and 74 Actions Taken procedures and percentage of significant products and Outcomes HS4. Product stewardship and services subject to such information from Implementing requirements. Principle 8 PR 4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully No non compliance Outcomes from regulations and voluntary codes concerning product Implementing HS4. Product stewardship and service information and labeling, Principle 8 by type of outcomes. PR 5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Fully Pages 20, 21, 43, 69, 72 No Specific COP results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Requirement 98 QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI and UNGC Content Index Social: Marketing Communications PR 6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Fully Although QAFCO has not adherence to any and voluntary codes related to marketing specific law regarding marketing communication, communications, including advertising, promotion, we have in place our own mechanisms to and sponsorship. guarantee a transparent promotion and HS4. Product stewardship No Specific advertising of our company and products. COP Requirement Information about QAFCO mechanisms can be found in the following pages: Pages 19, 24, 65 PR 7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully No incidents reported in 2012 regulations and voluntary codes concerning No Specific HS4. Product stewardship COP Requirement marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Social: Customer Privacy PR 8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Fully No non compliance No Specific IPIECA Outcomes from breaches of customer privacy and losses of Requirement Implementing customer data. Principle 1 Social: Compliance PR 9 Monetary value of significant fines for Fully No non compliance No Specific No Specific non-compliance with laws and regulations IPIECA Requirement COP Requirement concerning the provision and use of products and ervices. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 99 For feedback on the report, please contact: Mr. Hamed Ahmed Al-Marwani, Chief Administration Officer, Qatar Fertiliser Company (S.AQ) P.O.Box: 50001, Mesaieed, Qatar. Tel: +974 4422 8888 Fax: +974 4477 0347 Email: hmarwani@qafco.com.qa
