United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Financial Report 2012 Financial Report 2012 of NRW.BANK Contents 2 Corporate Responsibility 32 Report on Public Corporate Governance 51 Report of the Supervisory Board 52 Management Report 86 Balance Sheet 90 Profit and Loss Account 92 Notes 118 Cash Flow Statement 120 Equity Capital 121 Reproduction of the Auditor’s Report 122 Responsibility Statement 123 Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion 126 Members of the Advisory Board 130 Organisation Chart 132 NRW.BANK at a Glance Financial Report 2012  1 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility In fulfilling its role as the development bank for the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK activities, starting from its strategic and business acknowledges its corporate responsibility. The Bank policy decisions to the shaping of its range of understands the concept of corporate responsibility as products and services down to the implementation a transparent, responsible and living process involving of specific financings, its capital market activities its customers, its employees and society at large. In and its offering of consulting services. this context, the Bank believes that the economical, 2. One of the essential cornerstones of the ecological and social dimensions of sustainability are sustainability strategy pursued by NRW.BANK inseparably linked. is transparent and responsible treatment of its owner, customers, employees and its stake­ Since 2008, the “Principles of Corporate Responsibility holders at large. NRW.BANK lives up to this at NRW.BANK” have defined the framework for ­ commitment based on its Public Corporate NRW.BANK’s approach to sustainability. Besides basic Governance Code. In addition, NRW.BANK has rules on sustainable behaviour in dealings with defined the core elements of its corporate customers, employees and society, these principles mission in its corporate mission statement. also take i­nto account the special parameters under 3. Rules on compliance and money laundering which ­NRW.BANK operates, namely its public mission, prevention are integral elements of NRW.BANK’s the “Verständigung II” agreement1 and the house bank business processes. They are designed to help principle. During the past fiscal year, the internal the Bank prevent corruption, bribery and money directive was revised in order to reflect developments laundering. In addition, NRW.BANK has installed that have occured during the past years. The updated binding regulations for the confidential treatment principles came into force in December 2012, when of information, for example company and they were adopted by the Board of Guarantors of business secrets, by its employees. NRW.BANK. 4. To safeguard its competition-neutral status, NRW.BANK complies with the principle of The “Principles of Corporate Responsibility at non-discrimination. NRW.BANK” also define the framework for NRW.BANK’s 5. When commissioning third parties, NRW.BANK Sustainability Report. will pay attention not only to cost-efficiency but also to environmental protection, energy efficiency, female promotion and social aspects Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility in accordance with applicable legal regulations. 6. To confirm its sustainability targets, NRW.BANK 1. NRW.BANK considers sustainability to be a central will verify their attainment at regular intervals guiding principle and a key criterion in taking and join national and international initiatives decisions on business policy. This credo is or sign the voluntary commitments developed by reflected in all phases of NRW.BANK’s corporate such initiatives. For instance, NRW.BANK has 1  he public mission of NRW.BANK is based on the provisions of the T “Verständigung II” agreement reached between the Federal Republic of Germany and the EU Commission. According to this agreement, NRW.BANK will permanently benefit from institutional and guarantor liability and the explicit guarantee granted by the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. In turn, NRW.BANK will be subject to certain business restrictions detailed in the agreement. 2 Financial Report 2012 Pursuant to the Act on NRW.BANK (see Section 3, signed the ten principles of the UN Global para. 1) and its statutes (see Section 5, para. 1), the Compact, the Finance Initiative of the United Bank gears all its activities to the principle of Nations Environment Programme as well as the sus­t ainability. For NRW.BANK this means within its German Diversity Charter. possibilities, “to meet the needs and aspirations of 7. NRW.BANK reviews its day-to-day work the present without compromising the ability to meet processes in light of sustainability-related those of the future”1. aspects. The Bank will continue to improve the sustainability of its business activities and make The Bank has anchored sustainability also in its overall the progress achieved measurable wherever strategy. For NRW.BANK and its guarantor, it is a possible. Focal points of these efforts include the general principle of Bank-wide significance for the integration of sustainability-related issues into strategic positioning that the Bank gears all its departmental tasks, products, guidelines and activities to the principle of sustainability, with the processes as well as the integration of details defined in the “Principles of Corporate sustainability aspects into the credit and Responsibility at NRW.BANK”. investment processes. 8. NRW.BANK publishes regular reports on the In this context, the integration of sustainability into the further development of its internal guidelines as Bank’s internal processes is an important precondition well as its activities in the individual areas and for the successful implementation of NRW.BANK’s the progress achieved. sustainability strategy, to which the development bank will therefore continue to attach great importance. The Bank has successfully installed an internal process for the introduction of new development and promotion In its function as state development bank, NRW.BANK products as well as the refinement and expansion assists the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and its of existing ones. As part of this process, products are municipal corporations in the fulfilment of their public checked for sustainability-related risks as well as for tasks, especially in the fields of structural, economic, compliance with the Principles of Corporate social and housing policy. The Bank consequently bears Responsibility prior to their introduction. an important responsibility towards the people, companies, municipalities and the business sector Statutory Framework and Internal Regulations in North Rhine-Westphalia. Labour Standards and Human Rights As the development bank of the state of North RhineAs a public sector institution, NRW.BANK is subject to Westphalia, NRW.BANK works for its clients in the the “Verständigung II” agreement and operates in a region. Where its own business operations are non-discriminatory manner in the banking sector. For concerned, the Bank is fully and thoroughly committed this purpose, it cooperates closely with the banks in to compliance with human rights and with the labour North Rhine-Westphalia. standards that are applicable in Germany as well as to the rejection of child and forced labour. The Bank therefore incorporated these topics in its Principles of Corporate Responsibility in the past fiscal year. 1 B  rundtland-Report, World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED), 1987. Financial Report 2012  3 Corporate Responsibility Equal Opportunities and Principle of compliance-related tasks. The latter not only imple­ Non-discrimination ments and controls the necessary measures but also NRW.BANK attaches great importance to nonsupports and advises the Managing Board and the discrimination and mutual respect. Equal opportunities management team in all compliance-related matters, and the prohibition of discrimination therefore for example through an annual report. represent an important element of “Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees” and support a fair Prevention plays an important role in connection with working environment within NRW.BANK: this issue. Employees are informed and their awareness is raised through regular face-to-face training as well The “Fairness at Work” labour agreement came into as written internal compliance policies. force in 2007 to promote mutual respect and fight discrimination, sexual harassment in the workplace All this ensures that compliance-relevant information is and mobbing within NRW.BANK. treated confidentially within the Bank. The aim of the Bank is to meet all compliance-related legal regulations In addition, the Bank has appointed an Equal and other regulatory provisions in order to prevent Opportunities Officer, who acts as the designated potential violations. complaint recipient under the German General Equal Treatment Act. She assists all employees who have Money Laundering Prevention suffered discrimination or harassment in spite of the Money laundering is defined as the deliberate act of precautionary measures taken. acquiring and possessing assets obtained through illegal activities and introducing such assets into the NRW.BANK has developed an Equal Opportunities Plan, financial system while concealing or camouflaging which comprises a catalogue of measures on the their origin. This definition also covers the collection subjects of recruitment, human resources development and provision of assets for the purpose of committing and balancing work and family life. This plan is updated criminal acts, in particular terrorist activities. It is at regular intervals of three years, most recently on imperative for the Bank to prevent money laundering July 1, 2010. within its sphere of influence. Under the Equal Opportunities Plan, NRW.BANK aims Key tasks of money laundering prevention at NRW.BANK for an increased percentage of female employees in include the development, implementation and updating more highly remunerated specialist and management of internal principles, appropriate business-specific and positions, raising employee awareness for equal customer-specific safeguarding systems and anti-money opportunities issues and a better balance of work and laundering controls. family life. Progress achieved is reviewed continuously and documented in the progress report of the Equal To ensure compliance with legal regulations, NRW.BANK Opportunities Plan. has appointed a Money Laundering Officer. The latter advises, informs and trains employees at regular face-toCompliance face training sessions as part of a preventive approach. Compliance with statutory and regulatory provisions is In addition, the Money Laundering Officer prepares an integral element of NRW.BANK’s processes and a bank-wide annual analysis of the Bank’s exposure to organisation. NRW.BANK has installed an independent money laundering risks and reports directly to the team and appointed a Compliance Officer to handle all Managing Board. 4 Financial Report 2012 Sustainable Procurement were employed under collective bargaining In response to the coming into force of the “Tariftreueagreements. und Vergabegesetz Nordrhein-Westfalen” on May 1, 2012, NRW.BANK adjusted its procurement processes The interests and needs of NRW.BANK’s employees are to the new law in the past fiscal year. additionally represented by a staff council formed in accordance with the North Rhine-Westphalian State These adjustments primarily relate to the cooperation Staff Representation Act. Its remit includes monitoring with the Bank’s suppliers and service providers. compliance with applicable laws, regulations, collective Implementation of these changes means that aspects bargaining agreements and labour agreements. The of female promotion, environmental protection and annual staff assembly gives all employees of the Bank energy efficiency as well as social issues are binding the opportunity to inform themselves about the staff requirements in the procurement of goods and council’s activities. services. Initiatives Public Corporate Governance Code In 2009, NRW.BANK joined the three initiatives below The coming into force of the Public Corporate in order to lend meaning to its sustainability targets Governance Code of NRW.BANK on January 1, 2006 and to make a contribution to the tasks identified also made NRW.BANK one of the first public-sector outside its own organisation, as laid down in its companies in Germany to commit itself to transparent Principles of Corporate Responsibility. and responsible corporate governance. On the basis of this voluntary commitment, the Bank implements German Diversity Charter transparency and responsibility in its dealings with The German Diversity Charter aims to promote its internal and external target groups. In this context, the recognition, respect and implementation of it is important to give adequate consideration to diversity in German enterprises. By signing the the peculiarities resulting from NRW.BANK’s legally Charter, the Bank committed itself to creating a framed remit as a competition-neutral and largely working environment free of prejudices and social budget-independent development bank as well as from exclusion, so that people can enjoy the same the regulations under institutional law and banking appreciation irrespective of their gender, age, supervision. The state of North Rhine-Westphalia is nationality, ethnic background, religion, handicap currently drawing up a state-wide code of conduct. or beliefs. Following its adoption, the boards of NRW.BANK will consult on an amendment of NRW.BANK’s Public United Nations Environment Programme Corporate Governance Code and its eventual adoption. Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) UNEP FI is the name of a global partnership between Freedom of Association and Right to the United Nations Environment Pro­gramme Collective Bargaining and the financial sector. By signing the UNEP Being a public bank, NRW.BANK is subject to the Statement of Commitment by Financial Institutions collective bargaining agreement for the private-sector on Sustainable Development, NRW.BANK and public banking industry and implements the committed itself to aligning its business activities collectively agreed results for its employees. As of with the goal of sustainable development and to December 31, 2012, 68.7% of the Bank’s employees pursuing far-sighted environmental management. Financial Report 2012  5 Corporate Responsibility UN Global Compact NRW.BANK’s annual financial report is a key instru­ The UN Global Compact is a voluntary initiative ment for the communication of sustainability issues to by the United Nations. This international initiative the Bank’s stakeholders. To depict the trend in the has framed ten key principles on human rights, ecological and social key figures even more accurately, labour standards, corruption prevention and they are shown in a three-year comparison. environmental protection. NRW.BANK endorses these principles within its own sphere of Furthermore, NRW.BANK has developed additional responsibility and helps put them into practice. web pages on “Corporate Responsibility”, with the aim of increasing transparency towards its stakeholders By signing these three initiatives, NRW.BANK commit­ and offer additional services in the form of information ted itself to embracing the specific issues addressed downloads and contact details. This aim was suc­ by each initiative and incorporating them – wherever cessfully reached: together with the web pages on possible – into its own business processes. Therefore, corporate citizenship and the Public Corporate during its regular review process in 2012, the Bank Governance Code, these web pages have been on line incorporated issues such as human rights, labour in German and English since the beginning of 2012 and standards and the prevention of corruption into its have recorded over 2,600 page views since. For feed­ “Principles of Corporate Responsibility at NRW.BANK”. back and inquiries, the Bank set up a contact address at nachhaltigkeit@nrwbank.de in the past fiscal year. Stakeholder Dialogue NRW.BANK’s most important stakeholders with regard NRW.BANK communicates and liaises closely with its to corporate responsibility are: guarantor, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. For instance, the Bank supports the North RhineWestphalian government in attaining its energy and Employees Guarantor climate protection targets and implementing social and infrastructure projects. New promotion products are Customers Sustainability developed and existing ones refined in close Rating Agencies consultation between the Bank and its guarantor. Investors NRW.BANK Initiatives/NGOs In 2012, the subject “Sustainability” was an integral Suppliers Media element of the Bank’s internal communication. Practical environmental responsibility tips were offered ... on a weekly basis on the intranet to inform employees about possibilities for savings and improvements, especially with regard to environmental protection. This way, employees were constantly exposed to this topic and invited to engage with it on a meaningful level. 6 Financial Report 2012 Inquiries and suggestions submitted by employees via An important sustainability-related task for the Bank is an internal communication tool showed that many to review its work processes and internal regulations to employees of the Bank are sensitive to environmental identify potential for optimisation and implement the issues and sent in ideas to promote environmentally respective changes. responsible behaviour. Sustainability Ratings The key topic of the Bank’s sustainability efforts in the Investors’ interest in sustainable investments continued year 2012 was “Energy”, which was also reflected in to increase in the fiscal year. Besides the classic the quarterly employee magazine, “KOMM MIT“ and in economic factors, investors are beginning to place the “prospect” supplement to the Annual Report. greater weight on social and environmental aspects. Sustainability-based ratings are available to support Outlook investors in their decisions. “Energy“ also remains one of NRW.BANK’s key topics in 2013. Against the background of this key topic, As an issuer in the international capital market, greater transparency of all aspects related to NRW.BANK is rated specifically for its corporate “Corporate Responsibility” will remain an important responsibility performance. In the 2012 rating goal for NRW.BANK’s communication with its internal processes, NRW.BANK scored good ratings from such and external stakeholders. The Bank therefore addresses sustainability rating agencies as Sustainalytics GmbH, this topic again in “prospect 2012“, high­lighting oekom research AG and imug. additional aspects and promotion possibilities. Sustainability Ratings imug oekom research Sustainalytics Rating positive Prime No. 17 of 62* * Above the peer group average. Financial Report 2012  7 Corporate Responsibility Sustainable behaviour is a central objective of Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients NRW.BANK’s business model and materially influences the contents and the design of its promotion products 1. NRW.BANK provides its financing and advisory and services. services creatively, competently and responsibly for the benefit of businesses, municipalities and In terms of contents, NRW.BANK’s promotion products the people in North Rhine-Westphalia. and services are divided into three fields of promotion: 2. In accordance with its sustainability strategy, “Seed & Growth”, “Development & Protection” and NRW.BANK specifically promotes and funds “Housing & Living”. These form the core of NRW.BANK’s projects and programmes designed to improve promotion strategy and at the same time denote the living conditions, social development as well primary target areas. Specific promotion themes that as environmental and climate protection in describe the focal promotion points are assigned to North Rhine-Westphalia. In its capacity as the each of the three fields of promotion. There are ten development bank for North Rhine-Westphalia, different promotion themes. Each promotion product NRW.BANK specifically supports investments is assigned to a particular promotion theme. which take the North Rhine-Westphalian economy and infrastructure forward. The Bank The expansion and refinement of the product portfolio uses part of its own income for its promotion are driven by the promotion policy principles adopted activities. by the Board of Guarantors and NRW.BANK’s pro­ 3. NRW.BANK’s promotion activities are geared to motion strategy, which builds on these principles. funding projects of proven economic viability Both elements facilitate the consistent and sustainable while taking its customers’ interests into account development of the promotion business taking into and paying particular attention to environmental account the political guidelines of the North Rhineprotection needs. Projects with unacceptable West­­phalian government. The Bank and the North environmental impacts or unacceptable negative Rhine-Westphalian govern­ment jointly aim to provide impacts on social development are excluded sustainable promotion and development solutions for from NRW.BANK’s support to the extent that the economy, the muni­ci­pa­li­ties and the people in such exclusion is permissible within the legal North Rhine-Westphalia. In 2012, the expansion and framework under which NRW.BANK operates. refinement of the product portfolio again focused on the expansion of the offerings made in the field of promotion “Development & Protection”. Promotion Services Provided by NRW.BANK Municipalities Start-ups Other Infrastructure SME Se e d ng & Housing & L Gr owth iv Social Infrastructure Exports i ec tio t n Housing De ro Education velopment & P Environment/Climate/Energy Innovation 8 Financial Report 2012 The free provision of monetary and non-monetary Promotion Volume by Fields of Promotion in % resources and the use of own income for the promotion business – referred to as “Förderleistung“ – are integral Development & elements of the Bank’s strategy for the design of its Protection 15 promotion products and services. Interest rate subsidies continue to represent one component of the “Förder­ Housing & Seed & Living 56 leistung”. Assumption of risk and free services and Growth 29 provisions, such as for example advisory services for customers and support services for multipliers and house banks round off the Bank’s “Förderleistung”. In its function as a conduit institution for the North Rhine-Westphalian savings banks, NRW.BANK plays an Seed & Growth important role in the promotion business not only Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone through its own promotion products but also when it of the North Rhine-Westphalian economy. They comes to channelling through promotion programmes represent more than 85% of all employees, almost of KfW Bankengruppe and Landwirtschaftliche Renten­ 90% of all trainees and apprentices and over 99% of all bank to the savings banks. businesses. Accordingly, providing small and mediumsized enterprises with capital, especially with lowTo fund its promotion activities, NRW.BANK also uses interest (promotion) loans has therefore always been funds made available to it by other development insti­tu­ a top priority of NRW.BANK. tions, especially KfW Bankengruppe, Land­wirt­schaft­ liche Rentenbank, the European Investment Bank as In 2012, some of the promotion programmes were well as the Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB). revised to make the range of promotion products and services even more attractive. Accordingly, the pro­ In terms of new promotion business, 2012 was the most motion result of just under € 2.8 billion even exceeded successful year in the history of NRW.BANK. The Bank the previous year’s good result of € 2.4 billion. The new extended promotion funds totalling € 9.5 billion, thus business volume picked up especially in the promotion exceeding the previous year’s good promotion result of themes “Start-ups” and “SME”. The promotion theme € 8.1 billion by 17.3%. The chart below shows a break­ “Exports” also showed a positive trend. down of the promotion volume by fields of promotion. The promotion of established SMEs – and of the field of promotion itself – continues to be dominated by the NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit, which is the promotion programme with the highest volume. Under this programme, more than 4,700 North Rhine-Westphalian enterprises received interest-subsidised loans for investments and working capital in a total amount of € 1.5 billion in 2012 (2011: 3,156 recipients; € 1.1 billion). Financial Report 2012  9 Corporate Responsibility In addition, the NRW.BANK.Universalkredit also loss cushion thanks to the mandatory subordination established itself as a further cornerstone of SME agreement and generally qualifies as “economic equity” promotion. Under this programme, the Bank extended in a rating process. NRW.BANK grants mezzanine development loans totalling € 486.2 million in capital in the form of two coordinated products: 2012 (2011: € 424.4 million). With freely selectable matu­rities between three and ten years, this loan The NRW.BANK.Mittelstandsfonds provides mezmeets the recipients’ demand for greater flexibility zanine capital that can be individually structured and is a meaningful complement to the NRW.BANK. in the form of dormant shareholdings from € 1 to 7 Mittelstandskredit. million. It is targeted at enterprises focusing on the flexible adjustment of internal cash flows and a To give small and medium-sized enterprises access to stronger orientation towards the characteristics of development loans even if they lack sufficient collateral, classic equity capital. NRW.BANK successively expanded its range of liability By contrast, the NRW/EU.Investitionskapital is releases over the past years: funded from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and by the state of North RhineWith the NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit and the Westphalia and provides standardised mezzanine NRW.BANK.Universalkredit, an optional 50% capital in the form of subordinated loans at very liability release to the benefit of the house bank favourable conditions. is available. This liability release partially frees the house bank from its liability for servicing the Demand for both products picked up markedly in 2012. development loan towards NRW.BANK. This At € 24.5 million, commitments under the NRW.BANK. increases local banks’ readiness to grant Mittelstandsfonds alone were more than twice as high development loans even if only limited collateral as in the previous year. can be furnished. For the NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit, the Bank Support for business start-ups has been from the very additionally introduced the “EIF liability release” beginning one of the main economic development of 60% for small and medium-sized enterprises, tasks of NRW.BANK. The Bank nurtures start-up activity as defined by the EU, in 2012. In offering this in North Rhine-Westphalia predominantly through product, NRW.BANK and other state development its NRW.BANK.Gründungskredit, which offers interestbanks draw on a back-up guarantee underwritten subsidised loans for start-up entrepreneurs. In 2012, by the European Investment Fund (EIF) and 1,719 start-up and growth projects with a total volume funded from the Competitiveness and Innovation of € 335.7 million (2011: 1,150 projects; € 200.4 million) Framework Programme of the European Union. were supported by this programme. Alternatively an 80% default guarantee from Bürg­ The NRW/EU.Mikrodarlehen, a programme funded schaftsbank NRW may be applied for under both by the ERDF and the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, programmes. is targeted specifically at micro start-ups with funding needs of up to € 25,000. At the end of 2012, To externally strengthen their equity capital, small and NRW.BANK extended the 500th loan under this pro­ medium-sized enterprises preferably use mezzanine gramme. Given that these micro loans are unsecured, capital, as this instrument has no impact on their they are particularly suitable for unemployed people owner­ship structure. It offers the additional advantage setting up their own businesses, thereby supporting that it is available to the other creditors as an additional their re­in­tegration into gainful work. 10 Financial Report 2012 Seed capital – equity capital in conjunction with Development & Protection entrepreneurial support of the founders – is required, NRW.BANK’s offerings relating to the promotion in particular, by enterprises launching innovative and themes “Education”, “Innovation” and “Environment/ technically new products and services in the market. Climate/Energy” are pooled in the field of promotion Their competitiveness and ability to innovate are of “Development & Protection”. great importance for a national economy. NRW.BANK promotes such start-ups through its NRW.BANK.Seed The promotion theme “Environment/Climate/Energy” Fonds. The latter provides regional seed funds with accounts for over 90% of the promotion volume and capital for investments in newly established technology­ the promotion cases. Here, the focus was on supporting ­­oriented businesses, thus facilitating individual projects complying with the North Rhine-Westphalian investments via various funding rounds up to government’s environmental policy objectives. The € 0.5 million. Through its participation in regional seed product drive launched in this promotion theme in the funds, NRW.BANK supports private investors in a previous year was continued in close cooperation with market segment that continues to be characterised by the North Rhine-Westphalian government in 2012. strong market inefficiencies. Following full investment of the first NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds in the amount of The following new products pursuing environmental € 30 million, the second fund of the same amount was or climate-related objectives were introduced by the launched in 2012. Bank in 2012: The increasingly complex economic interrelationships The NRW.BANK.Gebäudesanierung programme mean that over and above the provision of funding provides interest-subsidised loans of between there is a need for targeted information on available € 2,500 and € 75,000 to support investments by promotion funding as well as specific advice for indi­vi­ private home owners aimed at energy efficiency dual funding recipients. In the past years, NRW.BANK upgrades, improved environmental protection and responded to this need by expanding its advisory barrier-free refurbishments. services into a central pillar of its range of products and Under the motto “Fresh money for clean water”, services. The existing offerings – promotion advice, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and funding advice and the service centre – again attracted NRW.BANK promote investments in the waste a strong demand in 2012. In view of the relatively easy water infrastructure by way of subsidies and availability of credit, the advisory services tended low-interest loans under the two programmes to focus more on forward-looking and cost-oriented NRW.BANK.Ergänzungsprogramm Abwasser and options for company funding and on improving Ressourcen­effiziente Abwasserbeseitigung NRW. communication with external lenders. The programme NRW.Sanierung privater Hausanschlüsse promotes the modernisation of private sewage connections by private home Promotion Volume “Seed & Growth” owners. The use of funds of the state of North by Promotion Themes in % and in € Million Rhine-Westphalia allows the loans to be offered at extremely low interest rates. 100% 34 21 5 423 286 222 2,152 Launched in 2010, the NRW.BANK.Elektromobilität 75% 2,388 2,075 programme provides low-interest financing for research and development projects that fall under North Rhine50% Westphalia’s ”Electromobility Masterplan“. 25% 0% 2012 2011 2010 SME Start-ups Exports Financial Report 2012  11 Corporate Responsibility The NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit was introduced in Housing & Living October 2011 to support projects aimed at energy NRW.BANK’s promotion products make an important savings and energy efficiency. This loan represents a contribution to the continued provision of high-quality new promotion approach adopted by NRW.BANK, affordable housing, to the further development of since the Bank makes access to promotion funds infrastructure and to ensuring municipalities’ capacity conditional on the achievement of certain minimum to act. NRW.BANK was again able to increase its requirements. This offering is characterised by a simple aggregate promotion volume in this field of promotion application process, a large choice of maturities and to more than € 5.3 billion. The largest promotion liability releases for house banks. themes were “Municipalities” at € 3.1 billion and “Housing” at € 1.5 billion. In the promotion theme “Innovation“, the Bank signi­f i­ cantly expanded the scope of the NRW.Inno­va­tions­dar­ It is a key task of NRW.BANK to act as a reliable partner lehen, which was simultaneously renamed NRW.BANK. to the municipalities in North Rhine-Westphalia. To Innovationskredit. The optimised promotion programme live up to this task, the Bank offers the NRW.BANK. is now available to all small and medium-sized enter­ Kommunal­kredit which is designed to secure and support prises generating sales of up to € 500 million per year. the proper functioning of the North Rhine-Westphalian In addition, the Bank raised the maximum loan amount municipalities. To fund infrastructure projects to € 10 million and introduced an optional liability ­undertaken by municipalities, municipally-owned release for loans of € 0.5 million and more. companies and municipal cooperatives, NRW.BANK additionally provides two coordinated programmes, Through its two NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds, NRW.BANK namely NRW.BANK.Kommunal Invest and NRW.BANK. has, for many years, made co-investments in young, Kommunal Invest Plus. innovative North Rhine-Westphalian enterprises which operate in forward-looking sectors and have suc­cess­ In addition, NRW.BANK also supports the muni­ci­pali­ fully completed a first financing round. These equity ties with competent advice. In this context, the Bank financings mostly take the form of an open minority regularly provides the municipalities and municipallyin­vestment of between € 0.5 and € 7 million and owned companies with information about the various comprise several financing rounds, with the Bank credit programmes and assists them with regard to aiming for an investment period of no more than issues of inter-municipal cooperation as well as muni­ seven years. In the past financial year, NRW.BANK’s cipal activity concepts, such as urban development. commit­ments in this field totalled € 7.3 million. A smoothly functioning infrastructure is a precondition for economic growth in a region. Quite frequently, Promotion Volume “Development & Protection” however, the required investments exceed the public by Promotion Themes in % and in € Million sector’s available resources, which mean that private capital must be mobilised for the maintenance and 100% 15 72 the expansion of the infrastructure in North Rhine-West­149 94 113 phalia. This is done with the help of the NRW.BANK. 1,198 911 1,473 75% Infrastruktur programme, which offers private investors an opportunity to fund social and technical infra­s truc­ 50% ture projects at favourable terms. At the end of 2012, an annuity loan was introduced under this programme 25% to complement the previous instalment loan. Moreover, NRW.BANK provides customised structured finance 0% products to support infrastructure projects. Besides 2012 2011 2010 Environment/Climate/Energy Innovation Education 12 Financial Report 2012 these broad-based general offerings, special offerings Besides its own promotion programmes, NRW.BANK exist for selected infrastructure projects: provides access to federal grant programmes for privately funded housing construction and for the  The NRW.BANK.Sportstätten and NRW.BANK.Pflege improvement of energy efficiency through refur­bish­ und Betreuung programmes serve to strengthen ments and new construction projects. The resulting social cohesion and thereby help to develop North reduction in CO2 emissions makes an important Rhine-Westphalia’s communities in a sustainable contribution to safeguarding an intact environment manner. While the first programme supports for future generations. the renovation or expansion of sports facilities, the second promotes invest­ments in elderly care homes and assisted living as well as homes and Promotion Volume “Housing & Living“ workshops for the handicapped. by Promotion Themes in % and in € Million Access to information is an indispensable prerequisite for sustainable development in an 100% 82 124 134 630 565 279 increasingly knowledge-based society. The 1,616 75% 3,124 2,383 Internet is an important medium when it comes to obtaining information. The NRW.BANK.Breitband programme finances investments designed to build 50% 2,160 up a technology-neutral, state-wide broadband 25% 1,801 supply in North Rhine-Westphalia. The focus is on 1,462 the procurement and installation of glass fibre cables. 0% 2012 2011 2010 In 2012, NRW.BANK’s various social housing promotion Housing Municipalities programmes again helped to create affordable housing Other Infrastructure Social Infrastructure for lower income target groups. In addition, the Bank aims to improve the condition and the energy efficiency of the housing stock and to align existing housing resources with the requirements of demographic change. The focus is increasingly shifting to conversions and refurbishments of existing buildings. The contents of the promotion programmes are based on the annual Housing Promotion Programme drawn up by the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, which operationalises the guidelines of the promotion policy into specific promotion conditions. The promotion loans for owner-occupied housing are extended directly to the promotion beneficiaries, who file an application with the responsible authorities. All told, the Bank provided the following loan volumes in the year 2012: € 274.7 million for the construction of low-rent flats; € 219.2 million for the purchase and construction of owner-occupied housing and € 27.5 million for the reduction of barriers in existing housing units as well as the construction of nursing homes. Financial Report 2012  13 Corporate Responsibility Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees possibility to achieve a better balance of work and family life and thus helps to take equal oppor­ 1. NRW.BANK is a forward-looking and socially tunities at work forward and to stabilise them. responsible employer under public law. The Bank 7. While there can be no doubt that a positive is especially committed to a responsible human wor­king environment is conducive to high per­for­ resources and training policy as well as to fair mance and excellent achievements, the most dealings with all employees. important preconditions are good quali­f i­c ations 2. NRW.BANK complies with international standards as a basis to start from, as well as possi­bilities – such as human rights, the UN Convention on for further development. This is why NRW.BANK the Rights of the Child for the protection of attaches top priority to excellent vocational children against exploitation (Art. 32) as well as training, constant further training and individual the rejection of forced labour – as well as with development. In this context, the Bank respects national laws and labour standards. The right of the individual potential, needs and interests of all employees to organise and the active support its employees, which is not least reflected in its of statutory co-determination play an especially signing of the “German Diversity Charter”. important role in this context. 3. A s part of its corporate responsibility, NRW.BANK attaches great importance to avoiding discri­mi­ Sustainability and corporate responsibility are also hall­­ nation. The Bank’s “Fairness at Work” convention marks of NRW.BANK’s human resources policy. Safe not only prohibits all forms of discrimination jobs, individual qualification and development possibili­ within NRW.BANK but also describes measures ties as well as good working conditions all form part to prevent discrimination and defines rules of this policy to help the Bank find and retain qualified relating to employees’ right to file complaints. and committed people in the long term. 4. For NRW.BANK, fair dealings with its employees also means creating a corporate culture in which Facilitating Development partnership and cooperation, openness, mutual Since 2009, NRW.BANK has given preference to inter­ respect and esteem are values that are endorsed nal promotions as opposed to external hiring when by all. Together with dialogue-oriented proces­ses, it comes to filling vacant positions. The Bank offers its these values lay the basis for a positive and good, qualified employees as many possibilities for productive working climate. development as possible, not least with a view to retain­ 5. For NRW.BANK, assuming responsibility for its ing them in the long term. A total of 90 employees used employees means creating an attractive working these opportunities during the year 2012 and opened environment, for example through high job safety, up new prospects for themselves. Another 18 positions modern health management and regulations were filled by transferring apprentices and trainees into supporting a good balance of work and family life. permanent employment; add to this 22 female em­ 6. As a modern development bank, NRW.BANK ployees returning from parental leave to resume their believes that the functional and social skills of employment. women are indispensable. The Bank therefore aims to give women at all levels equal professio­ As it was not possible to fill all vacant positions with nal opportunities and to take this into account internal candidates, 34 new employees were hired in the also with regard to the exercise of mandates and past fiscal year. 24 of them changed from previously the Bank’s investments. The Bank’s familylimited employment to permanent employment. As a friendly policy is also designed to give men the result, NRW.BANK employed 1,258 people as of December 31, 2012. 14 Financial Report 2012 Personnel Structure and more women than men were hired, the female At 4.3%, staff turnover in 2012 was higher than in the percentage increased moderately in the past year. previous years. This is attributable to both an increase in age-related retirements from 1.9% to 2.8% and a As most of the staff exits related to retirements and rise in contracts terminated from 0.6% to 1.5%. most of the new staff hired were new trainees and young banking professionals, the average age remained Staff additions and exits were balanced at both unchanged at 42.5 years as of December 31, 2012. locations. As more men than women left the Bank Female/Male Ratio Employees by Locations in Absolute Figures and in % in Absolute Figures and in % 100% 100% 642 629 606 417 416 415 75% 75% 841 839 809 50% 50% 616 626 618 25% 25% 0% 0% 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Men Women Düsseldorf Münster Age Structure in % 21 19 19 18 18 18 17 17 15 14 14 13 12 12 11 11 11 11 11 11 10 10 9 7 7 7 6 6 6 5 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 0 up to 20 21–25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 over 60 years years years years years years years years years years 2012 2011 2010 Financial Report 2012  15 Corporate Responsibility Securing Junior Staff But vocational training also means social responsibility NRW.BANK trains young people in various professions – over the past years, the Bank has therefore significantly at both its locations to ensure that it will have access increased the number of traineeships, not least in view now and in the future, to well-qualified employees of the fact that the number of A-level school-leavers in who are familiar with the specific requirements of the 2013 will be about twice as high as in the past due to development and pro­motion business. a change in the German education system. Accordingly, more than 20 traineeships will be available at both locations in all three professions in summer 2013. Hired Apprentices and Trainees 25 2 2 20 7 3 6 1 6 7 7 15 15 15 5 4 13 5 10 12 1 11 10 10 4 8 5 3 6 4 0 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Office Communications Clerks Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science IT System Support Specialists The quality of the vocational training is just as A total of 20 trainees successfully completed their important. NRW.BANK apprentices are consistently vocational training at NRW.BANK in the past year. This among the best of their class, and the Bank itself has means that the Bank has trained over one hundred also won several awards from the Chambers of Industry young people since the start of vocational training in and Commerce in Düsseldorf and Münster in recog­nition 2003. 16 of the trainees who completed their training of its achievements in the field of vocational training. last year used the take-over bid and the “AzubiIn 2012, most of the Bank’s trainees scored good and Stellenmarkt“ post-traineeship job listing to find a very good results. Also, 2012 was the second year permanent job in the Bank. (after 2010) that Germany’s best office communications clerk trainee came from NRW.BANK. These achieve­ NRW.BANK also has a trainee programme for ments would not have been possible without the great successful university graduates. Four young graduates commit­ment shown by the trainers in the specialist joined this programme in 2012. departments. Our thanks and respects therefore go to them as well as to all our high-performing trainees. 16 Financial Report 2012 Further Training Internal Seminar Attendance by Topics NRW.BANK attaches great importance to life-long learning and therefore offers its employees a wide 244 1,200 range of development opportunities – ranging from a 296 422 comprehensive roster of seminars to the possibility 900 388 to study for a degree course alongside their job at the 158 Bank. In 2012, 69 employees were enrolled in the 600 658 62 internal development programme to attain a degree 116 20 468 110 such as a bachelor’s or master’s degree. Over the 300 415 past years, 96 employees used this financial and time support to obtain a degree. 0 2012 2011 2010 A few years ago, NRW.BANK already decided to Specialist Management IT Methods/Behaviour organise training measures in the form of internal seminars1 wherever possible. In the meantime, this has resulted in a comprehensive and constantly growing In 2012, the Bank complemented its internal three-part catalogue of seminars with regular offerings: from executive development programme by adding a followbasic and special topics to aspects of methodological/ up module; workshops during which different relevant behavioural competence to leadership training. This leadership topics are explored and discussed on the regular offering is complemented by a large number of basis of participants’ own experience are organised for courses on current specialist topics that are offered experienced executives at intervals of about 1.5 years. based on employee demand. This means that NRW.BANK now demands and promotes life-long learning not only with regard to specialist In 2012, seminars addressing various legal aspects as knowledge but also with a view to leadership expertise. well as the implementation of new regulatory 34 participants in the first of these workshops show provisions led to a sharp increase in the number of that there is great interest on the part of the Bank’s participants in internal events. A trend that continued in executives and led to a further increase in the number 2012 was that internal events were primarily used to of participants in management seminars. inform employees directly about relevant amendments and new developments. This led to a growing number In view of its age structure, NRW.BANK developed an of short – including half-day – seminars, which convey internal workshop programme in 2012 which is ex­clu­ knowledge on a closely defined specialist topic in a sively targeted at employees aged 50 and above who concise manner. have no leadership responsibility. These workshops address topics such as knowledge, relationship, conflict The internal IT seminars, which exclusively comprise and change management specifically from the point typical user trainings, usually aim to convey knowledge of view of people with comprehensive life and job about new IT systems or applications used by a large experience but also explore measures and strategies number of employees. 2012 saw a sharp increase in the for the preservation of their physical and mental number of participants in these IT seminars, which was performance. The fact that the 30 places for the first due to the fact that the Bank replaced various heritage of these workshops in spring 2013 were fully booked IT systems with a new system, which required after a very short time and that more employees have comprehensive preparations and training of the ex­pressed their interest in such a workshop shows that employees. this offering is very much appreciated by both em­ploy­ ees and their superiors. 1 I nternal seminars are all events organised exclusively for the Bank’s employees at NRW.BANK’s special request and whose contents and concepts thus closely meet the Bank’s concrete requirements and needs; such seminars may be held by in-house or external trainers. Financial Report 2012  17 Corporate Responsibility The swift and flexible implementation of qualification Equal Opportunities requirements led to a further increase in the per­cent­ NRW.BANK has long been committed to being an equal age of internal training measures in 2012. External opportunities employer and has an appropriate equal seminars will nevertheless continue to be of great im­ opportunities plan in place. Variable working hours, a portance for specialist topics for which there is often range of different part-time working models as well demand from a low number of employees. as organisational and financial support in child care matters help employees of both genders balance their working and family lives. For example, NRW.BANK Ratio of Internal and External Seminar Attendance organises a child-care service for children aged be­t ween four months and school age in cooperation with day 100% care centres in Düsseldorf and Münster. Over the past 399 426 511 years, the Bank repeatedly adjusted the number of 75% 1,356 available places to the growing demand, so that 38 chil­ 1,068 dren of employees are now in day care. 933 50% In addition, employees can avail themselves of the 25% “pme Familienservice” which offers independent advisory and agency services. Employees primarily 0% took advantage of child care arrangements in urgent 2012 2011 2010 cases and child care during vacations and sought Internal External advice on issues surrounding care for family members. The support offered by NRW.BANK is clearly appre­ ciated by employees, which is evident both from the The 1,755 seminar participations are equivalent to large demand for these services and from the fact that 3,500 seminar days, which means that a seminar lasted many mothers return to work shortly after giving birth. 2.0 days on average. Women accounted for 52.6% of Half of the 22 mothers who returned to work in 2012 all participants in 2012. took parental leave of no more than one year. In spite of the marked increase in seminar par­ti­ci­pa­tions, NRW.BANK’s male employees are increasingly also total spending on internal and external seminars was taking advantage of the statutory possibilities that allow down by 8.7% on the previous year. This reduction in them to spend more time with their kids. In 2012, 23 costs is primarily attributable to the internal seminars fathers took a limited time off or reduced their working and reflects the trend towards shorter – and less costly hours in the context of parental leave. This represents – events. The strong increase in the number of an increase by 76.9% on the previous year. seminars – especially IT user training – was managed by the Bank’s own skilled employees, which means This also led to a moderate increase in male part-time that no additional costs were incurred. work. As of December 31, 2012, male employees accounted for 9.5% of all part-time workers. The total percentage of part-time workers climbed from 18.7% to 20.1% in the fiscal year. 18 Financial Report 2012 “Frauen und Männer@NRW.BANK” is a series of Thanks to the various measures described before, the events offering employees at both locations the possi­ percentage of women in both higher-paid specialist bility to attend expert lectures on a variety of topics positions and managerial positions has increased slowly as well as a strategy workshop specifically for female but steadily. In particular, the Bank promotes equal NRW.BANK employees. opportunities in management positions by way of its guidelines on the selection and development of exe­cu­ Breakdown of Management Positions in % tives published in autumn 2010. This policy determines that women with equal qualifications are to be given 100 preference when filling management positions. 26 25 23 75 Of the management positions to be filled in 2012, 75 77 74 almost two thirds were filled with a female candidate. 50 As there are no plans, however, to expand the Bank’s personnel and, in this context, its management 25 positions, the speed at which the degree of female representation can be increased will largely depend 0 on the number of management positions that become 2012 2011 2010 vacant because of terminations or retirements. Men in Management Positions Women in Management Positions Over 80% of the managers that may retire by 2020 are men. As these positions will be filled with a much higher share of women – not least because qualified women will be considered more often – the percentage of female managers will increase in the medium term. Women and Men in Management Positions in % 25 20 20 19 15 13 10 10 7 6 6 5 5 4 3 2 2 1 1 1 0 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 über 60 years years years years years years years years Men Women Financial Report 2012  19 Corporate Responsibility The comparison with the previous year shows that the ensuring the sustainability of its healthcare man­age­ percentage of women has declined especially where ment approach. This is why the Bank commenced younger managers (up to 35 years) are concerned. One publishing an annual health report in 2010. It informs of the reasons for this are temporary absentees due to employees about all activities related to healthcare parental leave as of the reporting date on December 31, management. 2012. To give qualified women the possibility to access and hold on to management positions, conditions are The quality of the health management system is also needed that allow mothers to reconcile the con­f lict­ing regularly examined by independent auditors. In the demands of a management position and a family. An last audit, which took place in 2011, NRW.BANK was important element is the possibility to work part time awarded the “Seal of Quality” in the “Excellence also in a management position. To achieve this, the Category” of the Corporate Health Award organised by Bank relies on individualised and flexible solutions Handelsblatt, TÜV Süd Life Service GmbH and EuPD which may comprise different degrees of part-time Research. work and possibilities for relief, depending on the size and the employee structure of the team to be managed. Four years ago, the Bank launched a systematic and As a general rule, however, management responsibility comprehensive hazard analysis which ensures that shall not be shared, which means that the reduced potential health hazards and avoidable stressors can working time is to be achieved primarily through the be identified reliably and remedied swiftly. The analysis delegation of specialist tasks. takes the form of a survey of all NRW.BANK employees on issues which are of relevance at NRW.BANK: Maintaining Performance workplace equipment, the user-friendliness of software Good working conditions and exemplary health and as well as organisational and other workplace con­di­tions. safety policies also form part of NRW.BANK’s corporate Many of the improvements suggested by the res­ responsibility towards its employees. For many years, pondents – especially ergonomics and building-related the Bank has implemented this in the context of its improvements – have already been put into practice. strategic health management system, which has been These surveys and regular examinations by the Occu­pa­ expanded continuously since 2006. Today, the system tional Health and Safety Officer and the company covers everything from a company doctor to a social doctor allow the working conditions to be reviewed worker offering confidential help to a variety of offerings and, where necessary, improved continuously. revolving around such topics as preventive medicine, nutrition and sports. Apart from remedying individual situations, NRW.BANK also takes a comprehensive approach to the underlying A mobile massage has meanwhile become a permanent issues, for example by a new seminar on “time and task offering as part of the Bank’s strategic health man­­ management”, special measures aimed at improving agement activities. The special topic of the year 2012 employees’ stress management skills at team level or a was “Cholesterol and blood sugar”. The information new offering on change management. Here, the process and preventive check-ups offered in this context met managers develop a communication and imple­men­ with great interest on the part of the Bank’s employees. tation concept for their specific project which reduces the stress for all parties involved to a minimum and NRW.BANK is convinced that meaningful reporting and helps them identify the resulting opportunities and documentation are an important precondition for im­provements. 20 Financial Report 2012 environmental performance indicators with a view to Climate and Environmental Protection ensuring maximum transparency. 1. NRW.BANK’s resource efficiency and its active These environmental data are collected, evaluated and contributions to North Rhine-Westphalia’s reported in accordance with the standards of the “Verein public life are an integral part of its corporate für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanz­ responsibility for the present and future instituten e.V. (VfU)”. An important aspect of this generations. standard is the presentation of key figures per em­ployee, 2. Minimised use of resources and the utilisation which allow the figures to be compared and indicate a of a large share of environmentally friendly and, trend. All people working in the buildings of NRW.BANK preferably, renewable resources are essential are covered by the analysis, including external workers. elements of the Bank’s activities aimed at By contrast, employees on parental leave or in early shaping a high-quality living environment. retirement are not included. This results in differences 3. NRW.BANK lives up to this responsibility by from the employee figures otherwise communicated taking into account all resources used in its in the Annual Report1. business processes. For example, the Bank aims to implement the state of the art whenever it The present Eco Balance2 for the year 2012 covers the comes to constructing or converting buildings ecological data and the environmental impact of all for its banking operations. As part of its ongoing NRW.BANK buildings 3. At the Bank’s head office in improvement process, the Bank also recognises Münster, an existing building part with a size of roughly the key importance of sensitising its employees 1,700 square metres was vacated in 2012 in order to the importance of making responsible use to refurbish it to the state of the art. The construction of resources. activities were completed and the building was reoccupied before the end of 2012. Accordingly, the useful area analysed in the past fiscal year remained The Situation unchanged at 54,300 square metres. Every corporate activity has an impact on the environ­ ment. A direct impact results, for instance, from the In the meantime, the Bank continues to improve the use of energy, water and materials or the production of energy efficiency of its existing buildings as part waste. But every use of resources also entails an of its ongoing commitment to the responsible use of indirect impact on the environment, which is taken into resources at the Münster head office. account through the computation of greenhouse gas emissions. Building Energy NRW.BANK’s comprehensive energy management NRW.BANK is well aware of this fact and takes a wide approach ensures not only healthy jobs but also the variety of different measures to keep the environmental lowest possible impact on the environment and the impact of its business activity as low as possible. climate. The Bank’s buildings are heated using district NRW.BANK captures, documents and evaluates its heat generated by combined heat-and-power plants, environmental key figures and ratios in order to identify which is one of the most environmentally friendly forms areas of potential improvement and to secure the of heat generation. Measures such as insulated facades im­prove­ments that have been achieved in the long term. and heat-insulation glazing additionally help to reduce Since 2007, the Bank has regularly reported on selected energy requirements. 1 I n accordance with the VfU standards, 1,358 employees were taken as the basis for the relative figures in 2010, 1,382 employees in 2011 and 1,348 in 2012. 2 The environmental figures were collected in cooperation with Büro WiRkung from Grevenbroich. 3 Incl. office at Ernst-Gnoss-Strasse in Düsseldorf, but excl. liaison office in Brussels. Financial Report 2012  21 Corporate Responsibility Heating energy consumption per square metre reached To reduce the environmental impact arising from 90 kWh in 2012, compared to 108 kWh in the past fisemployees’ business trips to a minimum, the Bank’s cal year. The reduction is primarily attributable to the travel guidelines give precedence to local public very mild winter. At 3,629 kWh, consumption per emtransport. In addition, employees use video con­fe­ren­ ployee was even 14.2% lower than in the previous year. ces, for example to reduce the number of journeys between the two head offices in Düsseldorf and Münster. The electricity supply is an important criterion for a company’s climate-friendliness. By opting for electricity At 4,785,213 km, travel activity was almost on a par with from renewable sources, NRW.BANK clearly dem­on­ the previous year. While the Bank was able to reduce strat­ed its commitment to environmental and climate the kilometres travelled by road and by rails as well as protection. 97% of the electricity sourced by the Bank on short-haul flights, the kilometres travelled on longcomes from hydropower supplied by a TÜV-certified haul flights increased due to some additional and provider. This allows the Bank to save some 2,159 t of longer flights. CO2 per year compared to the market mix. This way, NRW.BANK also helps the state of North Rhine-WestTo raise long-term promotion funds at favourable terms, phalia to reach its climate targets. the Bank is targeting an increasingly international investor base. As an issuer in the international capital In addition, the Bank continuously aims to optimise the market, NRW.BANK therefore maintains close re­la­tion­ energy efficiency in the field of lighting and air-con­ ships with its investors. In 2012, the focus was on ditioning. At 5,672 MWh, absolute electricity consumpGermany as well as the Far East, Africa, the Middle East tion in 2012 was down by 6.5% on the previous year, and America. This trend is reflected in the higher which was also attributable to weather-related factors. number of kilometres travelled on long-haul flights. Energy Consumption 2012 2011 2010 Business Travel 2012 2011 2010 kWh kWh kWh km km km Total Heating Rail 985,682 993,904 1,092,458 Energy 4,892,730 5,844,450 5,093,322 Road* 2,811,009 2,821,636 2,781,268 Heating Energy Short-haul Flights 330,178 373,483 326,642 per Employee/Year 3,629 4,229 3,750 Long-haul Flights 658,344 527,722 424,931 Total Electricity Total 4,785,213 4,716,745 4,625,299 Consumption 5,672,010 6,067,780 5,782,431 km per Employee 3,549 3,413 3,406 Electricity * Total kilometres travelled by the Bank’s cars Con­sump­tion per Employee/Year 4,207 4,391 4,258 Business Travel Personal contacts with clients and business partners are important for the quality of the Bank’s work. This means that business travels can be replaced by modern communication technologies only to a limited extent. To provide its clients throughout North Rhine-Westphalia with information and advice, Bank employees primarily travelled by rail and by car. 22 Financial Report 2012 Business Travel in % Paper In the past fiscal year, the Bank included additional 100 paper types in its eco-balance, which means that the 13 11 9 7 total amount of paper used now comprises not only 7 8 75 59 60 60 office paper but also part of the printed matter used. Total paper consumption including printed matter and 50 envelopes amounted to 61.9 t. Where printing and copier papers alone are concerned, the positive trend 25 continued; having declined by 3.2 t in the previous year, 21 21 24 their consumption was reduced by another 4.1 t in 2012. 0 2012 2011 2010 Rail Road Paper Consumption 2012 2011 2010 Short-haul Flights Long-haul Flights kg kg kg Total Paper Consumption* 49,239 53,253 56,454 The breakdown of business trips by means of transport Paper Consumption also remained largely unchanged. At 58.7%, company per Employee* 36.5 38.5 41.6 cars are the most frequently used means of transport. * Printing and copier paper, excl. printed matter and envelopes To ensure that the vehicle fleet can be adjusted con­ tinuously also with regard to climate-related aspects, NRW.BANK has implemented a company car policy based on short lease terms and providing for ecological The share of recycled paper in the Bank’s total paper advice prior to the purchase of a company car. The consumption increased moderately, while the share of success of this policy is not least reflected in the fact FSC and PECF paper was expanded by 11.8%. This that average carbon emissions declined by 6.9% to shows that employees are showing growing environ­men­ 156.6 g CO2 /km in 2012. tal awareness also where the consumption of paper is concerned. Average Fleet CO2 Emissions in g/km Paper Types 2012 2011 2010 180 % % % Recycled Paper 6.0 4.9 4.2 170 173 Primary Fibre Paper, 168 ECF* 76.0 87.7 90.4 160 Primary Fibre Paper, 157 TCF* 0.1 0.2 0.1 150 Primary Fibre Paper, FSC** and PEFC** 14.9*** 3.1 1.8 140 Primary Fibre Paper, 2012 2011 2010 chlorine-bleached 3.0 4.1 3.4 * Elemental chlorine-free (ECF), totally chlorine-free (TCF) ** Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC) *** 2012 figures incl. printed matter Financial Report 2012  23 Corporate Responsibility Water Waste Volume 2012 2011 2010 By installing water-efficient technologies and using t t t grey water from the air scrubbers and recooling Waste Paper 56.1 76.6 62.7 systems for its sanitary facilities, NRW.BANK makes an Document Shredding 56.6 45.3 73.3 active contribution to the sparing use of this precious Residual Waste 113.1 117.1 113.9 resource. DSD („Green Dot“) 3.0 3.0 6.0 The Bank’s water consumption remained almost un­ Total* 228.8 242.0 255.9 changed in 2012. kg per Employee 169.8 175.1 188.4 Recycling Ratio* 55.4% 51.6% 55.5% * Excl. other and kitchen waste Process and Drinking Water 2012 2011 2010 Total Water Consumption 19,895 m3 19,507 m3 20,386 m3 Greenhouse Gas Daily Water Carbon emissions are an important performance Consumption indicator for NRW.BANK. To calculate them, the Bank per Employee* 59.0 l 56.5 l 60.0 l translates all environmentally relevant consumption figures and wastes into CO2 equivalents using * Based on 250 working days as per VfU methodology. standardised conversion factors (to VfU standard). These CO2 figures provide an insight into the climate relevance of the Bank’s operations. Waste In the past fiscal year, the Bank again included ad­di­ The Bank’s carbon emissions in 2012 totalled 1,780.5 t, tional waste fractions in its environmental report, so which is equivalent to 1,321 kg of CO2 per employee. that the eco-balance now also covers green waste The total and the per-employee figures were down by and electrical waste. Including “other” and “kitchen 4.9% and 3.0%, respectively, on the previous year. waste”, this has resulted in an additional 142.9 t of This decline was achieved primarily because of CO2 waste compared to the “traditional” office waste. The reductions in the fields of electricity, heating energy total waste volume amounted to 371.7 t or 275.2 kg and waste. per employee. A look at the typical office waste (residual waste, DSDCO2 Emissions by Weight collected recyclables and paper) shows, however, that the recycling ratio again reached a high level and that 2012 2011 2010 the waste volume per employee was further reduced. kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 Electricity 132,521 144,071 142,654 Heating Energy incl. Emergency Power Diesel 488,503 586,403 507,391 Business Travel 984,397 982,026 954,894 Paper 74,244 63,883 67,745 Domestic Water 14,901 14,611 15,269 Waste 85,978 91,390 80,295 Total 1,780,544 1,882,384 1,768,248 CO2 per Employee 1,321 1,362 1,302 24 Financial Report 2012 CO2 Emissions in % By contrast, the breakdown of total CO2 emissions by sources remained largely unchanged. At 55.3%, 100 1 1 1 business trips were the main source of CO2 emissions 5 5 5 4 3 4 at NRW.BANK, followed by heating energy, which 75 27 31 28 accoun­ted for 27.4%. Thanks to the use of renewable 8 electri­city, CO2 emissions from electricity consumption 8 8 50 55 again represented less than one tenth of the total. 52 54 25 0 2012 2011 2010 Business Travel Electricity Heating Energy Paper Waste Domestic Water Direct and Indirect CO2 Emissions at NRW.BANK in 2012 Emission Emission Emission Greenhouse Gas Sources Category 1* Category 2* Category 3* Total kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 Electricity 132,520.7 – Renewable 66,091.0 – Market Mix 66,429.7 Heating Energy 488,502.8 – District Heat 479,487.5 – Emergency Power Diesel 7,602.2 1,413.1 Travel 984,397.4 – Rail 47,115.6 – Road 550,957.8 250,179.8 – Long-haul Flights 71,759.5 – Short-haul Flights 64,384.7 Paper 74,244.0 – Chlorine-bleached 54,553.2 – Chlorine-free 10,384.8 – Recycled 9,306.0 Water 14,901.4 14,901.4 Waste 85,977.7 – Waste Incineration 84,097.7 – Special Waste 1,880.0 CO2 Total (to VfU Standard Update 2010) 558,560.0 545,917.2 676,066.8 1,780,544.0 CO2 per Employee (to VfU Standard Update 2010) 1,320.9 * Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission category 1: all direct emissions. – Emission category 2: all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources. – Emission category 3: all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. Financial Report 2012  25 Corporate Responsibility Conclusion In 2012, NRW.BANK not only continued the systematic Showing Commitment to Society analysis and evaluation of its environmental per­for­ mance indicators but also expanded and differentiated 1. As part of its commitment to society and under them increasingly. The resulting eco-balance for the its remit as a development bank, NRW.BANK year 2012 shows that the Development Bank has been endeavours to shape a subsidiarity-based and able to continuously improve its environmental per­for­ project-related collaboration with its partners mance. NRW.BANK will continue to work in this on a medium to long-term basis in order to direction with the aim of further reducing the environ­ create the required continuity. The Bank strives mental impact of its operations. to ensure the social and regional balance of its activities in North Rhine-Westphalia. 2. NRW.BANK’s efforts are guided by its resolve to foster creativity and ideas as well as res­ ponsible action. In this context, the Bank focuses on sponsorships related to education (academic, cultural and economic) in North Rhine-Westphalia for a young target group. 3. In accordance with the guidelines set by the Supervisory Board, NRW.BANK makes neither direct nor indirect donations to political parties or party-related foundations. Moreover, the Bank places no advertisements in their publications. Within the scope of its corporate responsibility, NRW.BANK demonstrates its commitment to public life and society in North Rhine-Westphalia. The res­ pective projects are promoted in accordance with the “Guide­lines for Corporate Citizenship and Other Ser­ vices”, which were adopted in 2011. Each year, the Bank receives numerous requests for sponsorships and support from organisations and indi­ vi­duals. The Bank attaches great importance to en­ suring the transparency and plausibility of its decisions with regard to the projects sponsored and has therefore implemented an internal process: all requests for spon­ sorships and donations are received and docu­­mented by a central unit which applies standardised assessment criteria to produce a quarterly approval submission to the Managing Board. In 2012, NRW.BANK again spent € 0.7 million on sponsoring activities in its three defined themes, “Science & Education“, “Art & Culture” and “Society & Social Affairs”. The allocation of the funds varies from year to year depending on the applications and requests received. In the past fiscal year, the funds were allocated as follows: 26 Financial Report 2012 Sponsorships by Fields in % The German Children and Youth Foundation aims to ensure that young people can grow up and learn in a wholesome environment. The objective is to improve Society & Social Affairs 14 structures in the educational sector and to make them more efficient. The approach covers kindergartens and Science & schools, the transition to working life as well as family Art & Education 45 and youth work. Every year, the Foundation reaches Culture 41 over 150,000 children, youths and adult counsellors in over 40 programmes. The Bank sponsors the Foun­da­ tion’s work in North Rhine-Westphalia. To illustrate these activities, several sponsorships are Since 2008, the Bank has sponsored the “Schul­part­ner­ highlighted below. schaften” project. Specialist service providers assist the students of the participating grammar schools and Science & Education secondary schools in Düsseldorf and Münster in their NRW.BANK’s corporate citizenship is guided by its future career choice, for example with the help of de­di­ resolve to foster creativity, ideas and responsible action. cated workshops. Within this framework, the Bank focused on sponsor­ ships related to education in North Rhine-Westphalia. NRW.BANK promotes fair dealings with each other In 2012, the following projects from the field of not only among its employees but also through its par­ “Science & Education” were sponsored by the Bank: ticipa­tion in “Schule ohne Rassismus – Schule mit Courage“. This project gives children and youths the Kindergartens and Schools possibility to actively contribute to a positive climate at A scientific study has revealed that playing chess has a their schools by standing up against any form of dis­ positive impact on children’s development already from crimi­na­tion, mobbing and violence. Some 300 North age three in that it promotes spatial and logical thinking Rhine-Westphalian schools currently participate in this as well as social skills and the ability to integrate. This project. is why the Bank supports the “Schach für Kids” project. In the past fiscal year, 20 kindergartens in Hagen and Building on its long-standing, good cooperation with over 80 kindergartens in Dortmund as well as 35 day the “Partner für Schule NRW” foundation as part of nurseries in Bochum were provided with chess sets and the “STARTER & Co.“ initiative, the Bank launched a training materials. new student competition entitled “Wir haben Energie!“ together with the foundation. The purpose of this Another project sponsored by NRW.BANK in 2012 was competition is to encourage young people to take a “Stadtfüchse”. In the context of this project, children closer look at alternative energy sources. The project from problem neighbourhoods who attend primary was implemented for the first time in 2012 with support school receive subsidies for participation in school trips from the North Rhine-Westphalian State Ministry to the Environmental Education Centre in Lichterode, of School and Further Education. The winner of the where they are introduced and taught how to interact competition was the “Nelly-Sachs-Gymnasium” in with nature and wildlife. Neuss and its project “Neue Umweltjobs – Unsere Zukunft – Handeln statt Reden – der Umwelt zuliebe“. Working in cooperation with the Association for Media Besides the prize money, the winners were also invited Education and Communication Culture, NRW.BANK to spend a day at the Chair for Renewable Energy designed the state-wide study entitled “Notwendige and Energy Efficiency at Düsseldorf’s Technical College. Bedingungen für eine handlungsorientierte päda­go­gische Praxis im frühkindlichen Bereich unter Einbeziehung Since 2011, the Bank has promoted equal opportunities von (digitalen) Medien“ (“Necessary conditions for and fair education through its sponsorship of the action-oriented pedagogical practice in the early child­ “ROCK YOUR LIFE!“ project, which supports students hood area and the inclusion of (digital) media“). As from educationally underprivileged backgrounds during planned, the results of the study were presented and their last two years at school by providing career advice communicated in the second half of 2012. and personalised support in continuing their education Financial Report 2012  27 Corporate Responsibility at a higher-level school or getting a start in working The volunteer mentors of the “Arbeiterkind e.V.“ life. With support from NRW.BANK, “ROCK YOUR associa­tion provide working-class children with gui­ LIFE!“ built up a sponsorship base in Münster in the dance on a variety of issues related to going to uni­ver­ past year; more than 20 successful coaching re­la­tion­ sity – from initial encouragement to consider this kind ships have already been established thanks to the of higher education and orientation during the starting Bank’s support. phase to advice on student loans and motivation to finish the course and achieve a degree. In the past For several years already, NRW.BANK has supported fiscal year, NRW.BANK again subsidised the work of the “Initiativkreis Ruhr” in the context of the “Dialog the association’s North Rhine-Westphalian chapter. mit der Jugend“ series of events, which provides student groups with valuable insights into professional In addition, the Bank sponsored three events for and working life. This also includes a brief stint at the benefit of students in 2012, assisting the young NRW.BANK which allows the participants to get a first organisers in realising their ideas: impression of working life. With support from the NRW VIS Team Ruhr 2012, For four years, NRW.BANK has lived up to its corporate the Banks sponsored the preparations for responsibility, especially with regard to the promotion simulated arbitrations in the context of the Willem of young talent, through the creation of external appren­ C. Vis International Commercial Arbitration Moot ticeships. The Bank sponsored a number of additional and its arbitration finals in Vienna. The par­ti­ci­pants apprenticeships for secondary school graduates in were students of law who officially represented companies working as service providers for NRW.BANK. Bochum’s Ruhr University. This allows the Bank to train young people in trades “MUIMUN” (Münster University International and professions where it cannot offer training inter­nally. Model United Nations) is an annual simulation of In 2012, the first apprentice successfully completed his a UN conference for students from all over the vocational training as a chef. The Bank currently world. Its purpose is to promote understanding supports another four young people in their career between nations and stimulate international starts as a chef, as a professional building cleaner and exchange of ideas. as an electronics specialist for facility management. Tilbury House IV is an international students’ NRW.BANK will continue this social sponsorship and debating tournament organised by the University fund the creation of up to another four external of Cologne. apprenticeships in 2013. For many years, the Bank has also supported academic Universities institutions focusing on financial research and housing. In 2012, NRW.BANK sponsored 39 dedicated and This support comprises an annual basic grant as well as talented young students at universities participating in a separate project-specific budget for which the the NRW Student Grant Programme and the Germany institutes can apply. In the past fiscal year, the Bank Scholarship. The Bank will continue this support in supported the following institutions: 2013, when ten students specialising in financial research and housing will benefit from permanent Institut für Kreditund Finanzwirtschaft sponsorships. at Bochum University Centre for Financial Research at Cologne University european centre for financial services at Duisburg/Essen University Institute of Spatial Planning at TU Dortmund University as well as Institut für Kreditwesen at Westphalian Wilhelms-University Münster. 28 Financial Report 2012 The Bank supported another pilot project, namely the Next year’s calendar of NRW.BANK will be devoted first “Schlaun-Wettbewerb”, a competition initiated to the topic “This is where I belong – childen and young by “Münsterländer Architektenund Ingenieurverein people in NRW”. e.V.”. Entrants were invited to draft an urban develop­ ment concept for the eastern and western part of At the Bank’s head office in Münster, the two-year ex­ the railway track in the city centre of Ahlen. In 2012, hibition “Fourteen answers to the question about the best ones from a large number of excellent ideas photography”, which resulted from a cooperation with were selected and honoured by a panel of jurors the class of Professor Köpnick at the Münster Academy including NRW.BANK. of Fine Arts in 2010, ended in 2012. But not all exhibition pieces were removed, as the Bank acquired Due to its great success, the Bank will also make a some of the works of art as part of its young talent contribution to the second “Schlaun-Wettbewerb” and sponsorship. provide it with active support. In the area of “Culture”, the Bank continued its “100 Jahre Robert Schmidt – 100 Jahre regionales long-standing sponsorships for such activities as the ­Denken und Handeln im Revier” is the name of a project “lit. COLOGNE” literature festival, the Short Film which took place in 2012 as a joint effort of Ruhr Re­ Festival Oberhausen as well as the Ruhrtriennale. gional Association, TU Dortmund University, University of Applied Sciences and Arts Dortmund and “Gesell­ In the context of the “Innovationspool“ project, new schaft für Stadtgeschichte und Ur­bani­sie­rungs­for­ formats for communication between artists and schung e.V.” The Bank was the sponsor of the related, audiences were developed for the 2012 Ruhrtriennale one-week summer academy, during which some in cooperation with students from the Graduate Centre 50 students from different universities and subjects for the Study of Culture in Giessen. 64 tables were developed ideas for a more than 1,000 ha planning placed on the stage of Bochum’s Jahrhunderthalle to space between the cities of Bottrop, Essen, Gelsen­ facilitate an inspiring exchange between the audience kirchen and Gladbeck. and the artists participating in the opening opera “Europeras 1&2”. Sponsored by NRW.BANK, the 2012 “The Mobile and the Immobile” conference organised by the Institute of NRW.BANK also sponsored up-and-coming artists in Spatial Planning at TU Dortmund University and the the context of the “Long Day of New Talents”, which Academy for Spatial Research and Planning was held at was organised in May 2012 as part of the “new talents the beginning of the fiscal year. The purpose of the – biennale cologne”. Some 50 young university conference was to foster a better exchange and graduates from the fields of Media/Art, Film, Music/ networking on the topic “Changes and Development of Dance and Design had the opportunity to establish Mo­bility”. More than 60 lectures in German and English important contacts during the event, which lasted until were held in the context of the conference. 2:00 am. Art & Culture 2012 saw a number of cultural highlights around midNRW.BANK’s sponsorships in the area of “Art” focus year when the Bank sponsored concerts staged in on fostering young talent. In 2012, the Bank again cooperation with Düsseldorf’s culture festival and the organised a competition for young photographers to “Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Westfälischen design the NRW.BANK.Kunstkalender, its annual Kulturarbeit e.V. (GWK)”: calendar. Both the number and the quality of the entries show that the competition has become well  Under the title “summerwinds“, the GWK established. The winner of last year’s competition was or­ganised the third concert series for wooden Sebastian Mölleken, who photographed the images wind instruments at 42 different locations in for the 2013 calendar on “Variety of Energy Generation the Münster­land region, the city of Münster and in North Rhine-Westphalia”. the Netherlands. In July 2012, the staff restaurant of NRW.BANK in Münster was converted into a concert hall to stage the “Café Europa“ concert by the “vienna clarinet connection“. Financial Report 2012  29 Corporate Responsibility  “CHAPEAU Classique”, a concert series featuring Society & Social Affairs high-calibre young chamber musicians, which “Johanniter-Unfall-Hilfe e.V.” Münster received a was developed by the GWK with support from the donation from NRW.BANK to finance the purchase of Bank in the previous year, was also continued a mobile outpatient and sanitary station (“MAuSS”) success­fully. In November, NRW.BANK and GWK in the past year. MAuSS is a mobile trailer housing a jointly organised a performance by violin quartet treatment room, a change table and a separate section “Violons Vivants“ at the Bank’s staff restaurant where honorary first-aid attendants can treat small in Westphalia. and major injuries and prepare necessary transports At both GWK concerts, hospitality services were to the hospital. In the winter, the mobile station offered in the form of Corporate Volunteering by additionally provides a warm space for the homeless. NRW.BANK employees who there­by raised some € 1,200 for the “Freundeskreis der Westfälischen The work of “SOS-Kinderdorf e.V.” aims at neglected Schule für Musik e.V.”. or abandoned children and youths as well as dis­ad­van­ 2012 was the fourth year which saw NRW.BANK taged families. NRW.BANK made a donation to help cooperate with the “Düsseldorf Festival“ (formerly finance the renovation of a house at the SOS Children’s “Altstadtherbst“). As part of the festival, the Village in Lippe. Up to eight children and their SOS Bank hosted two concerts for a musically interested mother will live in the house as a new SOS family once audience in the foyer of its Düsseldorf head office. the renovation is completed. The first concert was played by vibraphonist Sonja Huber and her band that was followed on The mission of “Bundesstiftung Kinderhospiz” is to the second night by French pianist Rémi spread and publicise the concept of children’s hospices Panossian and his band. The Bank’s employees and to lobby for the interests of life-limited children. again volunteered. The proceeds from the sale of drinks and snacks in the amount of roughly € 900 Even though food is abundantly available in Germany, were donated to the Duisburg Youth Music School many people do not have enough to eat. The “Tafeln” for the pro­gramme ”An Instrument for Every organisation collects excess food of immaculate quality Child”. and distributes it to people in need. NRW.BANK supports this initiative with a donation. The purpose of this project is to provide each child attending a primary school in the Ruhr area to learn to Moreover, the Bank sponsored two projects organised play their favourite instrument. The focus is on the by the charitable organisation “Children for a better shared experience of making music for pupils in classes World e.V.“: one to four. While participation is free during first class, monthly fees have to be paid thereafter. The The “Children Mittagstische” provide children scholarship fund “An Instrument for Every Child”, and youths from difficult social backgrounds with which NRW.BANK supports with a donation, currently a hot meal per day. Meals are currently served at pays the fees for children from low-income families 13 children’s and young people’s facilities in North who do not get any state support. Rhine-Westphalia, where they also learn to cook and shop consciously. Another cultural project sponsored by NRW.BANK in “Jugend hilft!“ supports social projects in which 2012 was “Battle Cry – The Art Of Bboying“ as part children and young people aim to improve the of the hip hop event “Beathoven Bonn – Creativity and situation of people in poverty, illness or other diffi­ Innovation“. The aim was to put the intercultural cult situations. exchange between young people centre stage and to foster the cultural initiative of young dancers and artists. The two-day event was attended by about one thousand dance enthusiasts. 30 Financial Report 2012 Nature and Environment Going forward, NRW.BANK will continue to sponsor Environmental and climate protection is part of environmental protection projects, especially in the NRW.BANK’s corporate responsibility. Accordingly, energy sector. In the past fiscal year, the Bank decided, the Bank also sponsors environmental projects in the for instance, to support the Science Park Gelsen­ context of its corporate citizenship. kirchen. For several years the science park’s project group on “Future Energies” has supported the (early) This includes the award for good citizenship in the field promotion of young technical talent in the North Rhineof nature and the environment, which was jointly Westphalian energy sector. The “Energiekiste” was hosted by the “Bürger für Münster” foundation and the developed at the science park and has been tested in city of Münster in November 2012 under the heading its EnergyLab. This experimental box helps to introduce “Global Change Needs Local Action”. students in classes four to six to renewable energy in an easily understandable manner. “Eine Welt Netz NRW” realises projects aimed at raising awareness for our world, especially with regard to Christmas Activity and Donation climate change and fair trade. NRW.BANK sponsored During the 2012 Christmas season, NRW.BANK the following activities of the campaign “Heisse Zeiten. organised its fifth “Leuchtende Kinderaugen” charity Nimm die Zukunft in die Hand.” event in cooperation with various children’s homes in North Rhine-Westphalia. Self-made stars on which International Youth Activity Day: on this day, children had written their Christmas wishes were hung young people around the world organise activities from two Christmas trees at the Bank’s Düsseldorf on “Climate, Climate Change, Energy and Energy and Münster offices. Employees picked the stars and Consumption”. One of the venues is Dortmund, made over 280 wishes come true. The presents were where 2013 will see young people organise a handed over in time for Holy Night. central demonstration in the form of a “silent” pro­test, according to the motto “There Has Been Moreover, three North Rhine-Westphalian charities Enough Talking”. benefited from NRW.BANK’s annual Christmas “Eine Welt Mobil“: a van equipped with materials donation: for school and out-of-school education for children and youths from third class. The lessons address  The “Zeitpaten” project initiated by the “Bezirkstopics such as climate change, energy con­sump­ verband der Siegerländer Frauenhilfen e.V.” tion, fair trade, rain forest and responsible textile gives children time, trust and friendship for a production. given period of time. Germanwatch Climate Expedition: the lessons  The volunteers of “Multiple-Sklerose-Kreis Siegenuse historical and current satellite images to make Wittgenstein e.V.” provide people suffering from climate change visible to children and young multiple sclerosis and their families with valuable people. The images visualise, for instance, the help and support. accelerated melting of glaciers as well as the  A cooperation project organised by the Industrial melting of the Greenland ice. Museum of the Rhineland Regional Council and the Martin-Luther-King school in Ratingen gives children access to cultural education, for example through the Cromford-Festival, which provides them with a hands-on impression of history. Financial Report 2012  31 Report on Public Corporate Governance Report on Public Corporate Governance in the Year 2012 Every year, NRW.BANK reports on the corporate One of the main reasons for these refinements was governance efforts undertaken by NRW.BANK on the the wish – not least against the background of the loss basis of its own Public Corporate Governance Code, of reputation and confidence suffered by the banking which entered into force on January 1, 2006 and sector in the context of the global financial and reflects the specific requirements of the Bank. In economic crisis – to strengthen and restore investors’, conjunction with the report on corporate responsibility, the capital markets’ and the general public’s confidence this report addresses the specific requirements of in enterprises and their management teams. This also NRW.BANK as the development bank of North Rhineapplies to companies in which the public sector holds Westphalia. material investments. Legal Framework Relating to Public Key elements of the different regulations include the Corporate Governance strengthening of the responsibility of the members of the supervisory bodies, the strict separation between NRW.BANK constantly examines the consequences the spheres of responsibility of the supervisory body that arise from changes in the legal framework relating and the management body as well as the transparency to public corporate governance. In the years following of incentive systems and remuneration structures, the adoption of the internal Code of NRW.BANK, the which is of special interest to shareholders and the public. respective rules for listed joint stock companies have In addition, the regulations of the German Balance been refined and separate rules have been adopted for Sheet Modernisation Act (BilMoG) also address aspects public-sector companies. of the accounting process and the audit of the annual accounts. According to these regulations, the super­vi­ Examples include sory body must, for instance, be involved in the design of the internal controlling system, which clearly the amendment of the German Corporate helps to reduce the risk of malicious actions, which is Governance Code, inherent in any business activity. the adoption of the “Gesetz zur Angemessenheit der Vorstandsvergütungen” (VorstAG – German The bodies of NRW.BANK have addressed various Reasonableness of Management Remuneration Act), aspects of the framework conditions developed by the the publication of the “Grundsätze guter Unter­ federal government and taken the initiative to review nehmensund Beteiligungsführung im Bereich des the internal Public Corporate Governance Code of Bundes” (principles of good corporate and NRW.BANK. The revised Code should reflect not only investment management in the area of the federal the objectives defined by comparable regulations but government), also the experience gained in the past years. In the “Transparenzgesetz NW” (North Rhineaddition, these are closely integrated and matched with Westphalian Transparency Act), which is specific the state of North Rhine-Westphalia’s ideas regarding to North Rhine-Westphalia and has been adopted the implementation of a state-wide Code of Conduct. by the NRW Parliament, and In this context, it will also be important to adequately the “Institutsvergütungsverordnung” incorporate the particularities that result from the (InstitutsVergV – Bank Remuneration Directive) legally codified tasks of NRW.BANK as a competitionissued by the Federal Banking Supervisory neutral and largely budget-independent development Authority for the banking sector). bank on the one hand and from the regulations of the German “Anstaltsrecht” and banking supervision on the other hand. Following the adoption of a Code of Conduct for the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, probably in the first quarter of 2013, the bodies of NRW.BANK plan to consult about an amended Public Corporate Governance Code of NRW.BANK and its adoption. 32 Financial Report 2012 Directors and Officers (D&O) Insurance Fundamental Governance Structure of NRW.BANK As in the previous years, the D&O insurance for the As a supervisory body, the Supervisory Board super­ members of the Bank’s executive and controlling vises the management activities of the Managing Board ­bodies was renewed in the past fiscal year. In this and is involved in the long-term positioning of the context, the coverage of the insurance policies was Bank. In accordance with the Minimum Requirements not amended materially. for Risk Management (MaRisk), the overall bank strategy, which comprises the business, promotion and Availability of Qualification Enhancement Measures risk strategies, is discussed with the Supervisory Board – following preliminary consultation in the Promotion As one of the results of the global financial crisis, the and Risk Committee. With regard to the guiding ideas German Bundestag emphasised the necessity of the determining the strategies as well as the principles of personal and functional qualification of the members the business, promotion and risk policies, the Super­ of supervisory bodies for banks in Section 36 para. 3 visory Board submits a resolution proposal to the Board KWG, which was revised in the context of the of Guarantors. In the past year, four meetings were amendment of the German Banking Act in summer held by the Supervisory Board and 14 meetings were 2009. Besides the creation of reporting duties, which held by the committees formed by the Super­visory enable the Banking Supervisory Authority to assess Board in compliance with legal requirements; these a member’s personal and functional qualification with meetings were attended by the Managing Board. regard to the respective business activities, a focus is placed on ongoing qualification enhancement. The To ensure the efficiency of the work of the Supervisory bodies of NRW.BANK again addressed this idea in 2011 Board, preliminary discussions are held in the com­ and adopted a qualification budget for the members of mittees which focus on the respective issues. The full the Supervisory Board, which further details their Supervisory Board is informed about these preliminary possibilities for individual qualification enhancement. discussions by the respective chairpersons of the The qualification budget may be used by each member committees. Irrespective of the above, the documents of the Supervisory Board, in agreement with the Public used for discussion at the committee meetings are Corporate Governance Officer, for further training avail­able to the Supervisory Board members that are measures that match his or her personal requirements. not committee members for information purposes The Bank thus lives up to its general responsibility to upon request. offer the members of its Supervisory Board the possibility for ongoing qualification enhancement. In The cooperation between the Supervisory Board and addition, NRW.BANK arranges further training measures the Managing Board continues to be characterised by that specifically meet the special demands made on the an open and trusting dialogue in the interest of members of the Supervisory Board. In this context, NRW.BANK and its guarantor, the state of North Rhinethe Bank organised a seminar on “bank management Westphalia. The dialogue held at the meetings is and bank regulation” in summer 2012. complemented by a close, ongoing exchange, especially between the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and It should also be pointed out that, in analogy to the the Chairman of the Managing Board but also between qualification budget for the members of the Super­ the Managing Board and the Chairmen of the indivi­ visory Board, a qualification budget was adopted for dual committees. the members of the Board of Guarantors in 2012 to give them the possibility for personalised further The members of the Managing Board are appointed by training. The first training measures for the latter the Supervisory Board for a maximum period of five were arranged in early 2013. years. In the course of the fiscal year, the appointment of Mr Binkowska as Chairman of the Managing Board was renewed for another five years. Financial Report 2012  33 Report on Public Corporate Governance Ever since its inception, NRW.BANK has been char­ac­ Remuneration of the Members of the Supervisory Board terised by a clear allocation of competencies and The remuneration of the Supervisory Board is based on responsibilities on the Managing Board. The rules of a general resolution passed by the Board of Guaran­tors procedure of the Managing Board remained unchanged and is unrelated to the business performance. in the past fiscal year; in keeping with NRW.BANK’s The concept of a remuneration structure which is not transparency policy, they are published on the website dependent on the business performance primarily of the Bank. reflects the underlying idea according to which the generation of profits is not the primary business NRW.BANK‘s Public Corporate Governance Code objective. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board includes comprehensive requirements relating to the and its committees consists of a work remuneration integrity of the Managing Board, i.e. the appropriate that is unrelated to the meetings held and an additional attitude and approach to side-line occupations, meeting-related fee. As specified by the Board of invitations and gifts that affect the way in which the Guarantors, the work remuneration and the meeting office is exercised. Additional regulations are adopted attendance fee are identical within the Supervisory by the Executive Committee whenever required. The Board and its committees. No distinction is made respective behavioural obligations were also fulfilled in between a member, the vice chairperson or the chair­ 2012. In some cases, the advice of the Public Corporate person. Besides this remuneration, travel expenses Governance Officer was sought. incurred by mandate holders are adequately refunded. The payment of value added tax depends on the Remuneration Report respective tax status of the individual members. As part of its report on public corporate governance, The table below shows the individual remuneration NRW.BANK reports on the key elements of the paid to the members of the Supervisory Board and remuneration systems for its executive and controlling the committees for their work on the Supervisory Board. bodies and its employees. This report is in keeping The remuneration varies depending on their committee with the requirements of the Bank’s internal Public membership, as the remuneration is paid on a pro Corporate Governance Code, the North Rhinerata temporis basis for each month or part thereof in Westphalian Transparency Act, the Management cases where members join or resign during the Remuneration Act and the Bank Remuneration course of a year. Directive (InstitutsVergV). 34 Financial Report 2012 Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Supervisory Board and Its Committees Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 Permanent Representatives of the Members Letters a to c of the Statute Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 2 of the Statute Harry K. Voigtsberger (until June 21, 2012) 13,000 Dieter Krell 23,600 Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy, Assistant Secretary Building, Housing and Transport Ministry of Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Garrelt Duin (since June 21, 2012) 16,117 Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Michael Groschek (since June 21, 2012) 9,383 Annett Fischer (since November 12, 2012) 2,267 Minister for Building, Housing, Senior Principal City Development and Transport Ministry for Building, Housing, of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia City Development and Transport of the State of North Rhine Westphalia Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans 26,300 Gerhard Heilgenberg 22,400 Minister of Finance Assistant Secretary of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Ministry of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 Letter d of the Statute Letter e of the Statute Horst Becker, MdL 6,200 Iris Aichinger (since July 1, 2012) 6,200 Parliamentary State Secretary Staff representative Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, NRW.BANK Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Lutz Lienenkämper, MdL (since October 1, 2012) 4,650 Martin Bösenberg 14,900 Parliamentary Director Staff representative of the CDU Parliamentary Group NRW.BANK North Rhine-Westphalia Johannes Remmel 17,700 Hannelore Heger-Golletz (until June 30, 2012) 8,300 Minister for Climate Protection, Environment, Staff representative Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs NRW.BANK of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Norbert Römer, MdL 17.700 Frank Lill 17,300 Chairman Staff representative of the SPD Parliamentary Group NRW.BANK State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Guntram Schneider, MdL (until July 19, 2012) 6,133 Michael Tellmann 18,000 Minister for Work, Social Integration and Welfare Staff representative of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia NRW.BANK Svenja Schulze, MdL 16,200 Minister for Innovation, Science and Research of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Christian Michael Weisbrich, MdL 13,350 (until September 30, 2012) Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia (until March 14, 2012) 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Guarantors’ Meeting, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board joining or leaving the company in the course of the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. Financial Report 2012  35 Report on Public Corporate Governance Besides the members of the Supervisory Board, the the Board of Guarantors. The respective remuneration members of the Board of Guarantors, the Advisory complies with the above principles, but the absolute Board for the Promotion of Housing and the Advisory amount varies based on the different tasks and specific Board of NRW.BANK also received individual responsibilities. remuneration on the basis of the resolution passed by Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Board of Guarantors Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 8 Para. 1 Members Appointed by the Letters a to c of the Statute Board of Guarantors Harry K. Voigtsberger (until June 21, 2012) 3,100 Sylvia Löhrmann 5,900 Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy, Minister for School and Further Education Building, Housing and Transport of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Garrelt Duin (since June 21, 2012) 3,517 Dr. Rüdiger Messal 6,200 Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry State Secretary of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Ministry of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Michael Groschek (since June 21, 2012) 3,517 Udo Paschedag 5,000 Minister for Building, Housing, State Secretary City Development and Transport Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans 5,900 Dr. Wilhelm D. Schäffer 5,900 Minister of Finance State Secretary of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Appointed by the Board of Guarantors Helmut Dockter 5,900 State Secretary Ministry of Innovation, Science and Research of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Günther Horzetzky 5,300 State Secretary Ministry of Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Thomas Kutschaty, MdL 5,900 Minister of Justice of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Franz-Josef Lersch-Mense 5,900 Cabinet Secretary and Head of the Premier´s Department of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Guarantors’ Meeting, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board joining or leaving the company in the course of the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. 36 Financial Report 2012 Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Letter a of the Statute Letter c of the Statute Harry K. Voigtsberger (until June 21, 2012) 1,500 Dieter Hilser, MdL 2,550 Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy, (until March 14, 2012)/(since July 5, 2012) Building, Housing and Transport Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Michael Groschek (since June 21, 2012) 2,050 Gerda Kieninger, MdL (since July 5, 2012) 1,800 Minister for Building, Housing, Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group City Development and Transport State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Olaf Lehne, MdL (until March 14, 2012) 750 Letter b of the Statute Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Günther Bongartz (since March 25, 2012) 2,800 Jochen Ott, MdL (until March 14, 2012) 750 Senior Principal Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Ministry of Finance State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Michael Henze 3,300 Christof Rasche, MdL (until March 14, 2012) 750 Assistant Secretary Deputy Chairman of the FDP Parliamentary Group Ministry for Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Hans Lauf 3,300 Bernhard Schemmer, MdL 2,550 Assistant Secretary (until March 14, 2012)/(since July 5, 2012) Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Gert Leis (until January 21, 2012) 250 Daniela Schneckenburger, MdL 2,550 Assistant Secretary (until March 14, 2012)/(since July 5, 2012) Ministry of Finance Deputy Chairwoman of the Bündnis 90/Die Grünen of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Eva-Maria Voigt-Küppers, MdL (since July 5, 2012) 1,800 Letter c of the Statute Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Ali Atalan, MdL (until March 14, 2012) 750 Klaus Voussem, MdL (since July 5, 2012) 1,800 Member of the DIE LINKE Parliamentary Group Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Martin Börschel, MdL 2,550 Olaf Wegner, MdL (since July 5, 2012) 1,800 (until March 14, 2012)/(since July 5, 2012) Member of the PIRATEN Parliamentary Group Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Holger Ellerbrock, MdL (since July 5, 2012) 1,800 Christian Michael Weisbrich, MdL 750 Member of the FDP Parliamentary Group (until March 14, 2012) State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Financial Report 2012  37 Report on Public Corporate Governance Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Letter d of the Statute Letter f of the Statute Ingo Apel (until March 14, 2012)/ 2,050 Jürgen Becher (until March 14, 2012) 750 (since September 12, 2012) Deputy Chairman Vice President of Deutscher Mieterbund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Haus & Grund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Dr. Werner Küpper (until March 14, 2012)/ 2,050 Hans-Jochem Witzke (since September 12, 2012) 1,300 (since September 12, 2012) 1st Chairman Mieterverein Düsseldorf e. V. BFW Landesverband Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. and Member of the Board of Deutscher Mieterbund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Alexander Rychter (until March 14, 2012)/ 2,050 (since September 12, 2012) Association Director Verband der Wohnungswirtschaft Rheinland Westfalen e. V. Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Permanent Representatives of the Chairing Member Letter e of the Statute Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 2 of the Statute Rudolf Graaff (until March 14, 2012)/ 2,050 Dr. Uwe Günther (until May 31, 2012) 1,250 (since September 12, 2012) Head of Department Deputy Mayor Ministry of Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry Städteund Gemeindebund Nordrhein-Westfalen of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Thomas Hendele (until March 14, 2012)/ 2,050 (since September 12, 2012) District Administrator Kreis Mettmann Folkert Kiepe (until March 14, 2012) 750 Deputy Mayor for Urban Development, Construction, Housing and Transport Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Stefan Raetz (until March 14, 2012)/ 2,050 (since September 12, 2012) Mayor City of Rheinbach Hilmar von Lojewski (since September 12, 2012) 1,300 Deputy Mayor for Urban Development, Construction, Housing and Transport Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Guarantors’ Meeting, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board joining or leaving the company in the course of the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. 38 Financial Report 2012 Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Advisory Board Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 23 of the Statute Members Pursuant to Section 23 of the Statute Harry K. Voigtsberger (until June 21, 2012) 1,300 Heinz Fiege 2,300 Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy, FIEGE Logistik Holding Stiftung & Co. KG Building, Housing and Transport of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Garrelt Duin (since June 21, 2012) 1,467 Otto Rudolf Fuchs 2,000 Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry Shareholder of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of Otto Fuchs KG Michael Ackermann (since October 1, 2012) 800 Prof. Dr. Ursula Gather 2,600 Managing Director Chairman of the Directors Conference of Klinikum Bielefeld gem. GmbH of the Universities in North Rhine-Westphalia Prof. Dr. Achim Bachem 2,600 Dieter Gebhard 2,300 Chairman of the Managing Board Chairman of Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH of the Regional Assembly of Westphalia-Lippe Frank Baranowski 2,000 Dr. Rolf Gerlach 2,000 Lord Mayor President of the Savings Banks and Giro City of Gelsenkirchen Association of Westphalia-Lippe Paul Bauwens-Adenauer 0 Günter Gressler 2,600 President of the Chamber Director General of Industry and Commerce in North Rhine-Westphalia of 3M Deutschland GmbH Werner Böhnke 2,000 Dr. Jürgen Großmann (until June 29, 2012) 1,000 Chairman of the Managing Board former Chairman of the Managing Board of WGZ BANK AG of RWE AG Westdeutsche Genossenschafts-Zentralbank Prof. Dr. Gerd Bollermann 2,300 Dr. Axel Claus Heitmann (since March 1, 2012) 1,667 District President Chairman of the Managing Board of the Arnsberg Regional Government of LANXESS AG Manfred Breuer (until March 31, 2012) 500 Thomas Hunsteger-Petermann 2,300 Deputy Chairman of the Managing Board Lord Mayor of Bankenvereinigung Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. City of Hamm Michael Breuer 2,000 Dr. Hermann Janning (until November 12, 2012) 1,833 President of the Savings Banks and Giro former Chairman Association of the Rhineland of Verband kommunaler Unternehmen e. V. – Landesgruppe Nordrhein-Westfalen Norbert Bude (since October 1, 2012) 800 Peter Jung (until August 20, 2012) 1,333 Lord Mayor and Chairman Lord Mayor and Deputy Chairman of Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen of Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Heinrich Otto Deichmann 2,000 Arndt G. Kirchhoff 2,300 Chairman of the Supervisory Board Managing Partner of Deichmann SE of the KIRCHHOFF Group Dr. Reinhold Festge 2,300 Dr. Wolfgang Kirsch 2,300 Managing Partner Director of LWL of HAVER & BOECKER OHG Regional Association of Westphalia-Lippe Drahtweberei und Maschinenfabrik Financial Report 2012  39 Report on Public Corporate Governance Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 23 of the Statute Members Pursuant to Section 23 of the Statute Dipl.-Ing. Hanspeter Klein 2,600 Dr. Eckhard Ruthemeyer (until December 31, 2012) 2,300 Chairman of the Managing Board Mayor and Vice President of Verband Freier Berufe of Städteund Gemeindebund Nordrhein-Westfalen im Lande Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Prof. Dr. Reinhard Klenke (since March 1, 2012) 2,267 Prof. Dr. Uwe Schneidewind 2,300 District President President and Academic Managing Director of the Münster Regional Government of Wuppertal Institut für Klima, Umwelt, Energie GmbH Norbert Kleyboldt 2,600 Dr. Ottilie Scholz 2,600 Permanent Delegate Lord Mayor of the Apostolic Administrator City of Bochum of Bischöfliches Generalvikariat Dr. Johannes Kramer (until September 7, 2012) 1,500 Dr. Joachim Schorr (until May 31, 2012) 833 former Managing Director former Managing Director of Städtische Kliniken Bielefeld gem. GmbH of QIAGEN GmbH Thomas Kubendorff 2,300 Prof. Wolfgang Schulhoff 2,000 District Administrator and Vice President President of Landkreistag Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. of the Düsseldorf Chamber of Handicrafts Dr. Thomas Lange (since April 1, 2012) 2,100 Dr. Jochen Stemplewski 2,300 Chairman of the Managing Board Chairman of the Managing Board of Bankenvereinigung Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. of Wasserwirtschaftsverbände EMSCHERGENOSSENSCHAFT und LIPPEVERBAND Markus Lewe 2,300 Dr. jur. Frank Stieler 1,800 Lord Mayor (March 1, 2012 to November 28, 2012) City of Münster former Chairman of the Managing Board of HOCHTIEF AG Ulrike Lubek 2,600 Peter Terium (since October 1, 2012) 500 Director of LVR Chairman of the Managing Board Regional Association of the Rhineland of RWE AG Wolfgang Lubert 2,600 Marianne Thomann-Stahl 2,600 Managing Director District President of EnjoyVenture Management GmbH of the Detmold Regional Government Anne Lütkes 2,300 Hans-Josef Vogel 2,600 District President Mayor of the Düsseldorf Regional Government City of Arnsberg Andreas Meyer-Lauber 2,300 Gisela Walsken 2,600 District Chairman District President of Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund NRW of the Cologne Regional Government Dr. Paul-Josef Patt 2,300 Prof. Dr. Jürgen Wilhelm 2,600 Member of the Managing Board Chairman of eCAPITAL entrepreneurial Partners AG of the Regional Assembly of the Rhineland Jürgen Roters 2,600 Klaus Winterhoff 2,000 Lord Mayer Legal Vice President City of Cologne of the Evangelical Church of Westphalia 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Guarantors’ Meeting, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board joining or leaving the company in the course of the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. 40 Financial Report 2012 Implementation of the Special Requirements Made b) Determination of the Total Performance of the Bank on Significant Institutions Pursuant to Sections 5 Pursuant to Section 5 Para. 2 No. 3 InstitutsVergV and 6 of the “Institutsvergütungsverordnung” A total performance ratio system was developed already (InstitutsVergV – Bank Remuneration Directive) for the variable remuneration of the 2011 financial year, NRW.BANK has been classified as a “significant according to the following principle: In the develop­ment institution” as defined in Section 1 para. 2 of a system for measuring the sustainable total InstitutsVergV. The Bank complies not only with performance of NRW.BANK, such ratios have been the general requirements but also with the special used which reflect the goal of sustainable performance requirements of Sections 5 and 6 InstitutsVergV of a development bank while considering the risks as well as the extended disclosure requirements taken as well as the capital and liquidity costs. The pursuant to Section 8 InstitutsVergV. in­come statement (to HGB) of the past fiscal year forms the basis which justifies the creation of appropriate These include the following aspects, which are explained bonus provisions. The actual economic performance in detail below: identification of the “risk takers” in the achieved is to be used as a benchmark. The income context of a risk analysis (a), de­termination of the statement shows a result for the year that reflects all Bank’s relevant result by means of a total performance realised gains and losses as well as all discernible ratio system to measure the sustainability of the Bank’s anticipated losses (imparity principle). Accordingly, a total performance (b), introduction of a deferral result in the HGB income statement is always con­ component and a sustainability component for the servative, includes all risk allowances and provisions “risk takers” (c); set-up of a Remuneration Committee that are necessary for loss-free valuation (itemised (d); publication of the present detailed remuneration allowances, general allowances, provisions) and may report in compliance with the extended disclosure thus serve as the basis for the measurement of the total requirements. performance in the meaning of the InstitutsVergV. As the net profit for the year to HGB may additionally a) Identification of the “Risk Takers” Pursuant to include reserves for future special risks arising from the Section 5 Para. 1 Sentence 2 InstitutsVergV banking business, these allowance reserves in the In the past fiscal year, NRW.BANK updated the written income statement must first be neutralised to calculate risk analysis for the identification of “risk takers” the economic performance, as they are not based on required by the InstitutsVergV. As a result, the Head of any specific discernible risks and thus distort the actual Credit Risk was identified as an additional “risk taker”. result for the period. The opposite applies when This means that the number of employees whose ac­tiv­ reserves are released. In addition, the promotion and ities have a material impact on the overall risk profile development funds, which are booked in the commercial of the Bank, including the Managing Board, increased to balance sheet of NRW.BANK, must be neutralised. a total of 22. They must comply with the additional These also act as a burden on the bottom line but are at requirements of Section 5 para. 2 to 4 InstitutsVergV. the same time an important performance feature of a development bank (in contrast to a commercial bank). This means that changes in reserves occurring in the course of a year, promotion and development funds spent as well as extraordinary one-time effects outside the regular banking business must be taken into account as adjustment items. The result is a total performance ratio of the Bank which includes all income and expenses of the period including income and expenses from the risks that have actually materialised or are anticipated in the respective period. Financial Report 2012  41 Report on Public Corporate Governance In the context of an ex-ante risk adjustment, the These quantitative parameters are complemented by resulting performance ratio is then extended the targets agreed between the Executive Committee and the full Managing Board as well as by a qualitative through the consideration of standard risk costs assessment of the overall risk situation. Based on a for anticipated risks and resolution by the Managing Board, the weighted threethrough the consideration of adequate interest on year average of the above total performance ratios are the economic capital to cover unexpected default, relevant for determining the total performance market price, liquidity and operational risks. pursuant to Section 5 para. 2 No. 3 InstitutsVergV for all employees. The ratios thus determined are the total performance ratios of NRW.BANK in the meaning of the Institutsc) P  ayment Conditions of the Variable Remuneration VergV. Pursuant to Section 5 Para. 2 Nos. 4 and 5 (in conjunction with No. 6) InstitutsVergV According to Section 3 para. 4 InstitutsVergV, the For the Managing Board as well as for all “risk takers”, variable remuneration received by executives shall be NRW.BANK has defined based on a multi-year assessment period. NRW.BANK applies this requirement to all employees, as it a deferral period of 3 years for 60% of the makes more sense for a development bank that operates variable component pursuant to Section 5 para. 2 sustainably to assess the remuneration-relevant No. 4 InstitutsVergV (see C + D in chart below); performance on the basis of a multi-year period instead pursuant to Section 5 para. 2 No. 6, these de­ of the result for an individual year. When weighting ferred amounts are subject to a “negative bonus” the individual annual results, the current assessment regulation, which may lead to a reduced re­mu­ period should have the highest relevance, which neration entitlement within the deferral period, subsides over time. A weighted three-year average as well as a one-year period for assessing the sus­ is thus calculated as follows: tainable value increase of the Bank for 50% each of the directly granted variable remuneration and past fiscal year 3/6 the deferred variable remuneration pursuant to previous fiscal year 2/6 Section 5 para. 2 No. 5 InstitutsVergV (see B + D year prior to previous fiscal year 1/6 in chart below). 42 Financial Report 2012 The chart below shows the distribution of the individual components: 20% A Cash variable (immediate payment) 20% 40% B Sustainability variable Granted immediately (with 1-year holding period) C 30% Cash deferral (pro rata payment) 30% 100% Sustainability deferral Variable remuneration (pro rata payment 60% D determined on the basis of following additional 1-year the objectives achieved Deferral over 3 years holding period) d) Remuneration Committee (“VergütungsausThe Remuneration Committee held two meetings schuss” Pursuant to Section 6 InstitutsVergV) in the fiscal year 2012. The Remuneration Committee In the past fiscal year, the Remuneration Committee performs the following tasks: of NRW.BANK again consisted of the following voting members: Monitoring of the remuneration systems of NRW.BANK with regard to their appropriateness Head of Human Resources (Chairperson) and compliance with applicable regulatory Head of Capital Markets requirements Head of Risk Management (Vice Chairperson) Advising the Managing Board on the Head of Social Housing Promotion appropriateness of the remuneration systems of Head of BCB. NRW.BANK as well as the applicable regulatory requirements The Reporting to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board on the appropriateness of the Head of Auditing remuneration systems of NRW.BANK at least once Head of Legal/Compliance/Money Laundering a year; if necessary, additional reports on given Prevention occasions Head of IT/Organisation/Internal Services Information duties towards the Chairperson of the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board member in charge of risk management are involved in the work of the Remuneration Committee in an advisory capacity in the context of their tasks. Financial Report 2012  43 Report on Public Corporate Governance The Remuneration Committee reviewed the appro­priate­ Consistency between Strategic Corporate Objectives ness of the remuneration systems for the employees and Remuneration Structures and the Managing Board of NRW.BANK for 2011 The necessary connection between the strategic (meeting on February 8, 2012) and for 2012 (meeting cor­porate objectives agreed with the owner and the on October 29, 2012) and confirmed it in its remuner­ remuneration system of NRW.BANK is ensured by ation reports. After the meetings of the Remuneration a systematic planning and assessment process. A con­ Committee, the report was submitted to both sistent top-down process ensures that the cor­po­rate the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. objectives are communicated to employees at the down­ stream levels. For this purpose, the individual require­ Remuneration at NRW.BANK ments derived from the strategic corporate objectives Ever since its inception, NRW.BANK has, in agreement are documented in writing in the context of a tasks with its guarantor, geared its remuneration systems and and objectives planning process at the be­ginning of the parameters towards its promotion tasks. Against the year. The achievement of these objec­tives is reviewed background of its promotion-oriented character, the in an annual feedback process and summarised in a Bank bases its remuneration structure exclusively on written performance assessment. This process applies regionally and/or nationally used remuneration equally to all employees of NRW.BANK. parameters. Managing Board Remuneration In accordance with Section 5 para. 2 No. 3 Instituts­ In the past fiscal year, the Managing Board remunera­ VergV, the amount of the provisions for the variable tion was evaluated by means of disclosure reports remuneration to be paid out in April 2013 for the fiscal (mostly from development institutions) and market data year 2012 is defined by the Managing Board on the of Germany’s top 30 banks as surveyed by an external basis of a ratio system that reflects the sustainable total remuneration consulting firm. As NRW.BANK is the performance of NRW.BANK (see presentation on page only development bank that is classified as a significant 43). This quantitative assessment is complemented institution as defined in the InstitutsVergV, the partial by the targets agreed between the Executive Com­mit­tee conversion of variable into fixed remuneration com­­ and the full Managing Board as well as by a qualitative ponents described in last year’s Annual Report has led assessment of the overall risk situation. The variable to distor­tions that make it difficult to compare the Bank remuneration is paid out only after the respective with the other development institutions. Within the financial statements have been discussed by the Super­ market data comparison performed by the external visory Board and adopted by the Board of Guarantors. remuneration consulting firm, NRW.BANK’s Managing Board remuneration is in the medium range in terms of the average fixed and total remuneration determined for this peer group. 44 Financial Report 2012 The previous year’s variable remuneration of the The objectives agreed with the Executive Committee Managing Board pursuant to section 5 para. 2 Nos. 4 reflect the special demands made on a development and 5 InstitutsVergV was in 2012 for the first time bank and take into account that the generation of subject to the Bank’s sustainable total performance. profits is not the main business purpose. In accordance Payment of these amounts will be deferred over a with the corporate policy, which is geared to the sus­ period of four years (deferral and sustainability com­ tainable development of the North Rhine-West­phalian ponent). economy, the local authorities and the people in the state, the agreed objectives are divided into super­or­di­ The partial amounts of the variable remuneration from nate objectives to be achieved over a long to medium 2012 for fiscal year 2011 that are subject to the sus­ term and objectives to be achieved within one year. tainability and malus arrangement reserve and due in Both the long/medium-term objectives and the shortApril 2013 will be paid out following the respective term objectives are derived from the overall bank review and decision by the Bank’s responsible bodies strategy. They reflect the “principles of the business, in the first quarter of 2013. promotion and risk policy” adopted by the Board of Guarantors and the regulatory requirements. At the same time, the variable remuneration of the Managing Board for the past fiscal year, in analogy to In the past fiscal year, the Supervisory Board addi­ the variable remuneration of the “risk takers”, will tionally decided to renew the contract of Mr Dietmar P. be determined individually on the basis of the Bank’s Binkowska with effect from September 1, 2013 and total performance ratios, the achievement of the implemented the contractually agreed purchasing com­plementary objective agreement with the Executive power adjustment, which must be effected no later Committee and a qualitative overall risk assessment than three years following the coming into force of the in accordance with the InstitutsVergV Act. contract. The table below compares the remuneration received by the Managing Board members in 2012 and 2011: in € thsd. Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Other remuneration Total remuneration 2012 2011 20121) 2011 2012 2011 20121) 2011 Dietmar P. Binkowska 704 690 33 250 29 25 766 965 Klaus Neuhaus 476 476 26 200 28 36 530 712 Michael Stölting 456 446 26 200 36 35 518 681 Dietrich Suhlrie 456 456 26 117 16 15 498 588 Ernst Gerlach Board member until May 31, 2010 0 0 0 83 0 0 0 83 Managing Board total 2,092 2,068 111 850 109 111 2,312 3,029 1) T  he figures cannot be fully compared with the prior year figures: In fiscal year 2012, the variable remuneration was deferred over an extended period for the first time in accordance with the provisions of the InstitutsVergV Act. This variable remuneration amount paid out in 2012 was commensurately low. If the deferral and sustainability components are paid out in the following years, the amount will increase again. Financial Report 2012  45 Report on Public Corporate Governance The table below shows the variable remuneration of the Managing Board, divided into paid-out and deferred components (Section 8 para. 3 No. 3 InstitutsVergV): Variable Reduction remuneration thereof thereof paid pursuant to awarded in 2012 deferred out in 2012 Sec. 5 para. 2 No. 6 in € thsd. in € thsd. in € thsd. in € thsd. Dietmar P. Binkowska 167 134 33 0 Klaus Neuhaus 132 106 26 0 Michael Stölting 132 106 26 0 Dietrich Suhlrie 132 106 26 0 In the event of accident or illness and in the event advantage of the old-age pension, the amount of the of premature termination or non-renewal of the fixed pension is approx. 54% of the fixed annual salary contractual relationship before reaching the age of 62 before taking into account the pension under the (exception: Mr Binkowska from the age of 63), all statutory pension insurance. Early old-age pension members of the Managing Board are entitled to the may be received from the age of 63. following benefits: In the event of invalidity and when reaching the age of In the event of an inability to work caused by an acci­ retirement, Mr Neuhaus benefits from a pension similar dent or illness, the fixed annual salary will continue to those for civil-servants in Germany. This warrants to be paid for an unlimited time but no longer than the 75% of the pensionable salary, taking into account end of the employment relationship. After the end the pension from the statutory pension insurance as of the employment relationship, all members of the well as the pension from an additional pension in­ Managing Board receive a life-long pension, in analogy surance. The pensionable salary is 69% of the fixed to the pension granted in the event of invalidity. annual salary. Members of the Managing Board are not entitled to Mr Stölting benefits from a pension commitment pension if the Bank terminates the employment pur­suant to the German Civil Servant’s Pension Act relationship for reasons attributable to the Managing (Beamten­versorgungsgesetz ). Depending on the Board member. number of pensionable service years, the maximum pension entitlement is 71.75% of the pensionable The members of the Managing Board are entitled to salary from the age of 65. The pensionable salary is pension benefits as they reach the age of retirement 69% of the fixed annual salary. The amount of the or in case of invalidity. In the event of their death pension in the event of invalidity depends on the their dependants are also entitled to benefits. All com­ entitlement achieved as well as on the additionally mit­ments are contractually unforfeitable or un­for­ agreed attributable period credited at the time the in­ feitable by law because of the number of years served. sured event occurs. In the case of Mr Stölting, the pension from the statutory pension insurance and the Mr Binkowska is entitled to a fixed pension taking pension from additional pension insurance will be into account pension payments from the public pension counted towards the pension no earlier than from the system. In the event of invalidity and when taking time they are granted. 46 Financial Report 2012 Mr Suhlrie benefits from a contribution-linked pension While any pension benefits paid out to Mr Binkowska, commitment. In the context of this pension commit­ Mr Neuhaus and Mr Stölting will be adjusted in ment, a personal pension account with a starting com­ accordance with the linear changes applicable to ponent has been set up for him, into which annual pensions paid by the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, pension components are paid. The pension component the pension paid to Mr Suhlrie will be increased by is calculated at an individual contribution rate on 2.0% p.a. the basis of 69% of the annual fixed salary and 6% in­terest is added to the capital. When the pension As Mr Neuhaus and Mr Stölting benefit from commit­ becomes due, the capital in the account – possibly plus ments that are similar to those for civil servants, they additional components in the event of invalidity – is are exempted from statutory pension insurance but converted into a pension. receive benefits as defined in the North Rhine-West­ phalian “Beihilfeverordnung” in the event of illness. After the death of a Managing Board member, their dependants receive a reduced pension. Widows receive Provisions for pensions in an amount of € 9,223 thousand up to 60% of the pension. The children of the Managing (2010: € 8,128 thousand) have been established to Board members are entitled to 20% of the pension cover the Bank’s obligations arising from Managing if they are orphans and to 12% of the pension if they Board members’ contractual entitlements in respect of have lost one parent. retirement benefits, invalidity benefits as well as death benefits to their surviving dependants. These break down as follows: In € thsd. Expenses1) Present value of the obligation 2012 2011 2012 2011 Dietmar P. Binkowska 386 360 2,363 1,977 Klaus Neuhaus 274 318 4,171 3,897 Michael Stölting 237 183 2,191 1,954 Dietrich Suhlrie 198 185 498 300 Total Managing Board 1,095 1,046 9,223 8,128 1) The  expenses shown here comprise personnel and interest expenses. In particular, they comprise the portion of the interest expenses that results from the change in the interest rate used for calculation (reduced from 5.14% on Dec. 31, 2011 to 5.05% on December 31, 2012). Financial Report 2012  47 Report on Public Corporate Governance Composition of the Remuneration for Employees The chart below shows the frequency distribution The salaries of all employees of NRW.BANK are com­ for the employees not covered by collective agreements posed of fixed and variable remuneration components. in 2012: The fixed salaries and the variable remuneration are determined according to comparable principles for all employees. Under the InstitutsVergV, the variable Number of Employees per Bonus Cluster remuneration for the Managing Board and the “risk The analysis covers 384 (370) employees not covered takers” must be linked to the sustainable total by collective agreements (excl. Managing Board) performance; NRW.BANK applies this principle to all who received a bonus in 2012 (2011) for the fiscal year employees. 2011 (2010). The fixed salaries are paid monthly, while the variable 311 bonuses are paid once a year at the beginning of 300 296 the second quarter following the approval of the annual financial statements by the Board of Guarantors. 250 Employees Not Covered by Collective Agreements 200 a) Fixed Remuneration NRW.BANK sets the remuneration of its employees 150 who are not covered by collective agreements in accordance with the salaries paid for the respective 100 function by comparable German companies. Since 67 50 57 2004, NRW.BANK has therefore participated in a regular market comparison carried out by an external 13 0 6 0 4 remuneration consulting firm € 0 – 30 thsd. € 30 – 60 thsd. € 60 – 90 thsd. € 90 –120 thsd. b) Variable Remuneration 2012 2011 Based on the procedure described above, the Managing Board defines the available maximum bonus amount for each year and its allocation to the individual depart­ 81% (2011: 80%) of the employees not covered by col­ ments. This pool model ensures that the maximum lec­tive agreements received a bonus of max. € 30,000 bonus amount defined by the Managing Board for the in the fiscal year 2012. The average bonus amounted Bank as a whole is not exceeded. Each individual’s to 26% of the annual salary (2011: 22%), while the maxi­ share in the bonus pool is calculated on the basis of the mum bonus amounted to € 78,100 (2011: € 98,000). amount of the fixed salary, the assessment of the achievement of objectives and the performance-relevant The reduction in the two upper pool clusters in the behaviour as determined in the annual planning and past fiscal year is mainly attributable to the revised assessment process described above. remuneration system for the risk “takers”. As part of the implementation of the InstitutsVergV, Given NRW.BANK’s function as the development the Bank has set the upper limit for the variable bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, there is an appropriate remuneration at 40% of the total remuneration. relation between the fixed salary and the variable remuneration. The amount of the variable remuneration rules out a significant dependence of employees on this payment. Nevertheless, the individual amounts are high enough to provide the required effective incentives as defined in the overall bank strategy. 48 Financial Report 2012 Disclosure Pursuant to Section 7 Para. 2 No. 2 and Section 8 Para. 3 Nos. 1 – 5 InstitutsVergV Section 7 para. 2 No. 2 InstitutsVergV: The total amount of all remuneration for employees not covered by collective agreements is stated on the basis of the Bank’s segment report. It is divided into fixed and variable components as well as the number of beneficiaries receiving variable remuneration: Number of recipients Fixed Variable Department/Segment (of the variable remuneration)1) remuneration2) 3) remuneration2) € millions € millions Programme-based Promotion 121 9.7 2.4 Other Promotion/Liquidity Management 36 3.6 1.4 Staff/Services 227 17.4 4.3 1) all employees not covered by collective agreements incl. staff changes in the course of the year (departures, retirements). 2) received in 2012. 3) as there are only minor non-material amounts of remuneration received from third parties they are included. Section 8 para. 3 No. 1: Presentation of the total amount of all remuneration paid to “risk takers”, broken down into fixed and variable components and the number of beneficiaries: Fixed Variable Total Number of identified “risk takers”1) 2) remuneration4) remuneration3) remuneration € millions € millions € millions 18 3.3 0.8 4.1 1) excl. Managing Board (shown separately). 2) Due to the small number of “risk takers”, the remuneration was not broken down by business units to comply with the principle of protection and confidentiality. 3) Variable remuneration awarded for the fiscal year 2011. Of the total amount, € 0.2 million was paid out in 2012. The sustainability components will be paid out in the following three years. 4) as there are only minor non-material amounts of remuneration received from third parties they are included. Financial Report 2012  49 Report on Public Corporate Governance No remuneration as defined in Section 8 para. 3 No. 2 was paid in the past fiscal year. Section 8 para. 3 No. 3 InstitutsVergV: Presentation of the total amount of the variable remuneration of the “risk takers” divided into paidout and deferred components: Variable Reduction pursuant Number of remuneration Thereof Thereof paid out to Section 5 para. 2 identified “risk takers“1) 2) awarded in 2012 deferred in 2012 No. 6 InstitutsVergV € millions € millions € millions € millions 18 0.8 0.6 0.2 0 1)  xcl. Managing Board (shown separately). e 2) Due to the small number of “risk takers”, the remuneration was not broken down by business units in order to comply with the principle of protection and confidentiality. Section 8 para. 3 No. 4 InstitutsVergV: Presentation of the total amount of the variable remuneration of the “risk takers” with separate presentation of the sustainability component: Thereof dependent on the value increase of NRW.BANK Variable as defined in remuneration Sec. 5 para. 2 Number of identified “risk takers” 1) 2) awarded in 2012 No. 5 InstitutsVergV € millions € millions 18 0.8 0.4 1) excl. Managing Board (shown separately). 2) Due to the small number of “risk takers”, the remuneration was not broken down by business units in order to comply with the principle of protection and confidentiality. In the past fiscal year, severance payments arising Employees Covered by Collective Agreements from individual contracts pursuant to Section 8 a) Fixed Remuneration para. 3 No. 5 InstitutsVergV were made in five The scope for the fixed remuneration of employees cases in the total amount of € 456 thousand. The covered by collective agreements is defined in the highest severance payment was € 155 thousand. “Manteltarifvertrag für das private Bankgewerbe und die öffentlichen Banken” (basic collective agreement for private-sector and public-sector banks) as well as internal regulations. b) Variable Remuneration NRW.BANK’s employees covered by collective agree­ ments participate in a bonus programme whose general features are comparable with that for the employees not covered by collective agreements. The available total amount is defined each year as a function of the business result. A bonus of approximately 5.6% (2011: 5.3%) of the fixed annual salary was paid out in 2012. 50 Financial Report 2012 Report of the Supervisory Board Report of the Supervisory Board To fulfil the tasks to which it is subjected by law and At its meeting on March 15, 2013, the Supervisory the statute, the Supervisory Board held four meetings Board approved the financial statements and the in 2012. Another 18 meetings were held by the Com­ statements of financial condition established by the mittees composed of the members of the Supervisory Managing Board and proposed that the Board of Board. The Executive Committee held five meetings, Guarantors approve the financial statements for the while the Promotion Committee held three meetings year 2012. As in the previous years, no consolidated and two written votes. The Risk Committee met four financial statements were prepared, as the Bank is times. Due to overlapping appointments, which arose at not obliged to do so under commercial law. short notice, one member of the Supervisory Board was unable to attend half of the meetings as prescribed in The May 2012 parliamentary elections in North RhineClause 5.4.8 of the Public Corporate Governance Code Westphalia entailed a number of new appointments of NRW.BANK. to NRW.BANK’s bodies. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the retiring members for their constructive Regular reports kept the Supervisory Board apprised of work in taking NRW.BANK forward as the development the Bank‘s situation and of all essential business events bank of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. during the period. The Supervisory Board discussed and approved all transactions requiring its approval in accordance with legal or statutory provisions and Düsseldorf/Münster, March 15, 2013 addressed important matters of business policy in detail. In accordance with regulatory requirements and the provisions in the statutes, the Supervisory Board addressed the business, promotion and risk strategy for the years 2013 to 2016, which had previously been Garrelt Duin discussed by the Promotion Committee and the Risk Chairman of the Supervisory Board Committee. The principles of the business, promotion and risk policies were submitted for approval to the Board of Guarantors, which is the competent body under the Bank’s statutes. The Board of Guarantors approved the proposed strategy at its meeting on December 7, 2012. Moreover, the Supervisory Board renewed the appointment of the Supervisory Board Chairman, Dietmar P. Binkowska, for another five years. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft carried out the audit of the financial statements for 2012 and the statement of financial condition of NRW.BANK and issued an unqualified audit opinion. The Super­vi­ sory Board and the Audit Committee formed from among its members discussed in detail the report of the external auditors on the results of their audits. Following the final result of the audit, they raised no objections. Financial Report 2012  51 Management Report Management Report of NRW.BANK for the Fiscal Year 2012 State Development Bank of North Rhine-Westphalia to finance its development and promotion activities, to NRW.BANK is the state development bank of North secure the long-term viability of the Bank, also with Rhine-Westphalia (NRW). It has the public mission to regard to the creation of its own, non-interest-bearing support its guarantor, the state of North Rhine-West­ provisions and reserves, and to finance the banking phalia, in the completion of its structural and economic operations, particularly by granting loans, underwriting policy tasks. NRW.BANK is competition-neutral and guarantees and investing in participations. provides the full range of lending tools while at the same time contributing its banking expertise to promotion The Bank’s activities are geared towards sustainability. and development processes. The Bank pools the For details, refer to the “Principles of Corporate promotion and development programmes of the state Responsibility at NRW.BANK“. of North Rhine-Westphalia, the Federal Republic of Germany and the European Union and combines them NRW.BANK liaises closely with its executive bodies with its own equity and debt products and advisory and ensures the appropriate degree of transparency in services. implementing and refining its tasks. Business Model and Strategy The overall bank strategy is structured into two levels The business model of NRW.BANK is that of a largely based on formal aspects. The first level consists of budget-independent development bank with an inte­ principles, which, according to the statutes, are adopted grated promotion and development policy. According to by the Board of Guarantors; the second level is the the “Verständigung II” agreement of March 1, 2002 strategy level, which, according to the Minimum Require­ between the EU Commission and the German govern­ ments on Risk Management (MaRisk), is the responsi­ ment, NRW.BANK is a legally independent develop­ bility of the Managing Board. The principles of the ment bank engaging in competition-neutral structural business, promotion and risk policy define the frame­ and development business which permanently benefits work of strategic action. The business, promotion and from institutional and guarantor liability as well as risk strategy puts the strategic positioning of the Bank from an explicit funding guarantee from its guarantor. which is defined in the principles into more concrete NRW.BANK generates its own income, which is used terms and leads to a multi-year quantitative budget. Resolution by the Board Principles of of Guarantors (pursuant to statutes) Business policy Promotion policy Risk policy Strategy pursuant Economic environment to MaRisk is the responsibility Business and resource strategy Promotion strategy Risk strategy of the Managing Board in con­sul­tation with Capital markets business Investment and Contents of the fields of Capital cover Promotion business the Supervisory funding strategy promotion Board and its committees HR planning and Promotion themes Economic capital development strategy Organisational and IT strategy Country limits Quantitative budget 52 Financial Report 2012 The focus of the overall bank strategy is on the pro­ The Programme-based Promotion segment comprises motion strategy, which reflects the special importance the Promotion Programmes, Special Promotion, of the promotion business. The business strategy de­ Housing Promotion, Central Product Management as fines resource-related aspects such as human resources well as the equity investments made as part of the and IT as well as the investment strategy and the NRW.BANK’s mission as a development bank. The funding strategy. The risk strategy addresses the Other Promotion/Liquidity Management segment risk-relevant aspects of the strategy and is integrated consists of Capital Markets and Municipal Financing. with the promotion and business strategies. Where the capital market business is concerned, The overall bank strategy is geared to NRW.BANK’s NRW.BANK continues to adapt its activities to the public mission to support the federal state and its local changed environment resulting from the financial and regional governments in completing their public market crisis and is reducing its business volume and tasks. Material business activities as defined in the total assets as planned. While portfolio investments Minimum Requirements on Risk Management (MaRisk) continue to be held with the intention of being held are the promotion business and the capital market permanently, the capital market business is being scaled business. down primarily through maturing investments as well as through portfolio-enhancing and risk-reducing The current strategy continues the proven business measures such as limit cuts and the selective ­windmodel of a largely budget-independent development down of certain risk assets. In 2012, the business volume bank. Focal points of the promotion strategy include was reduced by a total of € 9.4 billion. support in the move towards green energy, social housing promotion as well as assistance to North Economic Report Rhine-Westphalia’s municipalities in completing their tasks. Moreover, NRW.BANK remains committed to Economic Climate constantly refining its development and promotion Growth in the world economy slowed down in the products and processes with a view to increasing the course of 2012. The slowdown affected all economic efficiency of its development and promotion activities. regions to different degrees. Caught in the midst of the debt and confidence crisis, the euro-zone was under In the context of its highly qualitative and themeconsiderable economic pressure. While this weighed on oriented promotion business, NRW.BANK operates in the economic upward trend in Germany – and hence three fields of promotion: Housing & Living, Seed & in North Rhine-Westphalia –, which is a traditional Growth and Development & Protection. These fields of export country, it did not cause fundamental damage. promotion are divided into promotion themes, for which qualitative objectives and measures are defined. The German Economy The measures result in specific promotion products. The German economy grew in a difficult environment The promotion instruments used by NRW.BANK mainly moderately by 0.7% compared to the previous year. include lending products, equity investments and The German export sector performed surprisingly well advisory services. given the global economic slowdown. Germany’s private households also provided positive stimulation. In the year 2012, NRW.BANK extended promotion Higher real wages and a lower annual average u ­ n­em­ funds totalling approx. € 9.5 billion (2011: € 8.1 billion) ploy­ment rate of 6.8% led to high con­sumer spending. to support some 43,300 projects. The use of own Together with historically low interest rates and a funds, e.g. to reduce the interest rates on promotion general trend towards investments in real assets, the loans, is a key aspect of NRW.BANK’s business model. stable labour market stimulated private housing construction. Government consumption, i.e., govern­ The promotion strategy is implemented in the ment spending on goods and services, was also robust. “Pro­gramme-based Promotion” segment and the The federal government’s new borrowings were re­ “Other Promotion/Liquidity Management” segment. duced to € 22.5 billion, as the revenue side benefited Financial Report 2012  53 Management Report particularly strongly from those revenue-producing The weaker performance of the North Rhine-West­pha­ factors – the good labour market situation and high lian economy is reflected in the NRW.BANK.ifo consumer spending. Together with the social security Business Climate, which peaked in February and then surplus, the government budget showed a moderate declined continuously until October, save for a short surplus of 0.1% of GDP as defined in the Maastricht recovery in April. While businesses’ expectations criteria. had been pessimistic since May, their assessment of the current business situation also shifted into negative In view of the European debt crisis, however, companies’ territory in October. Since November, however, the relatively pessimistic expectations had a notable impact business climate has improved moderately, although it on capital spending. Very low interest rates and low failed to return to the levels seen in the first half of lending obstacles for businesses failed to offset this the year. In nearly all sectors covered by the survey, negative factor sufficiently. capacity utilisation dropped below the long-term average in the second half of the year. Except for the Consumer prices increased sharply, primarily because moderate recovery towards the end of the year, the of higher energy prices. Against this background, business climate showed a clearly downward trend energy savings and resource efficiency remained high especially in the manufacturing sector. up on the economic policy agenda. Germany’s rate of inflation stood at 2.0% in spite of the economic Sentiment in the construction sector was mainly affected slowdown. by public building construction, whereas private housing construction was not so much affected by the The North Rhine-Westphalian Economy negative trend. The euro crisis led to a strong increase Just like the all-German economy, the North Rhinein demand for existing properties. Real estate prices West­phalian economy also slowed down markedly showed a stable to moderately upward trend. compared to 2011, with NRW’s growth rate probably slightly below the nationwide average. The lower At 8.1%, the annual average unemployment rate in growth in the North Rhine-Westphalian economy is due North Rhine-Westphalia was slightly higher than in to the manufacturing sector’s specialisation in inter­ the previous year, which means that the labour market mediate and capital goods, which suffered particularly essentially remained robust in what was a weaker from the high uncertainty resulting from the euro crisis economic environment. in 2012. One of the main reasons for the high cyclical sensitivity of the North Rhine-Westphalian economy Financial Markets is the steel sector, which plays a much more important The European sovereign debt crisis was not overcome role in North Rhine-Westphalia than in the rest of in 2012. According to the European Central Bank (ECB), Germany and responds much more sensitively to however, the risks to financial stability in Europe changes in economic activity. The strong focus of North declined noticeably in the course of the year, although Rhine-Westphalia’s automotive (supplier) industry the European financial system remains vulnerable. on European markets also had an adverse impact, as The focus of the measures taken to solve the crisis economic activity in Europe slowed down more strongly recently shifted from fighting the most urgent crisis than in other regions. The chemicals and mechanical symptoms directly to improving the euro-zone’s engineering sectors, which have a more global focus, medium-term financial stability through imple­men­ were less affected by the economic slowdown in Europe. tation of the necessary structural reforms. 54 Financial Report 2012 At the beginning of the year, a voluntary private Due to further improved favourable funding conditions, sector haircut was implemented to put Greece’s public especially in conjunction with short-term money-market finance on a more solid basis. This helped to ease the transactions, the Bank was able to generate a very situation in the financial markets for a certain time. But good operating income before risk provisions/valuation as the situation in Spain deteriorated, uncertainty adjustments of € 445.0 million in 2012 (2011: € 370.2 increased significantly again, prompting the ECB to million), which was almost fully used to strengthen its take standard and non-standard measures. The allowance reserves and risk-bearing capacity. announcement to make unlimited purchases of bonds issued by ailing governments if necessary helped to In the context of the refined business, promotion and reduce the res­pec­tive risk premiums. The coming into risk strategy, NRW.BANK continued to reduce its force of the Euro­pean Stability Mechanism (ESM) capital market portfolio. While portfolio investments following the approval by the Federal Constitutional continue to be held with the intention of being held Court in September 2012 also helped to ease the permanently, the portfolio was reduced primarily in ­situation noticeably. The fact that risk premiums remain the context of maturities as well as through portfoliohigh compared to the previous year shows, however, enhancing and risk-reducing measures such as the that market participants are still very sceptical about selective wind-down of certain risk assets and limit cuts. the progress of fiscal consolidation in some European countries. Due to its good credit ratings and the low interest rates, NRW.BANK was able to issue its bonds at favourable Another problem is the lending restraint of banks in terms, thus further strengthening its long-term funding the periphery countries and the resulting difficulties for base. the ECB to pass on monetary stimuli. According to the ECB, this is the reason why the central bank purchased As demand for NRW.BANK’s promotion products was sovereign bonds issued by euro-zone member countries high, the Bank exceeded the total new commitments in 2012. target defined for its promotion activities. The decisions taken led to additional risks worth billions Promotion loans extended according to the house bank of euros for Germany, which nevertheless remained principle, especially the “NRW.BANK.Mittel­s tands­ a sought-after “safe haven”; this status was supported kredit”, showed a very positive trend. not least by the high tax revenues. Interest rates have marked new lows. The good credit ratings of Germany Due to the low interest rates available to developers and of its federal states have made it easier for publicand buyers in the market, new social housing sector banks to raise funds. promotion business failed to participate in the positive trend in the real estate market and demand for housing Business Trend promotion funds was lower than planned. Key Developments and Ratios As of December 31, 2012, total assets amounted to NRW.BANK looks back on a successful business and € 149.1 billion (2011: € 152.5 billion). The business earnings performance in 2012. volume reached € 169.8 billion (2011: € 179.2 billion). Financial Report 2012  55 Management Report NRW.BANK’s earnings in the fiscal year were composed as follows: Programme-based Other Promotion/ Staff/Services NRW.BANK Total Promotion Liquidity Management 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Net interest income 227.7 229.5 235.3 159.7 78.3 75.4 541.3 464.6 Net commission income 12.4 19.3 64.9 62.3 –0.8 –1.9 76.5 79.7 Net income from trading operations 0.0 0.0 6.4 3.0 0.0 0.0 6.4 3.0 Other operating result 15.4 8.5 0.2 0.2 6.2 19.3 21.8 28.0 Administrative expenses –79.8 –78.1 –29.0 –29.4 –92.2 –97.6 –201.0 –205.1 – Personnel expenses –43.0 –41.4 –6.1 –6.2 –65.1 –59.8 –114.2 –107.4 – Operating expenditure –36.8 –36.7 –22.9 –23.2 –27.1 –37.8 –86.8 –97.7 Operating income before risk provisions/ revaluation 175.7 179.2 277.8 195.8 –8.5 –4.8 445.0 370.2 Risk provisions/ revaluation adjustments –111.5 9.5 –65.3 –301.1 –246.6 –8.7 –423.4 –300.3 thereof: allocation to fund for general banking risks 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –225.0 0.0 –225.0 0.0 Taxes on income and revenues –0.3 –0.5 0.0 0.0 –2.7 –7.3 –3.0 –7.8 Net income/ loss for the year 63.9 188.2 212.5 –105.3 –257.8 –20.8 18.6 62.1 Average risk-weighted assets (in € billion) 18.6 15.8 15.1 14.1 0.3 0.3 34.0 30.2 Active Employees (number) 558 552 46 45 654 658 1,258 1,255 56 Financial Report 2012 The Programme-based Promotion segment comprises reduction of the securities portfolio did not materialise the departments Promotion Programmes, Special thanks to improved funding conditions. Moreover, Promotion, Housing Promotion, Central Product Man­ short-term money-market transactions made on the age­ment as well as the equity investments made as part basis of the applicable business, promotion and risk of the NRW.BANK’s mission as a development bank. strategies generated higher margins than in the previous year on comparable volumes. Thanks to the The Other Promotion/Liquidity Management segment low interest rates, the Bank was able to place new longconsists of Capital Markets including the Municipal term issues at favourable terms, thus strengthening its Financing unit. funding basis in the long term. As in the past, no recourse was made to the funding facilities provided by The Staff/Services segment comprises the Service and the European Central Bank. Staff departments such as IT/Organisation/Internal Services, Risk Management or Accounting/Controlling/ At € 78.3 million, net interest income in the Staff/ Bank Taxation as well as the strategic investments held Services segment slightly exceeded the prior year level as part of the public mission. (2011: € 75.4 million). Strategic investments held as part of the Bank’s public mission made higher profit As of December 31, 2012, NRW.BANK employed 1,258 contributions, while lower interest rates resulted in (2011: 1,255) people, including 60 (2011: 56) trainees/ reduced funding costs. apprentices. Net commission income of € 76.5 million was slightly Earnings Position higher than in the previous year (2011: € 79.7 million). The Programme-based Promotion segment reported Net Interest and Net Commission Income lower net commission income due to the fact that At € 617.8 million, net interest and commission income certain handling fees from the subsidised grant was up by € 73.5 million on the previous year business were not collected by NRW.BANK as of the (2011: € 544.3 million), which was clearly above plan. balancing date because the underlying contractual negotiations with its clients were still pending. Net Net interest income increased by € 76.7 million to commission income in the Other Promotion/Liquidity € 541.3 million (2011: € 464.6 million). Management segment increased due to lower hedging expenses. The reduction in surrogate loan transactions At € 227.7 million, net interest income in the in the second half of 2012 had no tangible effect on net Programme-based Promotion segment was slightly commission income in the fiscal year. lower than in the previous year (2011: € 229.5 million) and was pri­ma­rily influenced by interest income in Net Income from Trading Operations the Housing Promotion Department in the amount of NRW.BANK‘s trading book contains short-term trading € 206.6 million (2011: € 202.4 million). By contrast, transactions with interest rate products undertaken by higher allocations to provisions for interest rate the Other Promotion/Liquidity Management segment. subsidies, which were made due to the higher volume In the fiscal year 2012, net income from trading opera­ of new promotion loan commitments, had a dampening tions amounted to € 6.4 million (2011: € 3.0 million). effect. Other Operating Income Net interest income in the Other Promotion/Liquidity Other operating income amounted to € 21.8 million Management segment increased by € 75.6 million (2011: € 28.0 million). In the past fiscal year, the focus to € 235.3 million in spite of a lower business volume. was on the release of provisions that were no longer The decline in earnings anticipated because of the needed. In particular, due to unscheduled repayments, Financial Report 2012  57 Management Report there was a higher release of provisions for interest € 189.7 million related to allowance reserves as defined rate subsidies of € 12.9 million (2011: € 5.7 million). in section 340f HGB, while € 225.0 million related to The high prior year result additionally included the the fund for general banking risks pursuant to section release of a tax provision after the completion of the 340g HGB. These reserves were not least established tax audit. in response to the continued uncertainty in the financial markets. Administrative Expenses At € –201.0 million (2011: € –205.1 million), As part of these measures, NRW.BANK established NRW.BANK’s administrative expenses came in below general allowance reserves in an amount of € 174.3 budget. Personnel expenses increased moderately, mil­lion for counterparty risks from loan and securities e.g. due to one-time effects, which was more than offset transactions. They are calculated according to a by the strict management of operating expenses. concept on the basis of which anticipated defaults are statistically determined taking probabilities of default Personnel expenses increased by € 6.8 million to and loss ratios into account and compared with the € –114.2 million in 2012 (2011: € –107.4 million). With actual defaults. As the actual defaults in the fiscal year the number of active employees remaining almost were lower than the statistically calculated defaults, unchanged, the € 4.5 million increase in wages and the Bank made the respective allocations. salaries to € –94.5 million (2011: € –90.0 million) was primarily due to the 2.9% pay rise effective July 1, The Programme-based Promotion segment posted a 2012, wage tax expenses for prior years and a result of € –111.5 million (2011: € 9.5 million). In moderate increase in the number of employees with addition to risk provisions for the lending business limited employment contracts, who were hired to in the amount of € –14.6 million and amortisation and handle peak loads in the processing of promotion expenses in conjunction with investments in the programmes, especially the processing of the amount of € 5.1 million, the Bank allocated a total of subsidised grant business. The remaining increase in € 92.1 million to the allowance reserves for the personnel ex­pen­ses was primarily the result of higher promotion segments in 2012. expenses for pensions. Risk provisions/revaluation adjustments in the Other Operating expenditure declined by € 10.9 million to Promotion/Liquidity Management segment amounted € –86.8 million (2011: € –97.7 million). The reduction to € –65.3 million (2011: € –301.1 million). is mainly attributable to lower project-related IT consulting expenses as well as to reduced maintenance The result was primarily influenced by the € –81.8 expenses, especially in conjunction with the ­­­moder­ni­ million increase in allowance reserves for the capital sation of the existing building in Münster. market business. Risk Provisions/Revaluation Adjustments In addition, a net positive result in the amount of Risk provisions/revaluation adjustments amounted to € 16.5 million was posted as a result of the following € –423.4 million (2011: € –300.3 million). NRW.BANK effects. At the request and initiative of the final used the good operating result to further strengthen its investors, NRW.BANK withdrew and repaid certain risk-bearing capacity. The Bank allocated a total of outstanding securities. In the long term, this will € 414.7 million to allowance reserves. Of this amount, improve the Bank’s funding base, as the final investors 58 Financial Report 2012 usually invest in new issues of NRW.BANK. This Receivables from customers decreased by € 0.8 billion resulted in net losses on securities sales of € –195.6 to € 63.5 billion (2011: € 64.3 billion). In the securities mil­lion. These realised net losses contrasted with business, the portfolio of registered securities declined opposite bottom line effects in the total portfolio of by € 0.6 billion to € 7.3 billion, while the portfolio € 212.1 million. These were primarily composed of net of note loans was reduced by € 0.2 billion to € 13.3 gains and revaluation adjustments for securities in billion. the amount of € 221.0 million, net gains on derivatives in the amount of € –65.5 million and a special payment The balance sheet item “bonds and other interestfrom a hedge in the amount of € 51.4 million. bearing securities” declined by € 2.2 billion to € 45.7 billion in 2012 (2011: € 47.9 billion) due to the Risk provisions/revaluation adjustments in the Staff/ scheduled reduction of the capital market portfolio. Services segment amounted to € –246.6 million (2011: € –8.7 million). Another € 225.0 million was allocated NRW.BANK essentially reduced the portfolio of instru­ to the fund for general banking risks. ments from banks by € 1.4 billion to € 18.7 billion. The portfolio of instruments from public-sector issuers Net Profit increased by € 0.1 billion to € 21.5 billion. The portfolio NRW.BANK posted a net profit of € 18.6 million (2011: of instruments from mostly European companies from € 62.1 million) for the fiscal year 2012, which will be the financial sector was reduced by € 0.9 billion to paid out towards federal interest expenses pursuant to € 4.9 billion. section 14 of the Act on NRW.BANK (NRW.BANKG). At € 2.4 billion, the book values of NRW.BANK‘s equity Net Worth Position investments in non-affiliated and affiliated companies remained nearly unchanged. NRW.BANK’s total assets declined by € 3.4 billion to € 149.1 billion as of December 31, 2012 (2011: € 152.5 Trust assets and trust liabilities declined by € 0.1 billion billion). to € 1.8 billion (2011: € 1.9 billion) due to the decrease in importance of the “trustee” promotion activities. Receivables from banks remained more or less unchanged at € 33.2 billion (2011: € 33.3 billion). The Financial Position promotion business handled according to the house bank principle is included in this balance sheet item. Being the state‘s development bank and benefiting Under this method, customers file an application for from institutional liability, guarantor liability and an promotion funds with the house bank, which passes it ex­plicit funding guarantee from its guarantor, on to NRW.BANK. NRW.BANK then makes the funds NRW.BANK shares the same excellent rating with available to the customer through their house bank. the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. Funded through the low-interest KfW-Unter­neh­mer­ kredit programme, the NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit loan for SMEs remained the highest-volume de­velop­ ment programme of NRW.BANK and the state of North Rhine-Westphalia in 2012. A portion of NRW.BANK‘s earnings is used to further optimise the lending terms. Financial Report 2012  59 Management Report As in the previous years, Fitch Ratings, Moody‘s and its federal states and of the federal states towards their Standard & Poor’s reviewed NRW.BANK‘s credit ratings guaranteed development banks, Moody’s also changed in 2012. In July 2012, Moody‘s changed the outlook the outlook for the state of North Rhine-Westphalia for several EU countries, including Germany, from and NRW.BANK accordingly. The Aa1 ratings of the stable to negative in view of the ongoing debt crisis in state of North Rhine-Westphalia and NRW.BANK have the euro-zone. Germany’s Aaa rating has remained remained unchanged so far. Fitch Ratings and unaffected so far. Due to the close guarantee and Standard & Poor‘s also reaffirmed the good ratings support mechanism of the federal government towards of NRW.BANK. List of current ratings Fitch Ratings Moody’s Standard & Poor’s Long-term rating AAA Aa1 AAShort-term rating F1+ P-1 A-1+ Outlook stable negative stable The Other Promotion/Liquidity Management segment NRW.BANK is attaching growing importance to in­ is responsible for the funding of NRW.BANK. As a vestor retention. Short-term funding under the Global development bank benefiting from a state guarantee, Commercial Paper Programme, especially the US dollar, NRW.BANK continued to experience strong demand again met with very high demand in 2012 and was for its debt. NRW.BANK catered to investors‘ need for the most favourable source of funding for NRW.BANK state-guaranteed, liquid bonds and consolidated its throughout the year 2012. market presence with further benchmark issues in euros and US dollars. During the fiscal year NRW.BANK Liabilities to banks rose by € 0.7 billion to € 40.8 billion placed debt worth approx. € 13.4 billion (2011: € 10.8 (2011: € 40.1 billion). billion) with a wide international investor base. In this context, a shift towards the domestic market occurred. The promotion loans funded through KfW Banken­ To optimise its funding, NRW.BANK continues to gruppe, which are paid out on the assets side primarily use the following funding programmes: the Global in the form of the NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit Commercial Paper Programme to cover maturities of and NRW.BANK.Gründungskredit according to the up to twelve months and the Debt Issuance Programme house bank principle, showed a very positive trend to cover medium and long maturities. In view of the and increased by € 0.2 billion on the previous year to market situation, investors show increased interest in € 21.3 billion. The largely programme-driven lending secure products with good ratings. Thanks to the business is also funded to a lesser degree through first-class creditworthiness of NRW.BANK, our issues Land­wirt­schaftliche Rentenbank, the European remained in demand even in the challenging market Investment Bank (EIB) and the Council of Europe environment. Euro-denominated issues attracted the Development Bank (CEB). highest demand, followed by the US dollar and the British pound. The prorated decline in USD issues was The portfolio of note loans increased by € 0.8 billion offset by GBP issues. Besides winning new investors, to € 10.9 billion, while the portfolio of registered 60 Financial Report 2012 securities grew by € 0.3 billion to € 4.5 billion. MoneyEquity Capital market transactions in the form of time deposits increased by € 0.4 billion. By contrast, liabilities from At € 17.8 billion, equity capital pursuant to the repo transactions declined by € 0.9 billion. German Commercial Code (HGB) was on a par with the previous year’s € 17.7 billion. Liabilities to customers decreased by € 1.6 billion to € 21.1 billion (2011: € 22.7 billion). They are mainly The equity capital as defined in the German composed of registered instruments in the amount Banking Act (KWG) amounted to € 18,488.7 million of € 18.6 billion (2011: € 19.6 billion). The portfolio of (2011: € 5,628.9 million), as of December 31, 2012. note loans and the portfolio of money-market trans­ actions in the form of time deposits declined by € 0.3 Now that the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority billion each. (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht – BaFin) has com­pleted its review of the effects of the Certificated liabilities were down by € 3.0 billion to integration of the former Wohnungsbauförderungsanstalt € 62.0 billion as of the end of the year (2011: € 65.0 on NRW.BANK’s regulatory equity capital, the Bank’s bil­lion). The portfolio of money-market instruments equity capital may be recognised in full for regulatory declined by € 3.2 billion to € 39.2 billion, while the purposes. This resulted in a marked increase in portfolio of municipal bonds decreased by € 0.5 billion the overall capital ratio and the core capital ratio. to € 0.4 billion. By contrast, the portfolio of bearer bonds increased by € 0.7 billion to € 22.3 billion. Capital ratios Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 % % Overall capital ratio 44.33 18.30 Core capital ratio 39.93 12.51 The capital adequacy is determined based on the Post Balance Sheet Events Solvency Regulation (SolvV). The regulatory capital requirements were complied with at any time in the No events of special importance occurred after the fiscal year 2012. end of the fiscal year. Financial Report 2012  61 Management Report Report of Anticipated Developments which benefits from the good income situation, and private housing construction, which is stimulated by This Report of Anticipated Developments contains persistently low interest rates, will be other growth forward-looking statements relating to the overall drivers in 2013. Due to the weaker first half of the year, eco­nomic environment as well as to NRW.BANK’s the labour market will no longer be as dynamic as in business, net worth position, financial position and 2012, which suggests that the jobless rate will be more earnings position. Such statements are based on or less on a par with the year 2012. Government expectations and assumptions derived from information spending is unlikely to make any relevant contribution available at the time of preparation. As such they to growth. The debt brake and the many financially involve risks and uncertainties beyond the control of weak local authorities suggest that public construction NRW.BANK including, in particular, the development spending will increase only moderately. On balance, we of the general economic environment and bad debts. expect real GDP to grow by 0.5% in 2013. The growth rate in 2014 should be 1.5 to 2% higher. Development of the Economic Environment While the year 2012 was still marked by fiscal and mone­ The rate of inflation should move around the 2% mark tary policy measures at a global level, 2013 should in 2013, which means that there will be no major see the economic environment stabilise – this forecast change compared to 2012. On the one hand, the energy being subject to great uncertainty. The world economy cost pressure is likely to subside somewhat in 2013, should grow by approx. 3.5%, i.e. at a slightly higher provided there are not further tensions in the Middle rate than this year. The weak leading indicators and the East. On the other hand, electricity prices should rise persisting structural problems suggest that the euronoticeably due to the increase in the “Ökostromabgabe” zone economy will grow only very moderately, if at all, (eco-electricity levy). in the first six months of 2013. The general climate in the euro-zone should gradually become more positive In view of the anticipated economic recovery, inflation in the second half of the year. Nevertheless, the growth is unlikely to decline significantly in 2014, either. rate will probably not move far above the zero line in the second half of the year, either. The heterogeneous Reflecting the nationwide trend, the North Rhine-West­ performance in the euro-zone is likely to continue. phalian economy should be fairly weak at the beginning of 2013. One leading indicator shows new manu­ Thanks to Germany’s extensive integration with global facturing orders, for instance, currently standing well trade, the stabilisation in the world economy and the below the prior year level. As the year progresses, more benign economic trend in the euro-zone should however, the economy should recover slightly. 2013 is have a positive impact also on Germany. While the likely to remain a difficult year for the manufacturing outlook for the first six months of the year is relatively sector, although a stabilisation at a low level is possible, bleak, the recovery should send exports rising as the inventory cycle, which starts again at the especially in the second half of the year. Together with beginning of an economic recovery, should stimulate the favourable interest rates and a good credit supply, the chemicals and metals industries, in particular. this should have a positive effect on the relatively The overall outlook is moderate and the North Rhineweak corporate spending. Against this background, Westphalian economy is likely to grow at a lower rate demand for NRW.BANK’s investment promotion loans than the all-German economy. is expected to remain high. Private consumption, 62 Financial Report 2012 Development of the Bank The Bank aims for its total administrative expenses to NRW.BANK anticipates to further strengthen its position remain below a maximum of € 215 million in 2013. as the central development bank for North Rhine-West­ Personnel expenses should increase only by the already phalia in consultation with its guarantor. By developing known and expected increases and due to slightly higher and marketing efficient development and promotion additions to pension provisions. Operating expenses products, NRW.BANK will continue to support the should exceed the level of 2012 due to higher expenses, eco­nomic and structural development of North Rhineespecially for IT projects. A cost risk could arise from West­phalia, especially in implementing the move still unknown projects, e.g. in conjunction with national towards green energy. and European banking supervision as well as the accounting process. Income from the promotion business is expected to increase moderately, as there is growing demand for At the bottom line, NRW.BANK therefore expects its promotion products in the market for long-term operating income before risk provisions/revaluation financings, which are usually characterised by higher adjustments in 2013 to be lower than in the past fiscal margins. The Bank expects to participate in a growing year. number of long-term, high-volume financings, e.g. to support growth investments by larger SMEs as well as Risk provisions/revaluation adjustments should again infrastructure projects in North Rhine-Westphalia. be influenced by general allowances in 2013. In the Municipal Financing unit, NRW.BANK will In future, possible rating downgrades in the Other continue its integrated approach. NRW.BANK sees Promotion/Liquidity Management segment could cause itself as a reliable partner to North Rhine-Westphalia’s higher general allowance reserves for counterparty municipalities, and the funding and promotion of risks from loan and securities transactions. municipalities and communities will remain a key focus of its promotion activities. NRW.BANK will continue to aim for an increase in the fund for general banking risks. NRW.BANK expects net interest income and net commission income to decline markedly in 2013. Upon request by the state government, the interest Going forward, a maximum of only 50% of the future amounts to be paid by the state due to the utilisation of repayments from the international capital market loans from the federal government for the promotion business will be re-invested. The portfolio, which of housing construction and modernisation (subsidies makes an important contribution to earnings, will thus pursuant to Article 104 a, sub-section 4 of the German be further reduced. In the context of the planned Constitution in the version effective until August 31, streamlining of the capital market portfolio, surrogate 2006) which become due in the year following the loan transactions were closed prematurely in the res­pective fiscal year must be paid directly to the past fiscal year, which will also have a dampening effect federal government from the net income for the year on income in the coming years. These effects could of NRW.BANK. The remaining net income for the year partially be offset by higher margins expected to be will be allocated to the reserves. Further profit distri­ generated in the capital market environment as well as butions are not permitted under NRW.BANK’s Statutes. by money market transactions completed in the course of the year. Financial Report 2012  63 Management Report Total assets and the business volume will probably Risk and Opportunity Report continue to decline steadily due to the planned reduction of the securities portfolio. NRW.BANK uses a comprehensive set of risk monitoring and management tools to manage the risks to which it With effect from January 1, 2013, NRW.BANK imple­men­ is exposed. The Bank has implemented a framework of ted changes to its organisational structure with the aim guidelines, organisational structures and processes of meeting the demands of its clients and its owner, the which ensure that risks are identified, measured, aggre­ state of North Rhine-Westphalia, even more effectively. gated and managed in accordance with the Bank’s risk-bearing capacity. The Infrastructure Finance, Public-sector Clients and EU and Foreign Trade Promotion units (previously part Due to its specialised business model as a development of the Special Promotion Department) as well as the bank, NRW.BANK does not engage in all lines of Research/Promotion Strategy unit (previously part of the business. The Bank takes on risks only within clearly Central Product Management Department) have been delineated bounds. As a state development bank, merged with the Board Office, Parliamentary and NRW.BANK is subject to all regulatory risk man­age­ European Matters and Marketing units (previously part ment requirements. of the Corporate Communications Department) to form the Corporate Strategy/Public Infrastructure At the beginning of the fiscal year, NRW.BANK began Finance Department. to adjust its risk-bearing capacity concept to the further developed regulatory requirements, especially with The Press and Communications unit (previously part regard to the paper ”Aufsichtliche Beurteilung bank­inter­ of the Corporate Communications Department) has ner Risikotragfähigkeitskonzepte“ (supervisory been turned into a staff unit and been placed under the assessment of banks’ internal risk-bearing capacity con­ direct responsibility of the Managing Board Chairman. cepts) published by BaFin in December 2011. The adjustments to the risk-bearing capacity concept related The Advisory Services unit (previously part of the to the calculation of economic capital and to the de­­ter­ Special Promotion Department) now forms part of the mination of the capital cover now based on two different Promotion Programmes Department. perspectives – a going concern perspective and a gone concern perspective. In this context, the former Corporate Communications Department and Special Promotion Department have Organisation of Risk Management been closed. The full Managing Board of NRW.BANK is responsible for the risk management system. This includes, in Moreover, the Equity Investments Department has been particular, the proper organisation of risk management, renamed “Corporate Finance”; the Syndicated Loans/ the risk strategy, the risk-bearing capacity concept Special Finance unit has been incorporated into this as well as risk monitoring. In the context of the general department. reporting process, the Managing Board is regularly informed about the Bank-wide risk situation. The Anti-Money Laundering/Compliance Team has transferred from the Legal Department to the Risk The Supervisory Board monitors the Managing Board‘s Management Department. conduct of the Bank‘s affairs. The Risk Committee, 64 Financial Report 2012 a committee of the Supervisory Board, addresses the sheet structure management. Through active capital Bank’s risk situation. The committee receives reports management, the ALCO ensures that the Bank-wide on the risk profile for the various risk categories on risk limit is met at all times. a quarterly basis. The Credit Committees prepare credit decisions to be The Board of Guarantors decides, among other things, made by the Managing Board and take their own credit on the release from liability of the members of the decisions based on their limits and level of competence. Supervisory Board and the Managing Board and – in In addition, they address issues of a general nature the context of the annual strategy process – on the relating to counterparty risks. The Committee principles of the business, promotion and risk policies. structure was adjusted in the fiscal year 2012, resulting in two separate Committees, one for the promotion The committees in charge of risk management are the business and one for the capital markets business. The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO), the two Credit new structure more aptly reflects NRW.BANK’s Committees for the promotion business and the capital positioning as a development bank. market business as well as the Strategy Committee. The Strategy Committee addresses issues of strategic The Asset Liability Committee, which is composed of all relevance. The main focus is on refining the overall members of the Managing Board and four divisional Bank strategy and on assessing the consistency of subheads, is responsible for issues relating to market risks strategies and the overall Bank strategy with the and liquidity risks. It also addresses general topics such business and risk policies and the components of the as capital allocation, profit management and balance promotion policy objectives of the federal state. Organisational Structure of Bank Steering Board of Guarantors Supervisory Board/ Committees Managing Board ALCO Credit Committees Strategy Committee Front office Back office Financial Report 2012  65 Management Report In accordance with the MaRisk requirements, risk The Managing Board of NRW.BANK defines the monitoring and risk reporting are managed in­de­pen­ strategy and decides to submit them to the responsible dently of the front office units. While the front-office bodies. The Risk Committee consults on the risk units are responsible for managing risks within the strategy, which is finally discussed at the year-end defined limits, the Risk Management back-office unit meetings of the Supervisory Board and the Board of is in charge of risk monitoring, especially compliance Guarantors. with the limits defined by the Managing Board. Functional separation between the front-office and Risk inventory the back-office is ensured up to Board level. Effective risk management and monitoring hinges on the precise identification and assessment of risks. The effectiveness and appropriateness of the risk In the context of Group-wide risk inventory taking, management structures and processes are subject to NRW.BANK systematically examines whether the over­ regular reviews by Internal Audit, which acts as all risk profile fully reflects all risks which may poten­ an independent body on behalf of the management. tially influence the net worth, earnings or liquidity position. This is done at a Bank-wide level on an annual On balance, NRW.BANK’s risk management instruments basis and whenever required on special occasions. and processes again proved their worth in the past On this basis, risks are classified as material or imma­te­ fiscal year. rial risks. Risk Policy and Strategy Among the material risks identified are the counter­ Being a development bank, NRW.BANK has a focused party risk and the market risk as well as the liqui­dity business model whose risks are strictly limited. risk and the operational risk. The two latter risk According to its risk strategy, the promotion business types are less relevant for the Bank-wide risk and takes precedence over the capital market business therefore rank behind the counterparty risk and the when it comes to the allocation of risk capital. Avoiding market risk. defaults takes precedence over profit generation in all capital market activities undertaken to support the In addition to the risk inventory, new products to be promotion business. New business with a sub-invest­ added to the product portfolio of NRW.BANK are ment grade rating is permitted only in the promotion subjected to a cross-divisional process for the intro­duc­ business. tion of new products. This ensures that the risks of new products are identified, measured and limited. The risk strategy is part of the (overall) strategy of NRW.BANK, which comprises the business, promotion Risk-bearing Capacity and risk strategies. The risk strategy builds on the Economic capital is the relevant risk management promotion and business strategies and aims to ensure parameter of NRW.BANK across all risk types and balanced risk management within NRW.BANK. As part departments. It measures the risks that were classified of the operational controlling process, it translates the as material in the context of the risk inventory risk strategy principles into appropriate limits. It covers and translates them into a Bank-wide ratio using a a planning period of four years. consistent methodology. 66 Financial Report 2012 Due to increasingly precise regulatory requirements, with the Bank’s accounting policy. The focus is on the risk-bearing capacity concept, together with the avoiding losses in the balance sheet in order to protect risk strategy for the years 2012–2015, has been revised creditors and owners. Accordingly, those risks that extensively, especially with regard to the paper could adversely affect a balance sheet under HGB are “Aufsichtliche Beurteilung bankinterner Risiko­trag­­ considered in economic capital. Economic capital is fähigkeitskonzepte“ (supervisory assessment of banks’ determined with a confidence level of 99%. This is to internal risk-bearing capacity concepts) published ensure that even rare losses up to a mid-range amount by the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) can be covered without materially disturbing the in December 2011. As a result, the risk-bearing business activity. capa­city has been controlled from a going concern perspective and a gone concern perspective since As an additional sub-condition, the gone concern the beginning of the fiscal year. perspective analyses the risk-bearing capacity with a confidence level of 99.96% to ensure that the Bank is Institutional liability, guarantor liability and the explicit able to cover even extreme risk situations with existing funding guarantee granted to NRW.BANK by its assets. Under this approach, the focus is on protecting guarantor for the performance of its promotion tasks the creditors in a fictitious liquidation case. are not accepted as risk-mitigating factors in either of the two perspectives. The table below shows the composition of economic capital from both perspectives. The figures cannot be NRW.BANK uses a value-at-risk (VaR) concept covering directly compared with the prior year figures, as they a risk horizon of one year to quantify the individual were determined on the basis of the old risk-bearing risks and aggregate them into an overall ratio. The choice capacity concept, in which aspects of the going of the confidence level depends on the perspective taken. concern perspective and the gone concern perspective were combined. Moreover, the confidence levels were A going concern perspective is taken for the immediate adjusted from 99.98% to 99.00% for the going concern management of the risk-bearing capacity. It is based on perspective and to 99.96% for the gone concern the German Commercial Code (HGB) in accordance perspective. Bank-wide Economic Capital Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 Going concern Gone concern € millions € millions € millions Counterparty risk 1,599 5,131 4,535 Market risk 34 4,624 1,820 Liquidity risk 14 – – Operational risk 35 140 180 Diversification effect – –759 –402 Total economic capital 1,681 9,136 6,133 Financial Report 2012  67 Management Report More detailed information on the individual risk types to be sufficiently stable even in an eco­no­mic downturn and the methods used for their calculation is provided as well as under market conditions that are un­favour­ in the respective paragraphs on the risk types. able for the Bank’s business and risk structure. The reliability of the diversification assump­tions and the The counterparty risk is one of the key risks taken at stability of the correlation are reviewed regularly and a Bank-wide level. Differences between the going whenever required on special occasions. concern perspective and the gone concern perspective primarily result from the confidence level used. The economic capital is compared with the maximum capital cover that is available to cover risks. Just like the Under the going concern perspective, the market risk economic capital, the capital cover is calculated in is determined on the basis of a “HGB-VaR”. In this accordance with the respective perspective taking into context, the market risks that may have an adverse account regulatory and balance sheet equity compo­ impact on an income statement prepared to HGB are nents, adjusted for specific correction amounts. Under taken into account. By contrast, the gone concern the going concern perspective, for instance, the capital perspective addresses the market risks on a mark-tocomponents tied up in accordance with the Solvency market basis. Regulation (SolvV) are deducted. Under the gone concern perspective, hidden charges and reserves, in Under the going concern perspective, the liquidity risk particular from securities and derivatives, are deducted takes into account changes in NRW.BANK’s funding if they are negative on ba­lance. Positive own credit spread that are relevant for the HGB income statement, risk effects are not accepted as mitigating factors on as an increase in funding costs leads to higher ex­pen­ the liabilities side. As of the reporting date, the capital ses. Liquidity risks are not part of the gone concern cover amounted to € 13.2 bil­lion under the going perspective but are limited by the amount of the avail­ concern perspective and to € 13.1 billion on the gone able liquid funds (liquidity buffer). concern perspective. These amounts include the allo­cations to allowance reserves made in the fiscal year. Economic capital for the operational risk is determined based on the Basle basic indicator approach. Differences For the direct management of risks under the going between the going concern perspective and the gone concern perspective, the Bank-wide economic capital concern perspective exclusively result from scaling to limit is defined and allocated to the material risk types the confidence level used. and departments in the context of the annual strategy process. This ensures that sufficient risk capital is Under the going concern perspective, Bank-wide eco­ available to achieve the planned income and that the nomic capital is determined by way of a simple addition risks are limited at the same time. Utilisation of of the economic capital of the risk types without taking the limits is determined on the basis of the economic diversification effects into account. This is due to the capital. As an additional condition, the economic fact that the overall bank risk is largely determined by capital shall not exceed the capital cover under the the counterparty risk, which means that no material gone concern perspective. diversification effects exist. Under the gone concern perspective, material diversification effects exist be­ The chart below shows the limit utilisation for the main tween the counterparty risk and the market risk, which risk types in the course of the year. The individual is why they are taken into account when determining risk types and the overall bank risks were always within the economic capital at a Bank-wide level to avoid the limits defined for the going concern perspective. overstating the overall bank risk. The cor­relation used The Bank’s risk-bearing capacity was given at all times is estimated conservatively on the basis of bankthroughout the fiscal year. specific data in such a way that it can be considered 68 Financial Report 2012 Limit utilisation in the course of 2012 in % 100 75 50 25 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Counterparty Risk Market Risk Liquidity risk Bank-wide risk The economic capital for operational risks is loss given default) and of a change in market data determined each year in accordance with the regulatory (inter­est rates, credit spreads). Special emphasis is basic indicator approach. As the economic capital placed on the primary controlling cycle in the going allocated to cover potential losses thus remains constant concern per­spec­tive. Both historical and hypothetical throughout the year and no distinction is made scenarios are analysed. between limit and utilisation, the operational risk is not shown in the above limit utilisation chart. Historical scenarios translate past crises to the current portfolio. Examples include a scenario reflecting the In order to minimise the uncertainties resulting from height of the financial crisis at the time of the Lehman the statistical processes of the value-at-risk approach, bankruptcy in 2008. NRW.BANK takes various measures to validate the data used as well as the risk results that are determined. Hypothetical scenarios are developed by the Bank on In addition, regular stress tests are performed. the basis of market analyses and expert estimates. For instance, a scenario entitled “Deterioration of the Stress Tests sovereign and financial institution crisis” assumes a The risk management concept is complemented by further increase in the risk factors that are relevant for Bank-wide stress and scenario analyses. The Bank the sovereign portfolio. takes an integrated approach which takes into account effects on the main risk types, the HGB income state­ In addition, inverse stress tests are performed on a ment and the capital cover. regular basis. Inverse stress tests examine which events could potentially jeopardise the Bank’s ability The stress tests are performed at a Bank-wide level to survive. on a quarterly basis and whenever required on special occasions. Under the going concern perspective, the stress tests are dominated by changes in the field of counterparty Similar to the risk-bearing capacity concept, separate risks. The assumed defaults of borrowers and rating stress tests are performed under the going concern migrations lead to a reduction in the capital cover and/ perspective and the gone concern perspective. The or to an increase in the economic capital for counter­ stress scenarios examine the effects of a deterioration party risks. of exposures (increase in probabilities of default and Financial Report 2012  69 Management Report Under the gone concern perspective, counterparty Methods risks and market risks play an equally important role Factors playing a key role in the calculation of the in the stress tests. Under this perspective, the capital counterparty risk include the amount of the exposure, cover reacts much more sensitively to changes in the probability of default and the loss given default market data under stress. of each debtor. These parameters form the basis for managing the risk at the level of each individual The stress tests confirm the adequacy of the capital exposure and at a Bank-wide level. situation under the going concern perspective. The amount of the exposure is the amount at risk. Counterparty Risk It is the sum total of the relevant amount of all Definition receivables. In the case of loans, this is the The counterparty risk describes the risk of a counter­ remaining capital plus binding payment obli­ga­tions; party being partly or fully unable to meet their con­ in the case of securities, it is the higher of the cost tractual obligations towards NRW.BANK. There is the price and the nominal value. Credit equivalents risk of a loss or reduced profit resulting from the full are recognised to calculate counterparty risks or partial default of a counterparty. This comprises from derivatives, taking netting and collateral credit, counterparty and country risks as well as risks pursuant to standardised framework agreements resulting from equity holdings. into account. In addition, credit derivatives are recognised at their nominal value; the purchase of Credit risk is the risk of a contractual partner failing protection reduces the exposure of the respective to meet its obligations to repay liquid funds (loans) reference counterparty, while the sale of pro­tection granted or securities. The credit risk thus also includes increases it. The (counterparty risk-related) amount issuer risks arising from securities. of the exposure thus differs from the business volume and from balance sheet total. NRW.BANK defines the counterparty risk as the risk The probability of default is derived from the that the default of a contractual partner under a deri­ debtor’s internal rating. For this purpose, vatives contract makes it impossible for the Bank to NRW.BANK uses differentiated risk classification realise an unrealised gain from pending transactions methods. The portfolios of corporates, banks (i.e. up to contractual maturity) or that the Bank and real estate clients are classified using rating will face increased replacement costs if the market procedures meeting the requirements of the conditions have changed in the meantime. internal rating based (IRB) approach of the Solvency Regulation. The ratings for exposures In NRW.BANK’s view, a country risk exists where the to foreign governments are determined on the Bank has an exposure to customers headquartered basis of external agency ratings and structured outside Germany. This definition covers all aspects of internal plausibilisation. In view of the joint liability the country risk (creditworthiness, transfer and scheme and the fiscal compensation scheme, economic risks). uniform ratings are awarded in particular to savings banks and domestic municipalities respec­­ The risk from equity holdings results from the risk of tively. Simplified internal risk classification incurring losses from the provision of equity capital to methods are used for smaller portfolios. enterprises. NRW.BANK’s equity holdings primarily Depending on the type of debtor, each rating is comprise investments which are held as part of the public assigned a probability of default based on a 24-step mission and were transferred to the Bank upon its scale, so that all debtors are included as riskinception as well as investments made as part of the relevant in the calculation of the economic capital Bank’s mission as a development bank. on a staggered basis. 70 Financial Report 2012 The loss given default (LGD) describes the portion In the context of the Bank-wide stress tests, various of the exposure which would inevitably be lost historical and hypothetical scenarios are analysed, in the case of insolvency proceedings after realisa­ which assume deteriorations in the rating quality that tion of potential collateral. Differentiated LGDs are differentiated by receivable classes. are assigned to the exposures depending on the type of debtor. The above risk management methods allow NRW.BANK to identify unbalanced portfolio developments and NRW.BANK determines the economic capital for the risk concentrations, to appropriately monitor counter­ counterparty risk on the basis of a credit value-at-risk. party risks and to take any measures that may be The risk horizon is one year, the confidence level is required at an early stage. 99% under the going concern perspective and 99.96% under the gone concern perspective. Validation The ratings and loss given defaults are validated at least The credit value-at-risk is calculated according to the once per year. For the social housing promotion formula of the IRB approach under the Solvency portfolio, which is the biggest portfolio of NRW.BANK Regulation. Methodologically, a difference is initially in terms of individual exposures, differentiated analyses made only between default and non-default of a debtor. are performed for individual segments such as in­ves­ As maturities are adjusted, rating migrations that tors and owner-occupiers. may lead to additional capital requirements are also taken into account. Besides the ratings and the loss given defaults, the methodological assumptions that serve as the basis for As the IRB approach is based on the assumption of an the calculation of economic capital are also reviewed indefinitely granular portfolio, an additional concen­ annually. For instance, the maturity adjustment tration surcharge is determined on the basis of a simu­la­ im­plemented to reflect rating migrations is checked tion process and reflected in the economic capital. for plausi­bility. As a result, high exposures make a disproportionate contribution to the risk, which means that the surcharge The reviews serve to ensure that the risk calculation takes concentrations into account. remains sufficiently conservative. To further reduce concentrations – not only with regard Risk Assessment and Limitation to risks but also regarding income – single name con­cen­ NRW.BANK uses suitable limits and processes to ensure ­tration limits at Group level and cross-borrower con­cen­ that the counterparty risk is limited. On the one hand, tration limits at country level are defined for the amount there are limits which limit the exposures at Group of the exposure. level and at country level. Limit utilisation is determined by the amount of the exposure. New transactions are Besides the economic capital (unexpected loss), immediately counted towards the limits. On the other standard risk costs (expected loss) are generally taken hand, there is a Bank-wide and unit-specific limitation into account when defining the terms and conditions. of the economic capital under the going concern per­ This way, it is ensured that the expected losses are spective. The limits take into account both the Bank’s compensated by corresponding income. risk-bearing capacity and the budgets prepared by the individual units as part of the strategy process. Financial Report 2012  71 Management Report Key elements used to monitor the counterparty risk: If limits are exceeded in special cases, reasons must be given. If these deviations are material – according to Event-related bad news process incl. immediate clearly defined criteria – they must be decided by the analysis and decision on individual measures Managing Board and be submitted to the executive (e.g. rating review, limit adjustments) bodies for information. Daily monitoring of single name, group and country limits The development and promotion funds extended by Daily monitoring of capital market investments NRW.BANK are either secured or granted according to in the context of an early warning system the house bank principle, which means that the res­­ (e.g. changes in credit spreads and ratings) pective portfolio is a low-risk portfolio. Sub-invest­­mentMonthly monitoring of economic capital limits grade exposures may be entered into only if this is At least annual monitoring of individual required by the public development mission, e.g. in the credit exposures promotion of small and medium enterprises and social Ongoing monitoring of the watch list, which housing promotion. contains intensive care and problem exposures In addition, the Bank holds a portfolio of securities/ receivables and loans and engages in money market transactions. Derivative contracts are concluded with counterparties with good credit ratings on the basis of standard contracts. New business in this portfolio must always be of investment-grade quality. Total exposure by rating classes (incl. derivatives, in € billions) 100 80 60 40 20 0 AAA AA A BBB BB B CCC and D Total exposure: 162.9 (as of Dec. 31, 2012) Total exposure: 170.9 (as of Dec. 31, 2011) 72 Financial Report 2012 NRW.BANK’s total exposure amounts to € 162.9 billion responsibility towards the municipalities and provides (2011: € 170.9 billion). them with reliable funding. Due to the high proportion of government and municipal In addition, there are international exposures, some of loans, most of the ratings lie in the internal rating which were already taken over upon the inception of class AAA. The investment grade quota amounts to the Bank. As a largely independent development bank, 90.4% (2011: 96.1%) (which represents the internal NRW.BANK uses the income from these exposures rating classes AAA to BBB). Changes in the rating primarily to the benefit of the promotion business. The composition of the portfolio compared to the previous total international exposure – including derivatives – year primarily result from rating downgrades of amounts to € 46.2 billion (28.3% of the total exposure; exis­ting positions, methodologically-induced rating 2011: € 51.7 billion) and is composed of exposures to shifts in the field of social housing promotion and European countries (€ 35.4 million) and to non-European the reduction in international capital market exposures. countries as well as supranational and multinational In particular, surrogate loan transaction declined by organisations (€ 10.7 billion). Summing up, the inter­na­ € 5.8 billion due to active liquidation and to maturing tional exposure is focused almost exclusively (93.5%) investments. The increase in the BBB and BB rating on investment-grade countries. classes is mainly attributable to rating downgrades of positions that were already included in the portfolio. The European exposure comprises investments in the euro-zone in the amount of € 28.3 billion (2011: € 30.4 NRW.BANK’s portfolio is focused on Germany (€ 116.7 billion) and investments outside the euro-zone of € 7.2 billion or 71.7% of the total exposure; 2011: 69.8%). billion (2011: € 8.8 billion). The non-European expo­ The main emphasis is on North Rhine-Westphalia, and sures focus on North America with € 6.2 billion (2011: there is a concentration on municipal borrowers. This € 7.2 billion) and Asia with € 1.3 billion (2011: € 1.9 concentration is the result of the public development bil­lion). Supranational and multinational organisations mission, because of which the Bank has a special account for a total of € 2.3 billion (2011: € 2.0 billion). Geographic breakdown of exposures (incl. derivatives, in € billions) 120 116.7119.3 100 80 60 40 28.3 30.4 20 7.2 8.8 8.4 10.5 2.3 2.0 0 Germany Euro-zone Europe excl. Euro-zone Outside Europe Supranational/ multinational Exposures as of Dec. 31, 2012 Exposures as of Dec. 31, 2011 Financial Report 2012  73 Management Report NRW.BANK closely monitors the exposure to the euroexposures to these countries are not permitted as a zone periphery countries, which currently comprise general rule. The table below shows the Bank’s total Greece, Portugal, Spain, Ireland, Italy and Cyprus. New exposure to these countries as of December 31, 2012. Exposures to selected euro-zone countries (incl. derivatives, prior-year figures in parentheses) Public sector Private sector Governmentrelated enterprises/ Financial Financial Governments institutions institutions* Corporates € millions € millions € millions € millions Spain 3,811 (4,041) 724 (739) 1,950 (2,394) 124 (188) Italy 3,506 (3,652) – (4) 167 (173) 124 (124) Portugal 1,248 (1,418) 231 (350) 72 (94) 9 (11) Ireland 864 (991) – (–) 435 (510) 4 (4) Greece – (146) 70 (43) – (–) – (–) Cyprus 37 (75) – (–) – (–) – (–) * mostly secured exposures such as Pfandbriefe Of these countries, Portugal, Greece and Cyprus have Where securitisation exposures are concerned, an internal sub-investment-grade rating. Such subNRW.BANK constantly monitors the counterparty risk investment-grade ratings exclusively result from rating associated with the underlying reference pools. Various downgrades of investments that were already contained risk-mitigating measures were im­ple­men­ted for the in the portfolio. In the course of the fiscal year, the existing exposures. Besides the replacement of indivi­ ex­po­sures to these countries were reduced, in particular dual counterparties, this also included the purchase of through the reduction in surrogate loan transactions selected hedges. The exposure declined by € 587 million and the complete sale of Greek government bonds. More­­ in the fiscal year, mainly due to repayments. As of the over, amounts that became due were not rein­vested. balance sheet date, the securitisation exposures – The increase in exposures to Greek government-related mostly of invest­ment-grade quality – amounted to enterprises is due to the necessary write-up of existing € 5.5 billion (2011: € 6.1 billion). A major portion of the positions in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2012. portfolio (75.8%) additionally benefits from a comprehensive state guarantee (e.g. from the US As the sovereign debt crisis continued, the pressure on Depart­ment of Education). the ratings of various debtors, especially foreign govern­ments, increased even further. In response to this, The equity investment business comprises investments the Bank continued to refine its risk strategy and took which are primarily held on behalf of the federal state portfolio-optimising and risk-mitigating measures such and were transferred to the Bank upon its inception as limit cuts and the liquidation of risk assets also in as well as investments entered into as part of the Bank’s 2012. As a result, the total exposure declined by € 8 bil­ development mission. The counterparty risks arising lion in 2012. New burdens faced by the governments or from the investments are largely based on strategic and a more pronounced economic slowdown could put the operational risks, which are primarily ana­lysed using ratings under further pressure. the corporate data made available for investment 74 Financial Report 2012 controlling purposes. Controlling for these companies As of the reporting date, the economic capital set aside includes continuous monitoring of profits or losses for counterparty risk was € 1.6 billion under the going and of conformity to projections. In the case of major concern perspective and € 5.1 billion under the gone equity holdings, the quarterly report also includes a concern perspective. Differences between the two review of risk-relevant developments. As such, risk perspectives primarily result from the confidence level management is a systematic and continuous process used. that enables rapid adaptation to changing conditions. At some of these investments, the Bank’s position as Risk Provisions shareholder is represented through man­dates on Defined criteria are used to determine whether risk bodies such as advisory councils, supervisory boards provisions need to be established for credit claims. or investment committees. Moreover, the invest­ment Where they are needed, the amount of the required contracts usually contain regulations which re­serve a individual allowances is determined in a timely manner veto/approval right for NRW.BANK in specific cases. in the course of the year. Existing collateral is taken into account. In evaluating collateral, the usual methods For some equity investments, the counterparty risk is applied for the valuation of real estate are used for limited by a strong direct or indirect involvement of the social housing promotion loans. The result is reduced public sector. In the case of seven participation funds by a discount calculated on the basis of historical data. in promotion business (e.g. NRW.BANK.Mittel­s tands­ By contrast, general provisions are established for fonds), the counterparty risk is reduced by a guarantee exposures to volume business in social housing pro­­ from the State of North Rhine-West­phalia which covers motion (remaining capital of less than € 750 thsd.). 49% of the respective fund‘s total investment. A general provision is formed for latent counterparty risks. The amount of this allowance is based on histori­ The € 2.2 billion book value of the investment in cal averages for default rates and loss given defaults. Portigon AG, which is held on behalf of the federal state, is secured by a guarantee from the state of North RhineIn the securities business, the amount of the risk Westphalia. provisions for derivative components is determined using market information, mathematical models Equity investment exposures are included in economic and individual creditworthiness estimates. In the case capital management and reflected in the counterparty of structured products, which are scrutinised down risk. to the individual counterparty level, a comparison is performed between the counterparties identified Economic Capital as critical and the potential number of defaults which The economic capital set aside for counterparty risks would trigger a loss allocation. Where this results in remained largely stable in the course of the year. Riska need for additional subordination (a risk buffer below increasing effects resulting from rating downgrades in which losses are not allocated to the investment), the sovereign portfolio as well as methodologically NRW.BANK either purchases such subordination or induced rating shifts were offset by a reduction in risk sets aside a provision for anticipated losses in the assets. same amount. Equity investments of NRW.BANK are also regularly checked for the need to establish risk provisions. Where these are required, the book value is written down using common methods to determine the value of the investment. Financial Report 2012  75 Management Report Opportunities Methods NRW.BANK takes risks in accordance with its business The Bank controls and monitors its market risk using model and the risk strategy principles only within clearly a value-at-risk (VaR) methodology. VaR is calculated for defined limits. This means that unexpected oppor­tu­ni­ daily management at a 95% confidence level for a ties arising from potential future developments or events one-day holding period and takes into account all risk which may lead to a positive deviation from forecasts or factors relevant for the portfolio, such as interest rates, targets exist only to a very limited extent. The anti­ci­pa­ foreign exchange rates, implicit volatilities and credit ted opportunities arising in the context of the busi­ness spreads. model are incorporated in the annual strategic planning process. Since the beginning of the fiscal year, market risks have been managed in the context of the new risk-bearing Opportunities arise, for instance, from rating upgrades capacity concept immediately on the basis of the “HGBof the exposures, which mean that less rating-related Value-at-Risk Concept” (HGB-VaR going concern per­ economic capital needs to be set aside for counterparty spective). Under this approach, all market risks which risks. This opens up further investment oppor­tunities may influence the HGB income statement are taken into with additional income potential. account. In the investment portfolio, this may be potentially unmatched interest and exchange rate NRW.BANK determines anticipated losses on the basis positions resulting from different fixed interest periods of probabilities of default and loss given default and or currencies of the assets side and the liabilities side incorporates them in the planning and extrapolation and have not yet been hedged at a nominal value basis for its result under HGB. Where the actual defaults are in the context of asset/liability management. For the lower than the anticipated losses at the end of the trading portfolio and the liquidity reserve, all relevant year, there is the opportunity to strengthen the general risks types are additionally examined on a mark-toallowance reserves for counterparty risks from loan market basis. Accordingly, temporary market value and securities transactions. For instance, € 174.3 fluc­­tu­ations, e.g. from specific interest rate risks (credit million were allocated to these reserves, thus further spreads), are counted under the HGB perspective for strengthening the Bank’s equity capital, at the end the trading portfolio and the liquidity reserve. The of the fiscal year. HGB-VaR calculation is based on the sensitivity of the HGB income statement towards fluctuations in market Opportunities also arise from the equity investments prices (“HGB sensitivities”). In contrast to a markentered into as part of the promotion activities. to-market VAR concept, the focus is not on the mark-toIf these perform positively, there is a possibility to market sensitivities but on the sensitivity of the HGB sell them at a profit. result. The HGB-VaR is calculated for the current and for the next two fiscal years as well as generally for all Market Risk future periods. Definition The market risk refers to a potential loss resulting from In addition, the VaR is examined on a mark-to-market unfavourable changes in market prices or price-in­f lu­ basis (MtM-VaR gone concern perspective). The encing parameters. This definition covers interest rate, (mark-to-market) sensitivities used to calculate the VaR exchange rate and option risks. The Bank does not take take into account general and specific interest rate equity and commodity risks. As far as the interest risks, ex­change rate risks and volatility risks. Under this rate risk is concerned, a distinction is made between the approach, the general interest rate risks from the general and the specific interest rate risk. It comprises largely equity-funded social housing pro­motion busi­ness both changes in general interest rates and changes as well as the specific interest rate risks (credit in the credit spread of issuer classes and changes in the spreads) are considered in the investment portfolio. credit spread of individual issuers (residual risk). 76 Financial Report 2012 The volatilities and correlations needed to determine Risk Assessment and Limitation the VaR figures are identical for both perspectives. The focus of the market risk under the gone concern perspective is on general and specific interest rate risks The VaR is calculated on a linear basis and – where in the investment portfolio. The resulting market value non-linear risks exist – on the basis of a Monte Carlo fluctuations are not reflected in profit/loss under the simulation, which produces 3,000 scenarios per trading HGB-oriented going concern perspective, provided there day. The historical observation period is 250 days, is no permanent impairment. As investments in the with a greater weight placed on incidents in the more investment portfolio are held with the intention of being recent past. held permanently, the hedges used by the Bank relate to the nominal value at maturity. Accordingly, there The calculation of VaR is supplemented with daily are only negligible fixed-interest-period and currency stress scenario computations. In this context, hypo­ mismatches under the HGB-oriented going concern thetical scenarios are considered for interest rates, perspective, which are limited by the HGB-VaR for the foreign exchange rates, implicit volatilities and credit risks of all future fiscal years as well as for the current spreads. In addition, the effects of changes in interest and the next two fiscal years. In addition, the Bank has rates and credit spreads are examined for the identified minor active positions in the trading portfolio. These historical scenarios. The standardised stress scenarios are limited by a separate limit for the trading portfolio. are supplemented if needed with individual, situational Com­pliance with the limits is monitored on a daily basis. considerations tailored to the risk structure of the Bank‘s portfolio. Moreover, the analysis of the sensitivities Due to the hedges used, there are no material fixedand risk concentrations from the above risk factors is interest-period mismatches at Bank-wide level under an integral element of daily market risk measurement. the HGB-oriented going concern perspective. Validation Daily backtesting is used to check the validity of the VaR projection. In this context, the losses projected by the VaR model are compared with the changes in the result. The Bank performs clean backtesting without ageing, which means that only changes resulting from changes in the market data are taken into account. In accordance with the two perspectives, backtesting is performed for both HGB and mark-to-market losses. If the regulatory traffic-light model for internal models (for the calculation of the capital needed to back market risks in the trading book) is applied to NRW.BANK’s backtesting with a confidence level of 95% and 250 backtesting observations, the model is “in the green” for both perspectives (going concern and gone concern perspective). This means that the validity of the model is confirmed by back­testing. In addition, the parameters and assumptions of the model are regularly reviewed in the context of various daily, monthly and annual processes. Financial Report 2012  77 Management Report HGB interest rate sensitivities towards a +1 bp interest rate shift in € thsd. as of Dec. 31, 2012 200 100 0 –100 –200 1 1 3 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 15 20 25 > 25 day month months months year years years years years years years years years years years years years years years Currency risks also play only a minor role under the Reflecting the low interest rate and exchange rate HGB-oriented going concern perspective. They risks, the Bank-wide HGB-VaR for market risks for are largely hedged using derivatives, which means all future fiscal years amounted to € 1.1 million as of that the HGB result is essentially exposed only to December 31, 2012. the currency risk on the interest margin generated. HGB-VaR going concern (Bank-wide) in € millions 4,0 3,0 2,0 1,0 0,0 Dec. 31, 2011 Jan. 31, 2012 Feb. 29, 2012 Mar. 31, 2012 Apr. 30, 2012 May 31, 2012 Jun. 30, 2012 Jul. 31, 2012 Aug. 31, 2012 Sep. 30, 2012 Oct. 31, 2012 Nov. 30, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 The average HGB-VaR for market risks in the fiscal The allocation of the HGB-VaR to the risk types year was € 2.2 million. The minimum was € 1.1 million confirms the relatively low overall market risks taken, on December 27, 2012 and the maximum was which, as described above, are largely closed by € 3.5 million on March 19, 2012. hedges and limited additionally. Against this back­ ground, the main risk types are the interest rate risk and the exchange rate risk (focus on future USD interest margins). 78 Financial Report 2012 HGB-VaR going concern (Bank-wide) March 31,2012 June 30,2012 Sept. 30, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions Interest rate risk 1.3 0.7 1.4 0.2 Currency Risk 2.1 2.1 1.3 1.1 Credit spread risk 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.1 Interest rate volatility risk 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Diversification –1.1 –0.8 –1.1 –0.3 Total VaR 2.9 2.3 1.8 1.1 No material positions were held in the trading portfolio deposits at fully matching maturities. This results in a in the fiscal year. Accordingly, the maximum VaR in the high assumption based interest position. In addition, fiscal year was € 1.1 million. economic capital includes all credit spread risks of the investment portfolio. Any resulting fluctuations in the Economic Capital market value are usually not recognised in profit/loss in For strategic management of economic capital, the NRW.BANK’s HGB income statement. As of the repor­ Bank uses a confidence level of 99% under the going ting date, the economic capital set aside for market risk concern perspective and of 99.96% under the gone amounted to € 4.6 billion under the gone concern concern perspective. A risk horizon of one year with perspective. a shorter holding period of approximately three months is analysed. The latter reflects the possibility to exert KWG Interest Rate Shock influence, e.g. by reducing risk positions in the event The effect of the sudden and unexpected interest of an unfavourable market trend. The economic capital rate change in the investment book defined by BaFin for market risks is determined conservatively from a circular 11/2011 – currently +/–200 basis points – is stress VaR with stressed correlations and volatilities. dominated by the above-mentioned assumption based This way, the Bank ensures that the calculation of eco­ interest position of the housing promotion loans. As of nomic capital also reflects unfavourable market phases. December 31, 2012, the negative change in the present Accordingly, the economic capital remains relatively value of the Bank’s investment book resulting from a constant. +200 bp interest rate shock amounted to 13.6% of the regulatory equity capital (2011: 30.7%). The change Due to the largely closed positioning, the economic against the previous year in particular results from the capital for market risks amounted to € 34 million as full recognition of the balance sheet equity of the reporting date under the going concern for regulatory purposes. At the same time, NRW.BANK perspective. also calculates the effects of the +/–200 bp interest rate shock on the HGB result. As the positions in the Bank’s The economic capital for market risks under the gone investment portfolio are held with a permanent holding concern perspective in particular includes general intention, this perspective is in accordance with the interest rate risks from the social housing promotion Bank’s primary risk management approach. In contrast loans. These are primarily funded with own funds. to the above gone concern figures, these stress To comply with MaRisk, the own funds used to finance scenarios show very low risks from fixed-interest-period housing promotion loans may not be taken into account mismatches: with +200 bp, the total of all HGB losses in the risk calculation. The MaRisk thus imply that across all future accounting periods is only 0.02% housing promotion loans are funded with overnight (2011: 1.0%) of the regulatory equity capital. Financial Report 2012  79 Management Report Opportunities Methods The aim of NRW.BANK’s asset/liability management is The liquidity risk is managed centrally at NRW.BANK to to generate a fixed interest and commission margin ensure liquidity across the entire Bank at all times. with regard to the HGB income statement. This entails low market risks, which limit the respective oppor­ The risk of insolvency and the funding risk are tunities in the investment portfolio. The biggest oppor­ monitored daily on the basis of a liquidity gap analysis tunities therefore lie in the development of the rates on and its limitation. The liquidity gap analysis (in EUR the asset and the liability side and not in additional and foreign currency) is prepared and analysed each gains from mismatched interest and currency positions. day independently of trading units. It reflects the In the trading portfolio, further opportunities are also contractually agreed (deter­minis­tic) inflows and ruled out due to the existing limit. This means that outflows of cash for each day until the final cash flow opportunities for generating additional HGB income occurs (incl. interest cash flow and off balance sheet from market risk positions play only a minor role. From transactions). a mark-to-market point of view, market price fluctu­ ations lead to changes in unrealized profit and losses. For optional (stochastic) cash flows (e.g. termination In the investment portfolio, these are regarded as rights or early redemption), conservative assumptions temporary value fluctuations – provided that they are are made in such a way that negative effects are not permanently impaired. Accordingly, net gains in the assumed for NRW.BANK. Moreover, no (fictitious) new investment portfolio result from port­folio-enhancing business is reflected or modelled in the liquidity gap measures. analysis; e.g. there is no prolongation of unsecured and secured funding. Liquidity Risk Definition The funding risk, as the income risk for the HGB result, The liquidity risk includes, in particular: is determined on the basis of the planned issuance volume of the next 12 months and the volatility of the the risk of being unable to meet payment own fund spread and limited in the context of the ­ obligations at maturity (liquidity risk in the risk-bearing capacity in the going concern perspective. narrower sense), In addition, the funding base is diversified in terms the risk of being unable to provide sufficient of investor groups, regions and products, which helps liquidity at the anticipated conditions (funding to minimise the funding risk. risk) when needed and the risk of being unable to unwind or liquidate The market liquidity risk is of minor importance for transactions or to do so only at a loss because of NRW.BANK, as the investment portfolio essentially insufficient market depth or market disruptions consists of positions held with a permanent holding (market liquidity risk). intention. Accordingly, temporary market liquidity fluctuations are not relevant for the HGB income state­ ment, as the focus is not on short-term profit gene­ra­ tion by way of a sale. Sales of investments held in the investment portfolio serve to optimise the portfolio in the context of portfolio management and are not directly related to the generation of liquidity. 80 Financial Report 2012 The market liquidity risk from securities held in the To ensure it is able to meet its payment obligations at liquidity reserve and the trading portfolio is not all times, the Bank additionally holds a substantial material, as the securities holdings are relatively small. portfolio of liquid ECB/repo-eligible securities. Regard­ Moreover, the positions of the trading portfolio are less of the permanent holding intention, the securities liquid. may be used in the repo market or for ECB open-market transactions with a view to generating liquidity. Sales An analysis of the market liquidity risk that goes of securities in the investment portfolio are therefore beyond the analysis of the market risk is performed in not required for this purpose. the form of a regular analysis of the short-term liquidity to be generated from the securities portfolio. In To limit the liquidity risk, a liquidity risk limit system addition, it is reflected in the liquidity risk limitation exists for the entire period covered by the liquidity gap in the form of haircuts on the calculated liquidity analysis. This system is based on the MaRisk require­ potential. ments for assets to be held as liquidity buffer. The limit system also covers liquid securities for observation Risk Assessment and Limitation periods of more than one month. In addition, there Because of the explicit funding guarantee extended by are further funding possibilities of the money and NRW.BANK’s guarantor and its correspondingly good capital markets, which are reflected in the limit system rating, the Bank can generate the required liquidity in a second step, with haircuts being applied. at short notice at any time. The Bank usually funds itself in the money and capital markets. NRW.BANK Due to the above mentioned limit system, NRW.BANK’s continues to benefit from a very favourable funding ability to meet its payment obligations is largely secured environment. by the freely available portfolio of ECB-eligible recei­ vables and the unused ECB line even without external capital market funding. Netted with cash inflows and outflows, there is a significant liquidity surplus for the 1-year period that is primary relevant for risk management. Liquidity gap analysis of NRW.BANK in € billions 50 –50 available ECB-eligible receivables 40 –40 cumulative cash flows 30 –30 20 –20 liquidity potential 10 –10 0 0 –10 10 Dec. 31, 2012 Jan. 31, 2013 Feb. 28, 2013 Mar. 31, 2013 Apr. 30, 2013 May 31, 2013 Jun. 30, 2013 Jul. 31, 2013 Aug. 31, 2013 Sep. 30, 2013 Oct. 31, 2013 Nov. 30, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 cumulative cash flows available ECB-eligible receivables liquidity potential Financial Report 2012  81 Management Report The limit system ensures that liquidity gaps are at all Funding Structure times covered by the liquidity buffer, especially in the As a state-guaranteed development bank, NRW.BANK short-term segment. again saw strong demand for funding instruments in the past fiscal year. The Bank met investors’ demand for Stress tests are also performed in the context of state-guaranteed liquid bonds and strengthened its liquidity management. These stress tests take into market presence through further EUR and USD bench­ account crisis-specific effects on payments, the mark issues (total volume of benchmark issues in 2012: liquidity buffer maintained by the Bank as well as the € 1.8 billion). The issues were placed with a broad limit utilisation. The following is simulated in the investor base. context of the stress tests: The funding transactions with domestic investors are defaults of material borrowers, dominated by bearer bonds, promissory loans and outflows under collateralisation agreements, registered bonds. reduced liquidity potential from ECB-eligible securities due to rating changes and NRW.BANK also used its international funding pro­ reduction in the collateral value of ECB-eligible grammes for funding purposes. These essentially securities and credit receivables. comprise the Debt Issuance Programme, which covers medium and long maturities, and the Global Commer­ The results are analysed at least on a monthly basis. cial Paper Programme, which covers maturities of up Even assuming these stress scenarios, NRW.BANK is to 12 months. The GCP Programme constituted a able to meet its payment obligations at all times. In particularly favourable source of funding for NRW.BANK addition, the HGB result is subjected to stress tests in throughout the fiscal year (€ 11.4 billion outstanding the form of rising costs from EUR/USD FX swaps. as of December 31, 2012). Liquidity risk management also incorporates com­ Opportunities pliance with both the German Liquidity Regulation and NRW.BANK continues to attract strong demand from the regulatory minimum reserve requirements. Both investors thanks to its status as a development bank requirements were met at all times in the fiscal year and the funding guarantee granted by the state of North 2012. The liquidity ratio as of the reporting date was Rhine-Westphalia. This is reflected in a favourable 3.6 (2011: 3.4), well above the regulatory required funding environment for the Bank – even in times of tight minimum of 1.0. financial markets. But even in case of a further re­duc­ tion in the Bank’s own funding spread, there are no plans Economic Capital to increase the funding volume materially. Additional As of the reporting date, the economic capital for opportunities may arise, however, for the coverage of liquidity risks under the going concern perspective short-term liquidity, which may take place in different (income risks of the HGB result for the issuance volume money market segments, depending on the financial planned for the next 12 months) was € 14 million. markets. The parameters and assumptions of the liquidity Operational Risk risk model (especially liquidity gap analysis, limit Definition system and stress tests) are reviewed regularly. Operational risk comprises risks in operational systems or processes, specifically in the form of operational risk resulting from human or technical failure or external factors or legal risks resulting from contractual agree­ ments or legal conditions. 82 Financial Report 2012 Methods Risk Assessment and Limitation The framework for operational risk management at In the context of the identification and assessment NRW.BANK incorporates both qualitative and of risks, all losses and risk events are analysed for their quantitative aspects. Quantitative management of the causes (including the observation of early warning economic capital is based on the basic indicator indicators). Regardless of the current amount of the risk approach, while qualitative management is based on or the risk potential, this is done to ensure that counterthe MaRisk requirements. measures can be taken at an early stage if similar events occur. By using a combination of decentralised and centra­ lised risk management and risk monitoring, the Bank NRW.BANK performs self-assessments of all oper­a­ ensures that management can respond promptly as tional risks to which the Bank may be exposed. Risks needed, and that the Managing Board can simul­t a­ are assessed separately for relevance (probability of neously take the necessary decisions based on the occurrence) and frequency. Bank‘s overall risk profile. Neither the losses and loss-free risk events identified in Since 2004, NRW.BANK has collected information on 2012 nor the findings from the self-assessments and losses and loss-free risk events in a central risk event the observation of early warning indicators have database and categorised them in accordance with the revealed any risks that could jeopardise the continued Basle event categories. The data collection serves as existence of the Bank. the basis for the assessment of operational risks at NRW.BANK. The results of the annual forward-looking The economic capital for operational risks is deter­ self-assessments and the findings resulting from the mined annually in accordance with the basic indicator monitoring of risk indicators are also included in the approach. As the economic capital allocated to cover overall assessment of the risk situation. potential losses thus remains constant throughout the year, no distinction is made between limit and Prior to each product launch, a detailed analysis utilisation. regarding potential operational risks is carried out in the context of a standardised process. Economic Capital With regard to the economic capital for operational risks Comprehensive, business-process-oriented emergency derived from the regulatory basic indicator approach, plans exist for particularly mission-critical events such differences between the going concern perspective and as a major loss of staff, breakdown of a bank building the gone concern perspective exclusively result from or a computing centre. The contingency plans cover all scaling to the respective confidence level. As of the areas and are designed to prevent high financial and reporting date, the economic capital set aside for oper­a­ reputational risks. tional risks amounted to € 35 million under the going concern perspective and to € 140 million under the gone The Bank’s insurance cover is reviewed regularly to concern perspective. ensure that it is appropriate. Strategic Risks NRW.BANK uses standardised contracts to minimise Definition legal risks from transactions. Deviations from Strategic risk comprises all risks that could have an standardised contracts and individual transactions adverse impact on NRW.BANK‘s business model (and are approved by the legal department. The Bank are not included in the risk types described above). is currently not involved in any significant pending These include, for example, reputational and structural proceedings. risks. Financial Report 2012  83 Management Report Risk Assessment Internal Control System with Regard to Developments that could lead to strategic risks are the Accounting Process ana­lysed constantly. In particular, this includes the review of the internal and external premises on which NRW.BANK’s internal control system (ICS) is to ensure the strategy of NRW.BANK is based. that the financial statements present a true and fair view of the net worth, financial and earnings position of NRW.BANK’s statutory mission is based on the pro­ the Bank in accordance with applicable legal provisions visions of the “Verständigung II” agreement between and standards. It primarily comprises regulations the German government and the EU Commission. governing the organisational and operational structure According to this understanding, NRW.BANK can and makes a clear distinction between responsibilities continue to benefit from the state guarantees known as well as processes, procedures and measures to as guarantor liability and institutional liability, in ensure the appropriateness and reliability of internal consideration of which the Bank has accepted the con­ and external accounting. straints imposed on its business model as set out in the document. The Managing Board of NRW.BANK is responsible for the creation and effective maintenance of an In the context of the risk inventory, the strategic risk appropriate accounting-related internal control system. was classified as immaterial. Starting 2013, NRW.BANK Responsibility for implementation rests with the will nevertheless include the business and cost risk, Finance unit in co­operation with Business Support which forms part of the strategic risk, in the man­age­ and Risk Management. ment of its risk-bearing capacity. Accounting-related business events are mostly handled Reporting locally. All accounting-relevant events are initiated in In accordance with the MaRisk provisions, the Risk IT systems. The respective units are responsible for full Management Department ensures market-independent and proper capture and for implementing and docu­ and regular reporting to the Managing Board and the men­­ting the required controls. Bank-wide func­t ional Risk Committee. responsibility for the accounting rules, the booking system, accounting and the definition of the valuation Daily reports are produced for the full Managing Board principles rests with the Finance unit. This ensures both on Bank-wide level and for the capital market that consistent accounting and valuation principles are business. These include risk positions and trading applied within NRW.BANK even where business results as well as all cases where limits for market risks transactions are recorded locally. Risk Management and liquidity risks as well as counterparty and issuer is responsible for the trading-independent valuation limits are exceeded. and results analysis. As a general standard, the monthly risk report covers In the context of the Management Information System, the following topics: Bank-wide management, counter­ a standardised report on the income statement, the party risks, market risks, liquidity risks, operational cost centre statement and the planning and budgeting risks and profit performance. It forms the basis for the process is sent to the Managing Board each month to discussion of the risk situation in the ALCO and the ensure timely reporting. The Managing Board regularly Credit Committee. Besides the standardised content, informs the Supervisory Board and its committees the report covers risk-relevant special topics as required. about the current business situation. Every quarter, it covers the Bank-wide stress tests across all risk types. The financial statements are prepared by the Finance unit and drawn up by the Managing Board. In accor­ The quarterly reports to the Risk Committee are based dance with the statutes, the Board of Guarantors of on the monthly reports that are relevant for the quarter; NRW.BANK approves and endorses the financial state­ while the level of detail is reduced with a view to the ments, which are published in the electronic Federal recipients, all material aspects are addressed. Gazette within the statutory deadlines. 84 Financial Report 2012 On the basis of legal standards, especially of the The Supervisory Board establishes an Audit Committee German Commercial Code (HGB) and the “Verordnung from among its members. In accordance with the über die Rechnungslegung der Kreditinstitute und statutes and the Public Corporate Governance Code of Finanzdienstleistungsinstitute (Ordinance on accoun­ NRW.BANK, the Audit Committee addresses matters ting by banks and financial institutions – RechKredV), such as accounting-related issues, the selection of the NRW.BANK’s accounting process is described and laid auditors and the verification of their independence, down in manuals and work instructions. These written the commissioning of the auditors to carry out the audit, orders are updated on a regular basis. All employees the definition of focal points for the audit and the have direct access to the manuals via NRW.BANK’s auditor’s fee. intranet. The auditor is appointed by the Board of Guarantors at The Finance unit examines all new legislation for its the recommendation of the Supervisory Board/Audit potential relevance to the Bank’s accounting process. Committee. Necessary adjustments to processes and manuals are implemented in a timely manner. The management and In accordance with section 13 para. 3 sentence 2 of monitoring of new products are coordinated by Risk the Act on NRW.BANK, the auditor is appointed in Management in a standardised process. In this context, consultation with the North Rhine-Westphalian Court an accounting-related analysis of the financial of Audit. instruments and the associated risks is carried out with a view to ensuring accurate accounting. The auditor participates in the Supervisory Board’s and the Board of Guarantors’ consultations regarding the The front-office units are functionally and organi­sa­ financial statements and reports on the key results of tionally separated from the units responsible for the audit. settlement, monitoring and control. This separation is also reflected in the responsibilities of the individual The functionality of the accounting-related internal Managing Board members. The authorities and control system is additionally monitored by Internal responsibilities are laid down in detail in the individual Audit through regular process-independent tests in specialist departments. Employees involved in accordance with the MaRisk requirements published by accounting-relevant processes have the knowledge the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). and experience required for their respective tasks. The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board are Where required, external appraisers are called in­formed of the results of the tests in a timely manner. in for certain calculations, e.g. the measurement of pension obligations. Besides the minimum requirements of the four-eye principle, the use of standard software is a key element of the internal control system. The software is protected against unauthorised access by means of authorisations reflecting users’ competence levels. In addition, system-immanent plausibility checks, standardised coordination routines and target-actual comparisons serve to check completeness and avoid and identify errors. For instance, the figures determined in the accounting process are checked for plausibility on a monthly basis by means of comparisons with prior year figures and planning figures and on the basis of the actual business trend. Inconsistencies are addressed jointly by the external and internal audit departments. Financial Report 2012  85 Balance Sheet Balance Sheet of NRW.BANK at December 31, 2012 Assets see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2011 € € € thousands 1. Cash a) cash on hand 15,286.05 24) b) balances with central banks 408,497,465.05 427,442) thereof: with Deutsche Bundesbank € 408,497,465.05 (427,442) 408,512,751.10 427,466) 2. Debt instruments issued by public institutions and bills of exchange eligible for refinancing with central banks a) treasury bills and discounted treasury notes as well as similar debt instruments issued by public institutions 22,178,561.67 21,434) thereof: eligible for refinancing with Deutsche Bundesbank € 22,178,561.67 (21,434) 3. Receivables from banks 1, 12, 24, 28 a) payable on demand 2,033,400,980.46 2,109,992) b) other 31,199,578,193.06 31,166,089) 33,232,979,173.52 33,276,081) 4. Receivables from customers 2, 12, 24, 28 63,482,981,688.56 64,335,526) thereof: secured by mortgages € 75,704,741.12 (120,038) loans to public authorities and entities under public law € 37,970,607,317.25 (37,346,875) To be carried forward: 97,146,652,174.85 98,060,507) 86 Financial Report 2012 Liabilities see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2011 € € € thousands 1. Liabilities to banks 14, 24, 27, 28 a) payable on demand 1,095,122,678.70 724,503) b) with agreed maturity or period of notice 39,675,673,430.25 39,334,355) 40,770,796,108.95 40,058,858) 2. Liabilities to customers 15, 24, 28 a) other liabilities aa) payable on demand 123,263,378.97 108,756) ab) with agreed maturity or period of notice 20,977,940,110.14 22,552,801) 21,101,203,489.11 22,661,557) 3. Certificated liabilities 16, 24, 28 a) bonds and notes issued by the bank 61,972,263,055.25 64,986,954) 61,972,263,055.25 64,986,954) 3a. Trading portfolio 17 107,209,411.85 131,554) 4. Trust liabilities 18 1,826,225,047.55 1,935,352) thereof: trust loans € 1,826,225,047.55 (1,935,352) 5. Other liabilities 19, 24 295,816,776.62 45,074) 6. Deferred items 20, 24 266,422,252.75 265,263) 7. Provisions 21 a) for pensions and similar obligations 1,433,237,334.00 1,334,276) b) tax reserves 5,861,075.37 6,329) c) for interest rate subsidies 83,320,897.35 73,686) d) other 440,194,362.49 441,968) 1,962,613,669.21 1,856,259) 8. Subordinated liabilities 22 2,487,920,207.00 2,591,820) thereof: due in less than two years € 276,000,000.00 (204,600) To be carried forward: 130,790,470,018.29 134,532,691 Financial Report 2012  87 Balance Sheet Balance Sheet of NRW.BANK at December 31, 2012 Assets see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2011 € € € € thousands To be carried forward: 97,146,652,174.85 98,060,507) 5. Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 3, 9, 12, 13, 24, 26, 28 a) money market instruments aa) of public institutions 0.00 100,008) thereof: eligible as collateral for Deutsche Bundesbank advances € 0.00 (0) 0.00 b) bonds and notes ba) of public institutions 21,522,396,303.02 21,355,447) thereof: eligible as collateral for Deutsche Bundesbank advances € 19,620,393,313.92 (19,312,337) bb) of other issuers 23,746,534,312.31 26,217,236) thereof: eligible as collateral for Deutsche Bundesbank advances € 19,336,264,784.12 (20,710,056) 45,268,930,615.33 47,572,683) c) bonds issued by the bank 431,334,042.67 194,538) principal amount € 387,654,000.00 (184,686) 45,700,264,658.00 47,867,229) 6. Shares and other non-interest-bearing securities 4, 9, 12 1,957,200.00 1,957) 6a. Trading portfolio 5, 24 197,462,942.41 273,508) 7. Equity investments in non-affiliated companies 6, 9 2,262,183,887.33 2,256,416) thereof: equity investments in banks € 2,243,772,546.20 (2,243,773) 8. Equity investments in affiliated companies 6, 9 134,713,323.10 115,363) 9. Trust assets 7 1,826,225,047.55 1,935,352) thereof: trust loans € 1,826,225,047.55 (1,935,352) 10. Intangible assets 9 17,296,849.54 21,599) 11. Tangible fixed assets 9 69,501,096.19 76,134) 12. Other assets 8, 24 1,493,840,185.15 1,688,770) 13. Deferred items 10, 24 235,564,807.15 249,164) Total assets 149,085,662,171.27 152,545,999) 88 Financial Report 2012 Liabilities see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2011 € € € thousands To be carried forward: 130,790,470,018.29 134,532,691 9. Capital with participation rights 22 11,000,000.00 11,000) thereof: due in less than two years € 0.00 (0) 10. Fund for general banking risks 491,060,000.00 265,340) thereof: special item pursuant to Section 340e (4) of the German Commercial Code (HGB) € 1,060,000.00 (340) 11. Equity capital 23 a) subscribed capital 17,000,000,000.00 17,000,000) b) capital reserves 537,385,024.56 445,633) c) reserves from retained earnings ca) reserves required by NRW.BANK’s statutes 36,100,000.00 36,100) cb) other reserves 219,647,128.42 219,647) d) profit for the year 0.00 35,588) 17,793,132,152.98 17,736,968) Total liabilities 149,085,662,171.27 152,545,999) 1. Contingent liabilities 24, 25 liabilities from guarantees and indemnity agreements 17,051,172,794.61 22,693,956) 2. Other commitments 24, 25 irrevocable loan commitments 3,492,337,582.75 3,727,961) 3. Administered funds 166,870,347.85 190,451) Financial Report 2012  89 Profit and Loss Account Profit and Loss Account of NRW.BANK for the Period January 1 – December 31, 2012 Jan. 1 – see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2011 € € € € thousands 1. Interest income from 31 a) lending and money market transactions 2,805,875,953.53 2,894,986) b) interest-bearing securities and book-entry securities 1,738,329,338.97 1,850,282) 4,544,205,292.50 4,745,268) 2. Interest expenses 31 4,017,825,152.24 4,293,876) 526,380,140.26 451,392) 3. Income from a) equity investments in non-affiliated companies 3,274,246.13 2,809) b) equity investments in affiliated companies 10,176,656.91 8,997) 13,450,903.04 11,806) 4. Income from profit pooling, profit transfer and partial profit transfer agreements 1,476,465.17 1,389) 5. Commission income 29 85,018,299.53 141,497) 6. Commission expenses 8,541,728.07 61,798) 76,476,571.46 79,699) 7. Net profit from trading portfolio 6,411,251.42 2,980) 8. Other operating income 30 22,350,443.21 47,390) 9. General administrative expenses a) personnel expenses aa) wages and salaries 94,473,008.66 89,979) ab) social security contributions and expenses for pensions and other employee benefits 19,682,308.26 17,470) thereof: 114,155,316.92 107,449) for pensions € 8,278,945.14 (4,737) b) andere other administrative expenses 32 73,061,859.32 88,809) 187,217,176.24 196,258) 10. Depreciation and value adjustments on intangible and tangible fixed assets 13,757,495.84 8,888) 11. Other operating expenses 30 384,377.90 19,294) To be carried forward: 445,186,724.58 370,216 90 Financial Report 2012 Jan. 1 – see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2011 € € € thousands To be carried forward: 445,186,724.58 370,216 12. Write-downs and value adjustments on loans and certain securities as well as allocations to loan loss provisions 590,353,175.79 145,477) thereof: allocation to fund for general banking risks € 225,000,000.00 (0) 13. Write-downs and value adjustments on equity investments in non-affiliated companies, equity investments in affiliated companies and securities treated as tangible fixed assets 0.00 151,872) 14. Income from write-ups of equity investments in non-affiliated companies, equity investments in affiliated companies and securities treated as tangible fixed assets 166,942,811.16 0) 15. Expenses from the assumption of losses 0.00 2,903) 16. Result from normal operations 21,776,359.95 69,964) 17. Taxes on income and revenues 3,015,676.78 7,826) 18. Other taxes not shown under other operating expenses 177,925.54 87) 3,193,602.32 7,913) 19. Net profit 18,582,757.63 62,051) 20. Designated payout due to legal requirements 18,582,757.63 20,163) 21. Allocation of net income to reserves from retained earnings a) reserves required by NRW.BANK’s statutes 0.00 6,300) 22. Profit for the year 0.00 35,588) Financial Report 2012  91 Notes Notes of NRW.BANK for fiscal 2012 Preparation of NRW.BANK’s Annual Accounts 2. Receivables The Housing Promotion Department’s promotion loans The annual accounts of NRW.BANK were prepared in to customers and banks, most of which are at no accordance with the provisions of the German Com­mer­ interest or below-market interest, are carried at their cial Code (HGB) and the Ordinance Regarding nominal value. This recognises the fact that these loans ­Accounting for Banks and Financial Services Insti­tu­ are quite predominantly funded at matching maturities tions (RechKredV). Information that may appear either from the former state housing assets and takes into on the balance sheet or in the notes is included in account the “interest balance guarantee” under which the notes. Amounts in the notes are generally given in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia would compensate € millions. for any negative interest balance for all promotion loans granted by the Housing Promotion Department up to As in the previous year, assets and liabilities in the December 31, 2009. No negative interest balance existed present annual accounts have been recognised at for these receivables as of the balance sheet date. amortised cost in accordance with Section 252 et seq. HGB. All loans granted by the Housing Promotion Depart­ ment after December 31, 2009 are not covered by The subsidiaries in the NRW.BANK Group are not of the interest balance guarantee of the state of North material importance either individually or collectively. Rhine-Westphalia. Up to the balance sheet date, Consolidated financial statements are not prepared. the Bank exclusively used equity capital to finance these non-guaranteed loans. Accounting and Valuation Principles Discernible risks in the lending business were ade­ Assets, liabilities and open contracts are valued in quately covered by individual value adjustments and accordance with Section 340 et seq. HGB in conjunction provisions. A global provision was formed in accor­ with Section 252 et seq. HGB. dance with tax valuation methods for latent risks from receivables and recourse receivables. Value adjust­ 1. General ments were deducted from assets. Non-performing Receivables are reported at their amortised cost less loans were written off. any discounts. Premiums and discounts from notes and bonds were released by the end of the term. Liabilities 3. Securities are carried at their repayment amounts, with any Securities are valued at cost; any difference between related discounts reported under deferred items. the cost and the repayment amount is recognised on a Premiums on receivables and liabilities are reported pro rata basis as income. Securities held in the financial under deferred items as an asset or liability, investment portfolio are valued according to the miti­ respectively. The proportionate amount of interest on a gated lower of cost or market principle. If their carrying receivable or liability at year-end is generally included amount is higher than their current market value, these with the receivable or liability to which it applies. These securities are shown in the notes as “valued as fixed items are valued according to the effective interest assets”. This information is subject to change over time method. Non interest-bearing loans to employees are due to portfolio changes as well as interest ratereported at their amortised cost in accordance with tax induced movements and/or market price-induced regulations. Zero-coupon bonds are carried as liabilities movements. at their issue price plus interest accrued as of the reporting date. 92 Financial Report 2012 Securities held in the liquidity reserve are valued When using models, standard model assumptions are strictly at the lower of cost or market principle. made. Valuation uncertainties primarily result from uncertainties of the parameters used and the assumpIn the context of the determination of the fair value, tions on which the models are based. NRW.BANK applies mark-to-market valuation provided that an active market exists for a given security. In 5. Equity Investments in Affiliated and this case, the valuation is based on the liquid prices Non-Affiliated Companies provided by respected market data providers (e. g. Equity investments in affiliated and non-affiliated comReuters or Bloomberg). In addition, the discounted panies are carried at cost taking existing collateral into cash flow method is used for mark-to-model valuation. account; where a loss of value is expected to be permaUnder the discounted cash flow method, the con­ nent, they are written down to the lower fair value. tractually agreed cash flows of an instrument (without options) are discounted using risk-adjusted interest 6. Tangible Assets rates (use of spread curves). To the extent possible, Tangible assets with a limited useful life are depreciainterest curves based on curves quoted in the market ted in accordance with the applicable tax regulations. are used. In exceptional cases, the spreads used for discounting are taken from research publications or, 7. Provisions alternatively, provided by external market participants Adequate provisions have been made for contingent and verified independently by the Risk Management liabilities and anticipated losses from open contracts. Department. Provisions with a remaining maturity of more than one NRW.BANK incorporated the principles of the IDW year are discounted using the average market rate of state­ment on accounting (IDW RS HFA 22) of Sep­tem­ the past seven years as appropriate for the remaining ber 2, 2008 in the current financial statements. maturities. According to these principles, each structured financial instrument held in the investment portfolio is generally Pension, benefit and personnel provisions are recognised as an integral asset. In those cases where measured by using the internationally accepted pro­ the structured financial instrument has much higher or jected unit credit method, taking the future develop­ additional risks than the basic instrument due to an ment of wages and pensions into account. Based embedded derivative, each individual component is on the 2005 G tables of Heubeck-Richttafeln-GmbH recognised separately as an underlying transaction and in Cologne, average wage and salary rises of 2.5% a derivative. were applied for this purpose. 4. Derivatives In accordance with the option granted under Section 253 Derivatives and other structured products are valued para. 2 sentence 2 HGB, NRW.BANK has discounted on the basis of generally accepted models (Black 76, provisions for pension obligations or comparable One, Two and Three Factor Model of Interest Rates, long-term obligations using the average market rate Hazard Rate Model, One Factor Gauss Copula Model). for an assumed remaining maturity of 15 years. Here, too, valuation parameters based on standard The interest rate of 5.05% used for discounting was market data sources are used (e. g. Reuters, Markit). stipulated by Deutsche Bundesbank. Financial Report 2012  93 Notes The accumulation for pension, benefit and personnel reduced by risk and administrative costs for the total provisions was recognised in interest expense in an term. The calculation did not result in a surplus of amount of € 34.3 million (2011: € 17.3 million). obligations, which means that there was no need to establish a provision for contingent losses. The assessment of the provisions for benefit payments were again calculated using an annual cost increase Revaluation adjustments relating to derivative of 3% for healthcare benefits. The average rate of the transactions in the financial investment portfolio are benefit payments over the past three years was taken not recognised. These derivatives are macrohedges in as the basis. the form of interest rate and currency derivatives, which serve to manage the Bank’s overall exposure As in the previous years, NRW.BANK used interest ­ to interest rate risk, as well as credit default swaps, rate subsidies for certain loans in order to fulfil its state which are used as credit substitute transactions. promotion tasks. When the loan is extended, the interest rate subsidy is provisioned for in the amount For securities held in the financial investment portfolio of the present value. with a carrying value of € 8,095,428,146.38, an aggregate market value of € 7,414,422,921.50 was In accordance with Article 67 para. 1 sentence 2 determined. EGHGB, the option was used insofar as the existing provisions are maintained due to excess cover, as the These securities include a portfolio of Euro-zone coun­ required release would have to be reallocated by tries with a carrying value of € 6,940,301,657.45 and December 31, 2024 at the latest. As of December 31, a market value of € 6,406,557,932.99 and non-EMU EU 2012, excess cover of € 0.1 million exists for these countries with a carrying value of € 268,203,918.21 provisions. and a market value of € 221,488,383.57. 8. Loss-Free Valuation of the Banking Book Because these securities have been funded at matching On October 8, 2012, the Specialist Banking Committee maturities and interest rates, and because none of of the IDW published RS BFA 3 “Individual Aspects the issuers‘ credit ratings indicated sustained weakening of the Loss-Free Valuation of Interest-Related Trans­­ (no permanent impairment in value expected), it was actions in the Banking Book” (Einzelfragen der ver­ not necessary to write the securities down to market lustfreien Bewertung von zinsbezogenen Geschäften value. des Bankbuchs). According to the pronouncement, a provision for contingent losses must be established 9. Hedge Relationship of the Liquidity Reserve for a surplus of obligations resulting from the banking To hedge against interest rate risks, assets with a carry­ and interest book in an overall view of the transactions. ing amount of € 421.0 million and derivatives with a NRW.BANK performed the corresponding calculations nominal volume of € 440.0 million were combined into in the 2012 financial statements, for which a periodic a hedge relationship. The hedge relationship hedges (P&L-oriented) view was taken. The present value interest rate risks in an amount of € 19.5 million. of the future interest result of the banking book was 94 Financial Report 2012 The transactions covered have a maximum remaining 11. Currency Translation maturity until September 21, 2022. Foreign currency amounts are translated in accordance with Section 340h HGB and Section 256a HGB and The transactions in the derivatives portfolios are statement RS BFA 4 of the IDW. Assets, liabilities and hedges for the securities portfolios. Interest-induced pending transactions denominated in foreign currencies movements in the market values of the hedged items were translated using the spot exchange rate on and the hedges will be mutually off-setting in future. December 31, 2012. In this context, NRW.BANK uses Effectiveness is measured retrospectively on the basis the reference rates of the European System of Central of the dollar offset method. Interest rate risks are Banks (ESCB). managed on the basis of sensitivities. In accordance with Section 340h HGB and Section 10. Financial Instruments of the Trading Portfolio 256a HGB, foreign-currency balance sheet items and In accordance with Section 340e para. 3 HGB, instru­ pending transactions of NRW.BANK are classified and ments in the trading portfolio (securities, financial valued as being specifically covered in all currencies. instruments) are measured at fair value less a risk dis­ count of € 4.6 million. The risk discount was calculated on the basis of the value-at-risk (VaR) model, which the Risk Management Department also uses for internal monitoring of the market risks of the trading book. The regulatory requirements of a confidence level of 99% and a holding period of 10 days were applied. The historical observation period for the determination of the statistical parameters is 250 days, with a greater weight placed on incidents in the more recent past. The internally defined criteria for the inclusion of financial instruments in the trading portfolio remained unchanged in the past fiscal year. In order to comply with the distribution restriction for unrealised gains required pursuant to Section 340e para. 4 HGB, an amount of € 720,000.00 (2011: € 331,777.87) of the net result of the trading portfolio was allocated to the “fund for general banking risks” pursuant to Section 340g HGB. Financial Report 2012  95 Notes Balance Sheet Receivables from Banks (1) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Payable on demand 2,033.4 2,110.0 Other receivables – up to 3 months 1,972.2 2,568.5 – between 3 months and 1 year 2,373.9 1,731.4 – between 1 and 5 years 11,193.9 11,210.8 – more than 5 years 15,659.6 15,655.4 Total receivables from banks 33,233.0 33,276.1 As in the previous year, receivables from banks do not include receivables from affiliated companies. The receivables from other companies in which equity investments are held totalled € 21.4 million (2011: € 355.8 million). Receivables from Customers (2) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions – up to 3 months 4,308.4 2,659.8 – between 3 months and 1 year 2,327.3 3,298.2 – between 1 and 5 years 13,663.6 13,348.1 – more than 5 years 43,183.7 45,029.4 Total receivables from customers 63,483.0 64,335.5 As in the previous year, receivables from customers do not include receivables from affiliated companies. The receivables from other companies in which equity investments are held totalled € 0.8 million (2011: € 0.8 million). 96 Financial Report 2012 Bonds and Other Interest-Bearing Securities (3) Marketability Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Bonds and other interest-bearing securities – listed on a stock exchange 42,212.0 43,839.2 – not listed on a stock exchange 3,488.3 4,028.0 Total bonds and other interest-bearing securities 45,700.3 47,867.2 Of the bonds and other interest-bearing securities, an amount of € 4,823.0 million (2011: € 4,825.7 million) is due in the following year. As in the previous year, bonds and other interest-bearing securities do not include securities from affiliated companies. Securities in an amount of € 0.0 million (2011: € 51.1 million) were recognised for companies in which equity investments are held. Of the total bonds and other interest-bearing securities € 431.4 million (2011: € 294.5 million) are held as part of the liquidity reserve and € 45,268.9 million (2011: € 47,572.7 million) are held in the financial investment portfolio. Shares and Other Non-Interest-Bearing Securities (4) Marketability Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Shares and other non-interest-bearing securities – listed on a stock exchange 0.0 0.0 – not listed on a stock exchange 1.9 1.9 Total shares and other non-interest-bearing securities 1.9 1.9 All shares and other non-interest-bearing securities are held in the financial investment portfolio. Financial Report 2012  97 Notes Trading Portfolio (Assets) (5) Breakdown of Trading Portfolio Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Derivative financial instruments 0.0 0.1 Receivables 116.3 58.9 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 85.8 216.8 Risk discount pursuant to Section 340e para. 3 sentence 1 HGB –4.6 –2.3 Total trading portfolio 197.5 273.5 Equity Investments in Non-Affiliated and Affiliated Companies (6) NRW.BANK holds € 2,262.2 million (2011: € 2,256.4 million) in equity investments in non-affiliated companies and € 134.7 million (2011: € 115.4 million) in equity investments in affiliated companies. Of this amount, € 2,190.8 million (2011: € 2,190.8 million) are securitized by marketable securities. However, none are listed on a stock exchange. An itemised list of NRW.BANK’s investments pursuant to Section 285 No. 11 and 11a HGB is shown separately in these notes. NRW.BANK holds more than 5% of the voting rights in the following major corporations (disclosure pursuant to Section 340a para. 4 No. 2 HGB): Portigon AG (formerly WestLB AG) Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Trust Assets (7) Trust assets comprise the following: Breakdown by Asset Type Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Receivables from banks 123.8 139.2 Receivables from customers 1,702.4 1,796.1 Total trust assets 1,826.2 1,935.3 Other Assets (8) The total figure of € 1,493.8 million (2011: € 1,688.8 million) contains, among other things, € 1,071.7 million (2011: € 1,010.5 million) in receivables from Portigon AG (formerly WestLB AG) for reimbursement of pension obligations as well as € 17.8 million (2011: € 0.0 million) in receivables from Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen for reimbursement of pension obligations, € 0.0 million (2011: € 370.2 million) adjustment item from currency translation (in accordance with Section 340h HGB) as well as € 386.6 million (2011: € 290.4 million) in interest receivables from the state of North Rhine-Westphalia under the value guarantee for the equity investment in Portigon AG (formerly WestLB AG). 98 Financial Report 2012 Fixed Assets (9) Schedule of Fixed Assets Acquisition Additions Retirements Total Net Book Depreciation and Cost/ Depreciation Value Amortisation in Production Cost and the Financial Amortisation Year Jan. 1, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Bonds and other interest-bearing securities forming part of fixed assets 46,625.3 44,387.6 0.0 Shares and other non-interest-bearing Net change pursuant to Section 34 securities forming para. 3 sentence 2 RechKredV: part of fixed assets 1.9 € 3,818.2 million 1.9 0.0 Equity investments in non-affiliated companies 3,828.3 2,262.2 0.0 Equity investments in affiliated companies 149.1 134.7 8.5 Intangible assets 65.6 1.9 0.0 50.2 17.3 6.1 Land and buildings 64.2 0.2 0.1 5.1 59.4 2.0 Office equipment 24.0 0.7 0.2 14.4 10.1 5.5 € 58.9 million (2011: € 60.3 million) of the amount shown under land and buildings represent land and buildings used for business purposes. Deferred Items (10) Breakdown of Deferred Items Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Discounts from underwriting business 101.6 99.3 Prepaid swap fees 59.4 60.0 Prepaid CDS fees 54.4 66.7 Other 20.2 23.2 Total deferred items 235.6 249.2 Financial Report 2012  99 Notes Deferred Tax Assets (11) Due to NRW.BANK’s exemption from income tax, deferred taxes primarily relate to investments in commercial partnerships held as part of the public mission. In accordance with Section 274 para. 1 sentence 2 HGB, no deferred taxes were recognised for the deductible temporary differences which result in a tax reduction. Subordinated Assets (12) Subordinated assets are included in: Breakdown by Asset Type Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Receivables from banks 0.8 0.8 Receivables from customers 23.8 37.6 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 20.4 20.4 Shares and other non-interest-bearing securities 1.9 1.9 Total subordinated assets 46.9 60.7 Pledged Assets (13) Of the assets reported, NRW.BANK pledged € 505.0 million (2011: € 1,244.2 million) under repurchase agreements. Liabilities to Banks (14) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Payable on demand 1,095.1 724.5 Other liabilities – up to 3 months 3,264.7 4,233.3 – between 3 months and 1 year 3,386.4 2,315.8 – between 1 and 5 years 14,144.5 14,133.7 – more than 5 years 18,880.1 18,651.6 Total liabilities to banks 40,770.8 40,058.9 As in the previous year, liabilities to banks do not include liabilities to affiliated companies. The liabilities to other companies in which equity investments are held totalled € 10.6 million (2011: € 237.8 million). 100 Financial Report 2012 Liabilities to Customers (15) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Payable on demand 123.3 108.8 Other liabilities – up to 3 months 1,184.5 1,210.8 – between 3 months and 1 year 1,265.6 1,022.4 – between 1 and 5 years 4,285.7 5,381.3 – more than 5 years 14,242.1 14,938.3 Total liabilities to customers 21,101.2 22,661.6 Liabilities to customers include liabilities to affiliated companies in the amount of € 13.2 million (2011: € 6.0 million). As in the previous year, liabilities to customers do not include liabilities to other companies in which equity investments are held. Certificated Liabilities (16) Breakdown of Certificated Liabilities Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Notes issued – mortgage bonds 0.6 0.6 – municipal bonds 424.1 913.4 – other bonds 61,547.6 64,072.9 Total certificated liabilities 61,972.3 64,986.9 € 21,717.7 million (2011: € 28,470.0 million) of the notes issued is due in the following year. Trading Portfolio (Liabilities) (17) Breakdown of Trading Portfolio Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Derivative financial instruments 13.2 17.8 Liabilities 94.0 113.7 Total trading portfolio 107.2 131.5 Derivative financial instruments include futures in the amount of € 32 thousand as well as margin accounts in an identical amount with opposite sign. Financial Report 2012  101 Notes Trust Liabilities (18) Trust liabilities comprise the following: Breakdown of Trust Liabilities Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Liabilities to banks 16.5 22.4 Liabilities to customers 1,244.5 1,308.0 Other liabilities 565.2 604.9 Total trust liabilities 1,826.2 1,935.3 Other Liabilities (19) Other liabilities totalling € 295.8 million (2011: € 45.1 million) include an adjustment item from currency translation (in accordance with Section 340h HGB) in the amount of € 245.4 million (2011: € 0.0 million), € 18.6 million (2011: € 20.2 million) in liabilities owed to the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, € 6.4 million (2011: € 4.2 million) in liabilities owed to the Tax Office, € 3.4 million (2011: € 4.0 million) in interest to be paid on existing profit participation rights and subordinated liabilities once the annual accounts have been approved, € 2.9 million (2011: € 2.9 million) in liabilities from profit and loss transfer agreements and € 1.0 million (2011: € 1.4 million) in unpaid premiums from credit default swaps. Deferred Items (20) Breakdown of Deferred Items Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Swap fees received in advance 188.4 209.5 Premiums from underwriting business 61.0 28.4 Other 17.0 27.4 Total deferred items 266.4 265.3 Provisions (21) The provision for pensions includes € 1,071.7 million (2011: € 1,009.3 million) in pension obligations to employees of Portigon AG (formerly WestLB AG) as well as € 17.8 million (2011: € 0.0 million) in pension obligations to employees of Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen who have claims for or are entitled to a pension under the laws relating to civil servants. Pursuant to Article 1 Section 4 para. 1 sentence 4 of the Bank Redefining Act (Neuregelungsgesetz) of July 2, 2002, these obligations passed from Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale to NRW.BANK. NRW.BANK is entitled to reimbursement from Portigon AG (formerly WestLB AG) and Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen in the same amount, which is shown in “other assets”. NRW.BANK’s provision for additional benefits is at € 211.1 million (2011: € 209.2 million). This amount includes € 180.8 million (2011: € 179.2 million) in obligations to persons covered under the former pension agreement of Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, for which NRW.BANK has assumed the additional benefit payments 102 Financial Report 2012 since the spin-off from Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale and another € 0.0 million (2011: € 1.2 million) for employees with dual contracts involving private-law entitlements to additional benefits. An additional € 30.3 million (2011: € 28.8 million) has been set aside for claims to additional benefits that employees of NRW.BANK have for their retirement. Provisions in an amount of € 76.7 million (2011: 76.7 million) exist for potential compensation claims under the value guarantee. Provisions for anticipated losses in an amount of € 62.4 million (2011: € 68.1 million) exist for structuring measures that may be required for the CDO portfolio. In addition, there is an amount of € 35.6 million (2011: € 42.4 million) for agreed loan collateralisation costs, which will be incurred in future periods. Subordinated Liabilities and Capital with Participation Rights (22) The subordinated liability as described below exceeds 10% of the total subordinated liabilities of € 2,487.9 million (2011: € 2,591.8 million). The state of North Rhine-Westphalia has to make repayments towards the federal government in conjunction with the use of house promotion loans granted by the federal government. Under applicable federal state law, NRW.BANK has to transfer the required funds from the repayment of housing promotion loans to the state budget. This transfer duty takes the form of a non-interest-bearing subordinated loan in an amount of € 2,413.9 million granted by the state of North Rhine-Westphalia to NRW.BANK, which has to be repaid by the year 2044 in accordance with a defined repayment plan. Based on the repayments made to date, the subordinated loan was stated in an amount of € 2,082.9 million as of December 31, 2012. The remaining subordinated liabilities of € 405.0 million carry an average interest rate of 3.8% (2011: 4.1%) and have original maturities between 10 and 30 years. There is no early redemption obligation. Subordinated liabilities include liabilities with a remaining term of less than two years in an amount of € 276.0 million (2011: € 204.6 million). There are no existing agreements or plans to convert these funds into capital or into another form of debt. Interest expenses of € 11.2 million (2011: € 12.3 million) were incurred for subordinated liabilities. The subordinated liabilities carried by NRW.BANK comply with the requirements of Section 10 para. 5a KWG; a right to terminate without notice has not been agreed. In 2012, no capital with participation rights matured, and no new capital with participation rights was issued. Hence, the total capital with participation rights was € 11.0 million (2011: € 11.0 million). Equity Capital (23) As of December 31, 2012, NRW.BANK’s subscribed capital was € 17,000.0 million (2011: € 17,000.0 million). The reserves totalled € 793.1 million (2011: € 701.3 million). Financial Report 2012  103 Notes NRW.BANK’s capital and reserves as reported on the balance sheet are made up of the following: Commercial Law Equity Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € millions € millions Subscribed capital 17,000.0 17,000.0 Capital reserves 537.4 445.6 Reserves from retained earnings – reserves required by NRW.BANK’s statutes 36.1 36.1 – other reserves 219.6 219.6 Profit for the year 0.0 35.6 Total equity capital 17,793.1 17,736.9 Once the annual accounts are approved, the capital of NRW.BANK required for regulatory purposes under Section 10 KWG will total € 18,935.0 million (2011: € 7,503.6 million). In the past fiscal year 2012, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) completed its review of the integration of the former Wohnungsbauförderungsanstalt and its effects on NRW.BANK’s regulatory equity capital. As a result, the Bank’s equity capital is now recognised in full for regulatory purposes, which has resulted in much higher regulatory equity capital than in the previous year. Foreign Currency Assets/Foreign Currency Liabilities (24) At year-end, NRW.BANK had foreign currency assets valued at € 9,729.2 million (2011: € 10,743.0 million) and foreign currency liabilities valued at € 21,488.2 million (2011: € 21,211.1 million). Contingent liabilities and other commitments denominated in foreign currencies totalled € 3,638.5 million (2011: € 5,242.5 million). Contingent Liabilities and Other Commitments (25) Contingent liabilities totalled € 17,051.2 million (2011: € 22,694.0 million) and incorporate € 16,514.8 million (2011: € 22,304.4 million) for credit derivatives (thereof € 361.8 million for embedded derivatives [2011: € 400.3 million]) and € 536.4 million (2011: € 389.6 million) for other guarantees and indemnity agreements. The credit derivatives are credit default swaps, in which NRW.BANK acts as protection seller. Against receipt of a premium from the protection buyer, NRW.BANK has taken the risk that a credit event agreed between the two parties with regard to the reference debtor occurs. The credit default swaps of NRW.BANK are primarily referenced to countries and are almost exclusively of very good to good investment grade quality. No claims are expected to be raised at present. The guarantees and indemnity agreements primarily comprise liability releases for house banks for promotion loans granted in the context of the development of sports facilities as well as global guarantees, guarantee lines and SME financing. Claims under these guarantees would potentially be raised in the event of the non-fulfilment of contractual obligations of the main borrower towards the beneficiary. This would arise, for instance, in the event of the delayed (or non-)repayment of loans or the improper completion of promised services. As there were no indications of such events as of the balance sheet date, there are currently no signs of future claims being raised under these guarantees. 104 Financial Report 2012 Other commitments comprise irrevocable credit commitments in an amount of € 3,492.3 million (2011: € 3,728.0 million). Of this total, € 740.6 million (2011: € 809.9 million) relates to commitments in conjunction with the housing promotion business. The irrevocable credit commitments result from transactions in which NRW.BANK has made a binding commitment towards its customers and is therefore exposed to a future credit risk. Based on historical experience from the previous years, it is expected that the irrevocable credit commitments will be utilised with a probability of almost 100%. Assets Used as Collateral (26) Bonds and notes in a nominal amount of € 3,406.0 million (2011: € 7,093.5 million) were pledged to the Deutsche Bundesbank and notes in a nominal amount of € 6,310.3 million (2011: € 6,860.3 million) were submitted to the Deutsche Bundesbank in the context of the “KEV” process (KEV: Kreditforderungen – Einreichung und Verwaltung/credit claims – submission and administration) as collateral for funding facilities. Securities with a nominal value of € 22.7 million (2011: € 23.9 million) were deposited with the EUREX (electronic futures and options exchange) as collateral for forward transactions. In addition, securities in a nominal amount of € 4,388.4 million (2011: € 3,703.3 million) were transferred in the past fiscal year to secure off-exchange derivatives; these securities were deposited as collateral with the counterparty. In addition, an amount of € 243.8 million (2011: € 100.4 million) was transferred as collateral for repo transactions and securities in an amount of € 2.0 million (2011: € 2.0 million) were assigned as rent deposit. Collateral for Own Liabilities (27) Collateral for registered municipal bonds and notes totalled € 2.2 million (2011: € 62.0 million). Cover (28) All issues of NRW.BANK requiring cover were covered in accordance with the statutory provisions and in accordance with the Bank’s statutes. At December 31, 2012, the nominal amounts of the cover were as follows: Cover Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 Mortgage Municipal Mortgage Municipal bonds bonds bonds bonds (DR I) (DR II) (DR I) (DR II) € millions € millions € millions € millions Mortgage bonds and municipal bonds issued 0.0 4,365.0 5.8 5,911.1 Loans raised secured with registered mortgage bonds or registered municipal bonds and notes 0.0 2.2 0.0 62.0 Liabilities requiring cover 0.0 4,367.2 5.8 5,973.1 Mortgage and/or municipal loans 0.0 17,935.5 111.9 17,995.8 Other ordinary cover (securities) 0.0 100.2 0.0 220.2 Excess cover 0.0 240.0 10.0 240.0 Cover funds 0.0 18,275.7 121.9 18,456.0 Excess cover 0.0 13,908.5 116.1 12,482.9 Financial Report 2012  105 Notes Statement of Income Services Rendered for Third Parties (29) The net commission income includes € 9.0 million (2011: € 14.6 million) resulting from the administration of loans and subsidies held in trust. Other Operating Income and Expenses (30) The principal contribution towards other operating income is composed of € 15.9 million (2011: € 42.1 million) in income from the write-back of other provisions. Other operating expenses include an amount of € 0.2 million (2011: € 18.4 million) in addition to the provisions for additional benefits established for employees of Portigon AG (formerly WestLB AG). Income and Expenses Unrelated to the Accounting Period (31) The introduction of a new loan management system led to a change in the functionality for the accrual of commitment interest which had a one-time effect of € 4.2 million on interest income and a one-time effect of € 3.0 million on interest expenses. Fee Paid to Auditor of the Annual Accounts (32) In fiscal 2012, the auditor charged a total fee of € 1.8 million (2011: € 1.5 million). € 1.4 million (2011: € 1.2 million) of which accounted for fees for the auditing of the annual accounts, € 0.1 million (2011: € 0.2 million) for other auditing services and € 0.3 million (2011: € 0.1 million) for other services. Miscellaneous Other Financial Obligations NRW.BANK has long-term obligations for building rents, IT service and leasing agreements, telephony and the computer centre of € 57.1 million up to the end of the contractual term with a remaining term of 8 years, of € 23.6 million with a remaining term of 7.5 years, € 3.0 million with a remaining term of 7 years, € 1.7 million with a remaining term of 6.5 years, € 1.2 million with a remaining term of 5 years, € 0.1 million with a remaining term of 4 years, € 7.4 million with a remaining term of 3.5 years, € 0.6 million with a remaining term of 2 years as well as € 0.1 million with a remaining term of 1.5 years. There is an obligation to make additional contributions in the amount of € 8.0 million (2011: € 8.0 million) to the European Investment Fund. Other Obligations NRW.BANK has other obligations pursuant to Article 1 Section 3 sentence 1 of the Bank Redefining Act of July 2, 2002. In addition to its capital contribution of € 55.0 million, NRW.BANK is liable for Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) in the amount of an additional € 110.0 million. 106 Financial Report 2012 Deposit Insurance The state bank of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia became the development bank for North Rhine-Westphalia pursuant to the “Act on the Reorganisation of the State Bank of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia into the Development Bank of North Rhine-Westphalia and on the Amendment of Other Laws” (Gesetz zur Umstruk­turie­ rung der Landesbank Nordrhein-Westfalen zur Förderbank des Landes Nordrhein-Westfalen und zur Änderung anderer Gesetze). Owing to these developments, as of January 1, 2005 NRW.BANK was made a member of the compensation scheme of the Association of German Public Sector Banks in Berlin (VÖB Ent­schädi­gungs­ein­ richtung) by order of the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). Derivative Transactions The total nominal value of derivative transactions was € 195,173 million (2011: € 241,303 million). Derivative transactions are mostly used as hedges against fluctuations in interest rates, exchange rates and market prices and almost entirely relate to the banking book. Banking Book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions Interest rate risks Interest rate swaps 188,529 152,357 8,271 –12,751 Interest rate options – bought (long) 2,836 2,145 166 – – written (short) 2,479 2,816 – –39 Caps, floors 10 – – – Stock market contracts – bought – – – – – written (short) 2,825 – – – Forward Rate Agreements – – – – Other interest rate forwards 737 423 6 –38 Total interest rate risks 197,416 157,741 8,443 –12,828 Currency risks Foreign exchange forwards, swaps 6,369 7,208 8 –121 Currency swaps/interest rate currency swaps 12,652 12,179 397 –1,211 Total currency risks 19,021 19,387 405 –1,332 Credit derivatives – bought (long)1 2,111 1,445 31 –30 – written (short)2 22,304 16,515 38 –697 Total credit derivatives 24,415 17,960 69 –727 Total banking book 240,852 195,088 8,917 –14,887 1) includes € 260 million (2011: € 369 million) in embedded derivative instruments which have to be separated (HFA 22) 2) includes € 362 million (2011: € 400 million) in embedded derivative instruments which have to be separated (HFA 22) Financial Report 2012  107 Notes Trading book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions Interest rate risks Interest rate swaps 357 81 – –11 Interest rate options – – – – Stock market contracts – bought (long) 9 4 0 – – written (short) 10 – – – Forward Rate Agreements – – – – Other interest rate forwards – – – – Total interest rate risks 376 85 0 –11 Total currency risks – – – – Total credit derivatives – – – – Total trading book 376 85 0 –11 Banking book and trading book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions Total interest rate risks 197,792 157,826 8,443 –12,839 Total currency risks 19,021 19,387 405 –1,332 Total credit derivatives 24,415 17,960 69 –727 Total banking book and trading book 241,228 195,173 8,917 –14,898 The presentation of derivative transactions also reflects embedded derivative instruments that have to be separated of a nominal value of € 3,325 million (2011: € 3,299 million). The average nominal value of the derivative transactions and other forward transactions entered into by NRW.BANK for the period from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 was € 216,632 million (2011: € 259,300 million). 108 Financial Report 2012 Contrary to the previous year, the market values of the derivative transactions are shown without accrued interest. To the extent available, market prices are used for valuing the derivative financial instruments. If market values are not available or cannot be reliably determined, the fair value is determined on the basis of standard pricing models or discounted cash flows. The breakdown of derivative transactions by counterparty is as follows: Banking book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions OECD banks 210,187 168,557 7,242 –11,811 Non-OECD banks – – – – OECD public-sector entities 462 13,794 1,258 –2,032 Other counterparties 30,203 12,737 417 –1,044 Total banking book 240,852 195,088 8,917 –14,887 Trading book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions OECD banks 376 85 0 –11 Non-OECD banks – – – – OECD public-sector entities – – – – Other counterparties – – – – Total trading book 376 85 0 –11 Banking book and trading book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions Total banking book and trading book 241,228 195,173 8,917 –14,898 Financial Report 2012  109 Notes Interest rate derivatives that are not assigned to the trading book are used as microhedges for specific transactions or as macrohedges for overall exposure, exclusively in the Bank’s proprietary business. Their result is recognised in net interest income. The interest rate contracts are spread across the entire spectrum of maturities, with approx. 43% (2011: 36%) having a remaining time to maturity of more than 5 years. Banking book Interest rate risks Currency risks Credit derivatives Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Residual maturity – up to 3 months 38,601 9,747 5,828 7,570 564 777 – more than 3 months – to 1 year 24,184 17,058 3,737 2,618 1,480 763 – more than 1 to 5 – years 64,437 63,165 6,619 6,560 10,308 11,122 – more than 5 years 70,194 67,771 2,837 2,639 12,063 5,298 Total banking book 197,416 157,741 19,021 19,387 24,415 17,960 Trading book Interest rate risks Currency risks Credit derivatives Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Residual maturity – up to 3 months 18 4 – – – – – more than 3 months – to 1 year 211 0 – – – – – more than 1 to 5 – years 27 11 – – – – – more than 5 years 120 70 – – – – Total trading book 376 85 – – – – Banking book and Interest rate risks Currency risks Credit derivatives trading book Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Total banking book and trading book 197,792 157,826 19,021 19,387 24,415 17,960 110 Financial Report 2012 Number of Employees The average number of female staff employed by NRW.BANK in 2012 was 695 (2011: 674), and the average number of male staff, including the Managing Board, employed over the year was 629 (2011: 636). At the end of the year, there were 1,198 (2011: 1,199) active employees and 60 (2011: 56) trainees/apprentices, which results in a total headcount of 1,258 (2011: 1,255). Remuneration The remuneration (including remuneration in kind) of Managing Board Chairman Dietmar P. Binkowska amounted to € 765,500.84 in the year 2012 (2011: € 964,919.25), while the remuneration of the other members of the Managing Board totalled € 1,546,122.08 (2011: € 2,064,309.94). Provisions for pensions in an amount of € 9,223 thousand (2011: € 8,128 thousand) have been established to cover the Bank’s obligations arising from Managing Board members’ contractual entitlements in respect of retirement benefits, invalidity benefits as well as death benefits to their surviving dependants. The total remuneration for former members of the Managing Board and their surviving dependants amounted to € 529 thousand (2011: € 518 thousand). Pension provisions for this group of persons totalled € 11,058 thousand (2011: € 11,012 thousand). The remuneration of the Supervisory Board totalled € 258 thousand (2011: € 304 thousand). The remuneration of the Advisory Board amounted to € 158 thousand (2011: € 181 thousand). Advances and Loans For members of the Supervisory Board of NRW.BANK loans totalling € 28 thousand (2011: € 44 thousand) exist whose interest rates range from 3.7% to 3.75%. Financial Report 2012  111 Notes Disclosure of Seats Held Pursuant Seats Held by Employees to Section 340a Para. 4 No. 1 HGB Gabriela Pantring Seats Held by Members of the Managing Board Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) (until December 24, 2012) Dietmar P. Binkowska Galeria Kaufhof GmbH Christiane Jansen InCity Immobilien AG Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) (since November 16, 2012) Ströer Out-of-Home Media AG (until January 6, 2013) Portigon AG (formerly WestLB AG) Dr. Peter Güllmann Fiege Logistik (Schweiz) AG Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Michael Stölting Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Erste Abwicklungsanstalt Itemised List of NRW.BANK’s Investments Pursuant to Section 285 No. 11 and 11a HGB Name and head offices of the company Direct (D)/ Capital Equity in € Net income/ As at Indirect (I) share % thousands loss for the year in € thousands 1 Equity investments in affiliated companies 1.1 Other companies Bremer Spielcasino GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen D/I 51,00% 2,722 –1,821 Dec. 31, 2010 Casino Duisburg GmbH & Co. KG, Duisburg I 100,00% 10,000 1,829 Dec. 31, 2011 Casino Erfurt GmbH & Co. KG, Erfurt I 100,00% 12 –42 Dec. 31, 2010 Deutsche Lotto Marketing GmbH, Münster I 100,00% 47 –9 Dec. 31, 2012 Life Science Inkubator Betriebs GmbH & Co. KG, Bonn I 95,00% 424 –19 Dec. 31, 2011 LSI Pre-Seed-Fonds GmbH, Bonn D 65,79% 7,116 –486 Dec. 31, 2011 Neue Deutsche Spielcasino GmbH & Co. KG, Berlin I 100,00% 1,769 –1,931 Dec. 31, 2010 Nordwestlotto in Nordrhein-Westfalen GmbH, Münster D 100,00% 156 0 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK.Kreativwirtschaftsfonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 32 3 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK.Kreativwirtschaftsfonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 3,261 –1,737 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK.Mittelstandsfonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 25 0 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK.Mittelstandsfonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 17,570 1,263 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 33 4 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 10,933 –1,415 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds Zwei GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 29 –1 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK.Spezialfonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 26 1 Dec. 31, 2011 112 Financial Report 2012 Name and head offices of the company Direct (D)/ Capital Equity in € Net income/ As at Indirect (I) share % thousands loss for the year in € thousands NRW.BANK.Spezialfonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 94 –6 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 24 4 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 22,686 –2,103 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds Zwei GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100,00% 6,458 –86 Dec. 31, 2011 Unterstützungseinrichtungs GmbH der Westdeutsche Lotterie GmbH & Co. OHG, Münster D/I 100,00% 26 0 Dec. 31, 2012 Westdeutsche Lotterie GmbH & Co. OHG, Münster D 100,00% 91,858 9,735 Dec. 31, 2011 Westdeutsche Lotto-Vertriebs GmbH, Münster I 100,00% 25 6 Dec. 31, 2011 Westdeutsche Spielbanken GmbH, Duisburg D 100,00% 26 0 Dec. 31, 2011 Westdeutsche Spielbanken GmbH & Co. KG, Duisburg D/I 100,00% 18,320 –3,469 Dec. 31, 2011 Westdeutsche Spielcasino Service GmbH, Duisburg D 100,00% 9,525 0 Dec. 31, 2010 Westdeutsche Spielcasino Verwaltungs GmbH, Duisburg I 100,00% 33 8 Dec. 31, 2010 WestEvent GmbH & Co. KG, Münster D/I 100,00% 3,927 359 Dec. 31, 2012 WestNet Lottoservice GmbH, Münster I 100,00% 256 133 Dec. 31, 2012 WestSpiel Entertainment GmbH, Duisburg I 100,00% 25 0 Dec. 31, 2011 2 Other equity investments 2.1 Financial institutions Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg, Potsdam D 50,00% 188,990 11,117 Dec. 31, 2011 Portigon AG, Düsseldorf D 30,51% 2,954,000 –48,000 Dec. 31, 2011 2.2 Other companies abbino GmbH, Dortmund I 35,15% –2,239 –444 Mar. 31, 2011 AplaGen GmbH, Baesweiler I 26,21% –3,141 –2,015 Dec. 31, 2008 BGB Ges. Bankenkonsortium ZENIT GmbH, Mülheim D 33,40% 2,286 417 Dec. 31, 2011 CellAct Pharma GmbH, Dortmund I 36,15% –631 –649 Dec. 31, 2011 CEVEC Pharmaceuticals GmbH, Köln I 25,59% 125 –3,026 Dec. 31, 2011 Cryotherapeutics GmbH, Potsdam I 21,28% –847 –673 Dec. 31, 2011 DIREVO Industrial Biotechnology GmbH, Köln I 22,79% 3,747 –2,950 Dec. 31, 2011 ELS Fonds GmbH & Co. KG, Recklinghausen I 32,30% 5,381 –308 Dec. 31, 2011 Epivios GmbH, Bonn I 24,60% Dec. 31, 2012 Gründerfonds Bielefeld-Ostwestfalen GmbH & Co. KG, Münster I 38,42% 1,358 –132 Dec. 31, 2011 Gründerfonds Münsterland GmbH & Co. KG, Münster I 37,81% 805 –192 Dec. 31, 2011 IMECH GmbH – Institut für Mechatronik – i. L., Moers D 25,00% 61 1 Jul. 31, 2000 Kapitalbeteiligungsgesellschaft für die mittelständische Wirtschaft in NRW mbH, Neuss D 49,63% 1,367 1 Dec. 31, 2011 Luxury Fashion Trade GmbH, Düsseldorf I 20,26% 9,304 –700 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.International GmbH, Düsseldorf D 33,33% 25 –1 Dec. 31, 2011 ODS Oddset Deutschland Sportwetten GmbH, München I 33,44% 78 –120 Dec. 31, 2011 Phenox GmbH, Bochum I 27,61% 3,851 –24 Dec. 31, 2011 Reformhaus Bacher GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf I 45,00% 1,505 3,589 Dec. 31, 2011 Rheinland Venture Capital GmbH & Co. KG, Köln I 39,92% 4,025 –132 Dec. 31, 2011 Schnöring GmbH, Schalksmühle I 39,00% 592 257 Dec. 31, 2011 Scienion AG, Dortmund I 23,50% –2,890 226 Dec. 31, 2011 Seed Capital Dortmund GmbH & Co. KG, Dortmund I 46,51% 4,274 –950 Dec. 31, 2011 Seed Fonds für die Region Aachen GmbH & Co. KG, Aachen I 46,95% 5,373 –412 Dec. 31, 2011 Seed Fonds II für die Region Aachen GmbH & Co. KG, Aachen I 46,14% Dec. 31, 2012 Sirius Seedfonds Düsseldorf GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf I 44,61% 7,054 –161 Dec. 31, 2011 WINDTEST Grevenbroich GmbH, Hamburg D 25,00% 140 314 Dec. 31, 2011 Xsite GmbH, Düsseldorf I 22,71% –336 –494 Dec. 31, 2011 NRW.BANK is a personally liable shareholder of Westdeutsche Lotterie GmbH & Co. OHG, Münster. Financial Report 2012  113 Notes Board of Guarantors/Supervisory Members Appointed by the Board of Guarantors Board/Managing Board Helmut Dockter Board of Guarantors State Secretary Ministry of Innovation, Science and Research Members Pursuant to Section 8 Para. 1 of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Letters a to c of the Statute Düsseldorf Harry K. Voigtsberger (until June 21, 2012) Dr. Günther Horzetzky Chairman State Secretary Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy, Ministry of Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry Building, Housing and Transport of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Thomas Kutschaty, MdL Garrelt Duin (since June 21, 2012) Minister of Justice Chairman (since August 3, 2012) of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Franz-Josef Lersch-Mense Cabinet Secretary and Michael Groschek (since June 21, 2012) Head of the Premier´s Department Deputy Chairman of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Minister for Building, Housing, Düsseldorf City Development and Transport of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Sylvia Löhrmann Düsseldorf Minister for School and Further Education of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans Düsseldorf Deputy Chairman Minister of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf 114 Financial Report 2012 Dr. Rüdiger Messal Supervisory Board State Secretary Ministry of Finance Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Letters a to c of the Statute Düsseldorf Harry K. Voigtsberger (until June 21, 2012) Udo Paschedag Chairman State Secretary Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy, Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, Building, Housing and Transport Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Garrelt Duin (since June 21, 2012) Dr. Wilhelm D. Schäffer Chairman (since August 3, 2012) State Secretary Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Michael Groschek (since June 21, 2012) Deputy Chairman Minister for Building, Housing, City Development and Transport of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans Deputy Chairman Minister of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Financial Report 2012  115 Notes Members Appointed by the Board of Guarantors Representatives of the Bank’s Staff Horst Becker, MdL Iris Aichinger (since July 1, 2012) Parliamentary State Secretary Staff representative Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, NRW.BANK Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Martin Bösenberg Staff representative Lutz Lienenkämper, MdL (since October 1, 2012) NRW.BANK Parliamentary Director Münster of the CDU Parliamentary Group North Rhine-Westphalia Hannelore Heger-Golletz (until June 30, 2012) Düsseldorf Staff representative NRW.BANK Johannes Remmel Münster Minister for Climate Protection, Environment, Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs Frank Lill of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Staff representative Düsseldorf NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Norbert Römer, MdL Chairman of the SPD Parliamentary Group Michael Tellmann State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Staff representative Düsseldorf NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Guntram Schneider, MdL (until July 19, 2012) Minister for Work, Social Integration and Welfare of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Svenja Schulze, MdL Minister for Innovation, Science and Research of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Christian Michael Weisbrich, MdL (until September 30, 2012) Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia (until March 14, 2012) Düsseldorf 116 Financial Report 2012 Permanent Representatives of the Members Pursuant Managing Board to Section 12 Para. 1 Letters a to c of the Statute Dietmar P. Binkowska (Chairman) Dieter Krell Klaus Neuhaus Assistant Secretary Michael Stölting Ministry of Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry Dietrich Suhlrie of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf/Münster, February 5, 2013 Annett Fischer (since November 12, 2012) Senior Principal NRW.BANK Ministry for Building, Housing, City Development and Transport The Managing Board of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Binkowska, Neuhaus, Stölting, Suhlrie Düsseldorf Gerhard Heilgenberg Assistant Secretary Ministry of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Financial Report 2012  117 Cash Flow Statement Cash Flow Statement of NRW.BANK as of December 31, 2012 The cash flow statement shows the changes in cash and cash equivalents and the cash flows of NRW.BANK, divided into operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. The cash and cash equivalents shown include the balance sheet items “cash” and “debt instruments issued by public institutions and bills of exchange eligible for refinancing with central banks.” Cash flows are allocated to operating activities as operating income accrues. The cash flow from investing activities results primarily from cash received and cash used in connection with selling or acquiring financial and tangible assets. The change in cash from financing activities captures the relationships to equity capital providers. The statement was prepared in accordance with German Accounting Standard No. 2 (DRS 2), as supplemented by the bank-specific German Accounting Standard No. 2–10 (DRS 2–10). 2012 € millions 1. Net income Reconciliation 18.6 2. Depreciation, write-downs and write-ups of claims, tangible and financial assets –2.1 3. Changes in provisions 234.1 4. Changes in other non-cash items 182.5 5. Gain/loss on the sale of financial and tangible assets Losses 132.9 Gains –279.7 6. Other adjustments –538.2 7. Subtotal –251.9 8. Changes in receivables a) from banks –420.6 b) from customers 601.4 9. Changes in securities (with the exception of financial assets) –44.9 10. Changes in other assets from operating activities 5.2 11. Changes in liabilities a) to banks 1,150.0 b) to customers –1,688.3 12. Changes in certificated liablities –3,056.4 13. Changes in other liabilities from operating activities 608.1 14. Interest and dividends received 4,972.7 15. Interest paid –4,251.3 16. Extraordinary cash received 0.0 17. Extraordinary cash disbursed 0.0 18. Income tax payments –6.2 19. Cash flow from operating activities –2,382.2 118 Financial Report 2012 2012 € millions 20. Cash from the disposal of a) financial assets 2,441.2 b) tangible assets 0.1 21. Disbursements for investments in a) financial assets –42.2 b) tangible assets –0.9 22. Changes in cash from other investing activities –1.9 23. Cash flow from investing activities 2,396.3 24. Cash from allocations to equity capital 91.8 25. Distributions on equity a) dividend payments –20.2 b) other disbursements 0.0 26. Cash changes from other capital –103.9 27. Cash flow from financing activities –32.3 28. Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 448.9 29. Cash flow from operating activities –2,382.2 30. Cash flow from investing activities 2,396.3 31. Cash flow from financing activities –32.3 32. Other changes in cash and cash equivalents 0.0 33. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 430.7 Financial Report 2012  119 Equity Capital Equity Capital Subscribed Capital Reserves from Profit for Capital Reserves Retained Earnings the Year Total Reserves Other Required Reserves by from NRW.BANK’s Retained Statutes Earnings € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions As of Dec. 31, 2010 17,215.0 351.7 29.8 24.4 67.2 17,688,1 Allocation of profit for the year to other reserves from retained earnings for the purpose of housing promotion “benchmark procedure“ 67.2 –67.2 0.0 Compensation payments of the federal government for new promotion measures 93.9 93.9 Disposal of capital share of LVR –119.0 –119.0 Disposal of capital share of LWL –119.0 –119.0 Proceeds from exchange 151.1 151.1 Capital increase 23.0 –23.0 0.0 Net profit 62.1 62.1 Designated payout due to legal requirements –20.2 –20.2 Allocation to reserves required by NRW.BANK’s statutes in statement of income 6.3 –6.3 0.0 As of Dec. 31, 2011 17.000.0 445.6 36.1 219.7 35.6 17,737.0 Distribution to the state of NRW –35.6 –35.6 Compensation payments of the federal government for new promotion measures 91.7 91.7 Net profit 18.6 18.6 Designated payout due to legal requirements –18.6 –18.6 As of Dec. 31, 2012 17,000.0 537.3 36.1 219.7 0.0 17,793.1 120 Financial Report 2012 Reproduction of the Auditor’s Report Reproduction of the Auditor’s Report We have issued the following unqualified Auditor‘s Our audit has not led to any reservations. Report: In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the “Auditor’s Report annual financial statements comply with the legal requirements (and supplementary provisions of the We have audited the annual financial statements, com­ articles of incorporation and give a true and fair view prising the balance sheet, the income statement, the of the net assets, financial position and results of notes to the financial statements, the cash flow state­ operations of the NRW.BANK in accordance with ment and the statement of changes in equity, together German principles of proper accounting. The man­age­ with the bookkeeping system, and the man­age­ment ment report is consistent with the annual financial report of the NRW.BANK, Duesseldorf and Muenster, statements and as a whole provides a suitable view for the business year from 1 January to 31 December of the NRW.BANK‘s position and suitably presents the 2012. The maintenance of the books and records and opportunities and risks of future development.” the preparation of the annual financial statements and management report in accordance with German commercial law and supplementary provisions of the Düsseldorf, February 18, 2013 articles of incorporation are the responsibility of the Company‘s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the annual financial statements, KPMG AG together with the bookkeeping system, and the man­ Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft agement report based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the annual financial state­ Pukropski Bormann ments in accordance with § 317 HGB [“Handels­ Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer gesetzbuch“: “German Commercial Code“] and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirt­ schaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the annual financial statements in accordance with German principles of proper accounting and in the management report are de­tected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environ­ ment of the NRW.BANK and expectations as to possible mis­s tatements are taken into account in the deter­ mination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the books and records, the annual financial statements and the man­ agement report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the accounting principles used and signi­ ficant estimates made by management, as well as evalu­ ating the overall presentation of the annual financial statements and management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Financial Report 2012  121 Responsibility Statement Responsibility Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of NRW.BANK, and the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of NRW.BANK, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of NRW.BANK. Düsseldorf/Münster, February 5, 2013 NRW.BANK The Managing Board Dietmar P. Binkowska Klaus Neuhaus Chairman of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board Michael Stölting Dietrich Suhlrie Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board 122 Financial Report 2012 Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Letter a of the Statute Letter c of the Statute Harry K. Voigtsberger (until June 21, 2012) Ali Atalan, MdL (until March 14, 2012) Chairman Member of the DIE LINKE Parliamentary Group Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy, State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Building, Housing and Transport Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Martin Börschel, MdL (until March 14, 2012)/(since July 5, 2012) Michael Groschek (since June 21, 2012) Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Chairman State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Minister for Building, Housing, Düsseldorf City Development and Transport of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Holger Ellerbrock, MdL (since July 5, 2012) Düsseldorf Member of the FDP Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Düsseldorf Letter b of the Statute Dieter Hilser, MdL Günther Bongartz (since March 25, 2012) (until March 14, 2012)/(since July 5, 2012) Senior Principal Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Ministry of Finance State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Gerda Kieninger, MdL (since July 5, 2012) Dr. Michael Henze Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Assistant Secretary State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Ministry for Economic Affairs, Düsseldorf Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Olaf Lehne, MdL (until March 14, 2012) Düsseldorf Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Hans Lauf Düsseldorf Assistant Secretary Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare Jochen Ott, MdL (until March 14, 2012) of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Düsseldorf State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Dr. Gert Leis (until January 21, 2012) Assistant Secretary Christof Rasche, MdL (until March 14, 2012) Ministry of Finance Deputy Chairman of the FDP Parliamentary Group of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Bernhard Schemmer, MdL (until March 14, 2012)/(since July 5, 2012) Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Financial Report 2012  123 Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion Daniela Schneckenburger, MdL Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 (until March 14, 2012)/(since July 5, 2012) Letter e of the Statute Deputy Chairwoman of the Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group Rudolf Graaff (until March 14, 2012)/ State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia (since September 12, 2012) Düsseldorf Deputy Mayor Städteund Gemeindebund Nordrhein-Westfalen Eva-Maria Voigt-Küppers, MdL (since July 5, 2012) Düsseldorf Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Thomas Hendele (until March 14, 2012)/ Düsseldorf (since September 12, 2012) District Administrator Klaus Voussem, MdL (since July 5, 2012) Kreis Mettmann Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group Mettmann State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Folkert Kiepe (until March 14, 2012) Deputy Mayor Olaf Wegner, MdL (since July 5, 2012) for Urban Development, Construction, Member of the PIRATEN Parliamentary Group Housing and Transport State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Düsseldorf Cologne Christian Michael Weisbrich, MdL Stefan Raetz (until March 14, 2012)/ (until March 14, 2012) (since September 12, 2012) Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group Mayor State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia City of Rheinbach Düsseldorf Rheinbach Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Hilmar von Lojewski (since September 12, 2012) Letter d of the Statute Deputy Mayor for Urban Development, Construction, Ingo Apel (until March 14, 2012)/ Housing and Transport (since September 12, 2012) Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Vice President Cologne Haus & Grund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Düsseldorf Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Letter f of the Statute Dr. Werner Küpper (until March 14, 2012)/ (since September 12,2012) Jürgen Becher (until March 14, 2012) BFW Landesverband Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Deputy Chairman Bonn Deutscher Mieterbund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Düsseldorf Alexander Rychter (until March 14, 2012)/ (since September 12, 2012) Hans-Jochem Witzke (since September 12, 2012) Association Director 1st Chairman Mieterverein Düsseldorf e. V. and Verband der Wohnungswirtschaft Member of the Board of Deutscher Mieterbund Rheinland Westfalen e. V. Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Düsseldorf Düsseldorf 124 Financial Report 2012 Permanent Representatives of the Chairing Member Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 2 of the Statute Dr. Uwe Günther (until May 31, 2012) Department Head Ministry of Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Sigrid Koeppinghoff (since January 15, 2013) Department Head Ministry for Building, Housing, City Development and Transport of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Financial Report 2012  125 Members of the Advisory Board Members of the Advisory Board Members Pursuant to Section 23 of the Statute Prof. Dr. Gerd Bollermann District President Harry K. Voigtsberger (until June 21, 2012) of the Arnsberg Regional Government Chairman Arnsberg Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy, Building, Housing and Transport Manfred Breuer (until March 31, 2012) of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Deputy Chairman of the Managing Board Düsseldorf of Bankenvereinigung Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Düsseldorf Garrelt Duin (since June 21, 2012) Chairman Michael Breuer Minister for Economic Affairs, President of the Savings Banks and Giro Association Energy and Industry of the Rhineland of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Norbert Bude (since October 1, 2012) Michael Ackermann (since October 1, 2012) Lord Mayor and Chairman of Managing Director of Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Klinikum Bielefeld gem. GmbH Düsseldorf Bielefeld Heinrich Otto Deichmann Prof. Dr. Achim Bachem Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Chairman of the Managing Board of Deichmann SE Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH Essen Jülich Dr. Reinhold Festge Frank Baranowski Managing Partner of Lord Mayor HAVER & BOECKER OHG City of Gelsenkirchen Drahtweberei und Maschinenfabrik Gelsenkirchen Oelde Paul Bauwens-Adenauer Heinz Fiege President of the Chamber FIEGE Logistik Holding Stiftung & Co. KG of Industry and Commerce Greven in North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Otto Rudolf Fuchs Shareholder of Werner Böhnke Otto Fuchs KG Chairman of the Managing Board Meinerzhagen of WGZ BANK AG Westdeutsche Genossenschafts-Zentralbank Düsseldorf 126 Financial Report 2012 Prof. Dr. Ursula Gather Peter Jung (until August 20, 2012) Chairwoman of the Directors Conference Lord Mayor and Deputy Chairman of of the Universities in North Rhine-Westphalia Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Dortmund Cologne Dieter Gebhard Arndt G. Kirchhoff Chairman Managing Partner of the of the Regional Assembly KIRCHHOFF Group of Westphalia-Lippe Iserlohn Münster Dr. Wolfgang Kirsch Dr. Rolf Gerlach Director of LWL President of the Savings Banks and Giro Association Regional Association of Westphalia-Lippe of Westphalia-Lippe Münster Münster Günter Gressler Dipl.-Ing. Hanspeter Klein Director General of Chairman of the Managing Board of Verband 3M Deutschland GmbH Freier Berufe im Lande Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Neuss Düsseldorf Dr. Jürgen Großmann (until June 29, 2012) Prof. Dr. Reinhard Klenke (since March 1, 2012) former Chairman of the Managing Board of District President RWE AG of the Münster Regional Government Essen Münster Dr. Axel Claus Heitmann (since March 1, 2012) Norbert Kleyboldt Chairman of the Managing Board of Permanent Delegate of the Apostolic LANXESS AG Administrator of Bischöfliches Generalvikariat Leverkusen Münster Thomas Hunsteger-Petermann Dr. Johannes Kramer (until September 7, 2012) Lord Mayor former Managing Director of City of Hamm Städtische Kliniken Bielefeld gem. GmbH Hamm Bielefeld Dr. Hermann Janning (until November 12, 2012) Thomas Kubendorff former Chairman of District Administrator and Vice President of Verband kommunaler Unternehmen e. V. Landkreistag Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. – Landesgruppe Nordrhein-Westfalen Düsseldorf Köln Financial Report 2012  127 Members of the Advisory Board Dr. Thomas Lange (since April 1, 2012) Dr. Eckhard Ruthemeyer (until December 31, 2012) Chairman of the Managing Board of Mayor and Vice President of Bankenvereinigung Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Städteund Gemeindebund Nordrhein-Westfalen Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Markus Lewe Roland Schäfer (since January 1, 2013) Lord Mayor Mayor and President of City of Münster Städteund Gemeindebund Nordrhein-Westfalen Münster Düsseldorf Ulrike Lubek Prof. Dr. Uwe Schneidewind Director of LVR President and Academic Managing Director of Regional Association Wuppertaler Institut für Klima, Umwelt, of the Rhineland Energie GmbH Köln Wuppertal Wolfgang Lubert Dr. Ottilie Scholz Managing Director of Lord Mayor EnjoyVenture Management GmbH City of Bochum Düsseldorf Bochum Anne Lütkes Dr. Joachim Schorr (until May 31, 2012) District President former Managing Director of of the Düsseldorf Regional Government QIAGEN GmbH Düsseldorf Hilden Andreas Meyer-Lauber Prof. Wolfgang Schulhoff District Chairman of President of the Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund NRW Düsseldorf Chamber of Handicrafts Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Dr. Paul-Josef Patt Dr. Jochen Stemplewski Member of the Managing Board of Chairman of the Managing Board of eCAPITAL entrepreneurial Partners AG Wasserwirtschaftsverbände Münster EMSCHERGENOSSENSCHAFT und LIPPEVERBAND Jürgen Roters Essen/Dortmund Lord Mayor City of Cologne Cologne 128 Financial Report 2012 Dr. jur. Frank Stieler (March 1, 2012 to November 28, 2012) former Chairman of the Managing Board of HOCHTIEF AG Essen Peter Terium (since October 1, 2012) Chairman of the Managing Board of RWE AG Essen Marianne Thomann-Stahl District President of the Detmold Regional Government Detmold Hans-Josef Vogel Mayor City of Arnsberg Arnsberg Gisela Walsken District President of the Cologne Regional Government Cologne Prof. Dr. Jürgen Wilhelm Chairman of the Regional Assembly of the Rhineland Cologne Klaus Winterhoff Legal Vice President of the Evangelical Church of Westphalia Bielefeld Financial Report 2012  129 Organisation Chart Organisation Chart Chairman of the Press and Member of the Managing Board Communications Managing Board Dietmar P. Binkowska Dr. Klaus Bielstein Klaus Neuhaus Corporate Strategy/ Central Product Internal Audit Risk Management Legal Finance Human Resources Public Infrastructure Management Finance Christiane Jansen Andreas Kötter Birgit Rosczyk Florian Merkel Oliver Blaß Wolfgang Beimel Achim Meierkamp Board Office Programme Owner General Audit Credit Risk Corporate Legal Accounting Personnel Support and Project Development/ Management Management Training Dr. Michael Hans-Albert Christian Müller Werner Kindsmüller Helmut Röhle Kuhlbrodt Böckenförde Joachim Kiesau Ralf Groß-Heitfeld Marketing/Research Product Credit Audit Municipal and SME Legal Capital Financial Personnel Development Financing Markets Accounting Development/ Basic Issues1 Kirsten Nagel Dr. Michael Knappe Alph Kühnapfel Hubert Venneker Reinhard Buch Ute Kuschel Petra Kalthoff Parliamentary and Product Portfolio IT Audit Bank-Wide Risk & Property Law Banking Human Resources European Affairs/ Management and Credit Portfolio Supervision Administration and Business Development Banks Management Controlling Management Dr. Rüdiger Henning Treder Eric Regnery Georg Kremer Claudia Bauer Wulf Ebsen Krautheuser Peter Schröder EU Funding, Objective 2 Quality Market Risk & Tax Foreign Trade Management Liquidity Risk and Investment Promotion Joachim Sybille Ingrid Hentzschel Michelmann Thomas Hornung Heberer-Wilhelm Public-sector Restructuring Controlling Clients Dr. Jörg Hopfe Dr. Jamal Daoudi Walter Wohlhage Infrastructure Compliance/ Finance Money Laundering Prevention1 Anja Langa Jörg Weskamp Basic Issues & Controlling Sabine Lamers Department Unit Team with direct reporting line to the Department Head 1 Compliance/MLP as well as Occupational Safety Officer, Equal Opportunities Officer and Data Protection Officer report directly to the Managing Board. 130 Financial Report 2012 Member of the Member of the Managing Board Managing Board Michael Stölting Dietrich Suhlrie Corporate Finance Capital Markets Housing Promotion Promotion Business Support IT/ Programmes Organisation/ Internal Services Margret Dr. Ortwin Dr. Peter Güllmann Klaus Rupprath Hirthammer Schumacher Thomas Bracht Tobias Schmitt Venture Capital/ Business Owner-Occupied Commercial Back Office IT Accounting Early Stage Management Housing and Educational Capital Markets Loan Processing Promotion Rhineland Dr. Claas Heise Marco Adler Gerd-Peter Wolf Dr. Gerhard Weyers Frank Camp Matthias Lersch Equity Investments Treasury Rental Housing Structural Central Services IT Business Midcap Loan Processing Promotion Promotion Business Promotion Rhineland Programmes Düsseldorf Christoph Büth Andreas Berning Dietmar Struttmann Anton Render Astrid Demme Peter Bimczok Strategic Equity Portfolio Owner-Occupied Structural Back Office IT Capital Markets Investments Management Housing Promotion Promotion Business & Corporate Loan Processing Programmes Investments Westphalia Münster Matthias Felix Könsgen Andreas Rothermel Klaus Ahlers Marc Madlindl Voß-Geßmann Dr. Jens Heinrich Funds and Business Rental Housing Housing and Organisation and Management Loan Processing Agricultural IT Services1 Westphalia Promotion Stefan Büchter Bärbel Bontrup Uwe Beckmann Dr. Jürgen Schulte Syndicated Loans Problem Loan Advisory Services Internal Services Midcap Processing Georg Arnold Markus Heising Robert Bruning Ralf Welter Financing Advisory Advisory/ Credit Check Monika Voß Thomas Stausberg Departmental Management Regine BukowskiKnuppertz valid from January 1, 2013 Financial Report 2012  131 NRW.BANK at a Glance NRW.BANK at a Glance NRW.BANK Facts NRW.BANK Competition-neutral development bank of North Rhine-Westphalia operating according to the house bank principle; holds a full bank licence Guarantors State of North Rhine-Westphalia (100%) Liabilities/Guarantees Institutional liability Guarantor liability Explicit funding guarantee granted by the guarantors Legal Status Public law bank Head Offices Düsseldorf and Münster Information Services of NRW.BANK Initial advice and information on the promotion programmes: NRW.BANK.Infoline Phone +49 211 91741-4800 Fax +49 211 91741-7832 info@nrwbank.de If you have more detailed questions about promotion and financing projects, the Service Centre will be pleased to put you in touch with the regionally responsible, specialist promotion advisor or other specialist partners. For further advice, you may also contact: EU and Foreign Trade & Investment Promotion Accounting Management – Public Sector Clients Phone +49 211 91741-4000 Phone +49 211 91741-4600 Fax +49 211 91742-6218 Fax +49 211 91741-2666 europa@nrwbank.de oeffentliche-kunden@nrwbank.de Corporate Responsibility nachhaltigkeit@nrwbank.de NRW.BANK Münster Concept and design, Friedrichstraße 1 production and typesetting Düsseldorf 48145 Münster vE&K Werbeagentur GmbH & Co. KG, Kavalleriestraße 22 Phone +49 251 91741-0 Essen 40213 Düsseldorf Fax +49 251 91741-2921 Phone +49 211 91741-0 Druck Fax +49 211 91741-1800 www.nrwbank.de Woeste Druck + Verlag info@nrwbank.de GmbH & Co. KG, Essen-Kettwig 132 Financial Report 2012 Financial Calendar 2013 March 19, 2013 Annual accounts press conference September 19, 2013 Publication of the promotion result for the second quarter November 15, 2013 Publication of the promotion result for the third quarter Promotion Volumes 2012 2011 € millions € millions Housing & Living 5,297 4,873 Seed & Growth 2,845 2,382 Development & Protection 1,362 858 Total 9,504 8,113 Key Figures 2012 2011 € millions € millions Total assets 149,086 152,546 Equity capital pursuant to the German Commercial Code (HGB) 17,793 17,737 Equity capital as defined in the German Banking Act (KWG) 18,489 5,629 Net interest and net commission income 618 544 Administrative expenses 201 205 Operating income 445 370 Core capital ratio 39.93% 12.51% Staff 1,258 1,255 Ratings Fitch Ratings Moody’s Standard & Poor’s Long-term rating AAA Aa1 AA– Short-term rating F1+ P-1 A–1+ Outlook stable negative stable Sustainability Ratings imug oekom research Sustainalytics Rating positive Prime No. 17 of 62* * Above the peer group average Print kompensiert www.bvdm-online.de
