COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011/2012 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT DEAN’S BEANS: Where Social Activism, Ecological Responsibility and Great Coffee Meet Dean’s Beans is a 100% Fair the ten principles. Our Trade, 100% Organic Coffee company is known for our company dedicated to creative approach to Peoplepeaceful social change and Centered Development, environmental stewardship. designing and funding The company is designed as direct, grassroots a vehicle for implementing development projects in the social justice in the coffee villages where we buy coffeelands, working directly our beans, in partnership with coffee communities to with the farmers who know design and implement better than anybody else People-Centered how to help themselves. We Table of Contents: Development projects. The see this as a way to bridge company was founded 20 the North-South divide and years ago, and is regularly bring equality to the system The Ten Principles 2 recognized (SCAA, UN) as a of global trade. We support business leader in numerous community Statement of Purpose 3 sustainable development. programs, including microPrinciples 1 & 2 5 credit schemes, women’s Principles 3, 4, 5, & 6 8 Dean’s Beans joined the empowerment projects, Global Compact in January, educational initiatives, Principles 7, 8, & 9 9 2007. This is our forth health-care clinics, Principle 10 12 Communication in Progress. environmental protection In this report, we discuss our projects, and technical initiatives as they apply to capacity-building projects. 100% Fair Trade Dean’s Beans 50 R.W. Moore Ave. 100% Organic Orange, MA 01364 1800-325-3008 1(978)544-2002 1(978)544-7934 (fax) www.deansbeans.com Page 2 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact At Dean’s Beans, the Global Compact represents the opportunity for widespread, THE 10 PRINCIPLES meaningful action by companies across the world on matters that we all care deeply 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed about, from environmental sustainability, to human rights. the protection of human rights. The GC is an opportunity to share our best practices 2. Business should ensure that they are not and progress. Adherence to the Compact complicit in human rights abuses. has allowed us to make a fresh assessment of our social and environmental impacts, 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of both positive and negative, and has offered the right to collective bargaining. us a structure through which to release information regarding our progress. Our 4. Business should support the elimination of hope is that the work we do in the Orange, all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Massachusetts Beanery, as well as abroad in 14 different coffee-growing communities, 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. will inspire others to participate more actively and responsibly with actors in their 6. Business should support the elimination of supply-chains. In turn, we look to the GC discrimination in respect of employment community to further enrich our social and and occupation. environmental orientation. 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. As a small, family owned business we do not face the same breadth of issues as large 8. Business should undertake initiatives to multi-national corporations. For this promote greater environmental reason, we address some of the principles responsibility. with more detail than others, as they are more applicable to our business practices. 9. Business should encourage the We hope that the following pages development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. demonstrate the importance of our PeopleCentered Development work, and conveys 10. Business should work against corruption in the magic of our company’s culture. all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 3 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact Michael meets with farmers in Chiapas, Mexico STATEMENT OF SUPPORT: For years, Dean’s Beans has been a social justice advocate outfitted in business clothing. We tend to our bottom line primarily as a means to build our social and environmental programs. Many consider this a bold, innovative model, and while it very well may be, we cannot imagine doing business any differently. We demonstrate that a successful company can be synonymous with accountable, transparent and ethical business operations. Our company is mission-driven: our values inform our practices, and in turn our practices reflect our values. Our raison d’etre is threefold. We seek to empower small, indigenous agricultural communities across the globe. We promote the care for and respect of our planet. Finally, we offer customers products of superior quality that also have social and environmental value. We believe that the UN Global Compact complements, and adds richness to our mission. In January of 2007, Dean’s Beans became a proud signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. The company recognizes the value, and the critical need, for this important UN initiative that promotes the adoption of ten universal principles by businesses, governments, non-profits and labor organizations. Our company has been a long-time advocate for social and environmental justice and the respect of human rights. Our commitment to the UN Global Compact further aligns us with these values today and as we move into the future; the principles will serve as a guide for our future business decisions. Moreover, they reflect our own standards for sustainable development best practices. We look forward to many years of participation in the Global Compact, and to rich discussion with its growing community. Dean Cycon, CEO Page 4 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact WHAT DRIVES US Dean’s Beans was born out of Dean’s decade of work as an indigenous rights lawyer and development worker. During that time, Dean formed the belief that until business changed its fundamental operating principles, all social change work would be putting out brush fires instead of getting to the heart of the problems caused by unfair and environmentally negative business practices. While the term sustainable development was gaining traction among corporate actors in the 90’s and into the new millennium, we were already tirelessly merging the concepts of Trade Justice with environmental best practices, at home and abroad in the coffeelands. Whenever possible, we helped coffee cooperatives design and implement community action and development programs that created both environmental and social benefits. We quietly celebrated the growing awareness of sustainable development, but never swayed from our own firm commitment to doing business in a way that treasures and respects the world and her people. Read on to learn more about these initiatives, and their reflection of the Global Compact Principles. Dean visiting participants in the CHICA! Program in Guatemala Page 5 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact PRINCIPLES 1 & 2: Business should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights; Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Dean’s Beans has a deep committed to human rights, especially the rights of women and indigenous peoples. We have a 100% commitment to sourcing Fair Trade coffee, cocoa, sugar, and clothing products. The Fair Trade system promotes human rights through fair labor practices, women’s empowerment, democratic process and transparent trade relations. Fair Trade, an internationally recognized trading scheme, is regulated by the Fair Trade Labeling Organizations International (FLO). Fair Trade brings direct, respectful, mutually beneficial relationships back into the international trade equation. Small farmers, no longer subject to the erratic fluctuations of commodity markets, are able to concentrate on growing their crops and building strong, healthy communities. Dean’s Beans supports the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and applies the declaration to its business operations. The company meticulously selects the actors in its coffee, sugar and cocoa supply-chains, working with democratically organized, transparent and FLO registered cooperatives (or those actively seeking registration). In addition, we have a strong commitment to educating the public about fair trade, believing that public awareness is a key component to fostering social and economic justice. PROCESSES/SYSTEMS: Fair Trade commitments, Social-Equity Premiums, People-Centered Development, third-party verification Dean’s Beans was founded on a deep commitment to social, economic and environmental justice. We are a member of the Fair Trade Federation. Our Fair Trade, sustainability practices are verified by Quality Assurance International. A copy of our verification in available on our website: www.deansbeans.com. As part of our commitment to Fair Trade, we have developed the Social-Equity Premium Program (SEP). This program returns to coops six cents for every pound of their coffee roasted in a given yearabove and beyond the fair trade prices paid. This gives Dean’s Beans the distinction of paying farmers more per pound of coffee than any other coffee company in the United States. Delivered on an annual basis, the SEPs provide the necessary seed money to establish effective programs tailored to the needs of specific communities. We provide additional funding above and beyond the SEPs when necessary for people-centered development projects. Finally, Dean’s Beans works closely with cooperatives in the actual project design and implementation, providing crucial technical and logistical support and expertise to make these development projects a success. ACTIONS: Development work abroad, distribution of SEPs, travel to the coffeelands. 100% sourcing of fair trade products, our people-centered development work, and our SEP program are ongoing actions that support human rights. See County Reports to learn how our 2011-2012 development work has supported human rights this year. Page 6 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact 2011-2012 Country Reports In the Coffeelands: Mexico: We have begun to deepen our relationship with Proisch, a young coop in Chiapas. While the coffee is already certified organic, the farmers have requested help in gaining knowledge of the newest techniques in organic crop production, which include soil and water conservation, plant spacing and more. This project will give us an opportunity to share what we have learned from other coops and will also include farmer exchanges from older coops that have had longer experience in this area. Guatemala: CHICA Brings Girl’s Health to the Villages. Last year we took our groundbreaking teenaged indigenous girls’ self-esteem circles to a higher level. At the request of the girls themselves, we created and implemented a girl’s reproductive health training and education program. Using local indigenous health promoters, we devised an appropriate curriculum and trained women and older girls in each of the four villages of the CHICA project in understanding the reproductive cycle and taking care of your body. In a very culturally sensitive and appropriate manner the trainee girls went back to their village circles and shared the information with the other girls. This is a very powerful project that will have major impact on the girl’s physical well-being, their opportunities for the future as well as their self-esteem. Go CHICA! Peru: Launching the Javatrekker Corps! Our new program to connect our customers to the coops through direct service. We are starting with Pangoa, our long time partner in Peru. Pangoa said they wanted English lessons for their staff and for children of the farmers. Our first Javatrekker, Elish, a teacher from New Jersey, went down and did a needs assessment and devised a curriculum for the program. Now we are sending Javatrekkers for various length stays to continue the program. Nicaragua: In every coffee processing plant, whether fair trade or foul, rows of women provide the last step in quality control, picking out defective beans for hours at a time. These women are generally not coop members. They are hourly workers who don’t get to speak to the visitors and don’t receive any great benefits from fair trade (and even less from “direct” or conventional coffee relationships). Our project, “The Unseen Women of Coffee”, seeks to help these women organize, create workshops for self-esteem building (like we have done so successfully in Guatemala), provide matching funds for savings and help them create alternative income opportunities for themselves. A lot of the ground work has been done through their excellent coop, SOPPEXCA, but we are taking it up several notches given our experience elsewhere. We are looking to expand this project to every coop we work with around the world, modeling fair treatment and opportunity for all folks in the coffee chain. Page 7 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact Rwanda: Our Rwandan coffee supports our Men Overcoming Gender Violence Program. Last year we were able to finalize a related program to assist COOPAC members who are widows of the genocide. We created Peace Baskets with Dean’s Beans woven into them. This is an experiment. We are returning 100% of the proceeds to the widows who made the baskets. If the custom baskets prove popular the women will offer them to each company that buys coffee from the coop. This is the first economic development program in coffee targeted to assist these women. World Wide: Helping Create the Small Producer Symbol. Many small farmer coops are tired of big, well funded organizations from the North creating all of these logos and programs, some of which pay the big salaries but don’t deliver much to the farmers. So the young international coffee farmers association, CLAC, decided to make their own seal based on their own vision, needs and capabilities. We have worked very closely with them to create the Small Producer Symbol, which will be launched in 2013. Helping farmers help themselves! And here at home: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Our fundraising program continues to thrive. We partner with local schools, NGO’s and others in a fundraising effort that brings much needed cash to positive work in our community. Many of these organizations are facing reduced funding from traditional sources, and our program offers a chance for them to take charge of their own economic sustainability. This year, we have partnered with over 100 organizations. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Our comprehensive environmental management system includes energy conservation, the use of renewable energy, solar panels, environmentally sound waste management, recycling and composting, and the installation of a new exhaust cleaning system that has decreased our use of natural gas, and has decreased our particulate emissions. PUBLIC EDUCATION We have been incredibly busy spreading the word about organics, fair trade, social justice and more by talking at universities, colleges, high schools and faith communities around the country. Dean was recognized at the Fetzer Institue’s Global Gathering in Assisi, Italy as an Exemplar of manifesting compassion through our business, and we continue to actively participate in the UNWomen working group on Women’s Empowerment. We have also been very active at the state level advocating for paid sick leave, including testifying before state committees. Dean also gave a powerful TEDx talk! Our crankin’ internship program has offered lots of college and high school students directed learning about social justice through projects at home and in the coffee villages. We are sponsoring the Songs for Social Change Program at Berklee College of Music and sponsoring a series of hard-hitting documentaries on Link TV. Dean’s award-winning book, Javatrekker: Dispatches from the World of Fair Trade Coffee, was the first fair trade/social justice book to be published in Chinese and has been very popular in that market. Page 8 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact PRINCIPLES 3, 4, 5, and 6: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; business should support the effective abolition of child labour; business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We are committed to all Global Compact principles related to labor conditions and workers’ rights. At the Beanery, we foster a work environment of mutual respect and learning. Each full-time employee (95% of our workforce) receives above the Massachusetts state minimum wage, full health-care coverage (employer pays 100% of the health care premium and employees are reimbursed for co-pays), quarterly profit-sharing, a 401K plan as well as life insurance. While we are committed to upholding the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, this issue has never been raised by our employees. We imagine that as we grow over time, employees may voice their desire to unionize, which we would enthusiastically support. In adherence to its Fair Trade model which promotes employees’ right to association., Dean’s Beans is committed to working with democratically run and represented organizations; Dean’s Beans practices Fair Trade specifically because this international system ensures that human labor practices, including gender equality, are respected and abided by. We are also assured that our primary productscoffee, sugar and cocoaare not harvested under harsh and disempowering conditions that promote human rights abuses. FLO standards adhere to ILO Convention 111, which does not allow discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. In addition, our company adheres to US state and federal employment laws, and does not discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation and other protected classes. In addition, FLO standards support Conventions 87 and 88, promoting the right to organize, to self-governance and the protection from anti-union discrimination. Finally, the Fair Trade model restricts the practice of child labor. Indeed, with the extra money earned from Fair Trade premiums, coops often invest in education for their children. This defies the norm in the conventional coffee trade, where young people are often found working side by side with their parents, especially during the harvest season when extra labor is actively sought out on large plantations. . PROCESSES/SYSTEMS: 100% commitment to Fair Trade, external audit Dean’s Beans maintains its 100% commitment to Fair Trade products which adhere to strict humanitarian standards as laid out by the fair Trade Labeling Organizations International. To ensure transparency and accountability, we have been granted member-status in the Fair Trade Federation, an organization of 100% fully committed fair trade companies. We are also registered by the Small Producer Symbol, a certification scheme created and operated by farmer organizations. ACTIONS: Spreading the word about Fair Trade, restructuring of our own HR department Part of our commitment to the Fair Trade movement involves engaging directly with the public about the social benefits of Fair Trade products and how Fair Trade working conditions are guaranteed to respect the principles of the ILO Conventions. We consider awareness building to be a key component to our business model (see Country Reports for more information on our efforts to raise public awareness). Dean’s Beans has long believed that we must work hand in hand with our own employees, and with coffee cooperatives to render our labor and trade relationships as equitable as possible, empowering farmers, supporting healthy working conditions and raising the bar on Fair Trade. Page 9 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact In-House Update: Im proving our HR Departm ent Dean’s Beans is located in the rural hill towns of Western Massachusetts. Our workforce resembles the area’s racial and ethnic demographics. Orange, Massachusetts, where our only facility resides, is over 96% Caucasian. While we do not discriminate in our hiring or employment practices, we find it difficult to attract local people of color for employment. That said, we have strong representation of women in management and beanery floor positions. A company-wide code of ethics, as well as a comprehensive employee manual has been developed, which includes policies and procedures that reflect our company-wide commitment to human rights, fair labor practices, equal opportunity employment, excellent benefits, and family-friendly policies. As well, we are developing an internal grievance procedure to resolve potential instances of discrimination. PRINCIPLES 7, 8, and 9: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Dean’s Beans is a long-time advocate of environmental sustainability, and enthusiastically supports Principles 7, 8, and 9 of the Global Compact. Our commitment spans product design, facility management, supply chain oversight, and the funding of people-centered environmental initiatives. Currently, Dean’s Beans has implemented a Comprehensive Sustainability Program (CSP), which encapsulates our existing CO2-neutral strategy, renewable energies program, and our recycling and reclamation program. Dean’s Beans People-Centered Development work allows the company to promote and fund environmental initiatives in coffee growing communities, including well building, sustainable income diversification, land preservation and tree planting. In addition, the company purchases 100% organic coffees, sugars and cocoas, which help promote environmental sustainability in grower communities, while offering our customers healthier product alternatives. FLO criteria requires that coops strive to prevent soil erosion, and promote soil fertility and sound irrigation techniques. The standards also prohibit the use of various agrochemicals, as well as safe handling, disposal and storage of any agro-chemicals that are permitted (though this rarely applies to organics). Finally, FLO prohibits the collection of protected plant species. Dean’s Beans recognizes the promise, usefulness, and need for environmentally friendly technologies. The company is committed to purchasing them when economically viable, and communicating their utility and environmental benefits to its various stakeholders. FIGHTING GLOBAL WARMING At Dean’s Beans, we apply the precautionary principle to our pro-active response to Global Warming. We have established an approach to the threat of Climate Change that integrates low-impact renewable energy sources, such as solar use, as well as tree-planting in the coffeelands that supports land regeneration. We believe it is our moral responsibility to fight global warming. Page 10 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact SYSTEMS / PROCESSES: Environmental Management, CO2 audit, supplier engagement, people-centered environmental initiatives in the coffeelands Although a small company, Dean’s Beans is eager to implement and sustain environmental stewardship initiatives. These include the creation and maintenance of a Comprehensive Sustainability Program that models ISO 14001 standards. Our environmental management program includes energy efficiency initiatives (the purchase, for example, of Energy Star equipment), reliance on an on-site solar electricity system, and an environmentally sound waste management. Our company also administers an annual CO2 audit, calculating and assessing our CO2 sources. We have taken an active interest in understanding the breadth and complexity of our coffee supply-chain, and how much CO2 is generated by indirect emissions sourcesthose sources which we can’t control on our own. Our past CO2 reports are available on our website. Working with UPS and Maersk Line, for example, we have been able to quantify the emissions associated with the delivery and shipment of our product across the world. We were one of the first companies to work with UPS around CO2 issues, and are one of only a handful of companies in the world that use UPS’s CO2 calculation tool. ACTIONS TAKEN IN 2011 / 2012: CO2 audit, implementation of environmental management system, installation of a particulate emissions system, land purchases and tree planting 2012 was a year of continued commitment to reducing our negative environmental impact. We have begun a unique composting program with a local compost company and have diverted 20 tons of organic coffee chaff (a byproduct of the roasting process) from landfills and contributed to the production of high-quality organic compost. We also bought and installed two new roasting machines. The Loring SmartRoast is the gold standard of coffee roasters. It is the top of the line in quality and also the most environmentally responsible (using two-thirds less gas and eliminating smoke). We are the first company in the world to get a one bag roaster, and one of the first to get the half bag roaster. We completed our annual CO2 audit which helps guide our environmental policy moving forward. This years report shows a slight increase in carbon emission per unit of production but the emissions are still below our baseline taken in 2005. Our lineup of Loring Smart Roast roasters Page 11 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact What Our CO2 Audit Captures We use the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Protocol to guide our decisions about what emissions “scopes” to include in our own calculations; the World Resources Institute’s report “Working 9 to 5 on Climate Change: An Office Guide” was an invaluable resource for us as we made these calculations. The following were included in our 2006 and 2007 CO2 Audit Reports:  In-house emissions These emissions include the burning of propane to power our coffee roasters, as well as the small amount of CO2 emissions generated by the use of our company van.  Electricity emissions Our carbon dioxide emissions related to electricity has significantly decreased since the installation of our 10 kW solar panel system. We include these Scope 2 emissions, as suggested by the GHG protocol.  Employees’ commute emissions We include these scope 3 emissions in our calculations. Each employees supplies their average gas mileage, and the distance of their daily travel to the beanery to help us make the most accurate calculations possible.  Travel to the coffeelands Although flying can create large quantities of CO2, visiting coffee farming communities is an integral part of our Trade Justice business model. We include these emission as we think it is vital that businesses recognize their contribution to global warming via these scope 3 sources.  Shipment of coffee to the Beanery Coffee is our number one product, and we spent significant time in the past year and a half figuring out how to quantify the emissions related to the delivery of our coffee once it reaches US ports, including rail transport.  Delivery of our product across the US The vast majority of our shipments to customers run through UPS. In 2005, we wanted to quantify these emissions, and began collaborating with the shipping company. They were able to provide us with a special tool that takes into account the CO2 emissions related to each and every package that leaves the Beanery. In 2008, we are working to include CO2 generated by the transport of our coffee via ocean liner. Page 12 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery We fully support the last Global Compact principle, calling on companies to bring an end to corruption in their operations. Working with a global commodity that typically must be traded through a series of middlemen and suppliers can be a tricky, complicated business. We recognize that the global commodity trade can lend itself to corruption. For this reason, and for the many others explained in this Communication in Progress, we have chosen to adhere to the Fair Trade model. When we work directly with FLO certified cooperative farmers, we cut out much of the ambiguity that defines complicated supply chains. We know that cooperatives are managed using a participatory, democratic process minimizing the risk of coercion and unfair dealings. In addition, by visiting cooperatives, we gain a clearer sense of who our business partners are, creating mutual trust and long-term relationships based on honest dealings and mutual benefit. We do not currently have an anti-corruption policy, per se, in place. Because of our size and the fact that we occupy one small facility, corruption and bribery issues have never come into play or been raised within the context of our operations. We assume that as we continue to grow, a more formalized approach may be necessary to deal with potential incidents. SYSTEMS / PROCEDURES: 100% commitment to Fair Trade, external audit We maintain a 100% commitment to sourcing Fair Trade certified coffee, cocoa and sugar products. These practices are externally verified by Quality Assurance International. We have no internal systems to monitor potential instances of corruption. ACTIONS PLANNED for 2013: Drafting a code of ethics, exploring our supply-chain We fully support this 10th principle which takes a stand against corruption in all business activities. As this Communication in Progress has alluded to we are dealing with rapid growth. This growth calls us to bolster some aspects of our business practices so we can continue being a successful, triple bottom line oriented company. Just as we plan to create policies that address some of the other principles, we are currently creating a code of ethics and comprehensive employee manual. Page 13 Communication in Progress 2011/2012 United Nations Global Compact CONCLUSION At Dean’s Beans we look forward to another amazing year, marked by a continued commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. At Dean’s Beans we have proven that you can build a profitable business based on social, economic and environmental justice. In the coming year we will continue to develop in-house policies and systems that support human rights, fair labor standards, and environmental responsibility. As well, we look forward to continuing to support people-centered development projects throughout the coffeelands. TOWARDS THE FUTURE GREATER TRADE JUSTICE STRONGER ENVIRONMENT DEEPER COMMERCE 100% Fair Trade 100% Organic Dean’s Beans 50 R.W. Moore Ave. Orange, MA 01364 1800-325-3008 1(978)544-2002 1(978)544-7934 (fax) www.deansbeans.com
