METSÄ GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 WE PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Metsä Group is a responsible forest industry group whose products’ main raw material is renewable and sustainably grown Nordic wood. Metsä Group focuses on tissue and cooking papers, consumer packaging paperboards, pulp, wood products, and wood supply. Its high-quality products combine renewable raw materials, customer-orientation, sustainable development and innovation. Metsä Group’s sales totalled EUR 5.0 billion in 2012, and it employs approximately 11,500 people. The Group operates in some 30 countries. Metsäliitto Cooperative is the parent company of Metsä Group and is owned by approximately 125,000 Finnish forest owners. Sustainability is a driver in everything we do. As our main raw material is renewable wood sourced from sustainably managed forests, our products are recyclable and safe for both people and the environment. We believe that economic growth and sustainability go hand in hand enabling a better quality of life for everyone. OUR PRODUCTS STAND ON SUSTAINABLE ROOTS Sustainability and ethical business practices are a prerequisite for us. We are a responsible business operator with strong roots in bioeconomy and aim to build a more sustainable future. 2 OPENING WORDS 4 YEAR 2012 5 MATERIAL BALANCE 6 SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS 8 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 12 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT WE OFFER SUSTAINABLE CHOICES Wood is an endlessly renewable resource. We turn wood into safe and recyclable products that improve your quality of life. 16 SUSTAINABLE OFFERING WE BRING FOREST TO YOU Our products come from sustainably managed forests. Together with partners we secure sustainable supply of raw materials for our units and a supply of renewable products for our customers. 18 FOREST MANAGEMENT 22 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 23 LOGISTICS THE SMALLER THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, THE BETTER What matters is using energy, raw materials and other resources efficiently and maintaining low levels of emissions and waste. 24 ENERGY AND CLIMATE 28 WATER 30 MATERIAL EFFICIENCY 32 ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT WE CREATE WELL-BEING We generate well-being at work, in local communities, and in society at large and commit to global sustainability principles. By behaving responsibly towards our employees and society, we can improve the quality of life of our stakeholders. 34 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 38 WELL-BEING FOR LOCAL COMMUNITIES 40 SAFETY AT WORK 42 RESPONSIBLE AND ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER SUSTAINABILITY DATA Sustainability data communicates about our mills’ performance against the Group’s sustainability agenda and targets. 44 SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT 48 GRI INDICATORS 52 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TABLE OF CONTENT 1 FOREST INDUSTRY IS AN IMPORTANT CORNERSTONE OF THE BIOECONOMY. 2 OPENING WORDS SUSTAINABLE FUTURE THROUGH BIOECONOMY The year 2012 was a busy rather, we wanted to further develop the one for us. The Group’s report to better suit our stakeholders’ inforWE USE RENEWABLE RAW performance against the mation needs on our sustainability perforMATERIALS AND FUELS sustainability targets mance. However, our work is not over yet. TO PRODUCE SAFE AND proceeded well. Here we In 2013, we will focus our efforts, for example, RECYCLABLE PRODUCTS. have highlighted some on creating a sustainability strategy for our of the key actions we supply chain operations as well as developing have taken in order to demonstrate our ing the share of bioenergy plays a major part more systematic practices for stakeholder commitment to a sustainable future and in our efforts to reduce fossil CO2 emissions engagement. what bioeconomy means from a Metsä Group and ultimately mitigate climate change. We are committed to the ten principles of perspective. The wood we procure is 100% traceable the UN Global Compact and we have further and always from sustainable sources. To furstrengthened our endeavours to achieve a RENEWABLE, RECYCLABLE, SUSTAINABLE ther promote our sustainable forest managemore sustainable future. We have done much, We use renewable raw materials and turn ment practices, we attained double certificayet we still continue to aim even higher. them into safe and recyclable products. Every tions for our company-owned forests in 2012. We are proud to say that our operations along part of a tree is used for the purpose it suits Earlier, they were certified according to with the whole forest industry are important best. Logs, the most valuable parts of a tree, PEFC, now they are also FSC® certified. cornerstones of today’s bioeconomy and that are used as building material, treetops and What matters in the end is team work. For together we are building a more sustainable wood from forest thinnings are used to prothis reason, we work closely with our suppliers future. duce pulp for paperboard and paper while the and partners to ensure sustainability throughbark and branches are used for energy. out the value chain. Furthermore, solid Our major energy source is bioenergy safety – both of our employees and of our – 83% of the fuels we use are wood-based partners – is among our top priorities. bio-fuels. Besides our own processes, we also Sustainably yours, generate energy for use in surrounding neighAIMING EVEN HIGHER bourhoods. Over the last two years, Metsä This is the second consecutive Sustainability Group completed four major investments to Report from Metsä Group. While we have Riikka Joukio further increase our already high share of received much positive feedback for our first SVP, Sustainability and Corporate Affairs bioenergy – and the work continues. Increasreport, we did not want to rest on our laurels; Metsä Group COMMITMENT TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES READ MORE HUMAN RIGHTS #1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. p. 12–15 #2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. p. 12–15 LABOUR RIGHTS #3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right p. 12–15, 42 to collective bargaining. #4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. p. 12–15 #5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. p. 12–15 #6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p. 12–15 ENVIRONMENT #7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. p. 12–15 #8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. p. 12–15 #9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. p. 12–15 ANTI-CORRUPTION #10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. p. 12–15 FSC Licence Code: FSC-C014476 OPENING WORDS 3 2012: SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION As for us, sustainability is something that draws on our mission, vision and values. Therefore, sustainability belongs as an integral part to our operations and daily work. Looking back in 2012, we are proud of all our accomplishments to create more sustainable environment for the coming generations. (Metsä Board). In February, WWF ranked THE FUTURE LIES IN AWARD FOR ENERGY Metsä Tissue the best in the category of public BIOENERGY MANAGEMENT Corporate Responsibility reporting and EnviDuring the year, we were able to realise many Metsä Tissue was granted the Energy Masters ronmental Management Systems. Correof our bioenergy investments. In the past two Award 2012 by Europe’s leading networking spondingly, Metsä Board was given the top years, we have invested in four major bioplatform for energy management in the indusranking in the category of Environmental energy projects that together reduce the trial sector, the Energy Masters by Econique Management and Reporting. The participatGroup’s annual carbon dioxide load of fossil Group. The award is for Metsä Tissue’s Susing paper manufactures have allowed WWF fuels by some 200,000 tonnes. Out of these tainable Low Carbon Tissue Manufacturing to scrutinise their global paper production on four, three were completed in 2012, whilst Project that is linked to Metsä Tissue’s project key environmental criteria. one at HUSUM MILL, Sweden was completed to improve energy efficiency by 20% by 2012 In November, Metsä Board was comalready in 2011. from the 2007 level. mended by WWF’s Environmental Paper In the autumn, Metsä Board and its coAwards in the category Transparency for operation partners completed the construclisting the majority of its uncoated fine papers tion of a new power plant at KYRO MILL. FSC CERTIFICATE FOR in WWF's Check Your Paper database. As fuel, the power plant uses logging residues THE GROUP'S FORESTS WWF created the WWF Environmental and other wood raw materials unsuitable for Metsä Group was granted FSC® certification Paper Awards 2012 to give credit to manufacfurther processing. Metsä Board has also (Licence Code FSC-C014476) in July coverturers and suppliers that post their brands on completed a turbine investment at Husum ing some 35,000 hectares of the Group's Check Your Paper, using WWF´s eco-rating mill. The investment increased the mill’s forests in Finland. The forests have already method for measuring the environmental power self-sufficiency from 30 to 50%. been certified according to PEFC. New Metsä footprint of papers. Metsä Fibre’s JOUTSENO MILL’s new gasifiGroup’s FSC certificate offers forest owners cation plant produces bioenergy from bark, that are contractual customers of Metsäliitto one of the by-products of pulp production. Cooperative, Metsä Group’s parent company, UNILEVER’S ‘PARTNER The renewal makes the mill carbon neutral the possibility to join the FSC group certifiTO WIN’ AWARD IN since no fossil fuels are used during the normal cate. SUSTAINABILITY production conditions. Thus Joutseno mill is Metsä Board received a ‘Partner to Win’ the first carbon neutral chemical pulp mill in award in sustainability from Unilever in May. Finland. At the beginning of 2013, a bio­ APPLAUSE BY WWF The award was presented to Metsä Board for energy heating plant will be finalised at Metsä The WWF Environmental Paper Company its development of lightweight and sustainable Wood’s KERTO MILL in Lohja. The investment Index rates paper producers on their global boards, and their significant contribution to makes it possible to use wood-based energy ecological footprint in different categories of Unilever’s packaging. Unilever launched the instead of the coal-based energy previously paper producers. Metsä Group’s businesses Partner to Win programme in 2011 to work bought from external providers. participated in the tissue paper category more closely with its key suppliers, ensure (Metsä Tissue) and fine paper category faster innovation and invest sustainably throughout its value chain. 4 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — YEAR 2012 THE LARGEST WOODEN WINNER OF THE RESPONSIBLE MULTI-STOREY EXCELLENCE FINLAND REPORTING BUILDING IN FINLAND COMPETITION As a Group, we published our first SustainIn September, Finland’s largest wooden multiIn November, Metsä Fibre won Excellence ability Report in March 2012. In November, storey residential building project was comFinland 2012 and the Quality Innovation of The Finnish Business & Society (FiBS) gave pleted in Viikki, Helsinki. Based on the Metsä the Year Competition in the large companies Metsä Group’s Sustainability Report 2011 an Wood Multi-Storey System, the five wooden category organised by Laatukeskus Excellence honourable mention in the responsible reportbuildings have three or four floors with a total Finland. According to the jury, Metsä Fibre's ing competition. The jury justified the award gross floor area of 6,300 m2. A wooden multicustomer orientation and value creation for its with significant improvement in the level of storey building is more eco-efficient and has a customers are prominent throughout the reporting – Metsä Group tripled the points it smaller carbon footprint than a multi-storey organisation from the management to the had received in previous years. building based on competing construction production personnel. The development of materials, because the manufacture and transoperations is managed systematically. The port of wooden construction parts and the safety management model has established construction of the building itself consume safety as a central objective – fewer accidents less energy. In addition, while growing, the at work have strengthened the positive attiwood has absorbed carbon dioxide from the tude of the personnel towards safety. The atmosphere, storing it in wooden construccompany's commitment to environmental tions throughout their life-cycle. aspects was also praised. METSÄ GROUP'S MATERIAL BALANCE PRODUCTION 2012 2011 EMISSIONS TO AIR (t) 2012 2011 Chemical pulp and CTMP (1,000 t) 3,471 3,407 Biogenic carbon dioxide (as CO2 bio) 6,884,288 7,089,836 Board (1,000 t) 1,090 1,029 Fossil carbon dioxide (as CO2) 962,328 1,200,090 Paper (1,000 t) 786 1,255 Nitrogen oxides (as NO2) 6,432 7,358 Tissue and cooking papers (1,000 t) 589 599 Particles 1,817 1,435 Sawn timber (1,000 m3) 1,622 1,576 Sulphur (as SO2) 1,681 2,359 Plywood (1,000 m3) 244 242 Kerto® (1,000 m3) 196 199 Other upgrading products (1,000 m3) 775 790 By-products sold for energy production (GWh) 2,166 1,964 2012 2011 WOOD-BASED RAW MATERIALS Wood (1,000 m3) 21,116 20,886 Recovered paper (1,000 t) 390 418 Pulp (1,000 t) 287 516 2012 2011 OTHER RAW MATERIALS (1,000 t) DISCHARGES TO WATER (t) Pigments 406 519 Waste water flow (1,000 m3) 149,096 164,177 Adhesives 79 107 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 43,629 45,921 ENERGY (GWh) Purchased fuels 4,583 6,249 Biological oxygen demand (BOD) 2,107 3,176 Fossil fuels 3,900 4,805 Total suspended solids 3,161 3,304 Biofuels 683 1,449 Nitrogen (N) 637 694 Purchased electricity 2,380 2,674 Phosphorus (P) 50 79 Purchased heat 200 116 WASTE (t) WATER USE (1,000 m3) 258,000 365,000 Recycled waste 608,117 718,482 Surface water 254,000 354,000 Landfill waste 81,435 69,047 Hazardous waste 2,021 1,970 Groundwater 4,000 11,000 YEAR 2012 — SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 5 WOOD READ MORE P. 18–21 TARGET: We support sustainable forest management. Our wood is 100% traceable and it always comes from sustainable sources. Our target is to sustain the amount of certified wood in our operations above 80%. PERFORMANCE: 82% in 2012 OVER 80% OF CERTIFIED WOOD SUPPLY CHAIN READ MORE P. 22 TARGET: We are committed to sustainability throughout the whole supply chain. Our target is to have a supplier Code of Conduct included in all new supplier contracts. PERFORMANCE: Code of Conduct included in all new and renewed contracts since June 2011, in total 71 contracts in 2012. 100% COVERAGE OF SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT WELL-BEING READ MORE P. 40–41 TARGET: Work safety is our top priority. We strive for 0 continuous improvement and our aim is to improve our lost-time accident frequency rate by 10% each year. Our long-term target for lost-time accidents is zero. PERFORMANCE: The lost-time accident frequency rate LOST-TIME was 15.7 in 2012. ACCIDENTS 6 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — TARGETS ENERGY AND CLIMATE READ MORE P. 24–27 CO2 TARGET: We focus on mitigating climate change. Our target is to reduce fossil CO2 emissions in production by 30% per product tonne by 2020 from the 2009 level. PERFORMANCE: -27% in (2009–2012) -30% TARGET: We ensure efficient energy consumption. Our target is to improve energy efficiency by 10% by 2020 from the 2009 level. PERFORMANCE: 4% in (2009–2012) ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES READ MORE P. 12–15 TARGET: Ethical business practices are the core of all our operations. Our target is to have the whole personnel covered by Code of Conduct training by the end of 2012. PERFORMANCE: The Code of Conduct training started during autumn 2011 and continued throughout 2012. 100% Some 75% of white-collar and a vast majority of bluecollar employees have now been trained. COVERAGE OF CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING METSÄ GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY TARGET: We work hard to ensure a healthy work environTARGETS ment. Our target is to keep the sickness absenteeism rate at the best European level and below 3% at all times. PERFORMANCE: Sickness absenteeism was 4.1% in 2012. At the end of 2011, we launched our Group-wide sustainability targets – altogether seven of them covering five different sustainability themes. Read more about our performance on the following pages. 7 TARGETS — SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROMOTING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Global population growth, over consumption and an inefficient use of resources are the main causes of today’s unsustainable environmental burden. The macro trends are generating increasing concerns about climate change, water discharges and aerial pollution, the availability of fresh water, declining biodiversity and the debate on priorities in land use. Metsä Group brings solutions for its part to RISK MANAGEMENT ON ALL LEVELS these global concerns by producing recyclable Like all companies, Metsä Group is closely and biodegradable products from renewable following market signals to detect if any drasraw material – wood. Our products are exceltic changes are expected in customer behavlent alternatives in replacing fossil-based raw iour and demand. Metsä Group assesses risks materials with renewable bio-based solutions. on different levels – Group, Business Area and Changes in consumption habits to favour renewable and sustainable products are also promoting the mission and the business idea WE PROMOTE A that Metsä Group represents. Our main operSUSTAINABLE FUTURE ating countries have vast forest and water THROUGH RENEWABLE resources. When these resources are being RAW MATERIALS AND used responsibly they are available for the next RECYCLABLE PRODUCTS. generations in the same way as they are for us today. Wood as a renewable and recyclable raw production unit, which also cover supplier material offers good growth opportunities for operations. At the Group and Business Areabusinesses focusing on renewable packaging levels, risks are assessed twice a year – one solutions, hygiene products and wooden assessment for risks related to Business Areas’ constructions, for example. strategies and one for risks related to annual BIOECONOMY – A WAY OF THE FUTURE Bioeconomy has many definitions, one of them meaning products manufactured from biologically grown, renewable and recyclable raw materials, energy and resource efficiency, and economic, social and ecological sustainability. A focus and growing demand for renewable and sustainably produced wood, paper and board-based products are the cornerstones of bioeconomy. The role of bioeconomy is expected to further increase in the coming years, especially as the EU will focus on green growth and on becoming more resource efficient. Large-scale industrial products and processes which have significant positive impacts on climate change and resource efficiency play in a key role in bio-based societies. To maintain this position requires further improved products, smarter use of raw materials as well as completely new bio-based innovations developed by the current forest products industry. Metsä Group is a company that already plays a crucial role in bio-based economy development. We are strongly focused on continuing along this path. 8 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES planning. Insurance companies perform techThe major hazard risks such as fires, machine nical risk surveys at major production units breakdowns and environmental damages, are annually focusing on key property damage covered by global insurance policies by insurand business interruption risks. ance companies. Key insurance policies are Our risk assessment management covers property damage and business interruption the whole value chain from securing the availpolicy as well as general third party and proability of wood to being prepared for possible duct liability insurance. The centralised enviproduct liability cases. Risk assessments also ronmental risk management is also one of cover the entire value chain including all five the means to mitigate accidental releases by Business Areas. Our focus on risk managemaking use of knowledge transfer within ment is on preventive damage and loss conthe Group. trol. One of the most important tasks of risk management is to ensure undisturbed operaCLOSELY SURVEYING THE GLOBAL tions and continuous production, which SUSTAINABILITY RISKS supports the environmental risk management Demand for forest biomass, particularly for at the same time. An essential part of Metsä energy production, is increasing as it is driven Group’s enterprise risk management is the by policies and incentives. This may present active co-operation with insurance industry. challenges to the conventional forest products RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES — SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 9 parent company of Metsä Group, is owned by METSÄ GROUP IN CHANGING BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT some 125,000 Finnish forest owners. METSÄ­LIITTO COOPERATIVE’S CONSTITUTION states that its primary mission is to support its owner-members and their forest management in the most economically and technically efficient ways, and to follow the principles of S O N sustainable development. TI RE Metsä Group’s MISSION is to competitively SUSTAINABILITY NS ATIO GU ECT LA TARGETS procure, market and upgrade Finnish wood at XP L MEGATRENDS its own production units. Our VISION is to be RE GLOBA DE a focused and profitable Finnish forest indusAND OL try company that operates in the international EH CH AK GROUP & CORPORATE market, and one that integrates sustainable ST AN BUSINESS AREA GOVERNANCE STRATEGIES MODEL development, customer-orientation and innoVALUES VISION vations in its products and services. GI Metsä Group’s VALUES are responsible NG profitability, reliability, cooperation and renewal. These values guide the Group in MISSION achieving its targets and are seen in our daily activities. We strive to improve the profitaOPERATIONS bility of our company, while at the same time AND POLICIES MANAGEMENT AND bearing responsibility for the environment PRINCIPLES SYSTEMS and listening to our stakeholder groups. Reliability, cooperation and renewal are the cornerstones of responsible profitability. AV S BUSINESS PERSPECTIVE ON SUSTAINABILITY AI L A BI L RCE ITY OF NATURAL RESOU Our objectives will be reached by focusing on our strengths and our selected core businesses. We offer sustainable solutions for our clients and meet the demand for sustainable prodindustry as the availability of wood is under energy and transportation is higher than the ucts. Therefore, we continuously develop our threat due to government subsidies being average in Europe. As Finland is completely operations and operate in a cost-efficient way directed to other wood end-uses. dependent on maritime transport, any to achieve profitable growth. Each of the Climate change is leading to global warmincreases in the cost of energy and transporBusiness Areas has defined its own strategy ing and thus to the transition of vegetation tation resulting from climate change and that integrates sustainability, customer focus and tree species and even new plant diseases. energy policies can considerably weaken the and innovations. All these can threaten the current forestry in relative competitiveness of its energy intensive METSÄ TISSUE’s tissue and cooking papers the Nordic countries in the long run. In the industries in relation to the EU and external are safe, sustainable and biodegradable, and short term, climate change is putting pressure competitors. made of renewable, sustainably managed raw to increase regulations on available energy The EU’s unilateral climate change polimaterials. Their environmental impact is sources, limit energy use and strive for a more cies are weakening the global competitiveness minimised throughout the whole product’s efficient use of resources. These also have a of European industries. As long as the major life-cycle. Metsä Tissue believes in transpardirect impact on the industry in the forms of emitting countries are not committed to ency and their environmental performance increased taxation or related costs as well as comparable and equal emission reductions, with targets being monitored carefully and tighter environmental permits. European companies do not have equal operreported openly. Metsä Tissue leads the tissue Additionally, on the global scale unevenly ating conditions in relation to external comindustry in developing low-impact processes distributed scarce water sources and the availpetitors. Moreover, the EU’s unpredictable and practices. ability of clean water is increasing the need for climate change and energy polices as well as METSÄ BOARD focuses on ecological and tighter regulations or even putting a price on overlapping environmental policies and tarsafe light-weight paperboards – the main raw all water uses. If overregulated, this may create gets influence investment conditions. material being pulp produced from renewable an additional burden even for companies and traceable wood. Metsä Board’s paperoperating in areas with abundant natural SUSTAINABILITY IN THE CORE OF boards are recyclable and fibres can be reused water bodies. THE GOVERNANCE several times in paper production and as Due to the remote location of Finland and Sustainability is integrated into the very core energy at the end of their life-cycle. A signifithe structure of its economy, the need for of Metsä Group. Metsäliitto Cooperative, the cant amount of energy consumed by Metsä 10 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Board is generated internally at integrated and recyclable. Energy and resource efficient pulp and board mills. production and logistics mean economic use METSÄ FIBRE produces pulp from renewof energy and wood raw materials, as well as able raw material – wood from sustainably the efficient use of side products for developmanaged forests. They develop the pulp proing new products and energy end-uses. duction process for the long term and their Improving occupational safety in the producmills are leaders in environmental perfortion units is one of Metsä Wood’s main tarmance. Metsä Fibre knows the environmental gets. impacts of its operations and reduces them METSÄ FOREST encourages the Cooperasystematically. They utilise raw materials with tive's owner-members to use and manage their high efficiency and lead the way in the field of forest assets in a sustainable manner by proenergy efficiency. Metsä Fibre is also a major viding them with comprehensive services for producer of bioenergy. all stages of forest ownership. With good METSÄ WOOD’s customer value proposimanagement, Metsä Forest can ensure the tion is based on high-quality certified wood growth and diversity of forests and steady raw material from sustainably managed forwood production in the future. Metsä Forest ests. Forerunning solutions for industrial supports voluntary forest protection and the customers, builders and renovators are based vast majority of the wood they procure is on wood raw material that is durable, light sourced from certified forests. RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES — SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 11 MANAGING OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK Metsä Group’s daily sustainability TARGET PROGRESS COMMENTS work is guided by the Group’s Sustainability Principles as well as the employee and supplier Codes of To have the whole personnel The Code of Conduct training We will proceed with the target to covered by Code of Conduct started during autumn 2011 ensure that the Code of Conduct Conduct. training by the end of 2012. and continued throughout 2012. trainings cover the whole personSome 75% of white-collar and nel. a vast majority of blue-collar The Code of Conduct lies at the core of our employees have now been daily sustainability management that guides trained. our employees when dealing with gifts, possible cases of corruption or in any way advancing business through bribery or blackmail. The Code of Conduct also calls for each employee well as approximately 75% of all employees tive from each Business Area in addition to to report any conduct that he or she believes were trained. Moreover, the personnel was relevant corporate function representatives. to be contrary to the policies. A report can be trained in Human Resources, Equal OpportuBoth of these governance bodies were headed submitted to an employee’s superior or to the nities, Security and Information Security by Metsä Group’s General Counsel. Group General Counsel. Policies. A new target on ethical business The Sustainability and Corporate Affairs practices has been set to train selected personfunction prepares the Sustainability Steering nel in the Group’s Sustainability Principles Team agenda, supports businesses by providSUSTAINABILITY IS during 2013. ing solutions in sustainability issues, identifies THE CORE PRINCIPLE IN the development needs and coordinates the ALL OUR BUSINESS GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Group’s daily sustainability issues. It also OPERATIONS. As sustainability is the core principle in all supervises and promotes the Group’s interests business operations, Metsä Group takes shared in legislation and trade policy issues. Furtherresponsibility for managing sustainability on more, the function conducts Metsä Group’s During 2012, Metsä Group companies all operational levels. stakeholder engagement work in topics related have not been accused of participating in any Metsäliitto Cooperative’s Board of Directo sustainability and in networks such as the corruptive activities. Instead, preventive mea­ tors approves the guiding policies and sets the World Business Council for Sustainable sures were made to management processes. Group’s ambition level in sustainability. The Development (WBCSD). However, altogether three (3) suspected Executive Management Team sets the guiding breaches of the Code of Conduct by indipolicies, defines both the sustainability and vidual employees were detected, reported and the advocacy targets, and monitors the perforRead more about our stakeholder engagement on pages 34–37. investigated, of which two (2) resulted in a mance against them. disciplinary action and termination of The Sustainability Steering Team (formerly employment. known as the Corporate Affairs Management In addition to specified governance duties, Metsä Group’s sustainability management Team) surveys sustainability trends and weak numerous positions within the Group hold is guided also by the Group’s Sustainability signals, analyses the Group’s stakeholders’ a shared responsibility in managing each Principles. Metsä Group has also set out poliviews and evaluates their impact on the theme’s specific sustainability issues. See the cies and related instructions for all relevant Group’s businesses. In addition, a new Corpoinfograph on the following page. topics, including Environmental, Human rate Affairs Network has been established to Resources, Equal Opportunities and Purchasprovide strategic guidance to corporate affairs ing policies as well as a Supplier Code of management. It identifies relevant policy files Conduct to guide supply chain operations. and discusses advocacy cases and channels. The target of training the whole personnel Both the Sustainability Steering Team and the in the Group’s Code of Conduct proceeded Corporate Affairs Network has a representa12 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT METSÄ GROUP'S SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA AND SHARED RESPONSIBILITIES WE OFFER SUSTAINABLE CHOICES WE BRING THE FOREST TO YOU PRODUCTS AND SERVICES SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY • Sustainable products, services • Sustainable forest management and and innovations nature values • Product safety • Sustainable supply chain • Partnership with suppliers and forest owners Responsibilities of Heads of Business Areas: CEOs of Metsä Board, Responsibilities of Executive Vice President, Metsä Forest; Senior Vice Metsä Fibre and Metsä Tissue; Group Executive Vice President, President CPO, Purchasing, together with product category managers; Metsä Wood and Executive Vice President of Metsä Forest; Senior Vice Senior Vice President, Sustainability & Corporate Affairs; Senior Vice President, Sustainability & Corporate Affairs and R&D personnel President, Logistics and Head of Metsä Forest’s Member Services THE SMALLER THE ENVIRONMENTAL WE CREATE WELL-BEING IMPACT THE BETTER ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY STAKEHOLDERS • Energy and climate • Human rights • Water • Ethical business practices • Material efficiency • Responsible employer • Environmental risk management • Well-being for local communities Responsibilities of Executive Vice President, Strategy; Senior Vice Responsibilities of General Counsel; Chief Financial Officer; Senior President, Energy; Heads of Business Areas; Senior Vice President, Vice President, Sustainability & Corporate Affairs; Senior Vice PresiSustainability & Corporate Affairs; Vice President, Risk Management; dent, Human Resources; Senior Vice President CPO, Purchasing and Mill managers and mills’ environmental and production managers Senior Vice President, Communications MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Metsä Group’s business strategy is based on Metsä Group's mission is to be a profitable OUR PRODUCTS AND sustainability including the three pillars of and competitive forest industry group that SERVICES ENABLE OUR economic, environmental and social responsiuses wood grown by its owner-members. CUSTOMERS TO MAKE bility. We offer products and services that Responsible profitability represents the main MORE SUSTAINABLE enable our customers to improve their envivalue of our business operations. To meet this CHOICES. ronmental footprint and make more sustainend, we strive to improve the profitability of able choices. Our main raw material is renewthe Group, bear responsibility for the environable and sustainably grown wood. All our ment, listen to our stakeholder groups, and at that our operations have economic impacts on products are recyclable and good alternatives the same time base our operations on ethical all levels of the communities where we operate in replacing many other carbon-intensive business practices. Metsä Group applies prin– local, national and global. Our contribution products and raw materials. ciples of good corporate governance and to the community’s well-being derives from Our daily work in sustainability managetransparent accounting. The whole Group direct and indirect employment opportunities ment is guided by our Sustainability Principles communicates in accordance with the discloand paying taxes, among others. and the employee Code of Conduct, which sure obligation prescribed for listed compaare mandatory for all employees to study and nies by the Securities Markets Act and the follow. In addition, we require our suppliers to Finnish Corporate Governance Code. Read more about our work in communities on pages 38–39. comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct. The key figures by which Metsä Group We are also committed to the ten principles of measures its financial performance include The Group’s key financial figures are published in the UN Global Compact. sales and operating result. We acknowledge Metsä Group’s Annual Report 2012 on pages 4–5. GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT — SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 13 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY tal management. The main principles of the We continuously develop the productivity and Group’s Environmental Policy are Group-wide efficiency of our production units with investenvironmental responsibility, energy and ments that improve our profitability and environmental efficiency, the promotion of result, while enhancing energy and material sustainable forestry and requiring environmenefficiency as well as environmental perfortal responsibility from our suppliers. Almost mance. Metsä Group follows its environmenall of the Group’s production units have a tal impact, for example, in the forms of greencertified ISO 9001 quality system and an ISO house gas emissions, energy and water con14001 environmental system in place, as well sumption, and waste generation. One of our as a certified Chain of Custody forest certificamost fundamental duties is to guarantee that tion system, enabling the reliable verification all our operations are sustainable and all our of the amount of certified wood in the prodproducts are safe for both people and the ucts. The certified quality and environmental environment. management systems are integrated with a Our environmental management is guided Chain of Custody system which allows the by our Environmental Policy and compliance Group to track and control the origin of the with the ISO 14001 standard for environmenwood we use. 14 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT system OHSAS 18001 is in place at most of Äänevoima Oy to have caused environmental the Group’s production plants. damage resulting from an oil leakage incident Metsä Group strives to be an open and which occurred in August 2011. The court equal work community where freedom of ordered altogether four employees of Ääneassociation prevails globally. We value divervoima Oy to pay a fine of EUR 7,060 in total. sity, cultural differences and the fair treatment In addition, Äänevoima Oy was ordered to of employees, regardless of their ethnic origin, pay a corporate fine of EUR 40,000. nationality, religion, political views, gender, The permit limits for wastewater parasexual orientation or age. Equal opportunities meters were exceeded at Svir sawmill in Rusand work against discrimination are applied to sia. Svir Timber paid RUB 81,300 for exceedall HR processes, for example in recruitment, ing the permit limits. Additionally Federal career opportunities, training and remuneraFisheries Agency ordered a fine of RUB 5,500. tions. Furthermore, it is the responsibility of No other fines were paid or other moneach employee to report any acts of discrimietary or non-monetary sanctions for nonnation they have noticed in their workplace. compliance with laws or regulations were received in 2012. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE CASES IN 2012 In March 2011, a state enterprise MetsäSCOPE OF THE REPORT hallitus filed a claim for damages at the Metsä Group comprises Metsä Tissue, Metsä District Court of Helsinki, demanding that Board, Metsä Wood, Metsä Fibre and Metsä Forest. This report covers the whole Group, including the production, warehousing and sales units of the Business Areas. Sustainability METSÄ GROUP TAKES reporting follows the same principles of conSHARED RESPONSIBILITY solidation as our Financial Statements. FOR MANAGING Metsä Group reports its sustainability SUSTAINABILITY ON ALL performance at the Group, Business Area and OPERATIONAL LEVELS. product levels. The Sustainability Report 2012 has been prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines Metsäliitto Cooperative and two other forest (version 3.1). We have selected the indicators industry companies jointly pay compensation that are most relevant to our operations, prodfor alleged damage caused by prohibited coopucts and stakeholders based on an assessment eration with regard to prices in the raw wood of the most significant sustainability issues for SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY market. The claim by Metsähallitus is pending the Group and its stakeholders. In addition to Metsä Group highly values its employees and and relates to the 3 December 2009 decision the GRI guideline indicators, the scope of the considers them as one of the key elements in by the Market Court, according to which the report includes topics related to the Group that long-term profitability and business success. In above companies have violated the Act on have gained public attention and may have addition to generating well-being at work, we Competition Restrictions in the raw wood caused a reputation risk in the field of environactively work in the local communities where market from 1997 to early 2004. In addition, mental or human resource management. we operate and in society at large. By behaving some municipalities, parishes and a group of The Sustainability Report 2012 presents responsibly towards our stakeholders, we can Finnish individuals have instituted similar Metsä Group’s approach to sustainability also improve their quality of life. proceedings. Metsäliitto Cooperative con­ management and detailed performance indiOur daily work on social responsibility is siders the claims unfounded in their entirety. cator; the Group’s Annual Report 2012 guided by the Equal Opportunities and In November 2012, the Espoo district includes a summary of the Group’s sustainabilHuman Resource policies. Moreover, our court deemed a former employee of the ity work. Furthermore, the subsidiaries Metsä employee and supplier Codes of Conduct Group’s internal bank, Metsä Group Financial Board and Metsä Fibre publish individual both stress the respect for human rights and a Services, to have committed several frauds annual reports in which their sustainability safe working environment thus prohibiting against the company. The employee was senwork is presented. the use of forced or child labor. tenced to imprisonment for three years. As a The sustainability performance data in Metsä Group monitors its employee’s result, all internal processes regarding money this report and claims based on that data have satisfaction by conducting annual work functransfers were reviewed and revised such that been externally assured by an independent tionality research. It aims to be an attractive individual user rights were reduced and no third party, Tofuture Oy. employer with extensive career and developsingle employee is in power to control money ment opportunities so that individuals can transfers. continuously develop their professionalism. In December 2012 the Keski-Suomi Read more about the assurance process in the Indepent Assurance Statement on page 52. The certified occupational and product safety District Court deemed an associated company GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT — SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 15 for processed paper and paperboard. In addition, Metsä Wood has prepared an EPD for Kerto® laminated veneer lumber. RECYCLABLE Read more about case Simcote in various parts of this report. PRODUCTS FROM CARBON FOOTPRINT – IMPACT ON CLIMATE CHANGE RENEWABLE RAW A carbon footprint is one of the tools used to illustrate a product’s climate effect. It demonstrates the carbon dioxide emissions of MATERIALS a process behind the product. Carbon footprint calculations are used to measure the fossil carbon of a product. We offer products and services that enable our customers to improve their PAPER PROFILE – ENVIRONMENTAL environmental footprint and make more sustainable choices. Our main raw DECLARATION USED BY THE PAPER INDUSTRY material is renewable and sustainably grown wood. All our products are The Paper Profile is a standardised scheme recyclable and good alternatives in replacing many other carbon-intensive that was jointly developed by leading paper products and raw materials. producers in Europe to communicate the environmental performance of paper and Metsä Group produces a wide range of highLIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT (LCA) board products. The Paper Profile provides quality products from renewable northern LCA is a technique to assess the environmeninformation related to the environmental wood and wood fibre. Our sustainable tal impacts associated with all stages of a aspects of pulp and paper production, includoffering includes tissue and cooking papers; product's life cycle. Metsä Group uses the ing product composition and emissions, wood board for packaging and the graphic industry; LCA to evaluate the environmental impacts of procurement and the mill’s environmental office papers; pulp; wood products for the whole production chain from the early management systems as average data within a construction and decoration; and forestry stages of raw material procurement and prospecific reporting period. Metsä Board has services. duction to the delivery of the products to our issued Paper Profiles for all of its paper and customers. Data collected for the LCA assessboard products since 2001. COMMUNICATING OUR PRODUCTS’ ment are then used in product declarations as ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT well as for carbon and water footprint calculaECO-LABELS ARE TO HELP CONSUMERS There is an increasing interest for the environtions. Eco-labels assist a consumer to understand the mental impact of our products among our In October 2012, Metsä Board produced environmental impacts of a product. We are customers. We have various tools to commuits first Environmental Product Declaration involved in the development of eco-label nicate in a traceable and transparent way what (EPD) for Simcote, a folding boxboard prodcriteria and work continuously to improve our the environmental impacts of our products uct. The EPD is verified against the Internamills’ environmental performance to fulfil the are. tional EPD® System’s product category rules criteria. Eco-labels, such as the EU Ecolabel and the Nordic Swan, are especially important for Metsä Tissue’s tissue papers, baking and COVERAGE OF DIFFERENT PRODUCT DECLARATIONS IN METSÄ GROUP cooking products as well as Metsä Board’s office papers. To date, no such commonly Disposal FULL COVERAGE OF A LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT (LCA) agreed eco-label criteria exist for packaging products. Usage CARBON SAFETY IS A PREREQUISITE FOOTPRINT We ensure that all Metsä Group’s products Distribution WATER and operations are safe and sustainable. We FOOTPRINT can guarantee that our products, when used as Manufacturing PAPER PAPER PAPER intended, are safe for people and the environPROFILE PROFILE PROFILE ment. We have a policy that we know the Procurement of origin of the materials that we use; moreover, ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT DECLARATION (EPD) raw materials all our raw materials meet or exceed the current legislative requirements. Consumption of raw materials Energy consumption Emissions Ensuring product safety is especially important in products that are used in appliENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS cations with strict hygiene standards such as 16 SUSTAINABLE OFFERING material (2011/696/EU). The definition is based purely on particle size and applies regardless of whether or not the material is naturally occurring, man-made or specially engineered. Metsä Group does not approve of nanotechnology-based new substances until sufficient information regarding their safety becomes available. Metsä Group continues to actively follow-up and participate in the research to gain more knowledge about the risks and benefits related to these areas. STRENGTHENING R&D COOPERATION In 2012, cooperation between Metsä Group’s Business Areas in research and development was accelerated. One goal was to produce a joint overall picture to support the Group’s long-term development strategy. As a result of the work carried out by Metsä Group’s R&D Team, with representatives from each Business Area and sustainability, a roadmap until 2020 was drawn up with three key focus areas: • Improving process efficiency and resource value; • Renewable raw materials as a competitive food or human contact applications. This are certified according to ISO 22000 or BRC edge; mainly applies to packaging boards, napkins as food safety management systems. • Value-added products and services. well as baking and cooking products. As a Metsä Group does not use genetically minimum requirement, all our mills that modified trees or raw materials. On 18 OctoIn 2012, Metsä Group invested EUR 20 manufacture food contact materials or chemiber 2011, the European Commission adopted million in R&D (EUR 19 million in 2011), cal pulp used in manufacturing these products a recommendation on the definition of nanowhich accounts for 0.4% of sales (0.4% in 2011). OUR PRODUCTS Our products, especially folding boxboards, are part of consumers’ everyday lives. One of these is Simcote, which is used SIMCOTE ARE PART OF YOUR for example in food packaging – an essential part of the food chain CASE EVERYDAY LIFE as the packaging protects the goods between processing and usage by the consumer and therefore decreases food waste. Did you know that up to 40% of food gets wasted due to insufficient packing or the lack of logistical infrastructure? 1) We have utilised the Environmental Product Declaration to In October 2012, Metsä Board produced its first Environmental demonstrate the environmental impacts of a regular cereal box Product Declaration (EPD) for Simcote, a fully coated folding made of Simcote. The size of the carton is 28 cm in height, 19 cm boxboard produced at Simpele mill in Finland. The EPD’s results in width and 6 cm in depth with an overall weight of 47 grams. are based on the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) approach and the Under different themes of this report you can follow the cereal calculations include the operations of raw material sourcing, carton’s environmental impacts during its entire lifetime from raw transportation and use all the way to production operations material procurement to customer-gate, in this case the cereal – in other words the ‘cradle-to-gate’ approach. producer. SCOPE OF THE DECLARATION INCLUDED EXCLUDED Upstream processes Core processes Downstream processes FORESTRY ENERGY OTHER RAW PACKAGING TRANSPORT PULP AND BOARD WASTE CONVERTING DISTRIBUTION FURTHER END-USE DISPOSAL OPERATIONS MATERIALS MATERIALS PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT CONVERTING 1) Dr. Schönweitz, Fraunhofer Institute for Process Engineering and Packaging, 2012 SUSTAINABLE OFFERING 17 WOOD WITH SUSTAINABLE ROOTS Metsä Group’s roots are in northern TARGET PROGRESS COMMENTS forests – we want to ensure that they are managed in a responsible way for future generations. We To sustain the amount of certified 82% in 2012 We are constantly aiming to wood in our operations above increase the share of certified raw operate in areas where forests grow 80%. material and are actively promotmore than they are utilised; where ing forest management certification in areas where we operate. nature management efforts help to maintain their biodiversity; and where they provide livelihoods, sustenance and recreation for Group always knows the origin of the wood, Group companies hold certificates of sustainpeople. ensures its legality and takes measures to able forest management. All the certificates are prevent the risk of unacceptable practices in a result of an independent expert verification. the supply chain. Our internal auditing proceWhile only some 10% of all the forests in BENEFITS OF NATURE FROM SUSTAINABLY dures and wood origin tracing system cover the world have been certified, the target of MANAGED FORESTS the actions of the wood supplier or harvesting Metsä Group is to sustain the amount of The northern forests play a significant role not contractor together with the origin and nature certified wood in our operations above 80%. only as a source of wood raw material, but by management audit. Internal auditing thus Metsä Group is actively promoting forest providing a wide range of benefits from recovers a wide range of sustainability issues certification initiatives in the whole wood creation possibilities and food production to from the preservation of nature values and supply region. In 2012, 82% of the wood the maintenance of hydrological systems and legal origin of the wood to social issues such supplied by Metsä Group was either PEFC or soil quality. Underlying these ecosystem seras safety at work. FSC® (Licence Code FSC-C014476) certified vices there is always a vital and diverse natural Wood suppliers and contractors have also or both (81% in 2011). environment which is highly valued by us. committed themselves to certain sustainability Out of the ecosystem services provided by principles which are included in the contracts. forests, wood generates income to the forest The commitments extend to the very beginWE HAVE DEFINED owner. In most cases, our wood originates ning of the supply chain, including possible 5 ENVIRONMENTAL from family-owned forests, belonging to our sub-suppliers and subcontractors. TARGETS FOR OUR owner-members – some 125,000 Finnish In 2012, Metsä Group companies assessed WOOD SUPPLY. forest-owners. the impacts of the EU Timber Regulation and One characteristic of family forestry is the possible development needs in the Group’s that the forests are inherited by successive companies. As some requirements of the In 2012, Metsä Group was awarded an generations and thus remain in the ownerRegulation and its practical implementation FSC group certificate that covers the forests ship of the same family. The forests are remained unclear until the end of 2012, addiin Finland owned by the Group companies. managed and used responsibly, ensuring that tional adjustments after its endorsement in The forests were already certified according to each generation receives its fair share of forest March 2013 are possible. PEFC. At present, the certificate covers income, as well as the other benefits forests around 35,000 hectares. Contractual customprovide. At the same time, we as a Group play OVER 80% OF OUR WOOD COMES FROM ers of Metsä Group’s parent company Metsä­ a significant regional role in offering work CERTIFIED FORESTS liitto Cooperative in Finland have the possibilopportunities in rural areas by using the Metsä Group perceives forest certification as ity to join the FSC group certificate. There is services of local harvesting and transport an excellent tool to ensure both the sustainalso a PEFC group certification possibility for entrepreneurs. ability of the supply chain and forestry operaforest owners, already launched earlier. tions. To further this practice, Metsä Group KNOWING THE ORIGIN OF WOOD IS KEY TO A holds Chain-of-Custody certificates covering WE EVALUATE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN all the wood supplied by the company as well PERFORMANCE Regardless of whether the wood originates as all the production units. Moreover, the Metsä Group ensures that the nature managefrom certified or non-certified forests, Metsä main forest areas owned or leased by the ment of harvesting operations comply with 18 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY — FOREST MANAGEMENT legislation and forest certification criteria by but also as incentives to the personnel whenregular and extensive field audits. In 2012, the ever appropriate. audit results have remained at a good level. One serious malpractice was found and it led RESPONSIBILITY IN ACTION to termination of the wood delivery contract In 2012, Metsä Group defined five main SIMCOTE CASE with the supplier. In addition to the audit environmental targets for wood supply: results, one wood delivery contract was termimaintain biodiversity, decrease the impacts to nated as a normal daily operative action due to water, reduce operations' emissions, ensure a a failure to fulfil the environmental requirelegal wood supply and secure the knowledge ments of Metsä Group. of the personnel and contractors. These CERTIFIED WOOD The results of the national Nature targets were brought into practice via the The amount of wood needed to Management Assessment in Finland remained Environmental Programmes of each country. produce one cereal carton from at a high level in 2012. The results are based The action plans included training, rationaliSimcote folding boxboard is mostly on 2010–2011 logging site evaluations sation of transportation as well as the further 117 grams, of which 83% comes from certified forests. made by the Forest Centre authorities. The development of internal control and instrucoverall result improved from the previous year, tions. especially regarding key habitats and retention In Finland, Metsä Group participated in a trees. Due to the challenging harvesting conproject to develop an easily accessible training ditions and consequent soil damages, a slight for harvester drivers in the field of nature drawback was noticed in the water protection management in forestry operations. The results. Water protection will remain as one of project was managed by the Forestry the key priorities, under which actions will be Development Centre Tapio. The new concept defined in the Environmental Programme of will be tested and introduced more widely in 83% Metsä Forest. 2013 to accomplish a wider training module Metsä Group’s and its suppliers’ perfor– the Nature Management Card. Metsä mance in harvesting operations is constantly Group considers the completion of the Nature evaluated by the employees themselves, interManagement Card, the Nature Management nal controllers, authorities and external manPassport or similar training for harvester agement system auditors. The results of these drivers as one of the most efficient ways to evaluations are used for measuring the perforimprove environmental performance in mance and assessing the development needs, forestry operations. MEETING THE EU TIMBER REGULATION REQUIREMENTS IN WOOD SUPPLY The majority of Metsä Group’s wood supply originates from Finland (some 74% of the whole supply) with part coming from the neighbouring areas around the Baltic Sea. Wood imports from outside the EU come almost entirely from Russia (some 7% of the whole supply). Metsä Group has been one of the pioneers in developing the wood origin tracing systems in Russia. We have gathered wood origin information right from the beginning of our wood supply operations in Russia and used wood supplier and logging site audits to verify the wood origin and sustainability of the wood supply. We have used digital maps for over ten years to follow the origin of wood and to avoid wood originating from unacceptable sources, such as conservation areas where logging is prohibited. In addition, Metsä Group holds third-party verified Chain-of-Custody certificates for the whole wood supply. Metsä Group has assessed these measures in relation to the requirements of the EU Timber Regulation, entering into force in March 2013, and found them sufficient, requiring only minor changes. The practical implementation of the Regulation after its endorsement will indicate if there are any adjustments still to be made. Irrespective of this, Metsä Group is updating the maps and wood origin tracing system for Russia in 2013 to maintain the system on a high and modern level. 19 FOREST MANAGEMENT — SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY SAFEGUARDING NATURE VALUES and strive to minimise our impacts to water valuable forest habitats to the METSO proMapping the biodiversity values in the leased resources. The groundwater reserves and gramme via their own local Metsä Group’s forest areas of Metsä Group continued in different kinds of surface waters from lakes to contact. 2012 in PODPOROZHYE, RUSSIA, with empharivers, streams, ponds and springs are all taken Metsä Group participated in a coopersis on birdlife. As a result, the working group into consideration in our forestry operations. ation network under the METSO programme, suggested a number of places to be defined as Decreasing the impacts to water is one of launched in 2011. The cooper­ation network biologically valuable forests to safeguard the the main environmental targets for Metsä aims to develop the nature management of valuable birdlife habitats. The mapping of the Group’s wood supply. In practice, this means the ecotones of forest areas towards enhancing biodiversity values of Metsä Group’s leased that we have defined actions to meet these game species', and consequently other forest forests in Podporozhye have continued since targets and developed a set of indicators to dwelling, habitat requirements. The project 2007 and will be continued in 2013. follow its implementation and efficiency. In will continue in 2013. Another stakeholder In the forests owned by Metsä Group in 2012, water protection actions included trainproject with Metsä Group’s participation, led Finland, prescribed burning was used to ing on the new water protection requirements by the Forestry Development Centre Tapio, increase biodiversity. Due to the small size and and the further development of internal ended in 2012. The project’s aim was to amount of forest fires in Finland, prescribed control. The efficiency of these actions will be develop landscape management practices, burning has become essential for the species followed in internal and external controls in establish a network of example plots and dependent on disturbances created by fire. The 2013 and 2014. produce up-to-date training material. The prescribed burning of retention tree groups is project also resulted in a landscape manageone example of nature management efforts in WORKING TOGETHER FOR SUSTAINABILITY ment guide for forest owners. commercial forests imitating natural processes In Finland, the Forest Biodiversity Programme to safeguard biodiversity. METSO, initiated in 2008, has continued to gain the forest owners’ support and bring valuTAKING CARE OF OUR WATER RESOURCES able forest habitats under METSO protection. Even though fresh water is not a scarcity in In 2012, we continued to offer a service for the northern forests, we value these reserves forest owners that enables them to offer their THE GROUP'S WOOD SUPPLIES BY COUNTRY IN 2012 EVALUATION OF NATURE MANAGEMENT IN STANDS SUPPLIER AND LOGGING SITE CLASSIFICATION HARVESTED BY METSÄ GROUP IN FINLAND % IN RUSSIA IN 2012 % 100% 70% 60% 80% 50% 60% 40% 40% 30% 20% 20% 10% 0% 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 A B C D FINLAND 74% EXCELLENT SUPPLIER AUDITS A = EXCELLENT BALTIC COUNTRIES 10% GOOD LOGGING SITE AUDITS B = GOOD SWEDEN 7% FAIR C = FAIR RUSSIA 7% POOR D = POOR OTHER 3% COME ON. LET’S GO TO THE FOREST! Within the framework of annual Latvian Forest Days, Metsä Forest Latvia together with Priekuli District council organised the event ‘Come on. Let’s go to the forest!’ in May 2012. Around 1,100 visitors including school children, their parents, teachers and other interested individuals attended the event. Sixteen educational ‘forest stops’ were created by forest sector professionals in order to introduce different forest products and processes to the visitors. The stops were interactive, allowing the participants to learn with a ‘hands-on’ approach. The visitors warmly welcomed the event and expressed their wish to carry on with this tradition and develop it in the future. 20 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY — FOREST MANAGEMENT THE GROUP'S WOOD SUPPLIES BY COUNTRY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1,000 m3 (SOLID OVER BARK) 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 FINLAND BALTIC COUNTRIES RUSSIA SWEDEN GERMANY AND AUSTRIA OTHER ECOSYSTEM SERVICES SUPPORTING SERVICES photosyntesis, water and nutrient cycling, soil formation, maintenance of biodiversity REGULATING SERVICES air quality and climate regulation, CULTURAL SERVICES pollination, erosion regulation recreation outdoor activities, nature tourism, landscape, spiritual and PROVISIONING SERVICES aesthetic values logs, fibre, berries, mushrooms, game, bioenergy MAIN FOREST AREAS OWNED OR LEASED BY METSÄ GROUP FOREST OWNER / TOTAL AREA, OF WHICH PROTECTED COUNTRY LEASEHOLDER HECTARES 1) AREAS, HECTARES CERTIFICATION Finland Metsä-Botnia, Metsät Oy 35.034 679 2) PEFC and FSC Kirkniemen Kartano Oy 961 217 2) PEFC Russia OOO Metsä Forest 215,082 51,658 3) PEFC and FSC In addition to the areas presented in the table, Metsä Group Podporozhye owns small forest estates in Finland and in Estonia altogether 240 hectares. Further, Metsä Group owns shares (<50%) in ZAO Petrovles 55,794 19,714 3) PEFC and FSC the Finnish forest-owning entities Finsilva Oyj and Suomen Metsäsijoitus Oy, and in the Russian forestry holding company Podporozhye Vologodskie Lesopromyshlenniki. 1) Including forestry land and other land within the forest estate/area. 2) Including nature conservation areas, Natura 2000 areas and conservation programme areas. Small-scale valuable forest habitats and the buffer zones of watercourses are not included in the figures. 3) Including forests with a protective function (e.g. forests along watercourses); those with special limitations of the utilisation regime; and biologically valuable forests that have been excluded from commercial use by the company. Strictly protected areas are excluded from the lease areas in Russia. Small-scale valuable forest habitats are not included in the figures. FOREST MANAGEMENT — SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY 21 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN IS A PREMISE For us, responsible purchasing and TARGET PROGRESS COMMENTS a sustainable supply chain are prerequisites that will not be compromised. Sustainability To have a supplier Code of Code of Conduct included in all We will proceed with the earlier Conduct included in all new new and renewed contracts target to ensure that sustainability throughout the entire supply chain supplier contracts. since June 2011, in total of 71 is taken into account in all new enables us to secure our own as contracts in 2012. contracts. Additionally, we will further develop risk assessment well as our business partners’ longand audit practices on sustainterm success, thus strengthening ability to identify and audit the risk our aim to be a profitable and suppliers from the sustainability point of view. responsible business operator. We have set an ambitious target to train all Metsä Group’s purchasing personnel on managing sustainability in the supply chain. The majority of our purchases, 99% (98% The Supplier Code of Conduct emphain 2011), are from Europe, which is our main sises the respect for human rights, a safe workMetsä Group Purchasing is organised into 17 supply region. Our target is to use local suping environment as well as actions against main categories, including pulp, energy, logispliers when feasible. About 88% (87%) of our corruption and bribery. The use of forced or tics, chemicals and pigments as well as indirect purchases are from countries where we have child labour is unconditionally prohibited. materials and services. Purchasing wood raw our own manufacturing operations. The Supplier Code of Conduct is an material is the responsibility of Metsä Forest. integral part of any agreement documentation The Group’s spend in external purchases, SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT IMPLEMENTATION and has been taken into account in all new excluding wood procurement in 2012, was over CONTINUES and renewed contracts during 2012. This EUR 2 billion, slightly lower than in 2011. Metsä Group launched a Supplier Code of work to broaden the coverage of contracts Metsä Group focuses on ethical, reliable Conduct in 2011 in order to ensure that we that include the Supplier Code of Conduct and environmentally sound suppliers, whose only cooperate with suppliers who act responwill also continue in 2013. quality and pricing will facilitate long-term sibly. We expect all of our suppliers to commit cooperation and responsible profitability. Our to sustainability, comply with a high standard SUPPLIER AUDITING PROCESS aim is to develop trusting cooperation with of business ethics and follow good working During 2012, we continued the development selected key suppliers. practices. of a common monitoring process for our suppliers as well as preparing audit plans for each of the purchasing categories. In 2012, COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP'S PURCHASES IN 2012 THE GROUP'S EXTERNAL PURCHASES1) Metsä Group performed 52 supplier audits % OF MATERIAL AND SERVICE PURCHASES BY COUNTRY IN 2012 % (83 in 2011). One of the most important issues is to ensure that there are no incidents of child, forced or compulsory labour in the suppliers’ operations. In 2012, no risk for such incidents was identified during the audits. The process and tools used in the 2012 audits were analysed in November 2012; moreover, identified improvement areas will WOOD 27% PULP AND RECOVERED FIBRE 16% be further developed in 2013 to improve INDIRECT MATERIALS AND SERVICES LOGISTICS 16% 14% FINLAND SWEDEN 58% 15% transparency and the follow-up of agreed ENERGY 11% OTHER EU COUNTRIES 14% activities. CHEMICALS, PIGMENTS AND FILLERS 10% GERMANY 11% OTHER (INCLUDING PACKAGING MATERIALS) 7% OUTSIDE EUROPE 1% 1) Wood procurement excluded 22 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY — SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT MORE EFFICIENT LOGISTICS Logistics plays an important role entrepreneurs, for example, commit to having Areas (SECA) – namely the Baltic Sea, the in Metsä Group’s operations. written work contracts with all employees and North Sea, the English Channel and the In order for the raw material to provide occupational health care. Furthercoastal areas of North America. In these areas, turn into final products, several more, we are continuously educating harvestthe maximum sulphur content of marine fuel transportation steps are required ing entrepreneurs on forest certification and will decrease from 1.0% to 0.1% from 1 Janu– transporting the raw materials transportation entrepreneurs on more efficient ary 2015. In other European sea areas, the to our mills, conveying the semilogistics, which is made possible by improving maximum sulphur content of marine fuel will finished goods between production the design of raw wood collection routes. decrease from 3.5% to 0.5% already by 2020 plants and final delivery to our More­over, the majority of our contractual based on the EU Directive. We are investigatcustomers. This efficient and drivers in Finland have completed safety card ing all possible low-emission maritime transreliable logistics service is possible training to ensure accident prevention. portation options, considering our routings as because of our extensive vendor In many areas of Finland, we are also a well as evaluating alternative modes of transnetwork. significant employer as the majority of our portation. road transportation and harvesting providers It has been estimated that the new regulaWe acknowledge that transportation plays a are entrepreneurs. tions imposes EUR 200 million extra costs significant environmental impact. For this Metsä Group’s wood raw material, pulp annually for Finnish forest industries. Metsä reason, we aim to continuously seek new, and products are transported by using road, Group is committed to reduce emissions in a more efficient and sustainable solutions to rail, maritime transport and floating. Our cost-effective way combined with efforts to logistics throughout the whole transportation focus is to move from road transportation to ensure global level playing field. We are also chain. rail and shipping when feasible. following carefully all plans and preparations An example of our sustainable transportathat might further increase environmental tion solution is ‘backhauling’. Returning a CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT regulations in logistics and transportation. truck back to the mill with an empty load is The amendments to the EU’s Sulphur Direcby no means sustainable as it requires almost tive regulating ship emissions will come into as much time and fuel as a fully loaded one. force from the beginning of 2015. In the This is why we favour backhauling, a more International Maritim Organisation's (IMO) sustainable and economic solution in all regulations the target is to decrease the sulpotential transportation routes. Backhauling phur content in Sulphur Emission Control means that more than 50% of the route is driven loaded. This is possible, for instance, by improved route planning, driving via more than one loading point, or by loading several Wood and other raw materials for the folding boxboard materials such as pulp and wood chips on the needed for a cereal carton, and the product itself are same vehicle. As Metsä Group aims to increase SIMCOTE transported by using different vehicles. The main transport transport efficiency in all its operations, this CASE mode is ship, when looking at kilometres weighted by the target is a key performance indicator and part mass of cargo. The folding boxboard travels approximately 2,800 km to the cereal producer’s gate, mainly by ship. of the bonus systems in certain positions within the Group. As in every step of our supply chain, also in logistics, we ensure that sustainability is TONNE KILOMETRES BY TRANSPORT MODE taken into account in all cooperation with SHIP ROAD RAIL vendors. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is an essential part of our contracts with both wood harvesting and transportation service providers. In addition, we also have a check list defin59% 26% 15% ing our partner’s liability. We require that all LOGISTICS — SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY 23 sions of 960,000 tonnes the external supplies more than substitute our climate change effect. A KEY PLAYER A large share of the Group’s purchased electricity was produced by using carbonneutral energy sources, such as nuclear and IN BIOENERGY hydro power. Together, with wood-based bioenergy, these totalled 79% of all energy sources for purchased electricity. In general, the Group’s electricity consumption totalled 4,880 GWh (5,219 GWh). Metsä Group is one of the leaders in bioenergy generation within the industry. We have systematically increased the share of bioenergy in INCREASING THE SHARE OF BIOENERGY energy sourcing. Over the last few years, we have also increasingly In 2012, we completed three major bioenergy expanded our operations to supply wood biomass fuels to third parties. projects that further increase our already high proportion of bioenergy. Together, they reduce the Group's annual carbon dioxide load of fossil fuels by some 200,000 tonnes. TARGET PROGRESS COMMENTS A biopower plant was launched in conjunction with Metsä Board's KYRO MILL in To reduce fossil-based CO2 -27% (2009–2012) In 2012, we took major steps October. The plant replaces natural gas with emissions in production by 30% towards the target by launching per product tonne by 2020 from the new bioenergy plants at Joutrenewable fuels, predominantly bark, whole the 2009 level. seno, Kyro and Lohja mills. tree chips, crushed stumps and other wood To improve energy efficiency by 4% (2009–2012) Although specific energy saving residues. The plant produces electricity and 10% by 2020 from the 2009 actions at mills were completed as heat for Kyro mill as well as for the neighbourlevel. planned, the overall energy effiing district of Hämeenkyrö. The fossil CO2 ciency improvement was modest in 2012. This was because of low emissions from Kyro mill will be reduced by production efficiencies at several approximately 100,000 tonnes per year. production lines after the ramp-up phases following the new investHereby, the carbon footprints for the folding ments. boxboards and wallpaper base produced at Kyro mill will be reduced by half. A bioenergy heating plant, which uses Increasing the share of bioenergy is one of the the share of wood-based solid biofuels wood by-products from production, was two main contributors in our efforts to reduce accounted for 63% and in purchased electriccompleted in Lohja in conjunction with the fossil CO2 emissions to meet our target. ity 4%. Metsä Wood's KERTO MILL. Metsä Wood and The other key measure is improving energy Since 2009, Metsä Group has systematiits partners started supplying steam to the mill efficiency. In addition to climate change mitically developed and grown its own direct and district heat to the local community gation and other environmental benefits, work wood-based biomass supplies to third party during the last quarter of 2012. towards these targets also helps Metsä Group During second half of 2012, Metsä Fibre's to improve its cost efficiency and competitivenew gasification plant at JOUTSENO MILL ness. LAST YEAR WE started to produce energy from bark in the COMPLETED THREE form of biogas, which replaced natural gas in LEADING BIOENERGY PRODUCER AND SUPPLIER MAJOR BIOENERGY the lime kiln. Hence, the mill will not need Metsä Group’s total energy consumption of PROJECTS THAT FURTHER any external energy during normal operation. 29.0 TWh (31.1 TWh in 2011) decreased by INCREASE OUR ALREADY As a result, the mill will be the first carbon6% mainly as a result of lower production HIGH PROPORTION OF neutral chemical pulp mill in Finland. figures. The share of wood-based biofuels in BIOENERGY. Metsä Fibre has also launched a feasibility the Group’s own energy production accounted study to increase the use of renewable fuels at for 83% (80%). The share of wood-based KEMI MILL in Finland. One possible producbioenergy of total energy consumption energy generators mainly in Finland. Today, tion technology is a gasification plant similar including purchased heat and electricity was Metsä Group is one of the biggest suppliers to the one at Joutseno mill. Potential bioen66% (63%). with customers throughout Finland. Our total ergy investments are also being planned at In addition to its own operations, Metsä of 4.2 TWh supplies of biomass enable our other mills. Group supplied 2.2 TWh of wood-based customers to replace fossil fuels and hence biomass from the mills’ side streams and reduce their fossil CO2 emissions, roughly FOCUS ON ENERGY EFFICIENCY 2.0 TWh of forest-based logging residual to estimated, by some 1,200,000 tonnes annually. In 2012, the energy efficiency of Metsä Group’s external energy producers. In purchased heat, Taking into account our own fossil CO2 emisproduction processes improved further. 24 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY — ENERGY AND CLIMATE BIOGENIC CARBON CYCLE CO2 RELEASED TO ATMOSPHERE PRODUCTION NATURAL DEGRADATION CARBON STORE IN FOREST CARBON STORE IN PRODUCTS ENERGY RECOVERY The work is supported by the Energy EffiAs a result of our long-term target to Econique Group. The award is for Metsä ciency Systems that have been in place since increase our energy efficiency, we have manTissue’s Sustainable Low Carbon Tissue 2006. To be compatible with the latest standaged to improve it by 4% since 2009, regardManufacturing Project that is linked to Metsä ards, almost all Metsä Board’s mills as well as less of the uneven production rates during the Tissue’s project to improve energy efficiency Metsä Tissue’s mills in Germany have been ramp-up phases after the capacity increase by 20% by 2012 from the 2007 level. granted the new ISO 50001 Energy Manageinvestments at several mills in 2011 and 2012. ment Systems standard certificate. Metsä Tissue was granted the Energy MITIGATING CLIMATE CHANGE The target of energy efficiency is to reduce Masters Award 2012 by Europe’s leading The GHG Protocol Scope 1 covers all direct the specific energy consumption of products. networking platform for energy management greenhouse gas emissions, Scope 2 indirect The main methods to improve energy effiin the industrial sector, the Energy Masters by GHG emissions from consumption of ciency are equipment and process modifications and optimising operations. Efficiency improvements are an integral part of all major THE GROUP'S FUEL CONSUMPTION IN 2012 THE GROUP'S ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION IN 2012 % investments in production capacity. % New energy efficiency improvement potentials are continuously studied by conducting energy analyses, cooperating with equipment manufacturers and developing procedures internally. In 2012, altogether 87 actions (135 in 2011) were completed which potentially will reduce electricity consumption by some 101 GWh (54 GWh) and heat by 179 GWh WOOD-BASED BIOFUELS 83% (260 GWh) annually, thus eliminating fossil GAS OIL 9% 5% INTERNALLY CO-GENERATED ELECTRICITY PURCHASED NUCLEAR POWER 51% 29% CO2 emissions by approximately 38,000 COAL 3% PURCHASED FOSSIL-BASED ELECTRICITY 10% PEAT 0.7% PURCHASED HYDRO POWER 8% tonnes (47,500 tonnes) a year. OTHER FOSSIL FUELS 0.1% PURCHASED WOOD-BASED ELECTRICITY 2% ENERGY AND CLIMATE — ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY 25 purchased electricity, heat or steam and Scope 3 other indirect emissions, such as the producENERGY AND CLIMATE tion of purchased materials and fuels, transThe production of materials needed for one cereal carton port-related activities, waste disposal, etc. SIMCOTE The Group’s fossil carbon dioxide emismade of Simcote folding boxboard generates 41 grams of CASE CO2 emissions, the main source being pulp and folding sions at the mills (Scope 1) decreased by 20% boxboard production. The contribution of packaging to 962,000 tonnes (1,200,000 tonnes in 2011) compared to the total environmental impact of the fooddue to changes in the production structure packaging-system is relatively small. Packaging covers 5–10% of the CO2 emissions for and lower production volumes. Geographithe total food product’s carbon footprint including the food stuff. cally, 51% of the emissions were released in Source: MTT FutupackEko2010 Finland. Emissions of the production of purchased electricity and heat (Scope 2) were 392,000 ENERGY USE BY SOURCE CO2 EMISSIONS BY SOURCE tonnes (438,000 tonnes). Again, 50% of the purchased energy materialised in Finland. Scope 1 and 2 emissions per tonne of production were 27% lower than in 2009. Our long-term reduction target is 30% by 2020 from the 2009 emission level. Currently Metsä Group does not have sufficient data for calculating Group-wide emissions from producing and transporting BIOMASS 30% the main raw materials (Scope 3). NUCLEAR POWER 24% CRUDE OIL 18% PULP AND BOARD PRODUCTION 45% PEAT 12% PRODUCTION OF OTHER RAW MATERIALS  23% CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT NATURAL GAS 10% ENERGY PRODUCTION 13% HARD COAL 3% TRANSPORTATION 13% In 2012, Metsä Group’s mills continued prepOTHER NON-RENEWABLE SOURCES 2% FORESTRY OPERATIONS 6% OTHER RENEWABLE SOURCES 1% PRODUCTION OF PACKAGING MATERIALS 0.3% arations for the EU’s third CO2 Emissions ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT EXPRESSED AS THE GROUP’S ENERGY CONSUMPTION GREENHOUSE GAS EFFECT (CO2 EQUIVALENT) SPECIFIC ENERGY CONSUMPTION DEVELOPMENT ON PRIMARY ENERGY LEVEL GWh BY BUSINESS AREA 1,000 TONNES 100% 35,000 2,000 30,000 98% 1,500 25,000 96% 20,000 1,000 94% 15,000 10,000 500 92% 5,000 90% 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 PURCHASED HEAT METSÄ WOOD PURCHASED ELECTRICITY METSÄ FIBRE FOSSIL FUELS METSÄ BOARD WOOD-BASED BIOFUELS METSÄ TISSUE ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY BUSINESS AREA Metsä Tissue Metsä Board Metsä Fibre 1) Metsä Wood 2) Metsä Group total 3) 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Wood-based biofuels 0% 0% 17% 19% 45% 41% 2% 2% 65% 63% Fossil fuels 4% 4% 6% 8% 3% 3% 0% 0% 13% 15% Purchased electricity 7% 6% 18% 18% -6% -4% 2% 2% 21% 22% Purchased heat 2% 1% 2% 2% -3% -4% 1% 1% 1% 0% Total primary energy 12% 11% 44% 47% 39% 37% 5% 4% 100% 100% 1) Most of the energy that Metsä Fibre produces in excess of its own needs is sold. Metsä Fibre is a net seller of heat and electricity, and also sells part of its bark. 2) Nearly all of the heat purchased by Metsä Wood is produced from the wood material by-products of its production plants. 3) Total energy is shown in terms of fuel, i.e. the quantities of heat and electricity purchased have been converted to the corresponding amount of fuel that would be required to produce them. 26 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY — ENERGY AND CLIMATE Trading Scheme (EU ETS) for the period Emission Directive that comes into force in 2013–2020. Hence, the updated CO2 emis2016. Due to more stringent emission limits, sions permits were nationally applied. minor investments will be required for boilers Although applied already in 2011, the Euroat several Metsä Group mills. pean Commission’s decision on the final In 2012, the European Parliament approved a new Energy Efficiency directive which will be effective from 2014. During ALREADY 83% OF THE 2013, national implementation plans will be FUELS USED BY METSÄ prepared. For the time being, Metsä Group GROUP ARE BIO-BASED. expects that our Energy Efficiency System and on-going continuous efforts are for the most part sufficient for compliance. allocations of free-of-charge CO2 allowances per mill is still pending. During 2013, the EU is expected to make a proposal on possible Emission data at the Group, Business Area and mill levels are available on pages 44–47. structural changes in the EU ETS. Metsä Group has evaluated the appropriate measures to comply with the Industrial ENERGY AND CLIMATE — ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY 27 PLENTY OF FRESH WATER CLOSE TO OUR OPERATIONS Global water sources are it effectively. This minimises the wastewater 50 tonnes (79 tonnes), and nitrogen load distributed unevenly. As water is emissions and saves energy, thus decreasing decreased to 637 tonnes (693 tonnes). essential in our processes, our mills the impact on the climate. are located in areas with abundant The percentage of recycled and reused CHANGES IN BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT water sources. Nevertheless, water varies mill by mill, mainly depending on In November 2012, the European Commisto minimise wastewater emissions product quality requirements and local water sion issued a blueprint to safeguard Europe’s and energy consumption, we conditions. Mills have set their own targets waters by developing its water policy in a more continuously seek new ways to and continuous improvement plans for water sustainable way. In the blueprint, the Comreduce the use of fresh water in our use in their environmental management sysmission sets its ambitions for the future of the processes by recycling it effectively. tems. EU water policy. The main aim is to enhance the implementation of the water framework Metsä Group needs water in all its production directive in all member states by 2015 in order processes – it is needed for cleaning and coolto guarantee good quality fresh water for ing as well as for making steam for thermal OUR MILLS ARE LOCATED everyone. In addition, the aim is to reduce energy. As our mills are located in areas with IN AREAS WITH water scarcity and make water management generous water sources our water use does not ABUNDANT WATER more efficient. The follow-up actions can set limit other water use in the same region. SOURCES. possible restrictions on the use and pricing of Additionally, our process water is cleaned water, as well as a mandatory water footprint carefully before releasing it back to the nature, calculations. ensuring that the environment surrounding CALCULATING WATER USE BY PRODUCT our mills is not threatened by our water use. Metsä Board calculated the water footprint of Simcote, a folding boxboard product as part Detailed information on our mills’ water use and wastewater discharges are reported on pages 44–47. PURELY SURFACE WATER of the product’s life-cycle assessment piloted In 2012, our fresh water intake totalled in 2012. A water inventory analysis covering 258 million cubic meters (370 million m3 in paper production (gate-to-gate) for all tissue 2011), almost all 98% (97%) was surface products was also completed to enable water water from rivers and lakes. Process water footprint calculations later as the method is intake decreased to 149,096 m3 (163,794 m3), settled. THE GROUP’S WATER USE BY WATER STRESS INDEX IN 2012 and cooling water intake to 94,560 m3 (115,094 m3). SECURING LOCAL IMPACTS OF WASTEWATER As our production sites are located in TREATMENT areas with abundant water resources, the mills’ Process waters are carefully cleaned before water intake is typically less than 10% of the they are released back into a river, lake or the total flow of a river or a lake. Therefore, we can sea with most mills operating their own wastesay that our mills’ water intake does not limit water purification plants. Furthermore, each other water use in the region. When groundmill has its own specific environmental permit water is used, the intake volume is determined which sets limits for pollutants. ABUNDANT WATER RESOURCES 1)97% and carefully controlled according to each The main wastewater impacts are eutroMODERATE WATER STRESS AREA 2)3% mill’s environmental permit. phication and oxygen demand caused by SEVERE WATER STRESS AREA 3)<0.1% phosphorus and nitrogen nutrients and 1) Water stress index (WSI) <0.1 2) WSI=0.1–0.5 MINIMISING WATER USE organic matter. The Group’s total waste water 3) WSI=0.5–1.0 We continuously seek new ways to reduce the volume totalled 149 million m3 (164 million Source: Pfister et al., 2009. The water stress index is calculated based on the total annual freshwater withdrawals versus local hydrological use of fresh water in our processes by recycling m3). The Group’s phosphorus load totalled availability. 28 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY — WATER NATURAL WATER CYCLE WATER CHANGES ITS FORM, BUT DOES NOT DISAPPEAR Our mills and fibre raw material sources are mainly located in the Nordic countries, which have plenty of good quality fresh water available. Forests play a crucial role in the region’s EVAPORATION natural water cycle as they filter rainwater RAIN before it enters the groundwater or flows into rivers and lakes thus maintaining high-quality water. SURFACE Forests do not need irrigation in boreal WATER areas, nor do they lower groundwater levels or otherwise reduce water availability in the region. In commercially managed forests, NATURAL WATER CLEANING ENVIRONMENT trees are part of the natural water cycle. SYSTEM GROUNDWATER WATER WATER FLOWS BOUNDED WATER IN FIBRES AND OTHER RAW MATERIALS BOUNDED WATER IN BOARD SIMCOTE Water needed for 0.05 L 0.05 L CASE the production of SURFACE WATER COOLING WATER the folding 6.9 L 5.4 L boxboard for one cereal carton is 7.3 litres. Some 93% of this is related to pulp and folding boxboard production. Calculations include water needed for raw material procurement and production, but exclude water used by growing trees and turbine CRADLE-TO-CEREAL PRODUCER'S GATE water from hydropower production. FOR ONE CEREAL PROCESS WATER CARTON 1.5 L GROUNDWATER WATER VAPOUR AND OTHERS 0.3 L 0.3 L WATER USE BY BUSINESS AREA ACIDIFICATION (SO2 EQUIVALENT) BY BUSINESS AREA EUTROPHICATION (P EQUIVALENT) BY BUSINESS AREA 1,000 m3 TONNES TONNES 200,000 12,000 300 250 150,000 9,000 200 100,000 6,000 150 100 50,000 3,000 50 0 0 0 2011 2012 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 PROCESS WATER COOLING WATER METSÄ TISSUE METSÄ BOARD METSÄ FIBRE METSÄ WOOD WATER — ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY 29 FROM RE-USE TO REDUCE Re-using residuals and waste is one tonnes i.e. 91%) for example in bioenergy waste. In Metsä Group’s operations, deinking way of improving our material production or as fertilizer. The amount of sludge is a prime example of incineration efficiency and reducing landfill hazardous waste was 2,021 tonnes (1,964 potential and also the potential to drastically waste. One important facet of this tonnes) mainly consisting of oils, chemicals or reduce the amount of waste with increasing work is to reduce the amounts of batteries. solid content. waste generated in our production Forest and agricultural fertilisation with processes. IMPROVEMENTS IN RE-USE industrial by-products and waste-based prodIn 2012, Metsä Group began to look into the ucts is expected to increase globally in the Metsä Group has reduced landfilled waste possibilities of decreasing the amount of green near future. We are following this progress during recent years as a result of extensive liquor dreg by diminishing its lime mud conefforts to improve waste re-utilisation. For tent. Lime mud has currently good re-use example, Metsä Group has been involved in possibilities, for example as fertilizer. SeparatALMOST 90% OF THE several large earth construction projects ing the lime mud from the green liquor dreg RESIDUALS AND WASTE involving waste re-use during 2012. could improve the re-use potential of both ARE RECYCLED. We have also invested in R&D on re-use materials. to guarantee a good outlook for the future as well. To ensure minimal impacts and the best CHANGES IN BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT closely and have taken the first steps in forest re-use potential, we strive to increase the solid Legislation in Finland and Europe is aiming to fertilisation with fly ashes produced at our content and decrease the organic content of further decrease the amount of waste and, at productions sites. Metsä Forest will provide an our wastes. the same time, improve the quality and re-use ash fertilisation service for forest owners from In 2012, the total amount of residuals and potential of residues. Only allowing inorganic the beginning of 2013. Both lime mud and waste generated by Metsä Group’s production wastes in landfilling and for re-use in earth fibre sludge also have great potential in fertiliunits was 691,572 tonnes (789,493 tonnes in construction will make the industry seek new sation and soil improvement. 2011) mainly consisting of fibre sludge, ashes solutions for wastes with high organic content As legislation is driving the industry to from energy production and lime ash from from incineration. When the incineration reduce and re-use, it will be our challenge to chemical pulp production. Of this only potential and landfilling tax are dependent on overcome current barriers and opportunity to 81,435 tonnes (69,047 tonnes) was landfilled the wet weight of the waste, it is clear that in develop new innovative products and proand 608,117 tonnes representing 88% of the the near future the industry will need to invest cesses. total waste amount was recycled (718,482 in solutions that increase the solid content of THE GROUP'S RESIDUES BY SOURCE IN 2012 WASTE MANAGEMENT BY BUSINESS AREA % TONNES 500,000 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 0 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 METSÄ METSÄ METSÄ METSÄ PROCESS WASTE 72% TISSUE BOARD FIBRE WOOD WASTE WATER TREATMENT WASTE 19% ENERGY PRODUCTION WASTE 4% RECYCLING FOR MATERIAL REUSE MUNICIPAL WASTE 3% RECYCLING FOR ENERGY USE PACKING, ABSORBENT AND FILTER WASTE 1% LANDFILLED WASTE OTHER 1% HAZARDOUS WASTE 30 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY — MATERIAL EFFICIENCY Producing folding boxboard needed for one cereal carton generates 1.8 grams of waste that is recycled and 0.4 grams of waste that is landfilled. The amount of hazardous waste accounts for 0.2% of the total waste. Additionally, many sideSIMCOTE streams of pulp production are circulated within the pulp mill and utilised in CASE energy recovery, which is not included in the recycling figures. Waste calculation covers only waste originating from the manufacture of pulp and folding boxboard. This accounts for only approximately 8% of all wastes and production residues of HAZARDOUS the Simcote’s LCA (gradle-to cereal producers gate). WASTE WASTE BY DESTINATION 0.2% % OF TOTAL WASTE FROM PULP AND BOARD PRODUCTION LANDFILL WASTE MATERIAL RECOVERY ENERGY RECOVERY 10% 48% 42% 31 MATERIAL EFFICIENCY — ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY system. At KEMI MILL, the new recausticising plant has improved the collection and treatMINIMISING ment of mild odorous gases. RAUMA MILL has started new utilisation trials for lime rejects as fertilisers and neutralENVIRONMENTAL ising chemicals at effluent treatment. The mill has also partially replaced heavy oil by tar oil IMPACTS as fuel in the lime kiln, which reduces the mill’s fossil CO2 emissions. A development project was initiated in Metsä Fibre to improve the monitoring of air We regularly assess the environmental risks of our emissions and support the operation of the own operations as well as those related to our recovery boilers and lime kilns. The aim is to partners. The environmental impacts and risks related reduce air emissions with optimised producto our operations are mitigated by continuously tion conditions. developing our production processes. Environmental risk surveys were updated at Äänekoski, Joutseno and Rauma mills. METSÄ WOOD Each mill has environmental permits that set METSÄ BOARD The new biofuel power plant at LOHJA MILL the limits for discharges to water, emissions to A new biopower plant was taken into operaenables the full utilisation of low-value byair, noise, how to diminish accidental releases tion at KYRO MILL in October. The new plant products at the mill site and reduces the need and conduct regular environmental risk analyreplaces natural gas with renewable biofuels, for transportation. MERIKARVIA SAWMILL ses at production units, among others. In reducing the fossil CO2 emissions from the installed a new economiser for more efficient addition, Metsä Group has regular training to mill by approximately 100,000 tonnes per heat recovery from the power plant flue gases. prepare for possible emergency situations as year. Kyro mill also installed a new treatment The mill also renewed and improved the flue well as crisis management teams at the Group, system with broader coverage to collect the gas treatment system for particles to ensure Business Area and mill levels. odorous gases emitted from the effluent treatlow emissions to air. ment plant. Several improvements were also A new baling unit for planed wood chips IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENTAL made at the effluent treatment process to was taken into operation at KASKINEN’S PERFORMANCE improve the stability of the process and ensure UPGRADING PLANT, which reduces noise and In 2012, Metsä Group's three bioenergy prosufficient treatment capacity. The mill also enables the further utilisation of the byjects reduce the Group's carbon dioxide load reduced its environmental noise by servicing products. Improvements were also made in the of fossil fuels by some 200,000 tonnes annuthe exhaust fans and replacing any if needed. collection of sawdust, reducing particle emisally. Additionally, we invested in projects that KASKINEN MILL installed equipment for sions to air. PUNKAHARJU MILL invested in a increased the mills’ production capacities. screening the bottom ash from the power new sludge dewatering unit, which will Metsä Group’s capital expenditure totalled plant boiler in order to be able to reuse the improve the drying efficiency and reduce the EUR 204 million (EUR 227 million in 2011). screened sand. This is expected to reduce the amount of sludge waste. The new sawing line In 2012, Metsä Group received from the amount of waste at the mill by some 1,000 at VILPPULA SAWMILL reduces noise and Government EUR 2,0 million (EUR 33,000) tonnes annually. SIMPELE MILL was able to improves raw material efficiency. as a support for investments. reduce noise with better insulation. Environmental risk surveys were updated ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES METSÄ TISSUE at Kyro and Simpele mills. We constantly evaluate and monitor our A new gas-fired power plant was completed at liabilities from previous operations at closed KRAPKOWICE MILL reducing, for example, the METSÄ FIBRE down, sold or leased industrial properties as sulphur and particle emissions to air by more JOUTSENO MILL took into operation a new well as at decommissioned landfills. We have than 90% compared to the previous coal-fired gasification plant, which produces biogas to worked actively to reduce our old environpower plant. DUREN, STOTZHEIM and ZILINA replace the natural gas in the lime kiln. This mental liabilities during the past years by MILLS were able to reduce their fresh water use reduces the fossil CO2 emissions of the unit by remediation work at contaminated sites and with investments and adjustments in the 60,000 tonnes per year and enables the mill to landfills. Environmental liabilities are operation models. RAUBACH MILL, on the utilise most of the residual bark on-site. Joutrecorded in accordance with the current enviother hand, reduced its energy use with minor seno mill also continued the trial for utilising ronmental protection laws and regulations operational adjustments and improvements in process residuals such as lime and wood rejects when it is possible that the obligation’s the mill’s infrastructure. in soil improvement. The spare incinerator for amount can be estimated. Our environmental odorous gases was replaced with a new one, obligations at the end of 2012 totalled EUR improving the usability of the gas treatment 27 million (EUR 26 million in 2011). 32 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY — ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS PER UNIT IN 2012 BUSINESS AREA UNIT INCIDENTS CORRECTIVE ACTIONS METSÄ TISSUE Mänttä mill The permit limits for COD, BOD, phosphorous and nitrogen Problems were mainly caused by the co-treatment of emissions to water were exceeded several times in the first half municipal waste waters. Several changes have been made of the year due to operational problems in wastewater treatment. in the operation parameters of the plant, including an elevated sludge concentration in the biological treatment stage. A more stable operating model was found towards the end of the year. METSÄ BOARD Kyro mill The permit limit for COD, phosphorous and nitrogen emissions Several corrective actions have been taken, including to water were exceeded between February and May due to adjustments in the operation parameters, new aeration severe operational problems in the biological treatment plant. units in the activated sludge plant and maintenance of the The suspected primary reason for the problem was insufficient bioreactor. nutrient dosing to the biological treatment stage. Simpele mill Permit limit for phosphorous emissions to water was exceeded in Changes were made in the nutrient dosing program of the February due to excess nutrient dosing into the biological effluplant and additional training was given to the operators. ent treatment plant. Kaskinen mill The emission limit for particles to air from the chemical recovery The broken filter was replaced and the flue gas system plant was exceeded in May and June due to a broken bag filter in checked. the flue gas treatment. METSÄ FIBRE Rauma mill The usability of the strong odorous gases treatment did not The broken equipment was replaced and improvements reach the permit requirement of 98% as the monthly average in made to reduce the risk of similar incidents. February. This was due to equipment failures and operational problems after a mill-wide electrical blackout. Emissions of odorous sulphur compounds (TRS) and particles to New guidelines were issued for maintenance of the equipair from the smelt dissolver exceeded the permit limit from ment. Technical changes were made to prevent the acciMarch to July. This was caused by a human error during maintedental bypass of the flue gas washer. nance work of the flue gas treatment system. The non-compliance was verified in an annual emission measurement. Joutseno mill Emissions of odorous sulphur compounds (TRS) to air from the The daily monitoring of the process and air emissions was lime kiln exceeded the permit limit set as the daily average three improved. times during the year. These were caused by temporary operational disturbances. Recent projects include the landscaping of The permit limits for wastewater paramproceeding and should be finalised during a closed down landfill in Kaskinen and remeeters were exceeded at Svir sawmill in Russia. 2013. Metsä Group follows up the process diation work in the Niemenranta area in Svir Timber paid RUB 81,300 for exceeding closely and constantly analyses the effects on Tampere, Finland, to prepare the area for the permit limits. Additionally Federal Fishits operations. residential and recreational use. eries Agency ordered a fine of RUB 5,500. In May 2012, the European Commission Cooperation with the authorities has conissued the second draft of the revised Best ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Available Techniques Reference Document All environmental incidents that resulted in (BREF) for the production of pulp, paper and major permit violations, claims, compensaWE CONDUCT REGULAR board. According to the Industrial Emissions tions or significant media coverage are ENVIRONMENTAL RISK Directive, the BAT-associated emission limit detailed in the table below. Additionally, ANALYSES AND values set in the document will become the minor and short-term non-compliances with TRAININGS TO PREPARE basis for all environmental permits within the environmental permit requirements were FOR POSSIBLE pulp and paper industry. Environmental perreported at Metsä Board’s Simpele and EMERGENCY SITUATIONS. mits of all pulp and paper mills in Europe Husum mills as well as at Metsä Tissue’s Zilina need to be revised within four years after the and Pauliström mills. The authorities were publications of the new BREF. Metsä Group informed immediately and corrective actions tinued to solve the production problems at the has actively participated in the commenting were taken in all cases. There were no permit mill. For example, the water volume in the process facilitated by the Confederation of violations at Metsä Wood production sites. sedimentation basin of the sprinkling water European Paper Industries, CEPI. Keski-Suomi District Court ordered a treatment plant will be increased in order to total fine of EUR 7,060 for four persons from decrease the flow of suspended solids into the Äänevoima Oy for causing environmental local river. Read more about the mills' environmental parameters on pages 44–47. damage during the oil spill incident which occurred in August 2011. In addition, CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Äänevoima Oy was ordered to pay a corporate The implementation of the EU’s Industrial fine of EUR 40,000. Emissions Directive is in national legislation ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT — ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY 33 cation and the feedback was altogether positive. The local stakeholders were especially satisfied at being given the possibility to express their ACTIVE ENGAGEMENT opinions. THE FOREST INDUSTRY IN SOCIAL MEDIA WITH STAKEHOLDERS Metsä Group is an active member of the Finnish Forest Industries Federation that promotes a competitive and innovative operating environment for the forest industry. As a member company, Metsä Group was involved Metsä Group conducted an theme is rapidly gaining importance and in a social media analysis that aimed to deterextensive stakeholder survey as reassured us that even though our performine the forest industry’s reputation in the a part of a Group-wide materiality mance level in social responsibility is high, we social media world and to learn which of our analysis in 2011. Based on the need to provide more comprehensive and stakeholder groups are present there. analysis, we identified the most proactive communication on the issue. Based on the analysis, the most active essential themes for our stakeholder group in forest industry-related sustainability work. In order to STAKEHOLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE ON FSC® discussions were individual citizens followed continuously develop the dialogue CERTIFICATION by the authorities, non-governmental organisawe have with our stakeholders, we In early 2012, Metsä Group started to test tions, scientists, and other professionals as have carried out different activities Finland's new Forest Stewardship Council® well as media representatives. during the year, which allow us to (FSC®, Licence Code FSC-C014476) certifiThe discussions during the study in late better engage with our stakeholders cation standard in part of its own forests. spring 2012 focused on global forest legislation, and thus improve our operations in Later in the year, it was awarded an FSC the review of the EU’s Sulphur Directive, clia sustainable manner. group certificate that covers around 35,000 mate change conferences, palm oil and community involvement. Emerging trends were nanoEven though we already accomplished much technology, bioeconomy and illegal timber. during 2012, we aim to build a more systemMETSÄ GROUP’S These findings assist Metsä Group to further atic stakeholder engagement process starting CUSTOMERS develop its own presence in social media and in 2013 to further advance open dialogue INCREASINGLY REQUEST also understand which stakeholder groups can with our most important and active stakeMORE INFORMATION ON be targeted using interactive media channels. holders. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. ADOLESCENTS’ VIEWS ON THE FOREST SECTOR We have classified our main stakeholders and The Finnish Forest Association together with the communication channels in the table on page 37. hectares of the Group’s forests. As a part of the the Finnish Forest Industries Federation conpilot, Metsä Group gave the possibility to its ducted a research among young people to CUSTOMERS’ VIEW ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY stakeholders to comment and influence the determine how they perceive the forest sector During the past two years, Metsä Group’s certification project. We invited several interas a future employer. The main drivers for the customers have increasingly requested more est groups active in certification in northern information on social responsibility. Hence, Finland to express their opinions about the we decided to execute more customer-specific project; these included: local Reindeer Herdresearch by carrying out personal interviews ers’ Associations, the Finnish Association for and a detailed survey of expectations related Nature Conservation, the Finnish Forest to the Group’s social responsibility work. The Centre, and WWF Finland. The invitation results in May 2012 both confirmed that the generated an active dialogue about the certifiINNOVATIVE PARTNERSHIPS During 2012, Metsä Group has been involved in establishing an international consortium together with approximately 40 European companies to advance the development of bioeconomy. This Bio-based Industries Consortium aims at a new type of innovation partnership with the EU Commission in order to speed up the commercialisation process of new research results. One of the important targets of the consortium is to strengthen the competitiveness of European industries. This partnership will strengthen the role that traditional, forest-based industries will play in the sustainable bioeconomy of the future. Metsä Group is one of the key players in the area of bioeconomy in Finland. 34 STAKEHOLDERS — STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT forest sector were modern innovations such as COOPERATION WITH WWF FINLAND the cooperation agreement, WWF Finland’s wood construction, nanotechnology, intelMetsä Group signed a two-year cooperation representatives joined the dialogue offering ligent packaging and the sector’s positive agreement with WWF Finland at the begininsights on the status of the world’s forests. offering – it is sustainable and renewable. ning of 2011. The cooperation has so far In addition, we actively cooperated with Disincentives were negative publicity surincluded for example training, seminars and WWF Finland during the testing of the rounding redundancies and mill shutdowns, round table discussions. As an example of Finnish FSC forest certification standard in and the stereotypical image of forest profesthese, Metsä Fibre, one of the Group’s subsidforests owned by the companies belonging to sionals – they were seen either as loggers or iaries, offered training to employees in two Metsä Group. WWF Finland was invited to factory workers. As part of Metsä Group’s sessions on themes related to sustainable explore valuable habitats in our forests and on-going employer image project, the Group development such as water, carbon footprint, join us for the prescribed burning of retention has utilised these results to target possible forest certification as well as eco-labelling and trees. future employees. environmental management systems. Within ACTIVE PARTICIPATION IN LOBBYING Metsä Group follows and takes interest in the development of regulatory frameworks affecting our operations and markets. Our advocacy on these issues is mainly channelled through industry and trade associations at the national, European and international levels in addition to taking direct actions. Metsä Group’s overall aim is to promote the image of forest industries and sustainable forest management as part of bioeconomy. We contribute to developing a high-value, low-carbon forest fibre industry by 2050. We provide industry and trade associations as well as legislators and decision makers with information on our views and impacts on our operational environment. The internal operation model that we use to monitor, identify and analyse main policy files is transparent, and we use different advocacy channels to deliver our message. Climate change, energy and environmental policies as well as resource efficiency and innovation policies play crucial roles in our advocacy. Moreover, product-related issues, such as product and food safety as well as wood construction, are of outmost importance to us. The forest policy and wood availability are the backbone of our activities. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT — STAKEHOLDERS 35 We also actively follow trade policy issues and • The Committee of Professional AgriculUN Global Compact initiative, which highpromote free trade. We provide decisiontural Organisation and the General lights the respect for human and labour rights, makers with information on trade barriers in Confederation of Agricultural Cooperaenvironmental responsibility and anti-corrupthe countries where we operate. tives (Copa-Cogeca) and Nordic Family tion. The Group’s Sustainability Principles are We are registered in the EU’s TransparForest Owners (NFS) also based on these universally accepted prinency register, which is operated by the Euro• The Finnish Forest Industry Federation ciples. pean Parliament and the European Commis• The Confederation of Finnish Industries sion, and signed the Transparency register • The Confederation of Finnish ConstrucSee the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on page 3. Code of Conduct. The register provides infortion Industries RT (CFCI) mation on who is engaged in activities aiming • Finland Chamber of Commerce at influencing the EU’s decision-making pro• The UN Global Compact Nordic NetWBCSD FOREST SOLUTIONS GROUP cess, what kinds of interests are being pursued work and the UN’s CEO Water Mandate Metsä Group is a member of the World Busiand what level of resources are invested in • The forest certification associations: the ness Council for Sustainable Development these activities. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and (WBCSD) and a core member in WBCSD’s Metsä Group and its Business Areas folthe Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Solutions Group. At the beginning of low high moral and integrity in advocacy Forest Certification (PEFC) 2012, Riikka Joukio, Metsä Group’s Senior activities as described in the Code of Conduct Vice President, Sustainability and Corporate and Sustainability Principles. Additionally, the Group or its subsidiaries are Affairs, was appointed co-chair of the Forest taking part in several national forest industry Solutions Group. The group’s foremost misMEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS associations in the main operating countries, sion is to provide knowledge and assistance Metsä Group, its Business Areas and subsidsuch as the Swedish Forest Industries Federafor global stakeholders in order to develop iaries participate in a number of international, tion and the Association of German Paper and expand the sustainable forest-based soluEuropean and national industry and trade Factories. There are also several sector-specific tions to meet the needs of people now and in associations, and actively take part in steering organisations in which Metsä Group or the the future. Furthermore, WBCSD’s Forest them. We want to be a credible discussions Business Areas participate, such as the EuroSolutions Group aims to support global partner regarding industry associations, legispean organisation of the tissue producers approaches to climate change by helping to lators and decision-makers. (European Tissue Symposium, ETS) and the promote the innovations in sustainable forest European Organisation of Packaging and the products. The forums we are involved in include: Environment (Europen). The Forest Solutions Group has three • The World Business Council for Sustainaction teams: Value Chain, Carbon Systems able Development (WBCSD) and its COMMITMENT TO THE PRINCIPLES OF and Forest Resources. The membership undersector-specific network Forest Solutions THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT lines the importance of sustainable forest Group We are committed to promoting sustainable management in the themes of governance; the • The Confederation of European Paper development in all our business activities and use of renewable sources, eco-efficiency and Industries (CEPI) operations; to continuously improving our the mitigation of greenhouse gases; climate • The European Confederation of Woodoperations; and to conducting business in a change management; health and safety; stakeworking Industries (CEI-Bois) responsible way. We have demonstrated our holder engagement; human rights and labour aim by committing to the ten principles of the standards. PREVENTING THE SOCIAL EXCLUSION OF CHILDREN AND TEENS Metsä Tissue’s Serla brand believes that helpful gestures and responsible actions are the path to a better life. By setting an example, Serla wants to encourage everyone to do good deeds locally. In 2011–2012, Serla supported financially various community projects in Finland and Scandinavia as part of its ‘Local Good’ campaign. Serla is now continuing this work and has granted EUR 100,000 to the Tukikummit Foundation to help underprivileged children and teens living in Finland. The financial support will go in full towards improving their prospects and circumstances. The funds will be used to cover expenses for which no other funding is available, such as the immediate cost of schooling, training, recreation or travel to visit parents or grandparents. The church welfare fund will handle the practical coordination of these efforts. The donated funds will not support church institutions. 36 STAKEHOLDERS — STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GENERATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE SOCIETY, LOCAL COMMUNITIES MEMBERS OF THE COOPERATIVE AND NGOS VALUE VALUE We generate ca. 11,500 jobs directly and a huge amount Interests on members’ capital of employment opportunities indirectly through suppliEUR million ers and contractors most of the jobs being in rural areas. 40 2011: 38 Additionally, we focus on local support programmes through e.g. WWF Finland and Tukikummit Foundation. Main engagement Main engagement chanMain expectations Main expectations channels nels Competitive and solid High-quality, prompt and Stable employer; good Meetings; authority reportreturn on investment; diverse services; own neighbour; open and ing; annual and interim continuous wood contact person, satisfactransparent communireports; stock exchange and demand; open communition survey on services, cation with stakeholdpress releases; the Internet; cation with the manageevents, the Internet and ers; compliance with stakeholder feedback; image ment. extranet, magazine for the laws and regulations; surveys; cooperation promembers. the sustainability jects; sponsoring; donations; performance of the presentations; site visits; Group. cooperation with educational institutions. RAW MATERIAL AND EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS AND END-USERS SERVICE SUPPLIERS (CURRENT AND POTENTIAL) VALUE VALUE VALUE Purchases of materials, Wages and benefits raw materials and services (incl. social security and pension costs) Sales EUR million EUR million EUR million 3,462 2011: 3,770 710 2011: 863 5,001 2011: 5,346 Main engagement Main engagement Main engagement Main expectations Main expectations Main expectations channels channels channels Active dialogue with the Meetings and negotiaSafe working environPersonnel development Performance, quality High-quality products and purchasing organisation tions; supplier assessment; stable employer assessments; employee and safety of the services; personal contacts; and the supplier; longment and audits; partnerwith good reputation; satisfaction surveys; products; pricing; clear customer satisfaction term contracts; profitship projects; the Internet high-quality management training programmes; business structures surveys; training, cooperation ability of the Group; and stakeholder magapractices; competitive internal communications and responsibilities; projects; trade fairs and semiacceptable payment zines. benefits; continuous (incl. intranet, newsletters sustainability perfornars; the Internet, staketerms. development opportuniand magazine); national mance of the Group holder magazines and annual ties; open internal comstatutory employee and throughout the reports; product information munication. bodies; European Works supply chain. and life cycle calculations. Council. EQUITY AND DEBT INVESTORS, NATIONAL AND EU-LEVEL LEGISLATORS AND DECISION MEDIA ANALYSTS MAKERS, INDUSTRY AND TRADE ASSOCIATIONS VALUE VALUE VALUE We are active members in various industry and trade associations and contribute to their work. We engage also with policy-makers Interests and provide them with information and from our part contribute EUR million to the regulatory framework and policies. Mutually we are 126 2011: 135 updated on the latest policy developments and can prepare ourselves proactively for regulatory changes. Building awareness of the company and the industry through media to general public. Main engagement Main engagement Main expectations Main expectations Main engagement channels Main expectations channels channels Competitive return on Annual General Meetings; Provide information on Transparent internal operation model Transparency; active and Meetings and interviews; investment; open and meetings and roadshows; our views and impacts on to monitor, identify and analyse main open communication. press events and site transparent dialogue with Capital Markets Day; our operational environpolicy files. Proactive contribution to visits; annual and interim the management. annual and interim ment. Active membership policy-making and policy implementareports; publications; the reports; stock exchange in industry and trade tion by providing accurate and Internet; stock exchange and press releases; the associations. relevant information to industry and press releases; image Internet and stakeholder associations, legislators and decisionsurveys. magazines. makers. Active participation in industry and trade association’s work. Regular face-to-face contacts; contributing to public consultations and hearings; information sharing. Maintain and enhance our networks at the international and national level. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT — STAKEHOLDERS 37 industry as a sector has thus acknowledged its impact on nature surrounding the mills and has systematically invested in environmental WELL-BEING FOR protection. With joint efforts, the forest industry has been able to drastically minimise its emissions and continuously develop effecEVERYONE tive environmental management together with its stakeholders over the past two centuries. It is no wonder therefore that many creatures have found mill areas safe and friendly We acknowledge that Metsä Group’s operations have an effect on people places to dwell. Metsä Fibre’s RAUMA PULP and the surrounding communities in many ways. As Metsä Group is a MILL well illustrates that mills and biodiversity regional player that operates in some 30 countries and has production go hand in hand. Wooded areas, a rocky units in nine, we recognise our responsibility to various stakeholders. shoreline, banks of reeds and even a small lake nestle within the mill fence. For us, sustainability is the only way to operate all Finnish privately-owned forests, altogether FAVOURING SUSTAINABILITY AND YOUTH IN – we want to improve the quality of life and around 5.3 million hectares. SPONSORSHIP thus provide well-being. During 2012, we carried out many activities, CREATING PROSPERITY IN COMMUNITIES such as sponsorships and collaboration activiCOOPERATIVE – WHERE OUR ROOTS LIE Where Metsä Group operates locally, ties, with our stakeholders in various commuMetsä Group’s parent company, Metsäliitto especially in remote areas, we create value in nities and organisations. The biggest sponsorCooperative's mission is to create value for the several ways. We generate significant employship was Metsä Tissue’s Serla brand’s wood grown by its owner-members – some ment opportunities directly by employing EUR 100,000 support to the Tukikummit 125,000 Finnish forest owners. For this rea11,500 persons, and indirectly for our partFoundation in Finland, which was part of ners and subcontractors. Our supplier netSerla’s Local Good campaign. In addition, work consists of 20,000 vendors. Metsä Group and its Business Areas sponOur operations enable many services that sored selected small-scale local projects. ESPECIALLY IN REMOTE would otherwise diminish; moreover, we Metsä Group has a shared sponsorship AREAS METSÄ GROUP prevent migration loss, for example, by genand donation strategy for the whole Group CREATES VALUE IN erating new employment opportunities. We covering all Business Areas. According to the SEVERAL WAYS. thus know our responsibility and the impact strategy, sponsoring aims to support the we might cause; for instance, when we invest Group’s business operations and product in existing or start new projects, or if we need marketing, and build a positive corporate son, sustainable forestry is a principle we will to cease operations. image. In sponsoring, we favour youth and not compromise as we aim to increase the sustainability projects, especially those dedivalue of our owner-members’ forests and VALUE FOR NATURE cated to improve the well-being of children conserve forests for future generations’ use. As our main raw material comes from nature, and young people. Metsä Group has decided We recognise that as a company, we can have a we understand the importance of preserving not to sponsor political associations, religious strong influence – the total forest area owned the environment and carrying out our operaorganisations, motor sports or private indiby our members’ amounts to about one-half of tions as sustainably as possible. The forest viduals, including athletes. EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS RELATIVE TO FINNISH PULP AND PAPER INDUSTRY PRODUCTION IN 1992–2011 % CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD) -67% PHOSPHORUS (P) -73% NITROGEN (N) -50% ORGANIC CHLORINE COMPOUNDS (AOX) -84% USAGE OF PROCESS WATER -59% NITROGEN OXIDES (NOX) -26% SULPHUR EMISSIONS -95% PARTICLES -86% FOSSIL CARBON DIOXIDE (CO2) -52% LANDFILL WASTE -89% Source: The Finnish Forest Industries Federation -100% -80% -60% -40% -20% 0% 38 STAKEHOLDERS — WELL-BEING FOR LOCAL COMMUNITIES A TRIP TO THE MILL AND FOREST BY LOCAL TRAIN The wood's journey from forest to packaging, the pulp mill and its diverse natural environment, and Metsä Group's sustainable forestry were the theme of the Forest Parade tours. Metsä Fibre's Rauma mill organised these guided tours in its mill area with the Kake-kaupunkijuna (Kake city train) each Sunday during July and August. In addition to a ninety-minute talk, the visitors were given ‘Close To Nature’, a booklet containing pictures of the birds and mammals living in the mill environment photographed by Ari Ahlfors, a controller at the mill. Despite the wet summer, the tours were very popular with the train full every Sunday. As a result, the Forest Parade tours will also take place in summer 2013. 39 WELL-BEING FOR LOCAL COMMUNITIES — STAKEHOLDERS Although we persistently strive for new ways of improving occupational safety at Metsä Group and aim to prevent all workATTITUDE IS THE related injuries and accidents, we still have work to do. In July 2012, the death of an employee at Krapkowice mill in Poland was KEY TO SAFETY the result of human error. The accident was immediately investigated and solutions for AT WORK corrective actions were taken in order to prevent similar accidents in the future. OUR GOAL IS HEALTHY PERSONNEL We believe that healthy, motivated and satisFor us, the fundamental requirement in everything we do fied personnel is one of our strongest assets. is safety. It applies to our working environment, the We have implemented a unified global model products we offer and the well-being of our employees, to support our employees’ work capacity, suppliers and cooperation partners. which includes early support, an assessment of work capacity and a personal work capacity plan. This process helps to create a caring TARGET PROGRESS COMMENTS working environment and enables the equal treatment of all employees. In addition to To improve our lost-time accident 15.7 in 2012 i.e. -14% Business Areas together with HR cooperating closely with occupational healthfrequency rate by 10% each year. and Safety functions are working care providers, our supervisors are given tools The long-term target for the closely with our personnel to reach and training to identify any potential situalost-time accidents is zero. the target of zero accidents. All units monitor safety statistics on tions that can threaten the employee’s ability a monthly basis. to well-being at work. We encourage our To keep the sickness absenteeism 4.1% in 2012 Our early intervention-process has employees to take a more proactive approach rate below 3% at all times. been implemented throughout the Group and we are constantly to their own health by providing information training our management and on stress-preventive actions, for example. We personnel to deal with causes of sickness absenteeism. also support recreational activities such as sports and culture in different ways. As we aim for a healthy working environment, we have set a target to keep the sickness absenteeism rate at the best European level We continuously develop and promote occuConsequently, safety at work must be conwithin the industry and below 3% at all times. pational safety and well-being at work. We ducted systematically and consistently at all In 2012, we came closer to the target with a believe that the level of safety reflects the levels of the organisation. If any issues arise rate of 4.1% (4.4% in 2011). overall quality of Metsä Group’s operations. they must be addressed immediately. For this Absenteeism and accident rates are moniAbove all, occupational safety depends on the reason, we continuously communicate intertored through Group-wide targets and reportright attitude. nally about safety issues, set goals and indicaing. Local Occupational Health and Safety tors for preventive safety work, and develop Committees play an important role in trainPREVENTION IS EVERYTHING our ability to identify risks. In 2012, the losting and facilitating health and safety at the Preventive safety work is essential to ensure a time accident frequency rate was 15.7 local level. These committees cover 100% of safe and healthy working environment. (18.3 in 2011). our employees in all main operating countries. WELL-BEING INDICATORS BY BUSINESS AREA Metsä Tissue Metsä Board Metsä Fibre Metsä Wood Metsä Forest Metsä Group total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Work accident absenteeism, % 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Work related fatalities, nro of cases 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Sickness absenteeism, % 1) 4.8 5.1 3.9 4.6 4.2 4.8 4.9 4.7 2.1 1.4 4.1 4.4 Lost-time accident frequency rate 2) 11.3 13.6 13.2 16.1 7.7 6.9 32.4 37.4 2.3 3.2 15.7 18.3 Organisational functionality research 6) 8.4 6) 8.2 8.4 3) 8.3 8.0 5) 8.2 4) 8.0 Organisational functionality research response rate, % 6) 74 6) 70 78 77 82 5) 93 80 1) Per cent of regular working hours 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours 3) Metsä Fibre Finland (excluding Svir Timber) 4) Metsä Forest Finland (covers wood operations in Finland) 5) Was not conducted in 2011 6) Was not conducted in 2012 40 STAKEHOLDERS — SAFETY AT WORK THE GROUP'S PERSONNEL BY COUNTRY IN 2012 %, ON 31 DEC 2012 FINLAND 47% GERMANY 16% SWEDEN 13% GREAT BRITAIN 6% RUSSIA 5% POLAND 4% SLOVAKIA 3% FRANCE 2% REST OF EUROPE 2% BALTIC COUNTRIES 1% OTHER COUNTRIES 1% WE SUPPORT WELL-BEING AT WORK THE GROUP'S PERSONNEL BY BUSINESS AREA IN 2012 %, ON 31 DEC 2012 A practical example of our actions for well-being of employees is a three-year research project that began in 2012 conducted by Metsämiesten Säätiö Foundation. The practical research work is carried out and coordinated by the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health. At Metsä Group, the project applies Metsä Forest’s procurement and logistics organisations. The aim is to study how changes in the service concept affect the wood procurement personnel’s well-being at work. The focus is on procurement and logistic specialists as well as harvesting and transport entrepreneurs and their personnel. During the first year of the project and supported with a questionnaire, the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health carried out interviews with entrepreneurs and Metsä Forest’s white-collar employees in harvesting and logistics, some 40 persons. In addition, METSÄ BOARD 29% 360 persons responded to a survey. METSÄ TISSUE 27% METSÄ WOOD 24% We will continue this project in 2013 and utilise the findings of the interviews and questionMETSÄ FOREST 9% naires. The objectives for 2013 is to provide a documented process for proactive actions to supMETSÄ FIBRE 8% GROUP FUNCTIONS 4% port well-being at work; identify health risks at an early stage; and develop effective preventive actions in everyday work. Geographically, the work covers the whole of Finland, including our partners, entrepreneurs and their employees. THE GROUP'S AGE DISTRIBUTION % 100 THE GROUP'S PERSONNEL DATA 80 60 EMPLOYEES 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 40 Number of employees 1) 11,447 12,525 12,820 13,592 16,729 Share of permanent employees, % 2) 94.0 94.2 94.0 95.0 96.0 20 Average age, years 2) 44.1 43.8 43.5 44.0 43.7 0 Average years served, years 2) 16.3 15.6 15.2 16.8 16.1 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Employee turnover, % 2) 3) 12.0 7.8 6.9 11.2 7.7 > 55 YEARS Ration between men/women, % 2) 78/22 79/21 81/19 81/19 79/21 46–55 YEARS Share of women in management, % 4) 9.7 12.9 11.1 8.3 5.1 36–45 YEARS 26–35 YEARS Sickness absenteeism, % 2) 5) 4.1 4.4 4.2 4.3 4.2 < 26 YEARS Work accident absenteeism, % 2) 5) 0.22 0.22 0.28 0.27 0.25 Number of work related fatalities, nro of cases 1 1 1 1 0 Number of occupational diseases, nro of cases 6) 2 1) Full-time equivalent (FTE) 2) The figures covered 99% of Metsä Group employees in 2010–2012. In 2008–2009 they covered 97% of employees. 3) The figure includes also redundancies caused by restucturing of business. 4) Management includes Board of Directors, Executive Management Team and Business Areas' management teams. 5) Per cent of potential working hours. 6) The figure covers 85% of Metsä Group employees. SAFETY AT WORK — STAKEHOLDERS 41 as retirement or the non-renewal of fixed-term contracts. Total of 848 employees were temporarily laid off in 2012. In addition, one A RESPONSIBLE restructuring of businesses process has started during 2012 but it is still in-process. Total of 268 employees is affected by this restructuring AND ATTRACTIVE process. We comply with all local agreements and legislation in redundancy situations and EMPLOYER assist the redundant employees in finding new job opportunities with individual support. At the end of 2012, Metsä Group had a total of 11,447 employees (12,525 in 2011), Metsä Group promotes good management practices. of whom 94% were permanent employees We train our managers, supervisors and employees to while 6% had temporary contracts. Part-time understand and follow our policies and guidelines. employees accounted for 7% of all Metsä In 2012, we conducted an e-learning program on Group Group’s personnel at the end of 2012. policies for the majority of white-collar employees. As the roots of the company are in Finnish forestry and majority of our operations are in Finland, therefore almost half of our employees are based in Finland including a Metsä Group’s Code of Conduct and Sustainees. During 2012, the most discussed themes large share of senior management. The share ability Principles guide its employees in the were work safety and well-being at work. Also of personnel by country represents the field of social responsibility taking into conon the agenda was the issue of organisational countries where we have operations. sideration the aspects of human rights and functionality and how the current economic child or forced labour. Correspondingly, the situation in Europe will affect the future of INVESTING IN THE FUTURE Sustainability Principles state that our our businesses and employees. The main In 2012, a decision to transfer financial seremployees are free to associate with or join objective is to ensure that cooperation and vices from 13 European countries to one any union. In 2012, 98% of our employees in mutual communication in working towards centralised Shared Service Center in Gdansk, Finland were covered by collective bargaining common goals is according to mutual values. Poland was made. The new center involves agreements, of whom 75% were known to be In addition, we have several practices for approximately 100 new jobs. Those who will members of trade unions. Metsä Group informal cooperation with our labour union be redundant have been given support accordapplies country-specific collective bargaining representatives. ing to the Group's guidelines and local regulaagreements. In all operating countries, Metsä Group tions. We promote equal opportunities and conforms to the country-specific laws and Furthermore, in 2012 we provided over emphasise that discrimination may lead to agreements in terms of employment. 1,000 summer jobs and internships. For us, disciplinary actions. It is the responsibility of employing youth and students is extremely CHALLENGING TIMES important in several ways. We provide jobs in In 2012, we completed the strategic review remote areas and enable young people to WE CONTINUOUSLY within Metsä Group. The actions in Metsä receive their first experience in work life. This MONITOR EMPLOYEE Board included the shutdown of the Alizay helps us to ensure that we are an attractive SATISFACTION. mill in France, the discontinuation of the employer in the eyes of tomorrow’s potential unprofitable business at the Gohrsmühle mill employees also in the future. in Germany, divestment of the Premium Paper In 2012, we continued the annual CEO’s each employee to report any discrimination. operations of the Reflex mill and the restruccompetition for productivity and innovation Any formal complaints will be systematically turing of the coated paper business including and received close to a hundred good ideas for handled through the Group’s Code of the closure of Äänekoski paper machine in improvement. Four best ones were awarded Conduct practices. One suspected case of Finland. The Reflex mill restructuring with monetary prices. These ideas assist us in discrimination was reported and investigated included cooperation with external partners further developing our operations and pracin 2012; however, it did not lead to any discito ensure continued employment of approxitices to be more productive and innovative. plinary action. mately 300 employees. In addition, tissue We conduct a formal employee consultaproduction, converting and supply chain HIGH-QUALITY EVERYDAY MANAGEMENT tion process in our main operating countries. operations at Konstancin-Jeziorna mill near Metsä Group’s management processes aim to We also develop Metsä Wood’s, Metsä Board’s Warsaw, Poland, have been discontinued. ensure that each employee has clear goals and and Metsä Tissue’s employee dialogue across The restructuring of these businesses the tools to be successful. The right people in countries through the European Works Counaffected a total of 2,893 employees during the right positions at the right time and with cil (EWC), a Europe-wide forum of commu2012, of whom 724 were made redundant and the right skills are the cornerstones of wellnication between management and employ92 contracts ended due to other reasons such being at work. Good management practices 42 STAKEHOLDERS — RESPONSIBLE AND ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER SIMCOTE CASE WORK HOURS In addition to issues covered in the Environmental Product Declarations, some of the human related issues can also be measured at the product level. For example, producing the Simcote folding boxboard for one cereal carton takes support organisational efficiency and provide opportunities for personal and professional (8.22 in 2011) with a response rate of 82% (75% in 2011). The next survey will be carried 0.38 seconds. When calculating the human development. out in 2013. resources required for the annual Management practices and HR systems Metsä Group has a Group-wide developproduction of these cereal cartons, it are designed to support high-quality everyday ment discussion process for white collar means approximately management, and to provide tools for setting employees that supports the strategy imple5.7 targets and monitoring performance. Goals mentation and motivates the personnel to for professional development are also part of reach the set targets. As a part of this Personman years the management process. The managers’ selfnel Development Appraisal (PDA) practice is service tool (MSS) supports them in provida Group-wide bonus system which terms and at Joutseno, Äänekoski and Simpele ing the quality of leadership that all employees target group is decided by the Board of Direcmills. In addition, the mills produce a are entitled to. tors annually. In 2012, Metsä Group paid as number of products to various salaries, wages and benefits (including social customers. OUR GOAL IS A SATISFIED EMPLOYEE security and pension costs) EUR 710 million In 2012, Metsä Group hired 183 new employ(EUR 863 million in 2011). ees in Finland and 373 abroad. For all permanent, fixed-term and part-time employees we CONTINUOUS LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT Areas. At the Group level, we continued the provide the benefits required by local legislaMetsä Group offers its employees the possibilannual management development protion such as occupational health care, insurity to enhance their competences through gramme, Challenger, for the fifth time runance against occupational diseases, parental training, internal job rotation and other learnning. At the Business Area level, there are leave and retirement benefits. In addition, we ing opportunities. We post all job opportunistrategic business training programmes for key support our employees’ recreation possibilities internally on our intranet site for all perpersonnel. Trainee programmes continued in ties. sonnel. Our employees are encouraged to Finland and Sweden. Local development We continuously monitor employee satiswiden their work experience within the programmes are also organised based on faction. In 2012, we unified our employee Group. The average years served in Metsä needs. All development projects include trainsatisfaction survey to cover all five Business Group is 16.3 (15.6 in 2011). ing on change management and new proAreas and developed the questionnaire to Each employee has the right to workcesses. In 2012, Group's Human Resource include also aspects of well-being at work and related training and development. The Development function organised148 training safety. The survey reflects the personnel’s views employee’s annual personal development plan days and a total of 845 employees attended on their working environment and its develis made for the forthcoming year in the PDA. these trainings and development programs. opment. The results are carefully analysed and In 2012, 96% of Metsä Group’s white collar appropriate development actions are included employees in Finland and 90% abroad held in the annual planning. This process improves PDA discussions. working conditions and helps the Group and Metsä Group’s development programmes its Business Areas reach their strategic goals. cover all organisational levels. We run proOn a scale of 4 to 10, Metsä Group had an grams on technical skills as well as manageoverall job satisfaction rating of 8.25 in 2012 ment and supervisory skills in all Business RESPONSIBLE AND ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER — STAKEHOLDERS 43 SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT IN 2012 METSÄ TISSUE Mill Country Personnel Production (1,000 t) Management systems Chain of Custody Sickness Tissue and ISO Number of Accident absenteeism cooking ISO ISO ISO OHSAS 22000/ CO2 employees 1) rate 2) %3) papers 9001 14001 50001 18001 BRC PEFC FSC® bio Mänttä 5) Finland 448 32.9 5.0 116 x x4) x x x 0 Düren Germany 108 0.0 6.0 17 x x x x x x x 0 Kreuzau Germany 425 4.4 7.7 149 x x x x x x x 0 Raubach Germany 292 4.2 4.8 50 x x x x x x x 0 Stotzheim Germany 327 7.6 7.7 21 x x x x x x x 0 Krapkowice Poland 320 14.2 3.1 30 x x4) x x x 0 Žilina Slovakia 398 4.2 2.1 79 x x4) x x x x 0 Katrinefors Sweden 352 10.2 5.0 74 x x4) x 0 Nyboholm Sweden 192 21.2 2.2 26 x x4) x 6,296 Pauliström 6) Sweden 23 x x4) x 10,893 Others 7) 173 4.1 0 Metsä Tissue Total 3,035 11.3 4.8 589 17,189 1) Full-time Equivalent on 31 December 2012 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours 3) Per cent of potential working hours 4) ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES) 5) Includes Tissue and Baking and Cooking businesses 6) Pauliström mill's personnel figures are included in Nyboholm mill's figures 7) Including personnel from technology operations and supply chain. Naro Fominsk's personnel included. Including production and environmental figures of Warsaw mill which was closed in April 2012 METSÄ BOARD Mill Country Personnel Production (1,000 t) Management systems Chain of Custody Sickness Chemical Board ISO Number of Accident absenteeism pulp and and ISO ISO ISO OHSAS 22000/ CO2 employees 1) rate 2) %3) CTMP paper 9001 14001 50001 18001 BRC PEFC FSC® bio Joutseno BCTMP Finland 54 22.6 2.6 273 x x x x x x x 0 Kaskinen BCTMP Finland 77 32.3 1.6 252 x x x x x 93,410 Kemi Finland 103 0.0 3.9 343 x x x x x x x 0 Kyro Finland 254 16.8 5.8 209 x x x x x x x 0 Simpele Finland 314 24.3 4.4 227 x x x x x x x 131,318 Tako Finland 211 20.0 4.8 192 x x x x x x x 0 Äänekoski Finland 203 9.8 3.6 191 x x x x x x x 96,798 Gohrsmühle Germany 507 13.2 4.5 41 x x x x x x x 0 Husum Sweden 856 9.9 3.8 709 674 x x x x x 1,492,717 Others 4) 700 26,220 Metsä Board Total 3,279 13.2 3.9 1,234 1,876 1,840,463 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2012 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours 3) Per cent of potential working hours 4) Includes personnel from sales and logistics operations, management and subsidiaries. Emissions and waste originate from Äänevoima's production of energy sold for external use. METSÄ FIBRE Mill Country Personnel Production (1,000 t) Management systems Chain of Custody Sickness ISO Number of Accident absenteeism Chemical Sawn ISO ISO ISO OHSAS 22000/ CO2 employees 1) rate 2) %3) pulp timber 9001 14001 50001 18001 BRC PEFC FSC® bio Joutseno Finland 140 4.0 3.9 606 x x x x x x x 1,280,036 Kemi Finland 191 13.0 6.1 539 x x x x x x x 1,298,671 Rauma Finland 125 9.4 3.6 573 x x x x x x x 1,168,876 Äänekoski Finland 160 11.7 5.2 519 x x x x x x x 954,185 Svir Timber Russia 127 4.1 2.5 221 x x4) x x x 17,855 Others 5) 133 Metsä Fibre Total 876 7.7 4.2 2,237 221 4,719,622 1) Full-time equivalent on December 2012 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours 3) Per cent of potential working hours 4) Svir Timber's ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES) 5) Includes personnel from sales operations, a subsidiary and management FSC® Licence Code FSC-C014476 44 PERFORMANCE DATA Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Solid waste (t) Mill Total CO2 suspended Water Waste fossil SO2 NO2 Particles COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids sourcing water Recycling Landfill Hazardous 13,724 0 6.0 0 516 55 2.0 27 125 5,270 5,272 91,475 2,618 34 Mänttä 5) 41,733 0 43 0 57 6.1 0.3 0 6.1 1,533 613 267 0 42 Düren 86,727 11 90 0.05 377 16 0.8 0 16 2,349 1,589 103,292 7,451 40 Kreuzau 23,836 0 3.6 0 138 5.0 0.3 0 5.0 495 495 45,152 135 16 Raubach 10,253 0.2 9.7 0 50 2.3 0.1 0 2.3 319 235 3,046 0 241 Stotzheim 8,409 35 33 28 42 3.4 0.4 4.2 4.6 612 577 19,926 917 0 Krapkowice 14,196 0 7.0 0 139 10 0.5 0 10 1,102 1,024 45,790 2,979 7.9 Žilina 12,041 0 5.3 0 244 36 0.5 17 12 3,106 2,277 70,224 50 26 Katrinefors 10,483 2.4 19 6.1 6.6 0.8 0.03 1.3 1.8 285 285 2,131 0 10 Nyboholm 6,004 0.4 16 11 42 16 0.05 0.7 4.4 328 328 2,073 0 15 Pauliström 6) 11,594 70 24 13 33 1.0 0.05 0 1.0 134 98 3,027 1,059 0.2 Others 7) 239,002 120 257 58 1,644 152 4.9 50 188 15,533 12,793 386,404 15,209 432 Metsä Tissue Total Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Solid waste (t) Mill Total CO2 suspended Water Waste fossil SO2 NO2 Particles COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids sourcing water Recycling Landfill Hazardous 19,982 0 13 12 404 18 0.2 9.5 8.5 5,032 571 41,041 13 24 Joutseno BCTMP 4,959 75 170 24 2,005 147 1.5 18 236 11,445 3,169 2,488 1,055 0 Kaskinen BCTMP 3,904 0 1.7 0 482 20 0.8 34 93 8,530 6,512 7,129 865 13 Kemi 53,449 0 52 0 543 110 1.2 20 196 3,009 4,438 49,744 45 14 Kyro 66,127 122 25 1.8 290 23 1.3 12 44 23,392 4,392 4,160 91 59 Simpele 75,996 0 74 0 143 62 1.0 0.9 31 3,153 2,458 4,274 332 63 Tako 2,851 7.3 79 1.2 603 222 0.6 3.7 130 3,476 3,341 3,724 198 14 Äänekoski 126,798 310 208 3.0 50 17 0.7 5.8 34 2,993 2,742 29,526 2.6 50 Gohrsmühle 119,086 298 1,229 398 10,244 911 12 85 834 46,716 46,745 2,137 218 616 Husum 8,882 22 31 40 1.2 Others 4) 482,035 833 1,882 440 14,765 1,529 20 189 1,605 107,746 74,368 144,262 2,821 853 Metsä Board Total Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Solid waste (t) Mill Total CO2 suspended Water Waste fossil SO2 NO2 Particles COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids sourcing water Recycling Landfill Hazardous 77,375 139 1,067 145 5,819 93 7.8 113 246 38,290 16,918 6,093 14,004 66 Joutseno 68,036 150 1,041 194 8,060 97 7.1 156 495 41,706 17,041 43,041 21,628 30 Kemi 47,936 155 1,055 339 8,480 105 5.0 53 259 14,814 12,376 10,314 15,819 0 Rauma 39,992 265 778 411 4,792 100 5.4 73 349 38,764 15,199 1,901 10,987 39 Äänekoski 214 6.3 41 3.4 18 1.9 0.09 1.2 6.5 219 140 8,043 226 0.3 Svir Timber Others 5) 233,553 715 3,981 1,092 27,169 397 25 397 1,356 133,793 61,674 69,392 62,664 135 Metsä Fibre Total PERFORMANCE DATA 45 METSÄ WOOD Mill Country Personnel Production (1,000 m3) Management systems Chain of Custody Sickness Number of Accident absenteeism ISO ISO OHSAS CO2 CO2 employees 1) rate 2) %3) Wood products 9001 14001 4) 18001 PEFC FSC® bio fossil Reopalu Estonia 37 0.0 2.3 sawn timber 65 x 7,800 114 Eskola Finland 12 0.0 sawn timber 56 x x x x 0 0 Hartola Finland 46 58.1 3.0 glulam production 21 x x x 159 0 Karihaara 5) Finland 2 sawn timber x x Kaskinen TC and Thermowood Finland 57 27.4 3.1 further processing 101 x x x x 11,540 0 Kolho 6) Finland further processing 31 x x x x 0 472 Kyrö Finland 78 46.8 4.9 sawn timber 197 x x x x 20,085 465 Lappeenranta Finland 70 47.3 9.3 sawn timber 205 x x x x 22,088 0 Lohja Finland 163 50.2 7.6 Kerto® 89 x x x x 0 0 Merikarvia Finland 79 30.2 3.7 sawn timber 185 x x x x x 20,079 649 Punkaharju Finland 446 41.4 8.5 plywood and Kerto® 147 x x x x 0 0 Renko Finland 74 24.1 2.0 sawn timber 267 x x x x x 26,498 259 Suolahti Finland 452 59.3 7.6 plywood 194 x x x x 89,790 683 Vilppula Finland 143 32.6 4.1 sawn timber 415 x x x x x 50,325 542 Boulleville and Honfleur France 128 35.5 2.7 further processing 102 x 0 0 Casteljaloux France 34 59.2 0.9 further processing 20 x 4,130 0 Aichach Germany 88 48.0 4.3 further processing 23 x 1,529 28 Boston Great Britain 308 15.0 3.2 further processing 241 x x x x x 0 423 Grangemouth Great Britain 104 19.7 2.2 further processing 55 x x x x x 0 0 King's Lynn Great Britain 48 31.6 1.3 further processing 125 x x x x x 0 278 Newport Great Britain 28 15.7 1.8 further processing 30 x 0 652 Widnes Great Britain 86 27.0 2.6 further processing 48 x x x x x 0 0 Others 7) 266 52,991 3,172 Metsä Wood Total 2,749 32.4 4.9 2,616 307,014 7,737 Not reported 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2012 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours 3) Per cent of potential working hours 4) ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES) 5) Operations at Karihaara saw mill have been suspended until further notice since 1 July 2009 6) Kolho's personnel figures are included in Kaskinen TC and Thermowood figures 7) Includes personnel from sales operations and management. Emissions to air originate from Biokraft's and Kumpuniemen Voima's production of energy sold for external use. Metsä Wood's emissions to the water occur only in plywood production processes. St. Petersburg planing plant in Russia is not included in the figures above. METSÄ FOREST Country Personnel Wood procurement Management systems Chain of Custody Sickness Number of Accident absenteeism ISO ISO employees 1) rate 2) %3) 1,000 m3 9001 14001 PEFC FSC® Estonia 27 0.0 0.3 1,203 x x x x Finland 605 3.8 1.9 21,907 x x x x Latvia 76 0.0 1.1 1,429 x x x x Russia, St. Petersburg 17 x 4) x 5) x x Russia, Podporozhye 279 0.0 2.9 2,120 6) x 4) x x x Sweden 3 2,155 x x x x Others 939 7) Metsä Forest Total 1,007 2.3 2.1 29,753 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2012 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked 3) Per cent of potential working hours 4) Included in Metsäliitto Cooperative's quality systems (ISO 9001) 5) Included in Metsäliitto Cooperative's environmental systems (ISO 14001) 6) Includes all wood procurement from Russia 7) Includes wood supplies from other countries (Germany, Austria, Lithuania, France) METSÄ GROUP Personnel Wood procurement Production Sickness Wood Chemical pulp Board Tissue and Number of Accident absenteeism products and CTMP and paper cooking papers employees 1) rate 2) %3) 1,000 m3 1,000 m3 1,000 t 1,000 t 1,000 t Metsä Group total 11,447 15.7 4.1 29,753 2,837 3,471 1,876 589 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours 3) Per cent of potential working hours FSC® Licence Code FSC-C014476 46 PERFORMANCE DATA Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Solid waste (t) Mill Total suspended Water Waste SO2 NO2 Particles COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids sourcing water Recycling Landfill Hazardous 0.01 7.9 7.7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6.5 Reopalu 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.5 0 4.0 4.0 2.0 Eskola 0 0.2 0.2 0 0 0 0 0 0.8 0.1 13 7.1 6.5 Hartola Karihaara 5) 0 11 11 0 0 0 0 0 16 2.0 54 14 0.5 Kaskinen TC and Thermowood 1.5 0.6 0.3 0 0 0 0 0 13 0 6.0 12 15 Kolho 6) 0.03 21 20 0 0 0 0 0 7.4 6.4 39 4.7 4.2 Kyrö 0 22 22 0 0 0 0 0 162 88 87 0 1.5 Lappeenranta 0 0 2.4 2.8 1.3 0.01 0.02 0.3 83 72 60 101 96 Lohja 0.05 21 20 0 0 0 0 0 6.0 2.8 1,270 20 2.0 Merikarvia 0 0 0 41 21 0.02 0.1 1.9 164 42 3,389 32 175 Punkaharju 0.02 27 26 0 0 0 0 0 85 1.4 69 3.8 8.2 Renko 0.2 80 13 7.3 6.7 0.2 0.4 9.9 434 35 248 55 83 Suolahti 1.7 51 50 0 0 0 0 0 0.6 0 167 27 6.7 Vilppula 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5.1 0 187 0 0 Boulleville and Honfleur 0.06 4.4 18 0 0 0 0 0 10 0 17 11 18 Casteljaloux 0.001 1.6 1.5 0 0 0 0 0 1.4 1.3 187 0 38 Aichach 0 0.8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,714 196 71 Boston 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.2 0.2 40 78 25 Grangemouth 0.02 0.4 0.04 0 0 0 0 0 2.2 2.1 200 54 35 King's Lynn 0.05 0.9 0.09 0 0 0 0 0 7.5 7.4 4.0 84 5.0 Newport 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 305 39 3.6 Widnes 9.3 64 34 Others 7) 13 312 226 51 29 0.23 0.50 12.0 999 260 8,059 740 601 Metsä Wood Total Data measurement techniques The calculation coverage is the same as in Metsä Group’s sustainability report 2011. Compared to 2011, the production structure has changed as a result of either decreased or ceased The calculation coverage of the environmental parameters follows that of the financial accountproduction volumes at some mills and increased volumes at others. While this structural change ing with the following corrections: alone has changed emissions from +4% to -20% depending on the parameter in question, its • Only material flows to and from industrial sites are included. effect on total energy use has been very small (-1%). • Discharges to water through external waste water treatment plants (typically municipal) are Total energy consumption is expressed as primary fuel consumption and calculated assumtaken into account assuming an 85% reduction for COD. Emissions of BOD, phosphorus and ing 40% energy efficiency for purchased electricity production and 85% energy efficiency for suspended solids are calculated according to the flow with the following residual concentrapurchased heat production. tions: BOD 10 mg/l; total phosphorus 0.5 mg/l; and total suspended solids 10 mg/l. The Environmental impacts, acidification and eutrophication are calculated by multiplying total nitrogen emission is regarded as zero because there is surplus nitrogen in municipal impact-causing emissions by coefficients. Acidification is expressed as sulphur dioxide equivawaste waters and the reduction of our BOD binds nitrogen to biomass thus reducing the lents. The coefficient for sulphur is 1 and for NOX 0.7. Eutrophication is expressed as phosphoplant’s total nitrogen emission. rus equivalents. The coefficient for total phosphorus is 1; for BOD 0.0088; for total nitrogen • The emissions of external waste water treated at our waste water treatment plants are not 0.14; and for NOX 0.0041. The greenhouse effect only consists of carbon dioxide emissions and included. The allocation of emissions between internal and external inflows is carried out has a coefficient of 1. assuming theoretical COD reductions for each inflow which are then corrected according to In mill specific data, discharges from waste water plants serving several mills are allocated to the real COD reduction for the whole plant. Other emissions are allocated according to the mills using the methodology explained above. Emissions from power plants separate to mill flow. units are also allocated to mills using the energy. In this allocation, the value of 1 MWh of electricity is double the value of 1 MWh of heat. Waste volumes are reported including the moisture. Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Solid waste (t) Total CO2 CO2 suspended Water Waste bio fossil SO2 NO2 Particles COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids sourcing water Recycling Landfill Hazardous 6,884,288 962,328 1,681 6,432 1,817 43,629 2,107 50 637 3,161 258,000 149,096 608,117 81,435 2,021 PERFORMANCE DATA 47 GRI TABLE The Sustainability Report 2012 has been prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines (version G3.1). We have selected those indicators most relevant to our operations, products and stakeholders. The table specifies also where you can find more information on each indicator. We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level A+ of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. Tofuture Oy has checked our reporting and has confirmed it to be Application Level A+. AR Metsä Group Annual Report 2012 GRI core indicator FS Metsä Group Financial Statements 2012 SR Metsä Group Sustainability Report 2012 Fully reported Partially reported GRI TABLE 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS More information Reporting level 1.1 Statement from the CEO AR p. 2–3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities SR p. 2–3, 8–11, AR p. 6–7 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation AR and SR coverpages, FS p. 120 2.2 Primary brands, products and /or services AR p. 12–13 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation SR p.12–15, AR p. 4, 12–13 2.4 Location of the headquarters AR and SR coverpages, FS p.120 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates AR p. 8–9 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form FS p. 120 2.7 Markets served AR p. 8, FS p. 67 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation FS p. 47–84, SR p. 10–11 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period FS p. 36 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period SR p. 4–5 3. REPORT PARAMETRES Report profile 3.1 Reporting period 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2012 3.2 Date of the previous report March 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions SR back cover, sustainability@metsagroup.com Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining the content of the report SR p. 15, 34 3.6 Boundary of the report SR p. 15, 47, FS p. 47–48 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report SR p. 15, 47 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities etc. FS p. 47–48, 96–97 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations SR p. 15, 47 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information SR p. 15, 47 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied No changes, SR p. 15, 47 Assurance 3.13 External assurance for the report SR p. 52 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Governance 4.1 Governance structure FS p. 120–125 Corporate Governance Statement 4.2 Position of the Chair of the Board of Directors FS p. 120–125 Corporate Governance Statement 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive directors on the Board of Directors FS p. 120–125 Corporate Governance Statement 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the highest governance FS p. 120–125 Corporate Governance Statement body 4.5 Executive compensation FS p. 126–127 Corporate Governance Statement; Executive remuneration is based on the Group-level and personal targets, which depend on the person's area of responsibility incl. issues related to sustainability. 4.6 Ensuring processes to avoid conflicts of interest FS p. 120–125 Corporate Governance Statement 4.7 Determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance FS p. 120–125 body and its comittees 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and sustainability principles SR p. 10, 12–13, AR p. 5 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation's identification and SR p. 12–15, FS p. 120–125 Corporate Governance management of economic, environmental, and social performance, incl. relevant risks Statement 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own sustainability performance SR p. 12–15, FS p. 120–125 Corporate Governance Statement Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Addressing the precautinary approach SR p. 3, 8–11, FS 120–125 4.12 Externally developed sustainability charters, principles or other initiatives SR p. 2–3 4.13 Memberships in associations SR p. 36 48 GRI TABLE 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT More information Reporting level Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation SR p. 34–37 4.15 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders SR p. 34 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement SR p. 34–37 4.17 Responding to key topics and concerns resulting from stakeholder engagements SR p. 34–37 ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EC) MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY SR p. 12–15 Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR p. 37, EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change SR p. 10 EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations FS p. 85 Notes to the Financial Statement 25. Retirement Obligations; Financial reporting is prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). EC4 Significant financial assistance received from the government SR p. 32, FS p. 69 Market presence EC6 Policy, practices and the proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers SR p. 22 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community SR p. 42; Group-wide policy for local hiring does not exist. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services SR p. 37–39; Due to developed infrastructure in our operating countries, no major in-kind or pro bono investments have been made in 2012. EC9 Indirect economic impacts SR p. 34–37, 38–39 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS (EN) MANAGEMENT APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY SR p. 12–15 Materials EN1 Materials used SR p. 5 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recyled input materials SR p. 5 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption SR p. 24–27 EN4 Indirect energy consumption SR p. 24–27 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements SR p. 4, 24–27 EN6 Renewable energy-based products SR p. 16–17, 24–27, AR p. 14–21 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved SR p. 24–27 Water EN8 Water usage by source SR p. 5, 28–29, 44–47 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by the withdrawal of water SR p. 28–29 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused water SR p. 28 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas SR p. 18–21 EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity SR p. 20 EN13 Protected or restored habitats SR p. 18–21 EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity (incl. engagement with relevant stakeholders) SR p. 34–35 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR p. 24–27 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight SR p. 24–27; Currently Metsä Group does not have sufficient data for calculating Group-wide emissions from producing and transporting the main raw materials (Scope 3). EN18 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions SR p. 6–7 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not relevant in Metsä Group's operations as ozone depleting substances are related to energy production and are emitted only in a very limited extent. EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions SR p. 5, 44–47 EN21 Water discharges SR p. 5, 44–47, 28–29 EN22 Waste by type and disposal method SR p. 5, 30–31, 44–47 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills SR p. 32–33 EN24 Transported, imported, exported or treated hazardous waste SR p. 30–31, 44–47 EN25 Water bodies and related habitats affected by the discharges of water SR p. 18–21, 28–29 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts of products SR p. 16–17 EN27 Percentage of products and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category SR p. 16–17, 30–31; All Group's products are recyclable or biodegreable. Paper and board recycling is organised by local municipalities and excat data related on recycling rates is not available. Compliance EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR p. 32–33 Transport EN29 Environmental impacts of transportation SR p. 23, 24–27 Overall EN30 Environmental expenditures and investments SR p. 32–33, FS p. 39, 87, 102 GRI TABLE 49 INDICATORS FOR LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK (LA) More information Reporting level MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO LABOR PRACTICES SR p. 12–15 Employment LA1 Breakdown of workforce SR p. 41, 42–43, 44–47; The Group-level data reported. The regional breakdown by gender is not considered as material. LA2 Employee turnover SR p. 41, 42–43; Breakdown of new hires by age, gender and region not considered as material. LA3 Employee benefits SR p. 42–43 LA15 Return to work after parental leave Not material as the work contracts continue unchanged after the parental leave. Labour/management relations LA4 Collective bargaining agreements SR p. 42–43 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational change SR p. 42–43 Occupational health and safety LA6 Workforce represented in formal joint management health and safety programs SR p. 42–43 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and fatalities SR p. 40–41; Geographical breakdown not considered as material. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs SR p. 40–41; Not material in Metsä Group's operations. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training SR p. 43; The training of employees is reported in days per year. LA11 Programs for skill management and lifelong learning SR p. 42–43 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews SR p. 42–43 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees SR p. 41, FS p. 131 Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men SR p. 40; The ratio not reported. A Group-level comparison is not possible to obtain. HUMAN RIGHT INDICATORS (HR) MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO HUMAN RIGHTS SR p. 12–15, 22 Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating SR p. 22; We expect all our supplier to comply with our human rights concerns Supplier Code of Conduct. Currently no data collection system available to report the actual percentage. HR2 Significant suppliers and other business partners screening for human rights SR p. 22 HR3 Employee training on human rights SR p. 7, 15, 43–43; No data available on the number of hours devoted to the training. Non-discrimination HR4 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR p. 42 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified for the risk of not to exercise freedom of association or SR p. 3, 22; No geographical risk assessment currently collective bargaining available. Child labour HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents SR p. 3, 22; No geographical risk assessment currently of child labour and measures taken to eliminate it available. Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for forced or compulsory SR p. 3, 22; No geographical risk assessment currently labour and measures taken to eliminate it available. Indigenous rights HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Metsä Group's operations have no significant impact on the rights of indigenous people. No incidents detected in 2012. Assessment HR10 Percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Not material to Metsä Group's operations. Remediation HR11 Grievances related to human rights field No reported grievances related to human rights in 2012. SOCIETY INDICATORS (SO) MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO SOCIETY SR p. 12–15, 34–37, 38–39 Local communities SO1 Management of impacts on communities in areas affected by activities SR p. 38–39, 42–43; No Group-wide community engagement or impact assessment programmes available. SO9 Operations with negative impacts on local communities SR p. 38–39, 42–43 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with negative impacts on local SR p. 38–39, 42–43 communities Corruption SO2 Percentage of business units analysed for risks related to corruption SR p. 8–11, 12, FS p. 124; Corruption is included in the Internal Audit's risk assessment procedures. SO3 Employees trained in organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures SR p. 7, 12 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SR p. 12–15 50 GRI TABLE SOCIETY INDICATORS (SO) More information Reporting level Public policy SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying SR p. 35–36 SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions No political contributions in 2012. Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Anti-trust and monopoly court cases SR p. 12–15, FS p. 40 Compliance SO8 Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SR p. 12–15 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS (PR) MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY SR p. 16–17 Consumer health and safety PR1 Product safety SR p. 16–17 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product No incidents reported in 2012. safety Product and service labelling PR3 Product information SR p. 16–17; End-use and disposal not included in the Environmental Product Declaration. PR4 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product information No incidents reported in 2012. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction AR p. 23, SR p. 37 Marketing communications PR6 Programmes for adhere to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications Not material in Metsä Group's product marketing communications. Vast majority of the Group's sales are from business to business operations. PR7 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes on marketing communications No incidents reported in 2012. Customer privacy PR8 Number of complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data No incidents reported in 2012. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the No incidents reported in 2012. provision and use of products GRI TABLE 51 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO THE MANAGEMENT AND • Review of data sources, data generation and reporting procedures at the STAKEHOLDERS OF METSÄ GROUP following sites in Finland and Sweden: Metsä Board Äänekoski mill, Metsä Fibre Äänekoski mill, Metsä Forest Tampere wood supply unit, Metsä SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES Tissue Pauliström and Nyboholm mills and Metsä Wood Vilppula sawmill. The Management of Metsä Group commissioned us to perform a limited assurance engagement on the Metsä Group Sustainability Report 2012 (“the CONCLUSIONS Report”). The assurance engagement was conducted in accordance with the ADHERENCE TO AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) and as a type 2 engagement. • Inclusivity: Metsä Group has found to have procedures in place for stakeWe have duly performed a limited assurance engagement, the objective of holder involvement, and the company has made a commitment to active which was to evaluate: stakeholder dialogue. • Metsä Group’s adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles of • Materiality: Metsä Group has conducted a materiality review in 2011 and inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness; defined material sustainability issues for the Report. • the reliability of performance information presented in the Report accord• Responsiveness: Metsä Group has adequate policies, guidelines and proceing to the Quality of Information Principles defined in the Global Reportdures in place to respond to stakeholders’ expectations. ing Initiative Guidelines; and • the GRI application level of the Report. RELIABILITY OF PERFORMANCE INFORMATION We have reviewed the basis of the sustainability information provided in the RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MANAGEMENT OF METSÄ GROUP AND THE report. Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that would ASSURANCE PROVIDERS suggest, that the report does not give, in all material issues, a fair and balanced Metsä Group’s Management is responsible for the preparation of the Report and view of Metsä Group’s sustainability performance, or that the information the performance data and statements presented therein, which the company presented in respect to all material issues would not be reliable with regard to management has approved. Our responsibility as assurance providers is to the reporting criteria. express a conclusion based on our work performed. The criteria used for our assessment include the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and Metsä GRI APPLICATION LEVEL Group’s own internal reporting guidelines. The Report corresponds to the GRI application level A+. ASSURANCE PROVIDER’S INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE OBSERVATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS An assurance provider is required to be independent and impartial from the Based on our limited level assurance engagement, we present the following reporting organisation. During 2012 we were not committed to any assignobservations and recommendations, which do not affect the conclusions ments for Metsä Group that would conflict with our independence, nor were we presented above. involved in the preparation of the Report. Our assurance team consists of • Sustainability data for the Report is collected from different data sources competent and experienced responsibility reporting and assurance experts, who with distinct procedures. Internal controls of data are relying on compehave the necessary skills to perform an assurance process. Further information, tences and availability of some key persons. We recommend that Metsä including a statement of competencies related to the team can be found at: Group develop further Group-level sustainability data gathering and www.tofuture.eu. reporting procedures towards a more systematic process which is completely documented in order to confront reporting risk management and BASIS OF OUR OPINION AND LIMITATIONS change management issues. Assurance providers are obliged to plan and perform the assurance process so as • Sustainability management procedures are firmly established at Metsä to ensure that they collect adequate evidence for the necessary conclusions to be Group. Based on the materiality assessment conducted in 2011 Metsä drawn. The procedures selected depend on the assurance provider’s judgement, Group has defined a Group-wide sustainability agenda and related targets. including their assessment of the risk of material misstatement adhering to the We recommend that Metsä Group further develops the implementation of reporting criteria. sustainability targets in order to ensure business value and integration of We have performed the following procedures: sustainability agenda to business operations at all levels of the organisation. • Assessment of the procedures Metsä Group has in place to ensure adherence to principles of stakeholder inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. • Interviews with four members of the Metsä Group Executive Management Espoo, Finland, 14th March 2013 Team and two other senior management representatives to gain an underTofuture Oy standing of the major impacts, risks and opportunities related to Metsä Sustainability Assurance Group’s sustainability agenda. • Interviews with Metsä Group specialists responsible for sustainability performance data collection at Group-level and in selected sites. Mikael Niskala Jani Alenius • Review of Group-level systems and procedures to generate, collect and Director of Assurance Practice Senior Assurance Practitioner report sustainability performance data for the Report. • Evaluations of Group-level calculations and data consolidation procedures Tomi Pajunen and internal controls to ensure the accuracy of data. Senior Assurance Practitioner 52 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT METSÄ GROUP P.O. Box 10 FI-02020 Metsä, Finland Tel. +358 10 4601 MORE INFORMATION AT www.metsagroup.com/sustainability SEND YOUR FEEDBACK TO sustainability@metsagroup.com
