2012 Sustainability Report 6 5 1 1 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 4 2 3 Fibria Sustainability Report 2012 – This Report is published English translation: Bruce Lister Rodger, Cristiano Resende de Oliveira, by Fibria Celulose S.A. João Roberto Moris and Steve Yolen Coordinators: Cristiano Resende de Oliveira, Mara Pinheiro English revision: Maya Forstater and Peter Raynard and Tiago Nogueira de Noronha Photos: Fibria archives, Flávio Guarnieri, Ricardo Teles, Roberta Editor: Luiz Fernando Brandão Dabdab, Vitor Nogueira Reporters: Anna Costa, Letícia Tavares and Claudia Cagni (Quintal 22) Infographics: Gerson Mora and Anna Luiza Aragão Support: Alessandra Matsumi Circulation: 1,000 copies Data collection: Antonio do Nascimento Gomes Proofreaders: Ana Neiva, Isis Stelmokas and Rachel Reis Additional information requests, suggestions or comments about this Graphic design: Sarau Report can be sent to Fibria Corporate Communications: Online graphic design and online report: Tau Virtual Alameda Santos, 1357 – 10º andar – CEP 01419-908 Graphic design and print version: Textual – São Paulo – SP – Brazil – Phone (+5511) 2138-4000 Materiality Matrix: Atitude Sustentável E-mail: comunicacaofibria@fibria.com.br Interviews with members of neighboring communities: Adriana M. Imperador and Marcos Gimenez April 2013 1 Introduction 4 2 Governance 18 Message from the Management 5 Management 19 Our commitment to sustainability 7 Code of Conduct 20 External views 8 Ombudsman services 21 About this Report 10 Internal auditing 22 About Fibria 12 Risk management 22 Business model 14 Fines and legal claims 23 Materiality: impacts and performance 16 6 Financial-economic performance 58 1 2 Market situation 59 3 Strategy 24 Performance analysis Capital investment 60 60 6 3 Certifications Commitments 25 26 Debt management 60 Short-term targets 28 Product 61 5 4 5 Social Performance 46 4 Environmental performance 30 Relationship with local communities 47 Technological innovation 31 Local community relationship model 47 Forest management 32 Relationship with specific communities 49 Industrial eco-efficiency 34 Impact on local communities 50 Forest protection 35 Logistics risks 51 Soil management 35 Consulting the local communities 52 Biodiversity 37 Suppliers 54 Water resource management 40 Forestry partners 55 Climate governance 42 Personnel management 55 Emissions 44 Waste 44 Effluents 45 1 2 6 3 5 4 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 the value of alliances Native forests and eucalyptus plantation in Três Lagoas (MS) 4 1 2 6 3 5 4 1 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Message from the Management Fibria achieved notable operating results and equally sets in the south of Bahia and concluded the sale, to important advances in terms of socioenvironmental reCMPC Celulose Riograndense S.A. to the amount of sponsibility in 2012. This demonstrates how seriously we R$615 million, of forest and land assets that had been take the promise of generating economic wealth in a a part of the Capão do Leão Forest Unit's properties manner that is responsible, shared and inclusive. in Rio Grande do Sul, totaling approximately 100,000 hectares of our own lands and 39,000 hectares of eucaThe macroeconomic situation continued to be unstable, lyptus plantations. We were also able to resolve matters impacting on the prices of the main commodities, overoutstanding from the past, definitively ending the issue seas, and the performance of the foreign exchange rate, of Aracruz Celulose’s derivatives trades through agreein Brazil. These factors were prejudicial to our financial ments with the involved parties. Through these actions, performance, despite the fact that the pulp market’s we reduced the company's debt – our net debt over fundamentals were consistent over the year: balanced EBITDA went from 4.8 to 3.4 times – returning it to a inventory levels, the resumption of demand and the healthy level. startup of new sanitary paper machinery. The relationship with communities neighboring our opFor its part, 2012 was a year of major achievements, erations deserved special attention. We resolved imporincluding certification by the Forest Stewardship Countant conflicts, by participating in initiatives to fight illegal cil (FSC ) of the forest management and the chain ® ® charcoal sales in the South of Bahia, and promoted the of custody in the Aracruz Unit’s operations, encomself-development of local communities. After years of passing our activities in the states of Espírito Santo, negotiations, we established an agreement with the Bahia and Minas Gerais. It was a tough job, which was Landless Workers’ Movement (MST) for the settling positively reflected in the market and strengthened our of 1,200 families and the creation of a vocational, procommitment to best practices in the industry. fessional school for the development of agriculturalforestry technologies on a 12,000-hectare plot of land Our debt management strategy also moved forward. belonging to Fibria. We believe that, more than living Designed to adjust our capital structure and reduce in harmony with them, it is our duty to contribute to leveraging, we conducted a public share offer totaling their training so they are in a position to make a positive R$1.4 billion. Moreover, we divested forest and land aschange to the reality of their communities. 5 1 2 6 3 5 4 Despite taking considerable care regarding worker safety For the coming years, we have defined six Long-Term Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 and our record of making substantial improvements in Sustainability Targets that should help us achieve our this field, we unfortunately registered two serious acciobjective of obtaining admired profits. These are pubdents: one in our pulp operations and another at Porlic commitments to fundamental topics, such as optocel, where a freelance worker was fatally injured. We timal use of the land, the protection of biodiversity, are reviewing our policies and procedures to reduce the mitigation of the greenhouse effect, eco-efficiency possibility of these lamentable incidents recurring. and the quality of our relations with society, including our contribution to the self-sustainability of the Looking ahead, Fibria will continue to concentrate on communities. In 2012, our focus was to disseminate its core business – supplying pulp. The company is prethese targets to employees and other stakeholders. For pared to boost its production capacity through expan2013, we are working to develop indicators that allow sion of the mill in Três Lagoas, Mato Grosso do Sul us to manage, account for and measure our progress at the appropriate moment. We are also investing in regarding each point. innovation and diversification of our businesses. One excellent opportunity is the development and marWe would like to express our special thanks to every keting of biofuels deriving from forest plantations. To person and institution – employees, customers, NGOs, make this project feasible, we acquired a stake in Ensyn partners, suppliers, investors – that contributed so we Corporation of the U.S., which produces fuel oil from could end 2012 better off than when it began. For socia renewable matrix. Another possibility is to offer our ety, both inside Fibria and outside of it, we are cooperatstructure and knowledge of logistics to other compaing to put in place the underpinnings of a future that is nies, optimizing the use of our assets both in transporricher in opportunities and accomplishments. And we tation as well as in port handling operations of pulp will continue to abide by the promises we have made. and other products. José Luciano Marcelo Castelli Penido CEO Chairman of the Board of Directors 6 1 2 6 3 5 4 Our commitment to sustainability Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Henri Phillipe Van Keer, Commercial and InternaGrande do Sul; and we generated R$836 million in tional Logistics Director free cash flow in 2012. As a result, our financial flex“In 2012, the global pulp supply and demand ratio ibility in 2013 will be much greater.” was more balanced than expected. This is a positive sign for the beginning of 2013, when the first impacts Francisco Fernandes Campos Valério, Director of Inwill be felt from the startup of new producers. We dustrial Operations, Engineering and Procurement will continue to invest in the strategy of being close to “This year was important in terms of fully consoliour customers, allowing us to better understand their dating the integration of our operating units. Today, needs, adding value to our services.” employees, contractors and suppliers of the three Units work in full cooperation, aiming to overcome Aires Galhardo, Director of Forest Operations challenges and grow together. We also focused on “The highlight of the year was to obtain forest certisafety, but despite all of our care, we registered two fication from the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) serious accidents in 2012. We are reviewing our safefor the Aracruz Unit. In addition, we shifted a few ty strategy, in order to return to the path of continuoutstanding issues. One of them involved an agreeous improvement that we had been on.” ment with the Landless Workers Movement (MST) and the state government of Bahia for a settlement Luiz Fernando Torres Pinto, Director of Human on land belonging to Fibria and the construction of a and Organizational Development school for training the residents in agroforestry tech“In the third year of Fibria's operations, we moved nology. We also established effective dialogue with forward in consolidating the corporate culture. We traditional communities in southern Bahia and northincreased our development efforts, which drive ern Espírito Santo, with very promising results.” our training activities, retention and attraction of professionals and the management of the succesEduardo Andretto, General Counsel sion process. In 2013, the company will increase its “In 2012, we definitively resolved the remaining isinvestment in training to better prepare leaders for sues relating to the derivative trading crisis at the the challenges of the future, always in line with our former company, Aracruz Celulose, through agreevision and mission statements and our focus on susments with investors, regulators and others involved tainability.” in the problem. Turning this page in the company's history was a major achievement for Fibria.” Carlos Alberto de Oliveira Roxo, Director of Sustainability and Corporate Affairs Guilherme Cavalcanti, Director of Finance and In“The year was particularly important for three reavestor Relations sons: we strengthened Fibria's identity as a company “A series of initiatives allowed Fibria to end 2012 with committed to sustainability, improved the quality of a debt level that is considered to be healthy – the relations with communities near our plantations and ratio of net debt to EBITDA, which was 4.8 times strengthened our relationships with national and inearlier in the year, went to 3.4 times, a very signifiternational stakeholders. We are motivated by the cant improvement. We conducted a successful share reason underlying our business: that it brings gains offering, fully placed in the global market; we sold for the company, for the local communities and for off non-operational forest assets in Bahia and Rio the planet as a whole.” 7 1 2 6 3 5 4 External Views Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 We invited two experts to make a critical reading of take to achieve the goals and a candid presentation of Fibria’s Sustainability Report 2012 the challenges and uncertainties the company faces for each target. Comments: Fibria Celulose’s 2012 Sustainability Report Linking of financial and nonfinancial performance. Future reports should discuss whether and how initiatives I appreciate the opportunity to comment on Fibria’s to generate less waste, use less water and reduce CO2 2012 Sustainability Report and make a contribution to emissions–which clearly create value for society–also improving future sustainability reports and building a drive innovation that enables the company to reduce foundation for integrated reporting. costs and increase revenues, thus creating value for shareholders. The 2012 Sustainability Report excels in the use of graphics to explain complex matters. Community investment initiatives. The presentation of community investment initiatives should provide more Business Model – A two-page graphic of the Fibria specific information about the nature and effect of business model presents the company’s value creating these investments. The report should answer quesactivities. The graphic clearly illustrates the resources tions such as, what types of infrastructure projects consumed by each activity and the resulting positive and are supported? As a result of these investments, how negative impacts. many temporary and permanent jobs were created? Or, how many people got access to clean drinking Strategy – Another graphic identifies nine strategic obwater or electricity or sanitation facilities or schools or jectives and, for each objective, the related the 2012 tarhospitals? get and performance against the targets. Performance results for 2012 are linked to material issues and to longI look forward to following Fibria’s progress on its susterm targets. tainability and integrated reporting journey. Materiality – A materiality graphic identifies the top ten issues facing Fibria and categorizes each issue as an economic, environmental, governance and social matter. Notes within the graphic provide a brief explanation of why each issue is important in terms of positive and negative impacts. Current year performance metrics and targets for each issue are also presented. Mike Krzus Like many corporate reports, Fibria’s 2012 Sustainability President, Mike Report is a mix of leading edge ideas, excellent reportKrzus Consulting ing practices and areas where improvement is necessary. Opportunities, risks and uncertainties. The presentation Mike Krzus is an integrated reporting consultant, author and speaker of shortand long-term targets would be improved by (www.mikekrzus.com). He provides advisory services to both companies and consulting organizations and is co-author of One Report: Integrated Reporting including a robust discussion of actions Fibria intends to for a Sustainable Strategy. 8 1 2 6 3 5 4 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Comments: ects which have succeeded in self-financing, without Fibria Celulose’s 2012 Sustainability Report provision of further detail. In the Supply Chain, where Fibria has encouraged suppliers to engage with the Fibria Cellulose's 2012 Sustainability Report is an eduCarbon Disclosure Project, more thorough examinacation in the detail of sustainable forest management tion of the impacts of this would be of interest. practices, and projects a deep-seated commitment to  Employee Engagement: As an employer of 17,000 high standards of environmental stewardship and good direct and outsourced employees, Fibria devotes only citizenship. It covers all the bases, and in some sections, minor narrative in this report to employee relations, goes well beyond what I see as good reporting practice engagement, development, diversity and inclusion, in the many reports I analyze from all over the world. health and safety and organizational climate. The quality of employment in the regions in which Fibria Positive highlights for me in this report: operates is critical for local socio-economic development. I would welcome more transparent coverage of  Materiality: A focus on ten material issues throughFibria's workplace including detail about outsourced out the report, demonstrating alignment of business worker practices. Outsourced workers represent over and sustainability leadership, including an infographic 75% of Fibria's workforce, yet most of the informarepresentation of the issues, their relevance, impacts tion reported excludes them. and Fibria's performance and targets.  Materiality Matrix: The Fibria matrix, impressive  Value Chain: A graphical depiction of the company's though it is, has not been updated for three years. business model, showing the positive and negative While the nature of sustainability is long-term, the impacts of Fibria's core business activities enables the relative focus of different material issues may change reader to understand the fuller picture. from year to year, or new items may come up on the  Stakeholder Engagement: The presentation of loradar. It is good to see that Fibria commits to reviewcal community engagement interviews and the critiing this in 2013. cal analysis of their expectations of Fibria is fascinating and includes, for example, criticism leveled at the I am encouraged to read Fibria's report and, for me, company regarding water use in planted forests. This it demonstrates credible leadership and a serious approvides context and balance. proach to sustainable business practice. Aspects which I would recommend considering for future reports:  Fibria's role in society: Fibria's impacts, in addition to its performance, could be more fully reflected throughout the value chain to articulate how the company is driving change, beyond the efficient manElaine Cohen agement of its own resources. In areas where Fibria Beyond Business reports on socio-economic impacts, for example, projects to help local communities become more susElaine Cohen, Sustainability Reporting Consultant, Beyond Business Ltd, tainable, reporting is limited to a percentage of projelainec@b-yond.biz. 9 1 2 6 3 5 4 About this Report The performance of the Capão do Leão Forest Unit (RS), Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 sold in 2012, and Veracel, which has its own report, and Portocel are not in the scope of this Report. Fibria Celulose S.A.'s 2012 Sustainability Report presents the company's performance in the areas of governance, The major themes in Fibria's strategy and accountability economic, financial, and social and environmental reto its various stakeholders were established through the sponsibility. The Report was prepared on the basis of Materiality Matrix and, in order of importance, are the the 10 most important topics in the Materiality Matrix following: and the company’s long-term targets and addresses all  impact of the planted forests on biodiversity; Fibria’s principal stakeholders.  certification and voluntary commitments;  ethics; The information covers the Aracruz (ES), Jacareí (SP)  use of water; and Três Lagoas (MS) Industrial Units; the Forest Units  strategy/commitment regarding sustainability; and offices in Bahia (Posto da Mata), Espírito Santo  relations with neighboring communities; (Conceição da Barra and Aracruz), Mato Grosso do Sul  forest partners (wood suppliers); (Três Lagoas), and São Paulo (Capão Bonito and Vale do  environmental risk; Paraíba); and the pulp loading operations at the port of  emissions, effluents and waste; Santos (SP).  relations with specific communities. Materiality Matrix Outside stakeholders – General interests of society 4 1 7 3 13 9 16 8 2 14 12 6 10 5 11 15 21 19 22 18 32 17 20 28 34 33 29 27 25 24 23 31 30 26 35 Internal stakeholders – Perspective of the business 1. Impact of the eucalyptus plantations on bio12. Forest technical management 24. NGOs diversity 13. Energy use 25. Complaints and Ombudsman 2. Certification and voluntary commitments 14. Product responsibilities 26. Customers 3. Ethics 15. Workplace health and safety 27. Attracting and retaining talent 4. Use of water 16. Use of toxic products 28. Transport impact 5. Strategy/Commitment towards sustainability 17. Economic results 29. Diversity/fair treatment 6. Relationship with neighboring communities 18. Climate change 30. Antagonistic and/or anti-agribusiness groups 7. Forestry partners 19. Communication with employees 31. Press 8. Environmental risks 20. Compliance with laws and regulations 32. Use of genetic modification 9. Emissions, effluents and waste 21. Wood use 33. Government 10. Relationship with specific communities 22. Relations with outsourced workers 34. Suppliers 11. Corporate governance 23. Investors 35. Labor unions 10 1 2 6 3 5 4 This Sustainability Report began to be produced in Au Advancing by about a month the launch of the SusFibria | Sustainability Report 2012 gust 2012, after evaluation of the previous document, tainability Report, in relation to the previous year’s planning meetings – budget, timeline, team, partners publication, with the approaching release dates of and responsibilities – and of the approval of the work the Management Report and the financial Financial plan at an executive officers’ meeting. This fourth ediStatements, thus taking another step towards intetion of the document is the result of a process that grated reporting; involved data collection, consolidation and writing,  Deepening and improving the format of Fibria’s busivalidation with the reporting areas, art design and disness model, incorporating and linking into a single semination. It is a collective constructive involving over infographic the resources, activities, positive and 200 professionals of different areas as well as partners, negative impacts, materiality, main results and comand has resulted in a final product in 6 versions that mitments for each material topic; brings together the most relevant information about our operations, results and interactions in 2012.  Fully disclosing all core performance indicators, reaching an application level A+ according to the GRI Improvements to the Sustainability Report guidelines, reinforcing compliance with the principles transparency, balance and comparability. The GRI Re Reducing the number of versions, with an online verport underwent external verification by Bureau Verision geared to fully meeting the G3.1 guidelines of tas Certification. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and a printed version, which selects key information and highlights the For 2013, we commit to updating Fibria’s Materiality relationships among the ten most important themes, Matrix, which will serve as a basis for planning and deaccording to the Materiality Matrix, and Long Term fining the content of the next Sustainability Report. Targets. The GRI version can be accessed at www. fibria.com.br/rs2012/en; Comments, suggestions and requests for additional in Incorporating additional information on the Materialformation regarding this document should be sent to ity Matrix and its ten key issues into the Management comunicacaofibria@fibria.com.br or Fibria Celulose S.A. Report, in an effort to bring together the disclosure Comunicação Corporativa – Alameda Santos 1.357 – of financial and non-financial data in Fibria’s main 10º andar – CEP 01419-908 – São Paulo – SP – Brazil. instrument of financial accountability, thus taking a step toward integrated reporting; The editors Key In the following pages, you will see icons that refer to the Materiality Matrix and the Long Term Targets. See below the meaning of each one. Strategy/commitment towards Biodiversity Emissions, effluents and waste sustainability Certifications Relationship with neighboring communities Relationship with specific communities Ethics Forest partners (wood suppliers) Water Environmental risks LTT Long-Term Targets 11 1 2 6 3 5 4 About Fibria With three Industrial Units and a forest base of 989.381 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 hectares, of which 354.697 thousand are dedicated to environmental conservation, the company also has inFibria is a Brazilian company with a strong presence in dependent wood suppliers, which in 2011 totaled 3,321 the global market, and works to ensure that the growcontracts and 102,300 additional hectares of eucalyptus ing demand for paper can be met in a sustainable manplantation. ner. Founded in 2009, as a result of the merger between Aracruz Celulose S.A. and Votorantim Celulose e Papel Fibria’s commitment to its stakeholders is demonstratS.A. (VCP), the company is the world’s largest producer ed by its signing up to initiatives such as the UN Global of hardwood pulp, operating through three industrial units, at Três Lagoas, Aracruz and in the Paraíba Valley. Global presence In 2012, Fibria produced 4.74 million tons of pulp, 4% more than sold in the previous year and also exceeded the production level for that year. The company has approximately 17.170 workers, including direct employees and outsourced workers, and is active in 255 municipalities within seven Brazilian states: Rio Grande do Sul, São Northeastern USA Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Espírito Santo, Mato Grosso do Southeastern USA Sul, Minas Gerais and Bahia, in the last of which it also Gulf of Mexico Miami – USA has a joint venture, Veracel, with the Swedish/Finnish group Stora Enso. Fibria’s global reach extends into 42 other countries, through distribution centers and commercial or representative offices in Europe, Asia and North America. Shareholder structure São Paulo – Brazil  BNDESPar 30,38%  Votorantim Industrial 29,42%  Treasury stock 0,06%  Outstanding stock 40,14% Sales distribution by region 2012 2012 End use  Europe 36%  Tissues 54%  North America 30%  Printing and writing 29%  Asia 25%  Specialities 17%  Latin America 9% 12 1 2 6 3 5 4 Compact, the Business Pact For Integrity and Against Mission – Develop the business of renewable forests Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Corruption, the Atlantic Forest Restoration Pact, the as a sustainable source of life. National Pact for the Eradication of Slave Labor and the Vision – Consolidate the planted forest as a producer World Childhood Foundation’s “On the Right Track” of economic value, generating healthy profits, in tanprogram. The company has been certified by the Fordem with environmental conservation, social inclusion est Stewardship Council (FSC®) and Cerflor/PEFC and and improved quality of life. is included in the Dow Jones Sustainability (Emerging Markets) and São Paulo Stock Exchange Sustainability Values – Strength, ethics, respect, entrepreneurship (ISE BM&FBOVESPA) indices. and harmony. Northern Europe Csomád – Hungary Nyon, Switzerland Mediterranean Beijing – China Chinese coast Hong Kong – China Southeast Asia BA Veracel Veracel Belmonte Posto da Mata Conceição da Barra Caravelas Três Lagoas MG Portocel MS ES Aracruz SP Forest BA – Bahia state Jacareí RJ São Paulo Vale do Paraíba ES – Espírito Santo state Capão Bonito Santos Industrial Unit (pulp) MG – Minas Gerais state Port MS – Mato Grosso do Sul state RJ – Rio de Janeiro state RS Office RS – Rio Grande do Sul state Capão do Leão Distribution center SP – São Paulo state 13 BUSINESS Own and outsourced To facilitate understanding of the forest workers connection between our financial and non-financial performance, we present a simplified diagram of Fibria’s Land acquisition and leasing, forest partners, business model, following the forest establishment and maintenance, proposal of the International restoration, environmental monitoring Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)1. According to Eucalyptus plantations, roads and native the IIRC, reserves in own, leased, partnership and incentive areas Supplier Resour Irrigation of seedlings and plantations, dirt c es road dust abatement, equipment washing, use of defensives Long-, mediumand short-term planning, Herbicides, improvements in forest insecticides, soil Eucalyptus management, grants correctives, substrates clonal seedlings in and environmental own seedling nurseries management and native species Planters (manual and mechanized), seedlings in community subsoilers, harvesters, forwarders, nurseries cranes, flatbed carriers, trucks, tractors, woodchippers Eucalyptus planting (reform or Use of fuel in forestry rebudding), crop treatments, Forest vehicles and equipment forest monitoring and protection. Restoration and management RESEARCH conservation of native areas Eucalyptus leaves, branches and bark Harvest, are left on the soil after mechanized harvest debarking, log sawing and stacking Risk of incorrect disposal of fertilizer (next to roads). In Capão Bonito packaging and other solid waste (São Paulo state), chipping Wood (and operations for producing chip) handling in wood chips in the field the field for removal Risk of contamination of water bodies and to the pulp mills by reduction in water availability road, waterway and Pulp railroads, and in the wood Conservation of springs (ecosystem services) yards at the mills sults Fire, oil and chemical leakages, incorrect Re Storage and disposal of solid waste handling of pulp in Change in landscape, fauna and flora Recovery of degraded areas Isolation of communities, generation of dust and noise, change in landscape, risk of road accidents, overloading Customer of roads, changes in land values Employment and income generation, social investment Reso urces Carbon sequestration by forest (positive balance) Ship chartering, hiring of distribution centers Forklift trucks, trucks, trains, port equipment, barges and ships Use of fuel by vehicles, ships and port equipment positive negative impacts impacts Own and outsourced port workers, transportation personnel 1. Towards Integrated Reporting – communicating value in the 21st century – Discussion Paper (available at www.theiirc.org). MODEL integrated disclosure must address the Building of the mill, purchase of inputs, materials and relevant externalities affecting the services, monitoring and environmental treatments company, as well as resources and relationships used and affected, and how the business model interacts Capture, treatment and with externalities and the recirculation of water resources and relationships to create and maintain value over time. Industrial equipment, vehicles s urce Reso ACTIVITIES Biomass produced and purchased, oils, natural gas Own and outsourced Debarking and industrial workers chipping of wood logs Technological research & Extraction of pulp and separation of black development liquor and innovation applied to forest management, Generation and disposal of solid waste in sustainability, industrial landfills, risk of soil contamination product and Pulp Bleaching of brown cellulosic pulp Processing and reutilization of process production industrial waste in fields development, and new uses Generation and disposal of of forests Treating effluents in bodies of water, risk of of water, contamination of rivers and sea effluents, waste and Res atmospheric gases, recovery and recirculation of water and inputs, ults Evaporation of Generation and emission of 90% of the humidity generation of energy gases into the atmosphere, risks of air in the pulp, cutting contamination, odor and sound generation into uniform sheets and grouping in sales wired-tied bales Capture, use and loss of water mill warehouses, port terminals and distribution centers Generation of odor and noise, impacts on highways and roads Generation of jobs and income, private social investment, and tax generation lts Resu Risk of oil leakage and ballast water from vessels Greenhouse gas emissions during highway, rail and maritime transportation operations Cargo handling on roads, ship maneuvering and transit Financial revenues from pulp sales M AT E R I A L I TY: I M PACT S A N D P E R F O R M A N C E The 10 most important topics for the sustainability of Fibria, identified in the orange circles, were chosen by the company’s stakeholders for the Materiality Matrix and can be grouped into three categories: environmental, social and governance, and strategy. These complement the economic dimension of sustainability. Learn how materiality is present in Fibria’s main relationship categories (stakeholders) and performance indicators (results in 2012 and future commitments). Carbon balance Why is it important What is the Eco-efficiency Who is affected? (positively)? commitment (targets)? Economic impacts Environmental Why is it important What is the performance stemming from risks (negatively)? (main results)? climate change Risk of scarcity of Fibria’s operations natural resources are based on intensive use of natural resources Neighboring communities 2012: 2,507 hectares Small farmers being restored Mosaic planting 2013: 4,771 hectares 2025: 40,000 hectares Forest being restored being restored restoration Biodiversity Large Biodiversity in forest blocks the eucalyptus Neighboring 2012: 186,709,242 2013: conclude plantations is lower communities m3 of water withdrawn pilot project than in native Small farmers and 395,972 m3 water using Water forests consumed in the Footprint Network industrial process methodology Eco-systemic A pulp mill functions services Water Eco-efficiency Capture of large as a sustainable water reservoir see why volumes of water for use in forest and Environmental Competition for industrial operations the use of water Use in production: 76% of water captured (GRI Potential EN10) re-circulates in production 4.2 times before environmental liability being returned to the receiving water body — “water reservoir” concept (GRI EN8 and EN10) Pulp Reutilization Recirculation Evaporation of waste Carbon Emissions, balance ENTRY uSE effluents and waste Strategic 4.9 m3/tsa*, includes evaporation and 10% ExiT Loss of legitimacy Increase in Due to scale of its Governance of humidity of the pulp operations, Fibria environmental generates large *tsa = tonne of treatment costs volumes of emissions, air-dried pulp effluents and waste Other entries Disposal (humidity in wood, water in of effluent chemical inputs, rain etc.), (GRI EN21 – Recognition for according to the Water Footprint conveyance of leadership Ethics Network methodology treated water Legitimizing Compliance with to receptive the business the legislation, Water capture bodies of good governance (GRI EN8 – intake of water water) practices and from bodies of water) Fines and lawsuits appropriate Loss of value conduct between Reputational loss stakeholders Neighboring communities Employees Employees Investors Suppliers Customers Investors Suppliers Government Neighboring Customers communities 2012: 121,458,700 m3 of industrial 2012: R$ 664,221,560.92 in Strategy and effluents disposed 73.3 fines pending decision commitment 383 complaints received by towards the Ombudsman 3,842,187.5 tCO2eq 73.3% of the sustainability balance (emissions – waste generated was sequestration) reutilized Vision: Generate admired profits, associated with 2025: Double the absorption of carbon from environmental conservation, the atmosphere Reduce solid industrial social inclusion and Continuity Loss of waste sent to landfills by 91% improvement in quality of life of the business social and Admired environmental profit license to operate Neighboring communities Neighboring communities Employees Suppliers Small farmers Customers Investors 2012: R$ 212,767,973 2012: R$ 27,057,000 87% reduction in invested in environmental invested in neighboring wood theft treatment projects communities 87 2025: Double absorption of carbon from the atmosphere 2025: reach Help make 70% of 80% approval the projects supported in neighbouring 80 by the company 70 communities self-sustaining Strategy for relationship with the communities and social Black communities Indigenous investment communities Fishing communities Neighboring Landless Movements communities Dispute over possession and use of land Fibria is a forestLoss of social 2012: 13 new rural 87% based company with communities involved reduction in extensive plantation license to operate in the PDRT 87 wood theft areas, partly its own 2025: help the achieve community to an 80% 80 make 70% of 70 approval the projects Strategy of rating in supported by Specific relationship with neighbouring the company communities the communities and communities self-sustaining Fibria has an social investment Social extensive forest base, part neighboring traditional Dispute for possession communities and use of land Loss of social Partners license to operate 2012: 102,338 hectares contracted area Chain of value 2013: conclude unification of the Forest Forest Agricultural diversity Savings Program partners Economic Suppliers of the company’s main raw Financial dependency with relation to Fibria material located in Environmental areas neighboring its certification risks operations Main economic-financial results (2012)1 Net sales revenues 6,174 Certifications Net income (R$ million) 698 External evaluation Participation in of our management systems and forums EBITDA (R$ million) 2,253 Increase in that propagate the business legitimacy best practices in the Pulp production (1,000 tonnes) 5,299 forestry sector and industry in general Loss of credibility if the systems/forums are Pulp sales (1,000 tonnes) 5,357 not recognized by society Market cap (R$ billion) 12.5 Fibria establishes its Mission and Vision Pulp average list price (US$/tonne – base Europe) 777 with sustainability as part of its business Employees Customers Cash cost of production (R$ tonne) 473 Suppliers Investors Neighboring Share price – FIBR3 (R$) 22.6 Communities Forest base (hectares) 1,104.8 2012: 16 shortterm targets met 1. Including 50% of Veracel. (73% of the total) 73 2013: 28 short-term targets Customers Investors 2012: All Units 2013: certification established Employees Suppliers certified by the FSC® of the entire forest 2025: 6 long-term targets Neighboring Communities base by the FSC® and established Opinion Makers CERFLOR/PEFC 1 2 6 3 5 4 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 THE VALUE OF TRANSPARENCY Digestor at the Três Lagoas Unit (MS) pulp mill 18 1 2 6 3 5 4 2 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Governance Management Boards and committees Fibria’s corporate governance model is based on best In 2012, Fibria set up an Innovation Committee to advise management practices. Its boards and committees are the Board of Directors in the analysis of research projresponsible for overseeing the company’s activities and ects and technological innovations. operations in order to mitigate risks, be accountable, prevent fraud and ensure administrative transparency. With their mixed composition – bringing together professionals from the company and other market instituThe corporate governance model is fully compliant with tions – the boards help to define the priority of actions, the regulatory requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act discuss issues and establish a medium and long term vi(SOX) and regulatory bodies such as the Brazilian Secusion for the business. Members of the company’s boards rities Commission (CVM) and the São Paulo Stock Exand committees are listed in the HTML version of the change (BM&FBOVESPA). It also adheres to the code of Sustainability Report, available at: www.fibria.com.br. the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC) and incorporates cultural features of Fibria. General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Directors Fiscal Council Personnel and Audit & Risks Innovation Sustainability Finance Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Board Internal Auditing Ombudsman 19 1 2 6 3 5 4 Composition of corporate governance bodies Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Board of Directors Board of Directors Advisory Committees Titular and substitute members: 18 Members: 28 Gender Age groups Gender Age groups 17 men – (94,5%) 1 under 30 – (5.5%) 26 men – (92,9%) 0 under – 30 1 woman – (5,5%) 7 between 30 and 50 – (39%) 2 women – (7,1%) 8 between 30 and 50 – (28,6%) 10 over 50 – (55,5%) 20 over 50 – (71,4%) Minorities (disabled, Asian and Indigenous, Black and mixed): 0 Minorities (disabled, Asian and Indigenous, Black and mixed): 1 (3.6%) Remuneration policy and Ombudsman channel, and are disseminated to the teams by the company leadership. The elected members of Fibria’s Board of Directors who are nominated by the shareholders Votorantim IndusThe Code of Conduct is considered to be one of the trial and BNDES Participações, have waived their right to most important tools for guiding the company’s profesreceive remuneration for performing their tasks. sionals, as it sets out the desired standard of behavior for employees, in their personal relationships and at work, The remuneration of the executive officers is consolidatboth inside and outside the company. The document ed and totaled R$ 24,263,481.21 in 2012. The remunerapplies to all employees, both direct and outsourced, ation of the Board members is consolidated and totaled and is presented to each new employee at the time they R$ 2,136,633.90 in 2012, not including the members of are hired. The content of the document is reinforced on the Auditing & Risk, Finance, Personnel & Remuneration a monthly basis at the assessment meetings that take and Sustainability Committees. place at all industrial and forest units, as well as through specific campaigns, and when required. Ethics and transparency To reinforce the application of the Code of Conduct, an Ethics and Conduct Committee, comprising memCode of Conduct bers of the Executive Board and managers, examines possible violations, checks whether reported concerns The company’s Code of Conduct was updated in June are valid, ensures that all cases are assessed accord2012, to incorporate, among other items, a topic coning to uniform criteria, and recommends steps to be cerning employee behavior when publishing Fibriataken concerning matters not addressed by the code. related content in social media. These changes are The Ethics and Conduct Committee also oversees the available to all employees over the intranet, internet Ombudsman’s office. Cases involving fraud, embezzle20 1 2 6 3 5 4 ment or property damage are dealt with by Internal It is a constant learning process: each case is analyzed Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Auditing. by the office of the Ombudsman, even if it is considered to be unfounded, as it provides an opportunity to fineIn 2012, 10% of the company's employees fortune the processes, enhance the leadership and revise policies and procedures. mally adhered to the Code of Conduct. 374 employees (10% of the total) received The cases deemed to have grounds resulted in 70 recformal training in the organization’s policies ommendations for revision of policies and procedures and procedures related to human rights or suggestions for improvement of internal controls. In during new employee orientation processes another 60 cases, the company applied the disciplinary and results meetings. actions it considered appropriate, ranging from verbal In the Corporate Security area, 3 of Fibria’s warnings through to the dismissal of those involved. Of the demands received by the Ombudsman in 2012, 132 own (8% of the total) and 230 outsourced were related to human rights (34.5% of the total), beprofessionals (23% of the total) underwent ing classified as follows: 12 cases of discrimination and human rights training. prejudice; 89 reports of harassment (moral or sexual) and abuse of power; 22 cases regarding disciplinary measures; and nine cases of retaliation (managers’ atOmbudsman services titudes). Of the 132 cases, 44 were deemed to have The Ombudsman channel was set up to receive comgrounds and filed, 82 were considered undue and displaints about violations of the Code of Conduct from missed and six are still under analysis anybody who is connected in any way with Fibria. It is available to employees, former employees, local comChannels of communication with the Ombudsman’s office munities, suppliers, customers and partners, through a Telephone 0800 891 1730. To call from other countries: https://secure.ethicspoint. toll-free telephone number, by letter, e-mail, intranet or com/domain/media/en/gui/27629/phone.html internet, or by direct communication with the corporate Letter Ouvidoria Fibria Celulose S.A. Caixa Postal nº 72.696, CEP 01405-971 ombudsman. All complaints are treated as confidential Internet www.fibria.com.br > Institutional > Ombudsman and are registered using a tool that keeps a record of each Intranet Fibria Net > International Offices > Code of Conduct case, from the moment it is registered until it is closed. In 2012, Fibria’s Ombudsman received 383 complaints, of which 355 (92.7% of the total) were dealt with and closed and 28 (7.3%) are being analyzed. Of all the cases registered:  34.5% concerned abuse of power and management behavior  18,3% concerned inappropriate relations with business partners and local communities  11.0% concerned violation of policies  7.0% concerned irregularities regarding health, safety and environmental issues  3.7% concerned the company's image and employee behavior outside the work environment  6.0% were other miscellaneous matters  19.6% were questions for clarification or requests for information. 21 1 2 6 3 5 4 Internal policies and procedures risks) to those arising from the production process (opFibria | Sustainability Report 2012 erating risks). Risks are also managed in areas associated with obligations undertaken with third parties (credit Internal auditing risks), negative exposure of the company's name (reputational risks), environmental impacts caused by its operaFibria’s Internal Auditing team is responsible for the intions (socio-environmental risk), impacts on production dependent evaluation of processes and verification of or the business caused by natural physical phenomena compliance with applicable policies, regulations and (event risks), and problems from actions that don’t meet procedures, through a systematic approach that seeks the regulations in force in different countries and markets to improve the effectiveness of the company’s opera(regulatory risks). Fibria has a Risk Management Policy to tions and add value to the business. provide guidance in managing all of these factors. Fibria has an annual auditing plan, based on the risk Internal controls matrix, the internal controls matrix and the deliberations of the management and members of the Auditing and In confirmation of its effectiveness, Fibria’s 2012 interRisk Committee. Through this plan, it is possible to deternal controls were recertified, in compliance with Section mine the priority of what is to be audited over the course 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and CVM Instrucof the year. At the end of the period, an action plan is tion no 480/09, in an independent assessment carried drawn up, based on the conclusions of the auditors. out by PricewaterhouseCoopers. The consolidated financial statements also received unqualified certificaIn 2012, the Internal Auditing team conducttion by the independent auditors, as in previous years. ed nine projects related to corporate, forest and industrial processes. It also conducted In order to help the company document the perfor18 special projects requested by Fibria’s Ommance of its internal controls, Fibria introduced the Conbudsman. The results of its analyses and the trol Self Assessment (CSA) methodology, which, among action plans drawn up are submitted to the other things, enables the continuous management of CEO and the Auditing and Risk Committee. operational risks, the establishment of self-assessment routines, the identification of risks and verification of With regard to its anticorruption practices, of the effectiveness of the controls. the eight reports of suspicions of fraud and bribery investigated by the Internal AuditEnterprise Risk Management (ERM) ing area in 2012, five were closed, with none of them considered to be valid. The three In 2012, Fibria made advances in the management of remaining cases are still under consideration. strategic risk, through the ERM project, a coordinated and integrated risk management process that strives to encompass the entire organization at all hierarchical levRisk management els, fostering communication and cooperation between the different functional areas. Fibria’s risk management area maps out all significant risks, analyzes them and makes recommendations for The verification and analysis of new risk is carried out on resolution. The company’s risk management strategy conan ongoing basis. In 2012, a complete review was persiders various types of risks, ranging from the variables of formed of the company's risk base, which gave rise to a financial market trading in favor of the business (market new priority risk matrix. Of the 239 strategic risks found, 22 1 2 6 3 5 4 58 were considered to be priority and grouped into 14 pany’s industrial, forest and port facilities. Through this Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 top risk categories. The risks are classified according to initial work, it was possible to verify the effectiveness of their potential impact and probability. crisis management and detect points for improvement. Thus, a systemic and deeper vision about the way Fibria More synergy has been tackling various fronts can be obtained, with Everything related to governance, the special attention to issues with intangible consequences, ombudsman and internal auditing is which include socio-environmental risks whose prevensubordinate to the Governance, Risk and tion and repercussions depend on paying close attention to stakeholder relations, whilst also meeting strict stanCompliance (GRC) structure, established in dards of certification and international agreements. 2011 to ensure synergy between the different areas ensuring everybody is talking on the Crisis management same wavelength. The year 2012 was marked by the structuring and consolidation of the In 2012, Fibria initiated an internal analysis of the crisis GRC, leading to the standardized processes, management process. This included setting up committhe review of controls and defining of roles and tees and preparing a crisis management manual, as well responsibilities for each area. as training on the subject for professionals at the comFines and legal claims Administrative tax assessments – in 2012, Fibria was a party to four legal assessments involving significant fines, amounting to R$664,221,550.92. No fines were paid, nor were there any nonmonetary sanctions. Administrative labor claims – The company (Fibria and Fibria/MS) is a party to 115 administrative claims currently in progress, of which 29 were filed in 2012. Lawsuits regarding Aracruz Celulose losses – Among the labor administrative processes, we highlight two actions related to derivative losses at Aracruz Celulose, occurred in 2008. The first one is a class action lawsuit filed in federal court by U.S. purchasers of shares of Aracruz Celulose, between April 7 and October 2, 2008, claiming damages due to alleged non-disclosure by the company of derivative transactions . The parties signed an agreement in November 2012, by which Fibria will pay a total of US$37.5 million to holders of ADRs in the period certified by the class. The agreement will be settled in the first quarter of 2013. The other process was formulated in view of the resolution made by the Special General Meeting held on November 24, 2008, against Isac Roffé Zagury, former CFO of the company, as the party responsible for losses on derivative operations in 2008. The company entered into an agreement with Isac Zagury Roffé, by which he must pay the company, as compensation, the amount of R$1.5 million. The agreement shall be settled in the first quarter of 2013. Legal claims in the interior of the state of São Paulo – Fibria is a party to four legal claims in connection with its forest activities carried out in specific areas of two municipalities of the state of São Paulo. 23 1 2 6 3 5 4 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 THE VALUE OF commitments Pulp embarking on the STX Arborella ship, at Portocel (Aracruz, ES) 24 1 2 6 3 5 4 2 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Strategy Fibria’s sustainable business consists of generating value and Forestry Management Systems, developed to enfor all stakeholders: sure that all of the company’s processes are carried out with excellence. The management indicators adopted  for customers, cultivating long-term relationships and to monitor the performance of the activities are based providing a high level of technical and logistical caon a strategic map the company has prepared which pacity; follows the Balanced Scorecard (BSC) methodology.  for communities, seeking respected and shared profits, based on dialogue, engagement and social inclusion;  for shareholders and investors, generating profitability Certifications with transparency in information and commitment to One of Fibria’s greatest accomplishments in accountability; 2012 was being certified by the FSC®, in Oc for employees, with an emphasis on the developtober, in terms of forest management and the chain of ment, cultivation of talents and workplace health and custody of the operations of the Aracruz Unit. To obtain safety; and this recognition, the company worked with Imaflora in  for society, focused on operating excellence, eco-efthe SmartStep project, a methodology for adjusting to ficiency, environmental conservation and technologithe processes created by the international Rainforest Alcal innovation in the service of better use of forests. liance organization. An action plan was established inIncluded in this model are the Quality, Environmental volving 500 measures – all implemented – involving adCertified forest area Unit Total area (ha) Area certified by the FSC® Area certified by CERFLOR (PEFC) Aracruz 348,297.00 310,174.00 348,297.00 Capão do Leão2 – – – Jacareí 161,086.49 160,823.82 – Três Lagoas3 350,201.05 283,232.77 283,232.77 Total 859,584.54 754,230.59 631,529.77 1. In hectares. Does not include 50% of Veracel. 2. Unit sold in 2012. 3. The non certified area includes new land bought and leased for the formation of forests that will supply wood to the new factory to be built in Três Lagoas. 25 1 2 6 3 5 4 justments to environmental, social, operational and In accordance with the FSC® and CERFLOR chain of cusFibria | Sustainability Report 2012 workers rights processes. tody management systems and practices of responsible forest management, Fibria has a Wood Acquisition Policy Also in October, the Três Lagoas Industrial Unit was cerwherein it states that it does not support, directly or intified to the ISO 9001 quality and ISO 14001 environdirectly, activities such as illegal cutting of word or illegal mental management system standards. trading in forest or timber products as well as any violation of traditional and human rights in forestry operations. At the same time, the new certifications of the Forest Management System made it possible for Fibria to verify Controlled wood in 2012 the consistency of its processes, to measure and monitor them to increase competitiveness and, as a result, In 2012, about 45% of the wood supplying ensure customer satisfaction. Independent institutes the Aracruz Unit’s mills came from controlled also certify Fibria’s management systems. The compasources; forestry partners and its own ny's Units were audited by the Bureau Veritas Certificaareas that lie outside the scope of the tion (BVC) and the Instituto de Manejo e Certificação FSC® certification. Florestal e Agrícola (Imaflora). About 5% of the wood purchased in 2012 from Fibria’s Certifications third parties – including sponsored producers – came from Paraíba Valley producers supplying Fibria today has the following certifications: the Jacareí Unit.  Quality Management System – ISO 9001  Environmental Management System – ISO 14001 Upcoming challenges  Occupational Safety And Health System– OHSAS 18001 Fibria’s goals for the coming years are Cerflor certifica Forest Management – CERFLOR/PEFC and tion for the Jacareí Unit and obtaining ISO 9001 certifiFSC ® cation for Santos Port Terminal, as well as restructuring  Chain of Custody – CERFLOR/PEFC and FSC ® to meet the OHSAS 18001 requirements at all Units. Another challenge is to help improve the forest management adopted by its forestry partners (independent To learn more about which units have the above certiproducers that supply wood to the company), so that fications, please access the GRI version of the Sustainthey too can register for FSC® and CERFLOR certification. ability Report at www.fibria.com.br/rs2012. Program for Verification of Controlled Wood and Commitments Controversial Sources Upon completing three years of activities, FiIn order to monitor the sources of uncertified timber proLTT bria continues to maintain its commitment to vided by its suppliers, Fibria created the Controlled Wood sustainability as being fundamental to major achieveVerification/Controversial Sources program, which lays ments, such as certification by renowned international down a set of responsibilities and procedures for sponorganizations and the strengthening of relations with sored producers, such as training, identification of raw neighboring communities, the third sector and other material (wood) sources, a public commitment not to acimportant civil society organisations. Through this, the quire illegal wood, and setting up a hotline for the reportcompany improves its practices and contributes to a ing of any misconduct. fairer and more inclusive society. 26 1 2 6 3 5 4 This commitment includes engagement in movements tal risks that have been identified in the Enterprise Risk Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 that discuss our common future. In 2012, with this obManagement (ERM) system. These are: jective in mind, Fibria participated in national and international groups and forums, such as the World BusiObjective: optimize the use of natural resources ness Council for Sustainable Development, The Forests Target: reduce by one-third the quantity of land needed Dialogue, the New Generation Plantations Project, the to produce pulp. Ethos Institute and the Brazilian Forest Dialogue. Topics such as biofuels, climate change, the inclusion of womObjective: help to mitigate the effect of greenen in the rural economy, genetically modified plants and house gases forest management by less favored communities were Target: duplicate absorption of carbon from the atmodiscussed. sphere. At the same time, the company continued its social and Objective: protect biodiversity environmental responsibility initiatives, assisted by its Target: foster environmental restoration of 40,000 hectSustainability Committee which, in 2012, organized two ares of own land between 2012 and 2025. editions of its Constructive Dialogues program – in Jacareí (SP) and Três Lagoas (MS). During these meetings, FiObjective: boost eco-efficiency bria presented its plan of local actions to the community Target: reduce by 91% the quantity of solid industrial and received suggestions and demands from them. The waste sent to landfills. considerations received during these meetings help the company decide upon some of its initiatives, including Objective: strengthen the interaction between updating the materiality matrix that defines – from the the company and society point of view of the company and of society – the topics Target: reach 80% approval level in neighboring commost relevant to the future of the company. munities. The Sustainability Committee was also was responsible Objective: strengthen the interaction between for the recommendation to create long-term targets for the company and society Fibria that establish commitments to be met by 2025. Target: help the community to make self-sustainable in The definition of these sustainability targets takes into 70% of the income generation projects supported by account priority subjects that have been highlighted in the company. the Materiality Matrix and the social and environmenThese targets are neither exhaustive nor static, and may evolve or encompass new commitments to satisfy the demands of the market, the company or society. In 2012, Fibria sought to disseminate the Long-Term Targets among all employees. It also initiated a process to develop indicators to measure the progress of each one of the targets and an agenda, with detailed stages of actions to be carried out to achieve these goals. For 2013, the monitoring of each target will be conducted based on pre-defined indicators. 27 1 Improve the relations with local 2 Develop 3 Review the forest partnership 4 Protect and enhance Objective communities, through engagement activities related to models, adapting them to the natural resources and measures to promote their climate change new guidelines economic and social development 1 Attain a 55% favorability rating 1 Increase the 1 Introduce “family forestry” partnership 1 Initiate environmental 2012 Targets for Fibria’s activities within the local response rate (by model, which aims to include smallholders restoration of 2,000 hectares communities (taken from long-term Fibria’s supply chain) in the Fibria supply chain of forestry of conservation areas on targets) under the Carbon operations in the states of São Paulo, Mato property owned by the Disclosure Project Grosso do Sul, Espírito Santo and Bahia company (taken from Long2 Help to make 10% of the local (CDP) Supply Chain, (not achieved in 2011) Term Targets) development projects supported by from 71% to 90% Fibria self-sustaining (taken from Long2 Develop a pilot project for Term Targets) 2 Compile and the appraisal of ecosystem consolidate the services to assist company 3 Increase by 30% (from 22 to 29) the quarterly carbon management number of rural communities under the footprint results, Rural Territory Development Program thereby assisting 3 Start implementing the (PDRT) (continuation from 2011) operational Forest Management Plan management to take for the Restinga de Aracruz 4 Implement the Project for Sustainable immediate action, as Private Natural Heritage Settlements through Agroforestry and well as in internal and Reserve (RPPN) Biodiversity in the far south of the external disclosure state of Bahia, benefiting around one 4 Prepare a case study to thousand families, on 5 farms totaling act as a benchmark for the 11,000 hectares (continuation of 2011) exploitation of non-wood forest products within Fibria’s conservation areas The first assessment, through In 2012, 93% of Model is approved and The restoration 2012 Results 1 1 1 1 a public opinion survey, was suppliers responded ready to be implemented of 2,200 hectares was close to 60% begun in 2012 2 Monthly report 2 At the present time, 7% of the prepared to keep 2 A tool was development projects no longer departments informed developed for the require Fibria investment appraisal of the company’s socio-environmental 3 There are now 35 communities recommendations under the PDRT (in the states of Espírito Santo, Bahia, Mato Grosso 3 implementation of do Sul and São Paulo) the RPPN Management Plan has begun 4 The Project for Sustainable Settlements through Agroforestry The case study and Biodiversity was officially launched at 4 “Production of what is now called the Fazenda Colatina Brazilian peppertree (Schinus Settlement. The land is in the final stages terebinthifolius) seeds in areas of expropriation by INCRA (National belonging to Fibria Celulose Institute for Settlement and Agrarian S.A.” was developed Reform) and the families are being chosen by the MST Materiality Matrix Long-Term Attain an 80% approval rating within the Double the absorption Help to make 70% of the income Conduct environmental local communities of carbon from the generating projects supported by restoration of 40,000 hectares Help to make 70% of the income generating atmosphere the company to be self-sustaining of company land, between 2012 Target projects supported by the company to be and 2025 self-sustaining Achieve a 60% favorability rating for Maintain the level of No specific targets have been Initiate the restoration of 4,771 2013 targets neighboring communities and help to make participation in the CDP set for 2013. hectares in the Atlantic Rainforest 10% of the projects supported by Fibria selfSupply Chain and improve Two targets set in 2011 in relation to and Cerrado biomes sustainable the average by 10% Fibria’s forest partners programs Apply the tool for the appraisal Increase the number of rural communities under Quantify the emissions were not continued in 2012, for the of ecosystem services that was the PDRT from 35 to 59 reduction potential in 2013 following reasons: developed in 2012 Begin the activities of the Agroforestry Training, Define Fibria’s Water Units and Education and Research Center in Prado (BA) Target 1 Along with WWF Brasil, align the monitoring of water Complete the sale of all the Fibria properties develop a national standard for FSC® resources occupied by landless movements in southern certification of small groups of forest Bahia producers and service providers. Begin dialogue over the quilombola issue Status Together with WWF Brasil, Fibria and set up a pilot project involving various set up, tested on three forest partners protagonists and submitted its FSC® certification Complete all the community infrastructure proposal, thereby completing its activities in Helvécia and Caravelas (BA) participation in the project Consolidate the Plan for the Socioenvironmental Sustainability of the Indian Lands in Aracruz Target 2 Educate and develop Standardize the Beehives Program: access awareness of forest partners regarding of beekeeping associations; standardization the FSC® principles and criteria, based of practices; specialized technical assistance; on an analysis carried out in 2010. establishing of standards and resultand Status The target was changed to indicators; fostering of the apiculture chain “conduct an analysis to check Offer the environmental training program to forest partner adherence to FSC® social projects supported by Fibria “principles and criteria”, which was completed in 2012. 1Impact of plantations 2 Certification and Target fully achieved Target partially achieved Target not achieved on biodiversity voluntary commitments 5 Promote the development, awareness and engagement of the 6 Increase eco-efficiency 7 Certify Fibria’s forests 8 Strengthen the relationship with civil society 9 Consolidate sustainability as part of the company’s corporate governance Fibria supply chain 1 Evaluate, develop 1 Finalize the work on 1 FSC® certification 1 Continue participating in 1 Hold a second discussion panel and set up a suppliers’ identifying the water footprint of the Aracruz Unit’s study groups looking into for Fibria stakeholders (Constructive and customers’ of the pulp produced at the managed forests in the best forest management Dialogues), on a regional basis socioenvironmental company’s Forest and Industrial Espírito Santo, Minas practices under the WWF’s New (continuation of 2011) investment fund, Units (not achieved in 2011) Gerais and Bahia Generation Plantations (NGP) for the financing of project (continuation of 2011) 2 Prepare and introduce an Educate high-priority Fibria socio2 Prepare an analysis of the Pulp Life for Sustainability program for environmental projects Cycle, from the plant nursery to the port 2 Continue participating in company employees and permanent and activities (not of destination (not achieved in 2011) national and international outsourced staff, in order to achieved in 2011) forums on the best disseminate concepts and promote 3 Reduce by 6.5% the amount of solid forest management and action in favor of sustainability at 2 Develop and introduce waste sent to industrial landfills by the sustainability practices,notably every level of the company, as well a Code of Conduct for company’s industrial units, through the The Forests Dialogue (TFD), the as to present sustainability projects suppliers, which includes operational start up of treatment plants Diálogo Florestal Brasileiro, the to other Fibria departments (not sustainability concepts at the Jacareí and Três Lagoas Units (not Sustainable Forest Products achieved in 2011 and postponed achieved in 2011). Industry Working Group, the to 2012) World Business Council for Sustainable Development 3 Carry out public consultations (WBCSD), and the Global and disclosure of the company’s Compact (continuation strategic plans for the conservation of 2011) of biodiversity and water resources, as well as the plan for environmental distance training, over the internet 1 Responsible 1 The water footprint was 1 Imaflora 1 We participated 1 Constructive Dialogues were Network set up completed for the forest base awarded Fibria in the Lisbon and held in São José dos Campos and launched by Fibria’s and mills at Jacareí, Aracruz and Três FSC certification ® Uruguay meetings. The (São Paulo state) and Três Lagoas CEO, together with the Lagoas, with measurement of the green, in those states, GMO Working Group was (Mato Grosso do Sul state) first participant, Plantar, blue and gray waters, according to the in October 2012. set up. A social case study and the beneficiary international methodology of the Water Now, all of Fibria’s was produced. Work 20 lectures were conducted communities (Helvécia Footprint Network, of which Fibria is a forests have FSC® was begun on company 2 at internal events and and Espora Gato) member. Fibria is running an amendment certification disclosures management meetings, visits to the service contract with the to social projects, two regional Postponed consultant to evaluate the water footprint 2 Active participation editions of the Constructive 2 to 2013 in the Cerrado and Atlantic Rainforest in the WBCSD Dialogues (with the presence of forums, involvement in professionals and contractors), the 2 The work is still in progress, Rio+20, including backing launch of the Responsible Network, in the stage of involvement of for the Business Day, and Sustainable Bazaar, with sales customers in Europe and in the tissue participation in various of products originated in social paper segment TFD and Diálogo Florestal projects supported by Fibria to Brasileiro forums. Fibria employees and service providers at 3 The target was not achieved at was co-organizer of the the Central Administration, and the Três Lagoas, because the Unit had 4Fs event in Brazil, in campaign Responsible Receipt at not yet started the production of the November Fibria’s Units and Office in the state corrective agent for soil acidity using of São Paulo inorganic waste (dregs, grits, lime sludge and ash). At Jacareí, the target was There was public consultation partially achieved, with a 6.0% reduction, 3 over the definition of Areas of due to the Proactiva plant not operating High Conservation Value at Aracruz. at full capacity in the production of soil We published, through the WBCSD, acidity corrective agent a case study on Fibria’s biodiversity strategy Help to make 70% of --------Reduce by 1/3 the amount ----the income generating of land needed for pulp projects supported by Reduce by 91% the amount of production the company to be selfsolid industrial waste being sent sustaining to landfills ----Develop and launch Complete the Pulp Life Cylce Analysis, Obtain CERFLOR/ Continue to participate in Carry out the third round of a Code of Conduct from the seedling nursery to the ports of PEFC certification national and international Fibria stakeholder round tables for suppliers that destination (stage involving European of the Jacareí Unit’s forums discussing the best (Constructive Dialogues), at Capão includes the concepts of customers and the tissue paper segment) managed forests forest management and Bonito (SP) and in Espírito Santo sustainability Elevate the ecoefficiency of the Industrial sustainability practices, and Bahia (continuity from 2012) Raise R$ 4 million Units: notably The Forests Dialogue Set up a road map for achieving for the suppliers energy consumed (MWh/adt) – 0.582 (TFD), the Diálogo Florestal the Long-Term Targets, showing and customers (2012: 0.584) Brasileiro, the WBCSD Forest KPIs and medium-term targets socioenvironmental water withdrawn (m3/adt) – 30.5 (2012: Solutions Group and the investment fund, the 30.6) Global Compact (continuity Responsible Network, waste generated1 (kg/adt) – 227.5 from 2012) to be used in priority (2012: 234.5) socioenvironmental NOx2 (kg/adt) – 0.79 (2012: 0.69) projects and activities DBO (mg/l) – 2.0 (2012: 2.0) (continuity from 2012) AOX2 (kg/adt) – 0.097 (2012: 0.082) suspended solids (mg/l) – 2.05 (2012: 2.05) 1. Not converted to dry weight basis. 2. The company works with NOx and AOX indicators below international benchmarks (IPPC), so the figures are treated as control parameters. 5-Strategy / commitment 6Relations with local 9Emissions, effluents 10Relations with 4Water usage to sustainability communities and waste specific communities 1 2 6 3 5 4 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 the value of nature Marcos Aires, Field Research analyst at the Aracruz Unit (ES/BA/MG) 30 1 2 6 3 5 4 4 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental Performance Productivity and ecoefficiency biological control of pests, among others. For genetic improvement and biotechnology (see below), of parTechnological innovation ticular interest was the introduction of 15 new eucalyptus clones into the company's seedling nurseries and Innovation and technology are of fundamental importhe first hybrid clones of subtropical species that are of tance for Fibria’s market leadership position, not only strategic interest to the company. These clones were in terms of production volumes but also in the quality selected to weather conditions found in the states of of its products and services. In the sector, it is one of Espírito Santo and Bahia. These clones deliver gains in the companies that invests the most in research, develthe industrial process and in forest productivity, repreopment and innovation: in 2012, it earmarked around senting an increase of 3% in the volume (tonnes) of R$ 42 million for technology projects (8% more than in pulp produced per hectare per year. 2011), at the most advanced stages in the forestry and pulp production areas. In the industrial area, the research projects are centered on novel technologies for pulp cooking and bleaching Its Technology Center (TC) is responsible for the comprocesses, seeking to reduce consumption of wood and pany's research and innovation efforts. Towards this chemical products. In bio-refining, advances were made end, it operates laboratories in the Jacareí and Aracruz and results contributed to a project for the diversificaunits for the development of biotechnology, bio-refintion of the business. New partnerships were developed, ing, pulp and paper and forest protection projects. It and the initiatives for the generation of biofuels and is also is involved in a series of experimental field and bioproducts based on wood already included various watershed studies with input from all operating units. stages of the chain of production. In 2012, projects were developed in forestry management and natural resources, genetic enhancement and One of the main partnerships established for this purpose biotechnology, and the development of products and was signed with the Ensyn Corporation of the U.S., which processes with emphasis on bio-refineries. owns technology for production of renewable liquid fuels. Fibria is studying the best way to apply the Ensyn techIn forestry management and natural resources, Fibria’s nology for converting biomass into bio-oil, to leverage its TC develops technologies related to soil fertilization forestry expertise and develop high-value-added alternaand conservation, landscape management and the tives for the use of wood from its forest plantations. 31 1 2 6 3 5 4 Forestry improvement and biotechnology Evolution of the Long-Term Targets Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 As a contribution to the long-term The genetic improvement of forests makes use of reLTT target of reducing by one-third the combination techniques and field experiments to develop clones improved for the conditions of each of Fibria’s quantity of land needed to produce pulp, the Units. Trees that are capable of producing a larger quanTechnology Center used genetic improvement tity of raw material per unit of area over a given time and biotechnology techniques to develop, in are selected with appropriate use of natural resources, 2012, clones that present superior productivity in a more economic manner and optimum quality. Furand wood quality, generating more efficient thermore, Fibria conducts biotechnology research, usproduction in tonnes of pulp per hectare/year. ing the molecular marker technique to enhance genetic improvements of the plants and anticipate this selection of superior trees. In 2012, the company also conducted Forest management field experiments, which consisted of planting eucalyptus trees that were genetically modified in laboratories, Forest management is the way one administers forest following the legal recommendations and orientation of resources to obtain economic and social benefits, rethe certifying bodies. specting the mechanisms that sustain the ecosystem. Fibria’s forest management is designed to supply eucaIn 2012, new facilities were inaugurated lyptus wood to its industrial units, observing parameters at the Technology Center in Jacareí (SP), regarding productivity, quality, low cost and environconsisting of bio-refinery and biotechnology mental and social responsibility in a way that ensures laboratories and a seedling nursery for business sustainability and productivity. Because it extracts the maximum productivity from Fibria’s areas, it research purposes, making it possible to also contributes towards meeting the company's longconduct studies linked to the forest raw term target of reducing, by one-third, the amount of materials and end product. land needed to produce pulp. The new Regulatory Affairs and Intellectual Property Department was made part of the To improve its management practices, Fibria uses a series of tools, including: Technology Center structure in 2012, to handle  Socio-environmental Performance Index (IDSA) – two important aspects in the management of measures the environmental performance of the fortechnological innovation. One of these is the est operations over the course of a year, with the goal manner in which the company protects and of improving the indicators and correcting eventual controls the intellectual property that it promistakes. duces. The other is how it interacts with the  Socio-environmental recommendations – seek to encertification bodies and institutions linked to sure that the forestry activities are conducted within biotechnology, in order to present the benthe company's social and environmental standards, legal requirements and forest certification guidelines, efits of its work. minimizing and/or mitigating impacts. 32 1 2 6 3 5 4 Responsible forest management seedlings irrigation was concluded. This system also reFibria | Sustainability Report 2012 utilizes effluents generated in the seedling production  Conserves and recovers native forests process to apply in fertilization-irrigation of eucalyptus  Conserves the soil plantations of the Aracruz nursery, reducing the volume  Improves water quality of water from both artesian wells and springs.  Generates income, jobs and social welfare  Contributes to regional environmental Wood logistics stability The wood that supplies Fibria’s industrial units is for the most part transported by trucks. To a lesser extent, Production and wood supply Fibria also uses barges – more economical and with a Wood consumption in Fibria’s Industrial Units in 2012 lower impact on the environment – on the route linking was 16 million cubic meters. Of this total, the Aracruz the Caravelas Maritime Terminal, in Bahia state, and the Forest Area (ES) supplied 8.5 million cubic meters of Portocel Barge Terminal in Espírito Santo state. It also wood; the Jacareí Unit (SP), about 3.6 million m3; and uses railroad transportation between partnered areas in the Três Lagoas Unit (MS), 4.2 million m3. The compaMinas Gerais and storage facilities in Espírito Santo and ny's own plantations accounted for about 82% of this the Aracruz Industrial Unit. wood volume with the remainder being supplied by In 2012, the Jacareí Unit forestry area delivered 3.6 milsmall, medium or large-sized partnering farmers. lion cubic meters of wood, of which 4% was from third The good operational performance of Fibria’s mills, parties. Of particular note was the accident rate of only which is reflected in the reduction of specific wood 0.98 accidents per million kilometers traveled in transconsumption (per tonne of pulp produced), positively portation services to this Unit. This result reflects the impacted forest management and reduced the need for consolidation of the Safe Road program implemented new plantation areas. by the company, which renewed the fleet and instituted a committee to discuss the progress in the transportaThe highlight of the silviculture program was the startup tion processes. At the Três Lagoas Unit, approximately of the P100 Project, which is designed to maximize the 4.2 million cubic meters of wood were transported. The productivity of the forest areas nearest to the mills in Logistics area guaranteed the supply of the Três Lagoas order to reduce the cost of wood transportation. To mill, with safety improving annually, reaching an acciachieve this objective, the project includes changes in dent rate of 1.16 accidents per million kilometers travforestry management practices, increased fertilization, eled in 2012, thereby maintaining the index’s downward monitoring of areas and weed control. trend compared to the 1.69 mark posted in 2011. The highlight of this result was the excellent performance In 2012, the rainfall water capture system to be used in turned in by Fibria’s own team – zero accidents with Seedlings 2010 2011 2012 Production of eucalyptus seedlings 1 89,017,808 102,756,751 73,008,078 Planting of eucalyptus seedlings 63,137,817 87,802,255 68,029,260 Donations of eucalyptus seedlings 1,426,630 1,922,460 7,400 Production of native seedlings 1 956,762 15,316,875 1,970,440 Donations of native seedlings 50,007 77,500 20,780 1. In own and third-party nurseries. 33 1 2 6 3 5 4 lost time over a period extending more than two years. process, supplies the utilities – water, atmospheric gasFibria | Sustainability Report 2012 At the Aracruz Unit, 8.5 million cubic meters of wood es, waste steam and electric power – for this purpose were transported in 2012 with an accident rate of 1.33 and treats the water and the effluents. To enable this to accidents per million kilometers traveled. This mark was occur with maximum efficiency, the company invests in achieved thanks to awareness campaigns conducted the operational stability of its units. with suppliers by the Safety Committees and through the Safe Road program, focused on the most problemOperational stability – Maintaining production at a atic stretches of the BR-101 highway. constant level generates value for the company, both in terms of productivity as well as in reduction of costs. Industrial eco-efficiency Currently, all of Fibria’s units operate at an operational stability level higher than 90%. Eco-efficiency consists of the intelligent use of natural resources, to produce more with less raw material. At The constant availability of the mills is based on a system Fibria, this concept is put into practice as it is related of preventive maintenance, monitoring the operation to the generation of admired profit that is part of the of the equipment through a structured sense-based company’s vision. The subject is so important for the inspection program. The inspection is conducted by sustainability of the company that it is part of its estaboperators and maintenance personnel who use their lished long-term targets for 2025 and the short-term senses – hearing, touch, smell – to capture noises, heat targets referring to 2012. Last year, Fibria invested R$ and odors that could indicate abnormal performance of 182 million in processes and equipment to improve the the inspected equipment. Furthermore, there are vibraeco-efficiency of its industrial operations. tion inspections using special instruments for mechanical equipment and heat imaging to identify hot spots Industrial operations – The industrial process is dividsubject to failure in electrical equipment. Beyond this, ed into pulp production, which consists of transformin order to check the environmental quality of the acing tree logs into sheets and bales of pulp through the tivities inherent in the industrial process, Fibria uses an use of chemicals and heat; and in recovery and utilities, Environmental Performance Index, a management tool which recovers the chemicals used in the production that analyzes the level of pollution control. These checkControl panel (SDCD) of the Aracruz Unit (ES) pulp mill 34 1 2 6 3 5 4 ups trigger preventive and corrective actions to avoid Forest monitoring is conducted continuously, based Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 production shutdowns or slowdowns. on the biological aspects of the pests, the pathogens (agents that cause diseases) in eucalyptus trees and Fibria conducts annual shutdowns in all of its units deweeds. This permanent forest management practice is signed to recover functions, substitute worn equipment also designed to permit quick first combat when fires and parts and modify processes, thereby maintaining break out. The approach increases the efficiency of the the quality of the installations. In 2012 these general control measures, reduces the use of pesticides and stoppages occurred between May and August. losses in productivity, enhances wood quality and minimizes operating costs. By utilizing monitoring informaInternal benchmarking – During the year, Fibria made tion and guidelines for acceptable limits of infestations, advances in its industrial benchmarking project, which it has been possible to reduce the need to control leafaims to incorporate the best practices of each unit to cutting ants – a eucalyptus crop’s main pest – in all of establish a common operational standard for achieving the company's forest maintenance areas. At the Aracruz maximum performance. This program, initiated in 2010, Unit (ES), 55% of these areas did not require any control is based on the exchange of experiences among Indusactions in 2012. At the Jacareí Unit (SP), this index was trial Units, with the participation of professionals from 65%, and at the Três Lagoas Unit (MS), the region with all levels involved in pulp production. the highest infestation level, it was 35%. In 2012, Forest Protection research resulted in: Biodiversity, ecosystem  New opportunities for technological services and water innovation in terms of weed management.  A technological package for greater Forest protection efficiency in fighting fires. Fibria adopts a series of measures to avoid proliferation  A study into the genetic variability of of harmful organisms in its forests and to make sure pathogens, the evaluation of operational they remain healthy. The successful management of clones and review of non-destructive the plantations against attacks by pests and diseases is methods for systemic pathogens. based on a strategy of prevention, monitoring and con A cooperative network for the creation trol cycles that, furthermore, is designed to reduce the and exchange of biological materials and occurrence of weeds and losses due to fire. information for the biological control of eucalyptus pests. One of the prevention initiatives is the evaluation of eucalyptus clones in the genetic improvement process. In this process, clones that are resistant to critical diseases and do not require field control are recommended. In Soil management 2012, all of the company's clones were evaluated with regard to their resistance, in accordance with the stratSoil management deals with the conservation of land egy for protecting future generations of plantations. and the decision to use practices to prepare the soil in Fibria also invested in the expansion of a laboratory a way that causes the lowest impact possible for the dedicated to research and creation of natural enemies environment and the community. Appropriate soil manof Eucalyptus pests. agement plays a key role in the sustainability of our 35 1 2 6 3 5 4 plantations and their ecosystems. This practice includes with gains in logistics, safety in application and costs. Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 plantation area selection based on soil suitability and In 2012, further studies were conducted on the critical land preparation; it takes into account environmenlevel of organic matter in the soil, through more accutal constraints that may impact on plant growth. Soil rate indicators to evaluate soil use alterations. Studies conservation, balanced fertilization and maintenance of were continued of models to quantify soil compaction crop residues – roots leaves, twigs and bark – are comlevels and soil and water losses from erosion, as well as mon practices in Fibria’s soil management program. newly recommended fertilization tools, with the goal of establishing a single soil fertilization and conservation Fibria’s soil management techniques take into account regional soil differences, the peculiarities of the genetic strategy for the company. material used and results from research and monitoring during successive plantation cycles. Fibria also invests in Increased forest productivity is crucial to the company’s soil mapping of its plantations and has created a datacompetitiveness. This is a great challenge in intensive base, allowing the establishment of a single source for management regimes and increasingly requires the technical classification of soils and a set of performance use of specialized and conservationist technologies. A standards according to the soil properties in each area. new technology that has started to show good results is the mechanization of sloped areas using the Rotree Fibria’s forest fertilization process recently was reviewed, system, which allows for joint operations of soil tilling, which led to the enhancement of fertilization managefertilization and herbicide application, thus streamlinment and a reduction in the number of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) formulations in planing these processes. Fibria’s Forest Management Plans tations. Furthermore, the company expanded its autois available online at (www.fibria.com.br/web/en/midia/ mated fertilization management and control system, publicacoes.htm). Sustainability in practice Lime sludge, biomass ash, dregs and grits are all solid wastes generated during the pulp manufacturing process. This waste is reused as soil correctives in plantations of the Aracruz Unit (ES). This process brings economic and environmental advantages, including reduced amount of waste deposited in industrial landfills, greater savings in the purchase of lime and other fertilizers and an improvement in overall recycling efforts. In 2012, the volume of waste that was the utilized in the plantations totaled 65,150 tons, generating overall savings of about R$9.85 million. Nearly 100% of the biomass boiler ash, 100% of the lime sludge and 25% of the dregs and grits are reused. With the startup of a waste processing unit in 2013 in Jacareí (SP) and another in Três Lagoas (MS), there will be full reuse of the ash, sludge and dregs produced in these locations. These units will have capacity to recycle more than 86,000 tonnes of waste/year as soil corrective and fertilizer. 36 1 2 6 3 5 4 Biodiversity mals and 1,960 plant species. Out of the total number Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 of birds, 21 species are considered endangered or vulDefined as the variety of living organisms in nerable at the domestic level (IBAMA list). This demonecological systems, the Earth’s biodiversity strates that Fibria’s forests serve as an area for shelter, is currently threatened by human activity. In Brazil, the reproduction and transit for innumerable species, and historic process of land occupation and use has led to that the management model has been capable of mainthe fragmentation of two important biomes considtaining an environment that is adequate for the species ered to be global conservation hotspots: the Atlantic over various planting and harvest cycles. Some initiatives Forest and the Cerrado (Brazilian savanna). Fibria operthat have contributed to the conservation of biodiversity ates within this context. Environmental conservation in Fibria’s areas are: for Fibria is part of the company's vision, due to the  ecological corridors: strips of eucalyptus plantations intrinsic relationship of its business with the environconnecting patches of native forest in order to conment. Its eucalyptus forests are FSC® certified – Aratribute to the movement of local animals within the cruz (ES), Jacareí (SP) and Três Lagoas (MS) Units – and region; Cerflor/PEFC certified (Aracruz and Três Lagoas Units),  tree bridges: maintenance of standing trees in eucathus ensuring international standards for the compalyptus harvesting areas to facilitate movement of birds ny’s forest management. Moreover, about 36% of the between patches of native forest; total land area owned by Fibria has been set aside for  harvesting mosaic: maintenance of standing eucathe conservation of biodiversity and ecological prolyptus tracts while other trees are harvested within the cesses. For Fibria, caring for biodiversity not only guarsame area, in order to maintain environmental stability; antees the continuity of its business, maximizing the  psittacine parrots, macaws and parakeets quarproductivity of its forest plantations, but is also an opters: some eucalyptus tracts are used by groups of portunity to contribute to the sustainability of the ecopsittacines as resting and sleeping quarters. Special systems in which it operates. care is taken during harvesting not to cause significant impact on these groups; These conservation areas represent different types of  fruit tree species in forest restoration: use of cerecosystems and are scattered along rivers and in large tain tree species bearing fruit eaten by native fauna in blocks, forming a mosaic landscape where eucalyptus forest restoration planting. plantations are interspersed with native vegetation. This practice favors the implementation of Fibria’s biodiversity conservation strategy, through which the company seeks to reduce the negative impacts and make use of the positive ones for forest management purposes, Redincreasing the diversity of the habitats for species and browed Amazon protecting High Value Conservation Areas (AAVCs) and (Amazona rhodocorytha) treated endemic, threatened and rare species. by CEREIAS*, Aracruz (ES) To monitor the efficiency of its actions, Fibria maintains a biodiversity database that lists the species that exist in the company's areas. We have already recorded the presence of 680 species of birds, 132 species of mam*Center for Reintroduction of Wild Animals. 37 1 2 6 3 5 4 Fibria’s strategy to conserve biodiversity turbances in the environment, birds are considered to Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 encompasses: be reliable indicators of the effects produced by forest activities in terms of biodiversity. Therefore, Fibria has  wildlife protection, been monitoring bird species that frequent or shelter  conservation areas, in its area of management. The presence of a high  forest restoration, number of species of birds in the forest management  landscape management, area – approximately 15% of those existing on the  engagement with conservation forums, Atlantic Forest lists and 4% of those existing on the Cerrado lists – indicate that eucalyptus plantations are  environmental training, used as a habitat by many species, as well as working  biodiversity-community projects, as a transit area and connection between native veg land and marine environment etation fragments. monitoring. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity – In 2012, a straSignificant impacts on biodiversity – One of the tegic plan for biodiversity research began to be implemain monitoring actions being carried out by Fibria to mented, involving research and development activities evaluate the impact of its operations on biodiversity such as conservation of threatened species, sustainable regards birdlife. Due to their great sensitivity to disuse of biodiversity, assessment of the impacts of forest Restored and protected habitats1 (in hectares) Aracruz Capão do Leão2 Jacareí3 Três Lagoas Atlantic Rainforest 2010 123,570.0 55,767.2 6,282.0 2011 124,060.0 – 55,620.0 10,980.0 2012 125,023.3 – 56,006.0 6,921.4 Savanna (Cerrado) 2010 – – 7,420.0 65,576.0 2011 – – 7,690.0 88,620.0 Size of protected habitats 2012 – – 7,424.2 92,930.4 Mangrove 2010 – – – – 2011 – – – – 2012 – – – – Restinga biome 2010 4,785.6 – – – 2011 5,270.0 – – – 2012 5,402.5 – – Pampa biome2 2010 – 59,725.2 – – 2011 – 60,210.0 – – 2012 – – – – 1. The areas cited include areas designated for conservation purposes (Permanent Preservation Areas and Legal Reserves). The restoration in Fibria is made in accordance with the Protocol of the Pact for the Restoration of the Atlantic Rainforest and the Ecology Laboratory for Restoration and Forestry of the University of São Paulo (LERF / USP). The company has a partnership with state governments for protection of conservation units. The variations in numbers are mainly due to changes in the area of leasing, partnerships and development, which may fluctuate from year to year, and the purchase of land, mainly in Três Lagoas Unit, for the expansion of production capacity of the factory. 2. Unit sold in 2012. 3. Capão Bonito and Vale do Paraíba 38 1 2 6 3 5 4 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 management practices, ecological landscaping projects consumed in the industrial processes and in the plantaand ecosystem services. Furthermore, in São Paulo, Fibtions, among others, were identified as ecosystem serria participates in the Paraíba Valley Ecological Corridor vices consumed. For their part, the ecosystem services Initiative (www.corredorecologico.org.br), and the Pact produced included carbon sequestration, climate regufor the Restoration of the Atlantic Rainforest (www.paclation, control of erosion and production of electricity tomataatlantica.org.br). based on biomass. In 2012, a tool was created – that will be tested in 2013 – to quantify the generation of Ecosystem services – Ecosystem services consist of value of the socio-environmental field actions, such as all the benefits obtained by people derived from ecoan ecological corridor. Analysis also began in 2012 resystems. Fibria conducts studies to identify the main garding the applicability to Fibria’s business of tools for ecosystem services consumed in the company's promeasuring the value of environmental services, such as duction, together with all others that stem from the INVEST (in partnership with The Nature Conservancy) forest management model. The natural fertility of the and ESR (in partnership with the sustainability area of soil, the use of industrial waste as fertilizer and water Votorantim Industrial – VID). Evolution of the long-term targets The work of biodiversity conservation, forest protection and soil management enables Fibria LTT to meet its long-term targets. With its restoration techniques and the care it takes regarding soil and plants, the company has achieved a restoration rate of 2,000-2,500 ha per year, a significant improvement in meeting the target of promoting environmental restoration by 40,000 ha of own land by 2025. In the region of the Atlantic Forest Central Corridor (Espírito Santo, Bahia and Minas Gerais), 2,507 ha were restored in 2012, totaling 8,700 hectares in the past three years. One action to have impacted on this target is the biodiversity study that identifies and recommends planting tree species containing fruits that are used mostly as food by the local fauna. After eating the fruit, birds disseminate the seeds around Fibria’s lands, helping the restoration process in a natural manner. The initiatives intensifying management, fertilization practices and advanced harvesting favor the increase in the annual production of pulp per hectare, contributing to the target of reducing the amount of land needed to produce pulp by one third. 39 1 2 6 3 5 4 Water resource management Monitoring of water resources at the Jacareí Unit, in Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 São Paulo state, is conducted in two watershed areas Water resources are one of the main inputs for through the Watershed Area Environmental Monitoring pulp production. As a result, Fibria's strategy Network (REMAM) by the Institute for Forest Research includes actions for the protection of this resource, which and Studies of the Luiz de Queiroz College of Agriculis appropriately managed from initial capture, through use ture, at the University of São Paulo (IPEF/ESALQ-USP). and finally proper disposal as an effluent; always with the In 2012, forestry operations at the Jacareí Unit did not aim of achieving what can be considered its ecoefficient alter the quality or quantity of water available, according utilization (i.e., produce more with less). to a report released by REMAM/PROMAB. Studies and research based on the Watershed Areas Project began The company continuously monitors its watershed arin 2012 at at the Jacareí Unit, with the installation of eas (learn more in the glossary) within its operational monitoring wells for groundwater in two experimenareas, to prevent or minimize potential impacts from tal watershed areas at Igaratá and Capão Bonito, and forest management as regards the quantity and quality quantification of the growth of eucalyptus plantations of water. in relation to water used per watershed area. At the Aracruz Unit (ES, BA and MG), the monitoring At the Três Lagoas Unit, Mato Grosso do Sul state, of water resources is conducted in 12 watershed areas monitoring is conducted by Fibria in three watershed linked to the Watershed Area Project, in which the water areas, where water quality and quantity are assessed. cycle of one of these experimental small areas containThere was no evidence of significant changes as a reing eucalyptus plantations is studied and analyzed in a sult of forest management during the year. In 2012, two detailed manner. In this way, we are able to use the exwatershed areas for research purposes were defined at perimental area to evaluate environmental impacts and the Três Lagoas Unit. This completes the study on exthe ecological interactions of the plantations on surface perimental watershed areas conducted under the Fibria and underground water. In Espírito Santo, in 2012, a Watershed Areas Project. In these two new watershed new Watershed Area under a eucalyptus plantation was areas, currently under pasture, the transition from pasequipped with measuring devices. The studies in this ture use to eucalyptus plantations, and its effects on new area, together with the Águas Claras Experimental water resources, will be tested. Watershed Project, created in 2010, also in Aracruz, will enable Fibria to conduct a comparative analysis between Also in 2012, Fibria’s meteorological station network, the two types of eucalyptus plantations and their respecwhich is essential for monitoring the water balance of tive effects on water production per watershed area. plantations, was extended through the installation of Total water withdrawn by source in forestry operations Unit Type of withdrawal 2010 2011 2012 Number of points of withdrawal Aracruz Surface water (m3) 307,487 386,252 371,365 14 Ground water (m3) – – 202,017 6 Jacareí Surface water (m ) 3 201,312 77,541 554,675 545 Ground water (m3) 204,660 144,470 – – Três Lagoas Surface water (m ) 3 198,558 482,566 410,793 107 Ground water (m3) 125,940 31,535 22,970 – In 2012, the values are based on data collected and estimates for the missing months. The volume was higher because, after creating the control of water withdrawal in 2012, all forest operations (nursery, forestry, roads and harvesting) began reporting its respective withdrawals. For the previous years, the data were based on control grants, mostly from the nursery. In Aracruz, after the treatment plant entered operation and rainwater harvesting began at the nursery, there was a reduction of 9% of withdrawal. The Três Lagoas nursery only ran through the month of June 2012 due to the expiration of the operation, which was modified in 2013 and the operation of the nursery will be conducted by commodate, in which Fibria buy the seedlings. 40 1 2 6 3 5 4 five new stations at the Aracruz, Jacareí and Três LaFibria | Sustainability Report 2012 goas Units. Another advance during the year was the establishment of a project to evaluate the overlap of use of water, avoiding interference in water supplies with local communities. The objective is to evaluate the demands related to water resources to develop methodologies that foster community participation in the management of the water basin area. Total water discharge by quality and destination – Identification of water footprint Water discharged from nurseries comes from two sourcIn 2012, the company included management es: irrigation and domestic wastewater. At the Vale do of water resources in its short-term targets. Paraíba Forest Unit, water is discharged into a filtration pond; at the Capão Bonito Forest Unit (SP), discharge ocThe objective was to conclude during the year curs into a filtration trench. In Três Lagoas Unit (MS), the the work of identifying the water footprint wastewater is routed to septic tanks, and wastewater for producing pulp at its forest and industrial irrigation, after undergoing a separation box, is released units. The target was reached, with the directly into the water body. At the Aracruz Unit (ES), completion of the study as proposed for the wastewater passes through a gravel box, for the retenforest base and for the mills at Jacareí, Aracruz tion of solids, before it is run off. In 2012, a system to and Três Lagoas, pursuant to the methodology capture rainwater and the water treatment plant of the nursery of Aracruz were put into operation. The nurserof the Water Footprint Network, of which ies in Três Lagoas and Aracruz measured the effluents Fibria is an associate member. The next step is generated in 2012 that amounted to 102,890 m³. In the to evaluate improvement opportunities based Aracruz nursery the effluent is directed to a containment on the results of this study. basin to be subsequently reused to irrigate an area of 20 hectares of eucalyptus. The volume of water disposed in forestry operations is not representative compared with industrial operations. It equates to approximately 1% of the volume disposed of in factories. Detailed monitoring Fibria checks the quality of the water in its areas using flow towers, which have the most modern equipment available to monitor flows of energy, water and gases and the interaction of the plantations with the environment. Based on this information, it is possible to increase forest productivity using fewer natural resources. The Water Quality Index (WQI), for its part, is a tool that extracts the most significant data that is collected to detect signs that the eucalyptus crop is having a positive or negative effect on water resources. The information comes from over 20 collection points at Fibria’s Units and, for each point, a WQI is generated that clarifies the water management results in each region. 41 1 2 6 3 5 4 Carbon and atmospheric Through these studies and monitoring activities, Fibria Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 calculated that its commercial plantations provided a emissions positive carbon balance with the growth of the forests and the accumulation of organic materials in the soil. Climate governance That is, the company's plantations absorb more carbon dioxide than is emitted by its operations. Climate change is among the major threats to the sustainability of natural resources and, as such, may afIn the analysis of regulatory risks and also as part of its fect Fibria’s business, which produces from renewable climate governance practices, Fibria pays attention to forests. Production is based on renewable forests. The the issues related to international agreements, such as adequate management of greenhouse gas emissions the Kyoto Protocol and regulatory measures that are begenerated by our operations and of the absorption of ing prepared at the municipal, state and national levels, these substances by the eucalyptus plantations and naincluding the National Climate Change Policy and the tive forest reserves therefore has become essential facState Climate Change Policy (PEMC), in São Paulo. It tors in the company's strategy. also monitors what the international agreements establish through the Parties Conferences (COPs), the United Fibria takes into consideration the physical, regulatory Nations conferences that discuss joint actions to prevent and brand risks related to climate change, although it climate change. Moreover, it is part of some of the main does not yet quantify the financial implications of these international initiatives that seek to reduce the risks and changes in an integrated manner. impacts of climate change and to control human actions that may lead to climate change at a global level. The physical risks are associated with climate change and water availability, which could negatively affect Carbon Footprint the company's activities and, occasionally, its suppliers' and customers'. Fibria’s main measures to prevent these Annually, Fibria conducts its greenhouse gas (GHG) inrisks are: ventory, based on the months of January to December  Control and monitoring of production; of the previous year. The inventories take into account  Studies for genetic improvement in the production the industrial and forest operations of the Aracruz (ES), of eucalyptus, seeking to identify the species more adaptable to different climate conditions; Três Lagoas (MS) and Jacareí (SP) Units, as well as their  Monitoring of water consumption in forest areas; logistical operations for exporting pulp.  Mapping of areas with potential conflicts involving water; Fibria’s GHG emissions inventory is carried out according  Start of monitoring the company’s water footprint; to various calculation protocols, including the GHG Proto Projects for energy efficiency and improvement of incol of the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World dustrial process stability; Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD),  Exploitation of different transportation types; adapted by the International Council of Forest and Paper  Reduction and reuse of waste; Associations (ICFPA) for the pulp and paper industry.  Preparation of a survey on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from company activities, focused on carIn 2013, base-year 2012, the result showed a positive bon footprint of pulp and CDP Supply Chain. balance in the emissions: 0.8 ton of equivalent CO2 se42 1 2 6 3 5 4 questered per tonne of pulp produced. There was a 3% its partners the same environmental awareness upon Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 reduction in direct emissions and 1% in total emissions. which its own actions are based. This improvement was impaired by the higher Brazilian GRI emission factor, which in 2012 increased by 248%. The company began to distribute the questionnaire to its suppliers in 2010 and in the first year obtained a Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) 55% response rate. In 2012, the evolution was quite significant: 93% of its suppliers answered the docuFibria was the first forest company to become a member ment. Thanks to the project, some companies created of the Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2), launched in 2010 sustainability committees, began to use specific softby the BM&FBOVESPA and Brazil’s National Bank for ware to monitor their emissions and joined climate Economic and Social Development (BNDES). The objecgovernance protocols, such as the CDP and the GHG tive of the ICO2 is to strengthen corporate commitment Protocol. with management practices aimed at mitigating climate change and to prepare the market for a low carbon Evolution of the Long-Term Targets economy. All of these climate governance LTT actions contribute to Fibria's CDP Supply Chain – Fibria responds voluntarily to the meeting its long-term target to double carbon questionnaire issued by the Carbon Disclosure Project absorption from the atmosphere by 2025. To (CDP), an independent organization that collects information about the performance of companies with reach this goal, the company will continue to regard to climate change and water scarcity, to effiimprove its measurement techniques and ciently manage greenhouse gas emissions and natural invest in forest planting and restoration resources. Moreover, it is part of the CDP Supply Chain initiatives to increase the capacity to Project, which seeks to foster climate governance sequester GHGs. among its suppliers and to identify points of improvement in their businesses. Thus, it seeks to transmit to Carbon Balance 2009 2010 2011 2012 Emissions (CO2 eq) Forest operations 298,265 340,611 382,994 341,572 Industrial operations 1,205,170 758,952 767,698 836,115 Logistics 627,147 525,138 570,616 608,943 Total 1 2,130,582 1,624,701 1,721,308 1,786,630 Burning of biomass (CO2 eq) Total 2 9,060,139 11,072,468 11,263,152 11,705,687 Sequestration (CO2 eq) Planted forest 24,985,243 20,261,632 18,043,443 16,424,836 Native forest 1,049,946 1,049,946 1,049,946 1,819,337 Total 3 26,035,189 21,311,578 19,093,389 18,244,173 Balance [total 3 (total 1 + total 2)] 14,844,468 8,614,409 6,108,928 4,751,856 43 1 2 6 3 5 4 Emissions separate the pulp fiber from other components. All of Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 the energy matrixes of Fibria’s Industrial Units have a The issues relating to the management of atmospheric minimum of 89% of these materials. Thanks to this, emissions are already inherent in Fibria’s operations. The these Units operate with low levels of carbon dioxide company has developed technology to control and reemissions. In 2012, self-generated power at the Três duce these emissions. This guarantees that it operates Lagoas Unit exceeded the facility's required consumpusing the best global practices, with very low levels of tion by 46%. At the Aracruz Unit this surplus was 8%. odor and particulates. Furthermore, by the very nature The combined exportation of the surplus energy genof its business, based on commercial forest plantations erated revenues of R$38,623,527.85. associated with native vegetation restoration and conservation areas, Fibria presents a positive balance between carbon atmospheric emissions and sequestration. Waste and effluents Regarding the industrial process, as well as seeking to Waste reduce and control sources (equipment and processes) that generate odor, the company has also implemented Adequate management of the waste proLTT duced by its operations is a priority for Fibria, Odor Perception Networks (OPNs) made up of volunteers from neighboring communities who are trained to with a definition of long-term targets: by 2025, the identify odors and report to the company any occurcompany intends to reduce the quantity of solid indusrence in the vicinity of the mills. trial waste for disposal in landfills by 91%. This target is to be achieved mainly through two actions: reducing Another important initiative for management of emisthe generation of waste at the source, through process sions is the company's sustainable energy matrix, analysis and optimization; and recycling, especially of based on renewable resources such as wood and black organic substances. liquor, a fluid used in the wood cooking procedure to Eco-efficient vanguard TRS kg/adt Fibria has implemented an innovative initiative, trans0.06 forming waste stemming from the production of pulp 0.06 into products that can be applied in the forest area. All 0.05 inorganic waste generated in the mills – dregs, grits, 0.04 lime mud and boiler ash – is processed and returned to 0.03 the forest in the form of a soil acidity corrective product, 0.03 0.025 0,02 which has been approved by the Ministry of Agriculture 0.02 0.02 in Brazil. As such, no waste is sent to landfill generating 0.013 0.01 0.01 savings because limestone (a soil corrective) no longer 0.006 0.0102 0.01 needs to be purchased from the market. This process, 0.0027 0 2010 2011 2012 which had already been in place at the Aracruz Unit, will Aracruz Unit Jacareí Unit Três Lagoas Unit BAT also be implemented at the Três Lagoas Unit in 2013. TRS – total reduced sulphur In 2012, the amount of waste re-utilized in the forest adt – air dried ton BAT – Values according to the publication Best Available Techniques (BAT) by the Integrated plantations totaled 65,150 tons, generating savings of Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) (2001), used by the industry as a reference for bleached hardwood Kraft pulp. about R$9.85 million. 44 1 2 6 3 5 4 Waste (in t)1 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 2010 2011 2012 Total waste generation 981,402.48 961,372.07 1,116,503.77 Hazardous waste 1,022.36 534.38 546.29 Non-hazardous waste 980,380.12 960,837.69 1,115,957.48 Waste reutilized (%) 73.1% 71.6% 75.3% Disposal of waste in landfills (%) 21.6% 26.8% 23.6% 1. Data refer to industrial operations. The generation of waste from forest operations do not impact significantly, representing about 0.6% of total waste generated by Fibria in 2011. Data regarding waste from forest operations are available in the chapter Forest Management – Waste. Effluents Sul River in the case of the Jacareí Unit; the Paraná River, at Três Lagoas; and the ocean, in the case of Fibria’ management of its effluents extends throughAracruz. out the company's operations, seeking the least possible impact on the environment. Based upon modern In 2012, the Aracruz Effluent Treatment Station was retechnologies and processes, the effluents are treated vamped. After more than 10 years, the Unit's effluent to remove the maximum amount of organic materilagoon was cleaned, with removal of mud laid down als and pollutants possible. They can then be put back by sedimentation derived from the effluent treatment into the environment without harming the Paraíba do process. As a result, operating efficiency was boosted. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Aracruz Jacareí Três Lagoas 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Percentage of 76% 77% 77% 84% 79% 77% 80% 81% 83% water recycled and reutilized Volume of water ND 263,949,399 265,042,771 163,987,200 136,717,534 119,614,572 ND 201,387,444 219,987,248 recycled (m3) Total water ND 107,325,576 122,419,512 ND 28,591,030 27,535,545 ND 38,589,789 36,844,015 withdrawal (m3) 45 1 2 6 3 5 4 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 THE VALUE OF Moacir Solto de Queiroz and Maximina DIALOGUE Aparecida das Neves, of the project Seeds of the Future, Capão Bonito (SP) 46 1 2 6 3 5 4 5 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Social Performance Local Communities Local community relationship model To connect with the communities situated in the vicinity Relations with local communities of its operations, Fibria follows a Relationship Model, common to all the company’s units, that involves four In 2012, Fibria’s socio-environmental responsibility prokinds of approach. grams and activities reached out to around 150,000 people, spread across 254 municipalities in seven Brazil• Engagement: ongoing and deeper relationship with ian states (Rio Grande do Sul, Sao Paulo, Mato Grosso communities that are most affected by Fibria’s opdo Sul, Espírito Santo, Bahia, Rio de Janeiro and Minas erations, whereby the company assumes the role of Gerais) – regions where the company has mills, plantapartner in local development. In rural communities tions, conservation areas or has contracts with sponsored the relationship is conducted through the Rural Land producers. Development Program (PDRT). Two long-term goals for 2025 reveal the • Operational Dialogue: form of relationship whereLTT importance of local communities to Fibria’s by local communities, other neighbors, local leaders strategy for sustainability. The company has made a and local government representatives are informed commitment to contribute to the development of the in advance of any forestry operations scheduled for the area and have the opportunity to discuss their imregions in which it operates, generating healthy profits pacts and ways to mitigate them. in tandem with environmental conservation, social inclusion and improved quality of life. Each year, the • Constructive Dialogue: instruments of dialogue company makes progress in its efforts and resorts to aimed at disseminating Fibria’s activities and enabling dialogue to seek joint solutions, as it fine tunes its relathe exchange of information that is of mutual benefit. tions with the local communities and its social investThey are intended for all stakeholders with an interest ment. in the company’s activities. • Attain an 80% approval rating amongst the neigh• Face-to-Face Meetings: visits by Fibria representaboring communities; tives to communities that are not covered by Engage• Strive to help 70% of the income generating projects ment and Operational Dialogue, in order to undersupported by the company to become self-sustaining. stand the local situation. 47 1 2 6 3 5 4 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Viviane Oliveira, Community Association of the Angelim Nursery, São Mateus (ES) The Rural Land Development Program (PDRT) is currentCommunity Relations and Social ly, the primary tool for engagement with rural commuInvestment Strategy nities. The aim of the program is to develop legitimate Phase 1: Survey and mapping of affected leadership, build social capital and restore a sense of communities citizenship and self-esteem. The program innovates by Phase 2: Development of a Priority Matrix, constructing a process of dialogue using participatory tools and methodologies. The main focus of the PDRT defining the key communities for relations, is on training the community to resolve its own needs taking into consideration their socio-economic and to gain access to public policies. Program initiatives vulnerability, the impact of the company’s include technical assistance, improvements in producoperations on the community, and the tion, social organization, certification and differentiated municipality’s importance to Fibria. marketing, which yield increased average household per Phase 3: Dialogues with the priority capita income. In 2012, the program had a budget of communities, to assess their needs and R$5.7 million and reached out to 24 communities in 5 demands. municipalities (Aracruz Unit), benefiting 984 families, Phase 4: Definition of the forms the with more than 1,530 hectares of Fibria's planted forests relationship will take and monitoring of the converted to family farming. community’s development. Investment in local communities1 (in R$) 2010 2011 2012 Fibria2 10,306,816 16,419,000 18,370,000 Instituto Votorantim via Fibria 3,200,000 4,196,000 2,630,000 Incentivized projects 587,910 1,993,138 1,523,000 Investment from the Votorantim Institute (resources raised through BNDES and own)3 NA 2,630,000 4,523,000 Total 14,094,726 25,238,138 27,046,000 1. Refers to donations to and investments in the community in benefit of people outside the company. These include contributions to charity organizations, NGOs and research institutes (unconnected with the company’s own technology area), funding support for community infrastructure projects and the direct cost of social programs. It also includes the cost of managing the projects. 2. Including the Sustainable Settlements project, in partnership with the Landless Workers’ Movement (MST), the Constructive Dialogues event, investment from BNDES, among others. 3. R$2,439,000 from the Votorantim Institute and R$ 2,084,000 from BNDES. 48 1 2 6 3 5 4 To help in funding the community projects, Fibria inassert their ethnic identity and sustainable economic Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 vests in partnership with other institutions, such as activities. Three indigenous lands – covering 18,287 customers, suppliers, the Votorantim Institute and the hectares and containing 12 villages – are neighbors of BNDES. Fibria in Espírito Santo. There are around 760 families there, of which about 130 have joined the program. Relations with specific communities In Mato Grosso do Sul, the company has a relationship with a community of 30 families of the Ofaié Although Fibria still has conflicts with certribe, who live on a reservation that is well structured, tain groups, especially in the poorest redespite unresolved land issues. gions of northern Espírito Santo and southern Bahia, the roots of these conflicts are not always related to Relations with land reform movements – Fibria has the company and a solution does not depend solely been investing in dialogue to resolve a dispute creon Fibria. Nevertheless, resolving these issues is a priated by the invasion of company areas in the south of ority for the company and it has been working to this Bahia by members of the MST (Landless Rural Workend, holding dialogues with the communities, govers Movement). From this understanding, the Dawnernment, NGOs and other companies that can coning Project was born and started to be implemented tribute to a lasting solution. in 2011. The area occupied by the MST, with 7 camps on 5 Fibria farms covering a total area of 12,000 hectRelations with Black communities – Fibria has ares, was expropriated in 2012 and compensation sought to strengthen its dialogue with these commuwas paid by INCRA (National Institute for Settlement nities, some of which are referred to as quilombolas and Agrarian Reform). Today, 1,127 families, totaling – descendants of escaped slaves – and are populated by more than 4,000 people, are settled there. Everytheir descendants contributing to their development thing produced in the settlements is sold, yielding an with projects for income generation and employincome of approximately R$400,000 in 2012 from ment. The main form of engagement with this group the sale of flour, chicken, pepper and charcoal. What is the Rural Land Development Program (PDRT). The is more, at the MST’s request, construction began in company has set a target for 2013 initiating dia2012 on an agroforestry production training center logue on the issue of the demarcation of land for the for the region. quilombola communities. This dialogue should lead to a pilot project for a community in the vicinity of a Relations with fishing communities – Fibria has a Fibria area and involve the participation of a variety relationship with traditional fishing communities in of protagonists. the two regions where it operates marine terminals: the Barra do Riacho district of the municipality of AraRelations with Indian communities – Fibria seeks cruz (ES), where Portocel is located, and Caravelas, in to support the indigenous peoples of Aracruz, in southern Bahia. In these areas, the company seeks to Espirito Santo, in their efforts to occupy their origistrengthen the relationship through dialogue, social nal lands, restoring forests and enhancing the family activities and measures to support local fishing. Imfarming systems. To this end, in 2012, it drew up the portant advances occurred in 2012, and the company Sustainability Program for the Tupiniquim and Guawill offer technical assistance to families that make a rani of Espírito Santo, which aims to enable the Indiliving from fishing, as well as other benefits to add ans to restore the environmental state of the Tupinvalue to their product. The company also sponsored a iquim, Caieiras Velhas II and Comboios Indian lands, course in cooperativism for 16 managers of cooperaso that they can revive their socio-cultural practices, tive associations in the region. 49 1 2 6 3 5 4 Impact on local communities tified include items such as alteration of the local landowning structure, reduction of the quality and Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Fibria defines the social impact on communities as any capacity of the local road network, alteration of water harmful or beneficial change that is wholly or partialavailability and quality, reduced food security, and the ly a result of its forestry or industrial operations. The generating of odors, noise and smoke. Fibria seeks company considers that communities located within to reduce these negative impacts, ensuring that cona radius of three kilometers from its property or areas trol and mitigation are included in the operating proleased for the purpose of cultivating eucalyptus are cedures contained in the management system and directly affected by its forestry activities. channeling social-environmental investments into the most affected communities and regions. In order to minimize or mitigate any negative impacts, one has to know what they are. That is why Fibria performs a mapping of all significant social imVolume of stolen wood (thousands of m3) pacts and classifies them according to type (adverse 120 104,052 2011 2012 102,421 or beneficial), detection (occurring or potential) and effect (direct or indirect). The significance is deter100 mined using the Social Impact Matrix, which applies a weighting to factors such as severity, frequency, 80 probability and scope. Moreover, Fibria takes into consideration complaints received through its com60 45,873 45,264 munication channels and/or information obtained 40 through the processes of Engagement, Operational Dialogue and Face-to-Face Meetings. The list of im18,828 20 pacts that are considered significant is disseminated 6,188 7,300 7,348 to stakeholders. 0 The significant adverse impacts that have been iden1st quarter 2nd quarter 3rd quarter 4th quarter 1st quarter 2nd quarter 3rd quarter 4th quarter Theft of wood The theft of wood, often in association with arson, has been significantly reduced, but remains a problem for Fibria in northern Espírito Santo and southern Bahia. The volume of wood stolen from Fibria’s property in 2012 was approximately 40,000 cubic meters and represented a loss of about R$1.8 million. This loss, however, was much lower than that of 2011, when about 297,000 cubic meters of wood was stolen from the company, causing a loss of over R$12 million. In parallel to action taken by the authorities, the company has undertaken several initiatives to approach local communities and promote the generation of employment and income in the region. In Bahia, the construction of the Helvetia Seedling Production Unit has been accelerated and is keeping the local workforce busy. Furthermore, in June 2012, the Atlantic Forest Center and the Bahia Institute of the Environment and Water Resources conducted an operation that resulted in the deactivation of 2,063 illegal charcoal producing ovens. 50 1 2 6 3 5 4 Logistics risks and Latin America. To meet this demand, the outFibria | Sustainability Report 2012 put of the Tres Lagoas (MS) and Jacareí (SP) units Wood handling logistics – The wood that supis transported by rail to the port of Santos (SP) and plies Fibria’s industrial units is mostly transported by loaded onto vessels headed for various parts of the trucks. The traffic causes environmental and social world. Meanwhile, the pulp from the Aracruz Unit impacts that Fibria seeks to anticipate through Oper(ES) travels 4.5 kilometers in trucks to the Portocel ational Dialogue with local communities and control terminal, from where it is shipped to Asia, Europe measures. Rail transportation is used to carry wood and the United States. from sponsored areas in Minas Gerais and storage in Espírito Santo to the Aracruz Industrial Unit. One of the major beneficial social impacts of the pulp logistics is job creation throughout the pulp disFor transportation between the Caravelas maritime tribution chain. The health and safety of the people terminal, in Bahia, and the barge terminal at Portoworking in this chain is closely managed and given cel, in Espírito Santo, the company uses sea-going constant attention by Fibria. Gas emissions by interbarges. The company has sought to increase the nal combustion engines represent the main environvolume transported by this method, which is more mental impact. Fibria’s supplier management process economical and safer than trucks, as well as provoking establishes requirements, such as maximum fleet age significantly less social and environmental impacts, and equipment inspection and maintenance, and imsuch as minimal CO2 emissions. To mitigate the negaposes penalties for non-compliance with minimum tive impacts of shipping on local communities, Fibria service standards, which ensures low emission levels organizes income and employment-generating acconsistent with the most stringent criteria. tivities in the port areas of Caravelas (BA) and Barra do Riacho (Aracruz, ES) and supports the project of In 2012, a contract was signed with the the Humpback Whale Institute to increase the whale South Korean company STX Pan Ocean for population off the Brazilian coast, which according to the construction of 20 vessels to be used a survey conducted in 2011 recorded 11,418 individuas a dedicated fleet for the transporting of als of the species – nearly 20% higher than in 2008. Fibria pulp abroad. The first vessel, the STX Fibria also supports the local outpost of the Fishery Arborella, went into operation in October 2012, Resources Management and Research Center for the Brazilian East Coast (CEPENE/IBAMA) in projects reembarking pulp at Portocel destined for the lated to the ecology of the Caravelas coast mangrove company’s terminals overseas. and the production of seedlings of native fruit trees that benefit the local population. Fibria monitors the estuarine dolphin, which has been carried out by Fibria on the Caravelas river estuary and vicinity since 2002. Results obtained up to 2011 do not show any negative impacts of dredging activities and maritime transportation on the environment. Pulp handling logistics – Of the 4.74 million ton of pulp produced by Fibria in 2012, 90% was for export to countries in Europe, North America, Asia 51 1 2 6 3 5 4 Consulting the Local Communities Land Development Program (PDRT), which supports Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 family farming activities and contributes to income Fibria has sought to broaden its relationship with comgeneration and community development. Another munities in the vicinity of its operations, by strengthening tendency is related to the availability of water in the the process of dialogue and giving attention to criticism communities. It is clear that this resource is scarce in ruand suggestions from community leaders and residents ral areas, for small-scale livestock and family farming, in Sao Paulo, Mato Grosso do Sul, Espírito Santo and which are encouraged and supported by Fibria. HowBahia. To monitor how Fibria is regarded by the populaever, the availability of this resource and its accessibility tion in these localities, the company has hired consultants to families is still an obstacle that must be considered – Dr. Adriana Imperador and Dr. Marcos Gimenez – to more carefully. interview some of these people in different parts of the country. There follows a critical analysis by the consulSustainability strategy/commitment – In a comtants of the responses they have received​​. You can read parative analysis against previous years, great expectathe interviews in full at: www.fibria.com.br/rs2012. tions have been raised in certain communities regarding the implementation and start-up of activities under Critical analysis of the interviews Fibria’s Rural Land Development Program (PDRT). The eight interviews that comprise the Consulting the With regard to employment generation, it was generally Local Communities chapter of Fibria’s 2012 Sustainstated that it is still insufficient, with some leaders sayability Report were conducted in January and February ing that this is due to a lack of skill development and 2013. The interviews, four of which were face to face training of the available manpower. Nevertheless, it is and four by telephone, addressed the ten main topics worth pointing out that the migration of labor from the identified in the Materiality Matrix. illegal exploitation of charcoal, due to the alternatives offered by the company under the PDRT program, is The people chosen are community leaders, presidents viewed positively by the interviewees. In the forest sceof associations as well as other representatives of ornario, there are several quotes from interviewees about ganized groups and other individuals who shape public the restoration of areas that are of ecological interest, opinion in the communities located in the vicinity of Fisuch as the riparian forests, and the reforesting of Perbria’s forests or industrial units in the states of São Paumanent Protection Areas (APPs). lo, Bahia, Mato Grosso do Sul and Espírito Santo. The interviews were conducted by professors in the fields Certification and voluntary commitments – In genof Environmental Engineering Sciences, Environmental eral terms, the interviewees have little knowledge about Law and Collective Rights. the certification of Fibria’s forestry and industrial activities. There are isolated statements in Sao Paulo and EsIn a comparative analysis against previous years, there is pirito Santo from people who participated in the certifievidence that Fibria has developed closer relations with cation process and, therefore, were aware of a number the neighboring communities. It is clearer to the interof the criteria and indicators that have to be met by the viewees the conditions under which the company percompany. forms its industrial and forestry activities, thereby reducing the fears of local residents regarding the potential Ethics – There was homogeneity in the responses of the hazards and environmental impacts of such activities in interviewees in relation to Fibria’s ethical posture, and their community. this factor is viewed very positively. According to the Certain trends were prominent in the statements of statements, this is due to the company’s development the majority of the interviewees, such as Fibria’s Rural of closer relations with the local communities. The cred52 1 2 6 3 5 4 ibility and trust in relation to the forestry and industrial Water use – With regard to the water used in industrial Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 activities is due to the concern over communication and activities, there was unanimous recognition that Fibria clarification, thus reducing the anxiety that had been does not have a significant environmental impact and present in previous years. treats the water used before returning it to the environForestry Partners – Few interviewees were able to ofment. But with regard to the water used in the planted fer an opinion regarding forestry partnerships and most forests, there was unanimous criticism in relation to the were unaware of this program. scarcity of this resource, although some of the interviewees admit that climate conditions have contributed Neighboring communities – There were divided to the severe drought, especially in Bahia and Espirito opinions among the interviewees regarding this item. It Santo; others believe however, this is due to the expanis interesting to note that some statements showed that sion of the area planted with eucalyptus. the company has an excellent relationship with the local communities, particularly in relation to activities by the company, including voluntary efforts. However, there Emissions, effluents and waste – Some intervieware some in the local communities who are still unaware ees stated that they notice the effects of pollution and of the activities carried out by Fibria. odors near the industrial areas. Nevertheless, they realize that there has been a significant change in emissions Specific communities – This refers to black, Indigenous, traditional fishing and landless worker comcontrol. With regard to solid waste, the interviewees munities that are affected, directly or indirectly, by the believe that Fibria treats, handles and disposes of the company's actions in the region. Specifically in Bahia material in an appropriate manner. and Espírito Santo, the interviewees stated that in previous years there had been tension in Fibria’s relations Environmental hazards – The communities living near with specific communities, but that a harmonious and trusting relationship had been established between the company’s forests state they feel safe in regard to the parties. Fibria’s activities, since the company provides frequent visits for technical clarification, particularly during plantBiodiversity – The interviewees recognize Fibria’s efing, harvesting and the transporting of logs. One interforts in fostering and supporting projects and programs viewee, who lives near an industrial unit, stated that the for the restoration of degraded areas, riparian forests residents of the neighborhood where he lives feel inseand Permanent Preservation Areas (APPs). However, cure with regard to Fibria’s activities and fear the conthere are reports that wildlife in the region has been significantly reduced, including animals that have provided sequences of accidents in relation to possible problems a traditional food source for local residents. with the recovery boiler. Names of respondents in neighboring communities of Fibria’s operations: Ironildes Lopes Martins, president of the São Silvestre Residents Association, Jacareí/SP. Anagildo Bonalate Tibuiba, president of the Angelim 1 Community Association, and Zulmira Tibuiba Solto, Benedito de Souza Trindade, Maria Aparecida Parenti, Dejanira Guimarães Tibuiba, Getúlio Guimarães, members of the Angelim 1 Community Association, Conceição da Barra/ES. Benedito dos Santos Quintiliano, president of Rio do Sul Quilombola Association, Nova Viçosa/BA. Marcio Soares de Assis, representative of the Sombra da Tarde Community Association, Alcobaça/BA. Alba Batista do Nascimento, president of the Barbosa Community Association, and Charles Batista do Nascimento, secretary of the Barbosa Community Association, São Mateus/ES. Cicero Godoy Vasconcelos, president of the Beekeepers Association and Cooperative of Brasilândia/MS. Cristiane Aparecida de Paiva Bittencourt, lawyer, São Luiz do Paraitinga/SP. Hélio Kull Silva, Forestry engineer, Capão Bonito/SP. 53 1 2 6 3 5 4 How we work Fibria has 634 suppliers in its accreditation Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 process (approved and rejected), of whom Suppliers 490 underwent a social responsibility assessment. Of these, 365 were approved To guarantee the efficiency of its chain of production – suppliers, 123 were approved with from the growing of forests through to the delivery of restrictions and 11 were rejected. pulp to clients – Fibria counts on a diversified and dispersed supplier base at all of its locations. Currently, Fibria has some 20,000 registered suppliers, with widely Local suppliers – Fibria gives preference to local supdiffering profiles – from small farmers through mepliers in the purchasing of products or the hiring of serdium and large transportation and other companies, vices. To help these suppliers improve their businesses, both Brazilian and multinational. The management of the company is one of the sponsors of the Program for this chain of supply is carried out with a regional focus the Development and Accrediting of Suppliers (PRODand according to the stage of development of the supFOR) in Espírito Santo state and the Supplier Accreditapliers. tion Program (PQF) in Mato Grosso do Sul state, which disseminate good quality, environmental, occupational Furthermore, Fibria seeks to engage with its supply health and safety, financial, tax and labor management chain in order to identify and share the best social and practices. environmental practices and ensure respect for workers' rights. Upon contracting suppliers, they are required to R$2.49 billion (65.98% of the total invested) comply with environmental policies and transportation was spent with local suppliers in 2012 safety criteria as spelled out in Fibria’s Safe Road Program Manual. The company also encourages its suppliers to survey and reduce carbon emissions, joining the Services Contracting Commission (CCS) – Evaluates Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain, which the national contracting of key permanent services, depromotes climate governance in the companies' supply signed to minimize risks. chains. Learn more about the CDP Supply Chain in the Carbon and Atmospheric Emissions chapter. Accreditation and audits – In the process of accrediting its suppliers, Fibria seeks to identify risks stemming from the supply of materials and services (financial, legal, labor, quality, health, workplace safety, Planting of environmental or commercial) to avoid compromising eucalyptus its end product, creating liabilities or damaging the seedlings, Três company's reputation. Supplier accreditation assessLagoas (MS) ments are aligned to local legal requirements and the principles contained in international quality standards, such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, NOSA and ILO Conventions. 54 1 2 6 3 5 4 In January 2011, Fibria created a Service the Forest Savings Program at the Aracruz Unit, thus Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Contracting Committee (CCS), for the purpose consolidating a single incentive program for all Fibria of establishing guidelines and evaluating Units. This helped safeguard the socio-environmental particularities of each Brazilian region, providing assisthe national engagement of key permanent tance for farmers in planning their crop production while services. These include services performed taking into account the possibility for forestry partners to exclusively for Fibria during a period of two undergo certification in the future. In the audits carried years or more, those whose annual total is out under the Forest Savings Program to ensure that all more than R$5 million, services that affect the wood received from the project complies with legal the company's organizational climate and requirements, no non-compliances were reported. those with an annual total of between R$1.9 and R$4.9 million that involve specific risks, The Forest Savings Program totals 102.3 as identified through an activity evaluation thousand hectares of planted forests in form. The committee’s goal is to minimize risks 3,321 contracts. through a careful selection process for the The supply of wood by autonomous provision of services in accordance with the producers and partners in 2012 represented company's growth and sustainability strategies. 27% of the volume of raw material consumed by Fibria’s pulp mills. Forestry partners In the regions where it has activities, Fibria TAC for reforestation in Bahia state – In 2011, Fibria works through forestry partnerships, a system signed a Conduct Adjustment Agreement (TAC) to coninvolving the supply of wood through third parties who tribute to forest restoration of Legal Reserves, Permanent are engaged in the company's chain of value. Through Preservation Areas and Atlantic Forest remnants on farms the program, Fibria encourages farmers located near its owned by wood suppliers. The document provides for pulp mills to plant eucalyptus and sell it to the company, funding for the Arboretum Program for the Conservation thereby creating mechanisms for financing resources and and Restoration of Environmental Diversity, whose goal is inputs. Besides reducing the need for Fibria to purchase to provide technical support and native seedlings to rural land and assuring the supply of alternative wood sources, properties owned by suppliers. The executive project the the forestry partners program is one way of fostering inprogram is based on is in its concluding stage, and work come generation, jobs and agricultural diversity. should start at the beginning of 2013. This model is implemented through its Forest Savings Personnel management Program, which is an important inducement toward regional development, because it consolidates partnership Fibria concluded three years of activities in September with farmers, promotes the planned and orderly occu2012 including its process for merging professionals pation of the rural landscape and respects local crops. from the two companies that originated in the corporaIn 2012, Fibria strengthened its commitment to farmers tion – VCP and Aracruz Celulose. Today, nearly 17,000 who participate in the program, acted strongly in the workers – including own employees and outsourced institutions that finance the planting and consolidated workers – carry out their duties under a single organizatechnical support for food production in areas of firsttional culture, applying the company' beliefs and values year eucalyptus. Another highlight was the startup of during the conduct of their day-to-dayfunctions. 55 1 2 6 3 5 4 Workforce Summary – Diversity groups Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Direct employment 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Employees 5,037 4,006 3,827 Women 14.41% 12.73% 13.14% Outsourced workers 11,919 14,523 13,343 Mixed race and black 24.00% 29.71% 29.89% Total 16,956 18,529 17,170 Employees over 50 years-old 11.67% 12.93% 13.59% Handicapped 4.13% 4.04% 4.21% In 2012, a project focused on strengthening and reinforcing Management Beliefs, which is a concept directly Performance management ­ – In 2012, Fibria exin line with Fibria’s business strategy that permeates the panded its Performance Management Cycle to all the Training and Development programs, the Hiring and Seleadership. A total of 425 directors, general managers, lection of professionals and the Performance Managemanagers, coordinators, consultants, specialists and ment Cycle. The Beliefs consist of a set of principles that equivalent were assessed. The process provided feedtranslate the institution's Values and serve as guidelines back for those involved and resulted in the preparation for behavior, roles, interactions, decisions, key processes of Individual Development Plans (PDIs), whose goal is to and results. guide and prioritize professional development initiatives. In 2013, the cycle will be extended to administrative and Also in 2012, there was a new edition of the Organizaoperational levels. tional Climate Survey, designed to learn about the perception of employees regarding the company and the Training programs – Fibria’s training programs were workplace environment, which had 3,245 respondents, intensified in 2012, and the expectation is that they will an 85% participation rate. The average of the results be expanded in 2013, receiving additional investments at the Units generated a 68% global favorability rating of about R$2 million. The following items are related (satisfaction level of the employees interviewed) – nine to the training programs where work continued or was points higher than obtained during the 2010 survey and introduced in 2012. compatible with best practices in the market. Based on • Program for technicians’ and supervisors’ develthe results, plans will be drawn up detailing actions to opment – trains supervisors and technicians for the deal with the improvement opportunities identified. forestry area. A total of 13 modules were conducted in 2012 and 47 supervisors and 74 technicians were Currently, 3,780 employees (98.77% of the trained in São Paulo and Três Lagoas. In the summer, the program was extended to the Aracruz Forest Unit. total) are covered by trade union agreements • Partnerships – Program for the Preparation of For(in 2011 this accounted for 98.95% of the estry Managers, in partnership with the Forestry Reworkforce). The only employees not covered search and Studies Institute (IPEF), to train recently by these agreements are those based in graduated students to better perform in forestry comFibria’s international offices where local panies. In 2012, 20 young people participated in the labor laws are followed. program and one was hired by the Mato Grosso do Sul Unit. Additionally, 1,845 employees (48.3%) are • Development programs – offer study grants and unionized (i.e. with union fees discounted language courses for employees. In 2012, some 185 monthly from their wages). study and language scholarships were granted and 36 employees graduated from post graduate pulp and paper technology courses, in partnership with the Federal University of Viçosa. 56 1 2 6 3 5 4 • People recruitment – conducts the Apprentice risks. Nevertheless, the company's rate of occupational Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Program, offering young people 14 to 24 years old diseases has remained low due to the continuity and the opportunity to obtain basic professional qualificastrengthening of preventive actions and awareness protions, and the Internship Program, aimed at training grams. In 2012, no occupational diseases were reported students at a vocational or college level, preparing at any Fibria Unit. them for the labor market. Another important aspect to the company where it is In 2012, Fibria offered 184,652 hours of active, are the collaborative efforts with public health services to prevent and mitigate endemic diseases, such training. as yellow fever, dengue, leishmaniasis and spotted fever. In 2012, agreements were resumed with the Municipal Health and safety – Fibria’s Workplace Health and Secretariat of Health of Aracruz (ES) to provide assisSafety Management System seeks out the best practices tance for multi-vaccination campaigns. and benchmarks in the Brazilian and international markets regarding efficient management of the safety and Health and Safety health of its employees. Despite all care taken regarding 2010 2011 2012 Injury rate (IR) 0.47 0.23 0.27 this fundamental aspect of its operations, in 2012 the Occupational diseases rate (ODR) 0.034 0.004 0 company registered two serious accidents, one at the Number of fatalities 3 1 0 Aracruz Unit in Espírito Santo, and the other – fatal – involving a dock worker in the handling and storage of Quality of life – One of the biggest current dilemmas a pulp bale at Portocel, in Barra do Riacho (ES). Due to facing companies is how to balance pressures to achieve these regrettable occurrences, the safety policy is being operational excellence while preserving the quality of reviewed and strengthened in all operating areas. life of their professionals. This is a very important issue at Fibria, as the +Vida (Life Plus) initiatives show; After a period of significant reduction in the company’s a program encompassing preventive health actions and accident and incident rates, in 2012 there was a slight encouragement of physical activity and healthy eating increase in the injury rate (Target = injury rate < or less habits, including assistance to pregnant women and 0.20, with 2009 = 0.89; 2010 = 0.47; 2011 = 0.23 e psychological, social, legal and financial counseling for 2012 = 0.27). all employees and their legal dependents. The company In the field of occupational health, there are activialso runs programs to support employees with AIDS or ties that can offer ergometric, chemical and biological who are chemically dependent. Emelly de Souza Costa, maintenance planner at the Jacareí Unit (SP) 57 1 2 6 3 5 4 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 THE VALUE OF RELATIONSHIPS Workers in the Eucalyptus seedlings nursery at the Aracruz Unit (ES/BA/MG) 58 1 2 6 3 5 4 6 Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 Economic performance Market situation machinery in China that helped keep inventory levels at equilibrium. These factors contributed to a recovery in 2012 was marked by excellent operating results, parhardwood pulp prices, which rose from US$652 per ton ticularly the record production and sales volumes, stable at the beginning of the year to US$776 per ton at its close cash cost, free cash flow generation and the reduction (PIX/FOEX1 BHKP Europe index), an increase of 19%. The of net debt to its lowest level since the company was dollar’s average 17% rise during the year also helped to founded. Market fundamentals remained stable, with boost our revenue, primarily derived from exports. the main growth driver coming from higher pulp de1. FOEX Indexes Ltd. is a private company based in Helsinki, Finland, which mand in emerging markets, especially with new tissue issues a weekly report of prices traded for the principal types of pulp and paper. Main indicators Unit 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 Pulp production Thousands t 5,299 5,184 2% Pulp sales Thousands t 5,357 5,141 4% Paper production Thousands t – 93 – Paper Sales Thousands t – 100 – Net revenue Million R$ 6,174 5,854 5% Adjusted EBITDA1|2 Million R$ 2,253 1,964 15% EBITDA margin2 % 36% 34% 2 p.p. Financial results3 Million R$ (1,696) (1,869) -9% Net income (loss) Million R$ (698) (868) -20% Operating cash flow4 Million R$ 836 (333) – Gross debt Million R$ 10,768 11,324 -5% Cash position5 Million R$ 3,023 1,846 64% Net debt Million R$ 7,745 9,478 -18% Net debt / EBITDA Last 12 months x 3.4 4.8 -1.4 Net debt / EBITDA (US$)6 x 3.3 4.2 -0.9 1. Adjusted by non-recurring and non-cash items. 2. 2011 adjusted EBITDA does not include CONPACEL’s results of R$17 million. 3. Includes results from financial investments, monetary and exchange variation, mark-to-market of hedging and interest. 4. Does not include the sale of assets and the equity acquisition of Ensyn. 5. Includes the hedge fair value. 6. For covenants purposes. 59 1 2 6 3 5 4 Performance analysis Synergy – After more than a year of quantified synerFibria | Sustainability Report 2012 gies arising from the merger of Aracruz and Votorantim Celulose e Papel (VCP), we have exceeded a Net Present Fibria’s¹ pulp production amounted to 5.3 million tons in Value (NPV) of R$5 billion. Even those synergies requir2012, an increase of 2% from 2011 due to greater oping more time to mature, such as in the operational and erating efficiency and the maturity of various projects. research areas, have demonstrated that the adoption of This efficiency allowed us to reach record production best practices brought significant gains to Fibria. The orlevels at the operating units. The increase in net operatganization has incorporated this best practice exchange ing revenues by 5% in 2012, over 2011, is explained by into its culture, enabling it to exceed its targets each a higher volume of pulp sold (4%) and the higher net year, as reflected in the record production volume in price of pulp in reais (7%). 2012 and the below-inflation increase in the cash cost of production year after year. Cost of goods sold (COGS) amounted to R$5.2 billion, a 2% increase over 2011. This result was due mainly to: (i) the 4% increase in pulp sales; and (ii) the dollar’s 17% Capital investments appreciation against the real. Administrative expenses came to R$286 million, down 8% compared to 2011, Fibria made capital investments totaling R$1.1 billion due to expenses with indemnities and charges incurred in 2012. Management plans to invest R$1.2 billion in throughout 2011 as part of the organizational restruc2013, a 15% increase over 2012, to account for inflaturing process, in addition to reduced third-party serviction, foreign exchange and the non-recurring effect of es and travel expenses in 2012. Sales expenses totaled increased forest renewal at the Aracruz Unit. R$298 million, relatively stable (+1%) against 2011. Debt management Adjusted EBITDA was R$2.3 billion in 2012, with a margin of 36%, an increase of 15% and 2 p.p., reDebt management and efforts to optimize the capital spectively, over the previous year. This result was due structure continue to be a priority for Fibria. In April to the 4% increase in pulp sales and the higher pulp 2012, we issued a public primary stock offering totaling price in reais (7%). R$1.4 billion, using the proceeds for early settlement of R$1 billion of part of its debt bonds maturing in 2020. Fibria recorded a loss of R$698 million for 2012, primarThis transaction will save the company approximately ily driven by the negative financial result of R$1.7 bilUS$40 million a year in financial expenses. The comlion. However, in comparison with 2011, this loss was pany also completed the sale of forest and land assets in lower by 20%, (improved operating result from better southern Bahia and Rio Grande do Sul (Losango Project) sales and higher pulp prices) and a lower financial loss states. In 2012, Fibria generated liquidity events totaling in 2012. R$2.9 billion. Strategy – We established a partnership in 2012 with In June 2012, the company renegotiated the covenants Ensyn Corporation, a U.S. company that owns the techapplicable to part of our debt with creditor financial innology used to produce renewable liquid fuel. Bio-busistitutions, to both increase maximum leverage limits and ness is complementary to pulp production and part of also amend the method of calculating net debt/EBITDA. our strategy to optimize Fibria’s know-how and expeThe new calculation considers all debt, cash and EBITDA rience in developing, establishing and managing high in U.S. dollars, rather than reais, with a higher limit of performance forests. 4.5x. The ratio in dollars at the end of 2012 was 3.3x. 60 1 2 6 3 5 4 Thus, Fibria was able to minimize the volatility of this Fibria | Sustainability Report 2012 indicator. These initiatives allowed Fibria to close 2012 in a strong financial position. Cash totaled R$3 billion, representing 2.6x short-term debt. Net debt stood at R$7.7 billion, down 18% from 2011, to its lowest level since the company’s foundation. At the end of 2012, Fibria had a net debt/EBITDA ratio of 3.4x, compared to 4.8x in 2011. The company’s bylaws require a minimum annual diviformally registered in the System of Complaints that is dend of 25% of net income, adjusted by allocations to applicable to each Unit. capital reserves, as provided by Brazilian Corporate Law. Customer satisfaction – In view of this scenario, the No dividends were proposed for the year ended Decemsales area was structured with account managers to ber 31, 2012, considering the loss suffered for the period. service customers at all points of the purchase process, including development of specific products for special Product cases. Therefore, there is a very close relationship with customers, and feedback is constant and response time Of the 5.2 million tons of pulp produced by Fibria in immediate. 2012, 4.7 million (or 90% of the total) were earmarked for export to countries in Europe (43%), North America In order to adapt the client satisfaction evaluation to (23%), Asia (23%) and Latin America (11%). To serthis reality, a new satisfaction evaluation process was vice these companies in different locations around the proposed, which began development in 2012 and will world, Fibria maintains offices in strategic points so it be fully implemented in 2013. After closing of this cycle, can always be close to its end clients. an analysis of the process will be carried out so that improvements can be planned for 2014. The new evaluaThe pulp produced at Fibria’s Industrial Units complies tion will be fed by information that has been gathered with the international standards for use in the manufacfrom interaction with customers through their interfacturing of a variety of food packaging, according to the ing with Fibria. The data gathered will be used in an official opinion issued by the German institute of cerinternal evaluation forum, at which a plan of action tification, Isega, and meets the standards of the Food for taking advantage of the main opportunities for imand Drug Administration (FDA) – the U.S. agency that is provement will be set out. responsible for the regulation and supervision of food, medicine, cosmetic and other products safety. FurtherIt is also expected that, in 2013, an open channel will more, it is a stable product in normal conditions of use be set up for customer feedback regarding the services and storage and does not present customers with any provided by the offices that serve them. This will be yet risk to health or safety. another source of information to make the satisfaction evaluation fuller, by introducing a new way for the client Any problem with the pulp that causes complications in to participate in the evaluation process. use, damage to the customers’ product or whose specification is not in compliance with that established with the client (technical aspects, logistics, packaging etc.), is 1. Includes 50% of Veracel. 61 Glossary Agroforestry system: system of production that until it reaches the end customer. attributes that are considered to be exceptional or criticombines the simultaneous cultivation of fruit and/ Clean Development Mechanism (CDM): The cal, from a global, national, regional or local perspecor timber trees with agricultural practices. CDM allows emissionreduction projects in develtive, and are therefore places of special interest to the Apiculture: also known as beekeeping, it is the oping countries to earn certified emission reduclocal community or to society in general. Such areas name given to the system of raising bees to produce tion (CER) credits, each equivalent to one ton of need to be managed in a suitable manner, in order to honey and related products. CO2. These CERs can be traded and sold, and used maintain or enhance their conservation value. APPs (Permanent Preservation Areas): sites with by industrialized countries to a meet a part of their Hydrographic watershed: a small drainage sysor without vegetation, located close to water sources, emission reduction targets under the Kyoto Protocol. tem, basically comprising gullies, springs, brooks on the banks of rivers and streams, around reservoirs, Cloned seedlings: seedlings of plants that are geand streams. in salt marshes (restingas), on the fringes of tableland, netically identical, developed from the cells or fragJoint-venture: a business enterprise in which two areas above 1,800 meters in altitude, slopes of 45º or ments of a “donor” plant. or more companies are involved in a partnership. more, and the tops of hills, the environmental function Cloning: process whereby one obtains a clone – a Legal Reserve (RL): an area of any given rural propof which is to preserve water resources, the landscape, genetically identical copy. In the case of the eucaerty, not including APPs, which is set aside for the susgeological stability, biodiversity, and the genetic flux lyptus, cloning is performed using cuttings from tainable use of the natural resources, the conservation of fauna and flora, to protect the soil and ensure the selected mother trees. and rehabilitation of the ecological processes, the conwell-being of the human population. servation of the biodiversity, and the sheltering and Corporate governance: system whereby organizaArchaeological sites: locations where there are tions are run, monitored and stimulated, involving protection of the native fauna and flora. The Brazilian vestiges of pre-historic human occupation. relations between the stakeholders, Supervisory law specifies that the legal reserve must represent not Atlantic Forest biome: a collection of forests Board, Management Board and internal and exterless than 20% of the total area of the rural property. and pioneer formations (such as salt marshes and nal regulatory bodies. NGO (Non-governmental organization): a nonmangroves) found along the Brazilian coastal belt, EBITDA: stands for “earnings before deducting inprofit civil society association set up for a public between the states of Rio Grande do Sul and Piauí. terest, taxes, depreciation and amortization”. The purpose. Barges: also known as lighters, these are flat botterm is utilized in the analysis of the accounting Pesticides: products used for the extermination of tomed boats with a shallow draft, which Fibria uses statements of publicly listed companies. pests or diseases that attack agricultural crops. to transport forest products (wood and pulp) from Eco-efficiency: providing goods (or services), at RPPNs (Private Natural Heritage Reserves): conBahia to Portocel, the maritime terminal located in competitive prices, that satisfy human needs and servation units located on private land and set up at Aracruz (Espírito Santo State). Fibria’s barges are not yield quality of life, involving a steady reduction in the initiative of the landowner. self propelled, but are pushed by tugs. environmental impact and the consumption of natuStakeholders: interested parties who affect and/or Biodiversity: the combination of life forms (living ral resources in the manufacturing, transporting and are affected by the company’s activities. organisms and ecological complexes) and genes concommercializing of said goods (or services). tained within each individual, and their inter-relationSustainability: a concept that gained force in the Edaphic resources: qualities of the soil, such as 1980s, through the expression “sustainable develships, or ecosystems, whereby the existence of any mineral content, texture and drainage, particularly given species directly affects the others. UN Convenopment”, meaning being able to satisfy one’s needs in regard to its usefulness to humans. without diminishing the opportunities of future gention on Biodiversity definition: the variability among living organisms from all sources and the ecological Effluent: liquid waste that is discharged into the erations (Brundtland Report, 1987). Sustainability is complexes of which they are part, including diversity environment, usually bodies of water. based on three pillars: environmental, social and ecowithin species, between species and of ecosystems. Emissions: the discharging into the atmosphere of nomic (hence the expression “triple bottom line”). For any solid, liquid or gaseous material. an activity to be sustainable, it must promote economBiodiversity corridors: strips of vegetation linkic growth while, at the same time, respecting the enviing large forest fragments (or blocks of native vegForest management: the management of a forest in ronment and satisfying human needs and aspirations. etation) that have become isolated by human activorder to obtain economic and social benefits, while reity, thereby providing local fauna with unhindered specting the mechanisms that sustain the ecosystem. tCO2eq: measurement for converting and standardmovement between these fragments and conseizing greenhouse gases in terms of carbon dioxide Forest partnerships: the sponsored production of (CO2), taking into consideration the potential greenquent genetic exchange between populations. wood on private rural properties in order to supply the house effect of each gas. By reducing the causes of the Biomass: organic matter used to generate elecforestry industry (pulp mills, sawmills, steel plants, etc.). greenhouse effect to a single factor, it facilitates the tricity, through burning, or the burning of fuel deForest protection: set of activities designed to protect measuring of the impact a given activity can have on rivatives (oils, gases, alcohol), and employing special forests from pests, diseases, fires and weeds or anythe temperature of the earth’s atmosphere. techniques and technology. Part of the energy conthing else that might come to threaten forest assets. sumed at Fibria’s industrial units is generated from tCO2eq/t pulp: Tons of carbon dioxide equivalent biomass, such as wood residues and the waste from Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®): established in per tonne of pulp. the manufacturing process (black liquor). 1993, the FSC® is an independent, non-governmental, TRS (Total Reduced Sulphur): a range of sulfur not-for-profit organization established to promote the compounds that are generated in the pulp producBiotechnology: technology that employs biological responsible management of the world’s forests. agents (organisms, cells, organelles or molecules) to tion which, under certain circumstances of the proproduce useful products. Genetic improvement: the use of science for the cess, mill location and meteorological conditions, selection and reproduction of plants or animals can release a characteristic odor into the atmosphere. Bleached eucalyptus pulp: the product of the bearing desirable characteristics, based on knowlindustrial extraction and subsequent bleaching of Waste: materials in a solid or semi-solid state, genedge of heredity characteristics. erated by the activities of a community, industrial or cellulose fibers from wood. The transformation of the wood into bleached pulp (pulping) involves four main Genetic material: the material found in cells that commercial business, homes, hospitals, agriculture, processes: reducing the wood to chips; cooking the contains the genetic information of living organisms. services and street cleaning. The term also includes chips to extract the brown stock; bleaching the brown Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): a networkcertain liquids that, due to their characteristics, stock; and drying and baling of the bleached pulp. based organization that pioneered the world’s most should not be disposed of in the public sewage syswidely used sustainability reporting framework. tem, much less bodies of water. CERFLOR (PEFC): The Brazilian Forest Certification Programme (Cerflor) was conceived by the Brazilian Hectare (ha): a unit of measurement of area, corWater cycle: the set of different phases through Society for Silviculture (SBS), with collaboration of responding to 10,000 m², approximately equivalent which water passes under natural conditions, chief several associations, entities, research institutes and to the area of a soccer field. among which are: rain, evaporation, transpiration, NGOs, as a voluntary national forest certificaton infiltration, surface run-off and underground seepHerbicides: chemical product used to control or age. This cycle occurs within the atmosphere (air), programme, in 1991. eliminate undesirable plants or weeds. the hydrosphere (water) and the lithosphere (land), Chain of Custody (CoC): certification of the traceHCVAs (High Conservation Value Areas): an area extending between a depth of around 1 km into the ability of forest raw materials through all the stages that has certain biological, ecological, social or cultural lithosphere and roughly 15 km into the atmosphere.  Central Administration Office Conceição da Barra Rodovia BR-101 Norte, km 49 (trevo), Caixa Postal 010 Alameda Santos, 1357 – 6º andar CEP 29960-000 – Conceição da Barra – ES – Brazil Phone +55 (27) 3761-4777 CEP 01419-908 – São Paulo – SP – Brazil Fax +55 (27) 3761-4715 Phone +55 (11) 2138-4000 Fax +55 (11) 2138-4000 Posto da Mata Rodovia BR 418, Km 37 – Caixa postal 100, Posto da Mata CEP 45928-000 – Nova Viçosa – BA – Brazil  Industrial Units Phone +55 (73) 3209-8555 Fax +55 (73) 3209-8307 Aracruz Três Lagoas Rodovia Aracruz-Barra do Riacho, s/nº, km 25 Rodovia BR-158, km 298, Fazenda Barra do Moeda CEP 29197-900 – Aracruz – ES – Brazil CEP 79601-970 – Três Lagoas – MS – Brazil Phone +55 (27) 3270-2122 Phone +55 (67) 3509-1082 Fax +55 (27) 3270-2136 Fax +55 (67) 3509-1001 Jacareí Rod. Gal. Euryale Jesus Zerbine, km 84 – SP 66, São Silvestre  Commercial and Representative Offices CEP 12340-010 – Jacareí – SP – Brazil Fibria Celulose (USA) Inc. Phone +55 (12) 2128-1100 16.300 NE 19th Ave., Suite 210 Fax +55 (12) 3957-1261 North Miami Beach, FL 33162 – USA Phone (1-305) 940-9762 Três Lagoas Fax (1-305) 940-9763 Rodovia BR-158, km 298, Fazenda Barra do Moeda CEP 79601-970 – Três Lagoas – MS – Brazil Fibria (Europe) S.A. Phone +55 (67) 3509-8041 Av. Reverdil, 12-14 – CH-1260 Nyon, Switzerland Phone (41-22) 994-9030 Fax (41-22) 994-9040  Forestry Units and Offices Fibria Trading International Ltd. Capão Bonito Akácos út 11 – H-2161 Rodovia Raul Venturelli, km 210, Caixa postal 28 Csomád, Hungary CEP 18300-970 – Capão Bonito – SP – Brazil Phone 36 (28) 566-576 Phone +55 (15) 3653-9227 / +55 (15) 3653-9594 Fax 36 (28) 566-575 Fax +55 (15) 3543-9424 Fibria Trading International Ltd. (China) 2501-2 Great Eagle Centre Capão do Leão 23 Harbour Road Estrada BR-116, km 532, nº 293 Wanchai, Hong Kong, SAR CEP 96160-000 – Capão do Leão – RS – Brazil Phone +852-2866-7956 Phone +55 (53) 2123-1995 Fax +852-2865-2423
