POSTEN NORGE Because people change Posten Norge must also change. Released in 2013 Contents 2 Posten Norge 01 This is Posten Norge............................................................. 6 Our brands.................................................................................. 8 Number of employees, locations and services............... 10 Group structure................................................................... 12 Group Management........................................................... 14 Corporate governance..................................................... 16 The Group History......................................................................................... 24 02 Key figures................................................................................ 28 Important events................................................................. 30 President and Chief Executive Officer’s report...... 32 3 The Board of Directors.................................................... 36 Report of the Board of Directors............................. 38 Accounts.................................................................................... 52 Results Notes............................................................................................ 61 Segments............................................................................... 122 Market report..................................................................... 132 03 In the future......................................................................... 136 Posten Norge and sustainability............................. 138 Stakeholders........................................................................ 146 Environmental report..................................................... 150 Working environment report..................................... 154 Sustainability Integrity report.................................................................. 160 Posten Norge 01 The Group THIS IS POSTEN NORGE OUR BRANDS NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, LOCATIONS AND SERVICES GROUP STRUCTURE GROUP MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HISTORY 4 Posten Norge 5 Posten Norge 01 THIS IS POSTEN NORGE This is Posten Norge Posten Norge is a Nordic mail and logistics group that develops and delivers complete solutions within postal services, communications and logistics, with the Nordic 6 area as its local market. VISION MAIN GOALS OUR VALUES LEADERSHIP Posten Norge will be: The main goals are based Through our values, we PRINCIPLES The world’s most on the requirements and reflect a Group that To be a leader in the future-oriented mail goals of our operations can be relied upon in all Group means to set goals, and logistics group. and are: respects, and one we release energy and control 1. Satisfied customers can be proud to work for. resources. The Group’s 2. Leading market These values help build leaders must practise positions our common culture value-based leadership BUSINESS CONCEPT 3. Profitable growth and and guide us in all our that balances involvement Posten Norge develops a competitive increase decisions. Established and control. Good manand delivers complete in value forms of cooperation agers are a prerequisite postal, communications 4. Attractive workplaces between managers, for employees to be happy and logistics solutions and a good working employees, management and to give their best. with the Nordic region as environment organs, owners and the Leaders are role models in its local market. authorities will reflect our their behaviour and must basic values. bring the Group’s values to life. Our leaders are charINTEGRITY acterised in that they: RESPECT • are visible • are clear COOPERATION • take and give responOPENNESS sibility COURAGE • develop and inspire employees Posten Norge THIS IS POSTEN NORGE 01 7 Posten Norge 01 OUR BRANDS Our brands Posten Norge meets the market with two brands: Posten Norge for the private market and Bring for the business market. 8 Posten Norge – We live to deliver Posten Norge covers services to private customers, the post office network and the daily postal distribution across Norway. Services: Currently offers a wide range of Reputation: The reputation survey by MMI/ postal services which provide the sender Ipsos for 2012 showed that Posten Norge and recipient with secure delivery and a wide has dropped from 17th to 39th place among choice of delivery methods. the 116 companies in the survey. After a positive development over several years, Background: Posten Norge was established the Norwegian populace has changed its in 1647 and has 366 years of experience in view of Posten Norge. In 2011, 69 per cent the distribution of letters and parcels in of the population had a positive opinion of Norway. the organisation. In 2012, this figure fell to 57 percent. Posten Norge OUR BRANDS 01 Bring meets the market with the following business areas: Bring Cargo: Global goods flow with national and international cargo transport by road, sea, air or rail. Bring Express: Express and courier services for both scheduled and occasional deliveries to small and large companies. Bring Frigo: Temperature-controlled logistics services. Delivery and storage of fresh, chilled and frozen products from the producer to the table, in the Nordic region and the rest of the world. Bring Parcels: Comprehensive parcel distribution in the Nordic region. Offers parcel services locally, nationally and internationally. Bring Supply Services: Global experience with advanced fourth party logistics 9 solutions. Develops and operates complete supply chains for companies. Bring Warehousing: Warehousing solutions for most types of products, whether large volumes, bulk storage or individual pallets. Has Norway’s largest and most technologically advanced third party logistics distribution centre. Bring Mail: Local, national or Nordic distriBring – Finding New Ways bution of letters, goods and advertising. Tailored solutions or basic distribution services. Bring Citymail: Distribution of letters and advertising to 2.3 million households in Bring is the Nordic specialist in post and logistics with a range Sweden. of services aimed at business customers in the Nordic region. Bring Dialog: Offers customer dialogues and CRM. Solutions are based on customer insight, CRM tools and the customer’s own experience database. Services: Offers a broad spectrum of serHigh awareness: Four years after its launch, vices within communications and logistics. Bring has achieved a high level of brand awareness among its target group of Background: Bring was established as a executive and middle managers. Awareness brand in 2008. After ten years of acquisiis an important starting point in order to be tions of various companies with different considered by customers and be deemed brands, Posten Norge brought these under attractive. Surveys* in 2012 showed that the same umbrella and launched the Bring awareness of Bring was at 94 percent in brand. Norway, 66 percent in Sweden and 29 percent in Denmark. * Ipsos MMI carries out surveys twice per year. Posten Norge 01 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, LOCATIONS AND SERVICES Number of employees, locations and services Norway Posten Norge: Head office in Bring: Freight transport by Posten Norge: Sales and Oslo, Posthuset road, sea, air or rail, express customer service,Post in logistics and courier serShops, post offices, rural Locations: Norway, Sweden, vices, temperature-condelivery persons, business Denmark, Finland, France, trolled logistics services, centres, terminals. Greece, the Netherlands, parcel distribution, develUnited Kingdom, Italy, Japan, opment and operation of Locations: All of Norway China, Germany, Russia and complete supply chains for Slovakia. Employees: 16,547 10 companies, warehousing solutions, distribution of Employees: The Group has letters, goods and adver20,646 employees (of which tising, customer dialogue 513 are outside of the Nordic and CRM. region) Sweden Denmark Finland Bring: Freight transport by road, sea, Bring: Freight transport by Bring: Parcel distribution, air or rail, express logistics and couriroad, sea, air or rail, express express logistics and er services, temperature-controlled logistics and courier sercourier services, temperlogistics services, parcel distribution, vices, temperature-conature-controlled logistics development and operation of comtrolled logistics services, services. plete supply chains for companies, parcel distribution, develwarehousing solutions, distribution opment and operation of Locations: Helsinki and of letters, goods and advertising, complete supply chains for Vantaa customer dialogue and CRM. companies, warehousing Employees: 24 solutions. Locations: Stockholm, Helsingborg, Gothenburg, Malmö, Linköping and Locations: Copenhagen, Örebro. In total over 50 offices in Aalborg, Fredrikshavn, the whole of Sweden. Kastrup and Odense. In total over 10 offices in Employees: 3,126 the whole of Denmark Employees: 436 Posten Norge NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, LOCATIONS AND SERVICES 01 20 646 Employees in the Group (of which 513 are outside of the Nordic region) 16 547 Employees in Norway 11 Employees 24 in Finland Head office in Oslo, Posthuset 3 126 Employees in Sweden 436 Employees in Denmark Posten Norge 01 GROUP STRUCTURE Group structure 12 Group structure Posten Norge is organised as four divisions and three corporate staff units. Group management consists of the Group CEO and seven Group Directors. Group management deals with for their respective business The corporate staffs have issues and decisions relating to areas that support the corpothe special task of contributing the Group’s strategy, budgets, rate strategy. The divisions are to interaction and co-operation follow-up of results, significant responsible for developing and across Group boundaries in the investments, pricing stratedelivering services with the assodevelopment of policies and best gies, and issues of significance ciated service and quality. practices. Certain professional to Posten Norge’s reputation, functions are centralised at the market and customers, as well Professional responsibility Group level and provide services as issues of a fundamental The Group has established corto the divisions and business and strategic nature. Group porate staffs with responsibility areas. Directors lead the divisions or for common functions and Group corporate staff units and report development within the areas Two segments to the President and CEO. of HR/HS&E, Communications For financial reporting, the Group and Economy/Finance/IT. There has chosen to split the business Line responsibility is also a Group-wide Lean unit. into two segments; Mail and The four divisions are: Mail, LogisCorporate staff members are Logistics, in accordance with tics Norway, Logistics Nordic and professional driving forces who international financial reportE-commerce. The divisions are help support business strategies, ing standards (IFRS) and best central to the management of and help to develop a professional practice. the Group and devise strategies environment within the Group. Posten Norge GROUP STRUCTURE 01 Posten Norge DAG MEJDELL Economy/Finance/IT HR and HS&E TONE WILLE RANDI LØVLAND Communication ELISABETH GJØLME Mail Logistics Logistics E-commerce division Norway division Nordic division division GRO BAKSTAD TORE K. NILSEN TIM JØRNSEN GUNNAR HENRIKSEN 13 The Mail division The Logistics The Logistics The E-commerce Is responsible for traditionNorway division Nordic division division al postal services in Norway Develops and delivers the Is responsible for the Group’s Is an important growth area for (including statutory services), as Group’s services within the services within the logistics the Group. A dedicated E-comwell as in Sweden through Bring logistics segment in Norway. The segment in Sweden, Denmark merce division was established Citymail. In addition, the division division operates the domestic and Finland, as well as the Exin 2012 in order to support acis responsible for operating the parcel and freight terminals press, Frigo and Supply Services tivities and develop special comGroup’s activities within digital and transports mail, parcels brands throughout Scandinavia. petence and new, customised services and dialogue services. and freight. The division is The divisions shall establish, desolutions. The division serves The Mail division continuously particularly focused on realising velop and operate networks for the Group’s largest customers adapts its costs and capacity, economies of scale in its netparcels and freight in the Nordic within the B2C segment and is and develops new physical and work, ensuring interaction and countries, and develop Sweden’s also responsible for services digital services and infrastruccooperation with the Mail and position as a natural hub for and concept development tarture. Logistics Nordic divisions, and logistics moving into and out of geted towards all e-commerce developing integrated solutions the Nordic region. customers. The E-commerce in order to meet customers’ division provides no production needs. itself, but is responsible for ensuring an efficient interface between other divisions that are responsible for deliveries. The geographical organisation of the logistics segment is based upon the different positions and strengths in the Nordic countries. The logistics divisions shall serve customers in a uniform manner, optimise national networks and utilise economies of scale across countries and business areas. Posten Norge 01 GROUP MANAGEMENT Group Management 14 GUNNAR HENRIKSEN TONE WILLE TIM JØRNSEN DAG MEJDELL Executive Vice President Senior Vice President/CFO/IT Executive Vice President President and CEO E-Commerce Division (since September 2012) Logistics Nordic Division (since January 2006) (since November 2012) Born: 1963 (since October 2012) Born: 1957 Born: 1959 Previous positions: Director Born: 1966 Previous positions: CEO of Previous positions: Senior of Finance and corporate Previous positions: CEO of Dyno Nobel ASA, different poVice President Sales and governance at Division Mail Palletways Europe GMBH, CEO sitions in Dyno ASA from 1981 Customer Service, Mail Division, at Posten Norge, Investment of UPS Norden (including CEO and CFO) Posten Norge, Director Postal Director at Norfund, Senior VP Education: Bachelor of Education: Master of offices network, Posten Norge, and CFO at GE Energy (Norway) Business Administration Economics and Business Director Banking, Posten AS and former Kværner Administration Norge. Various positions in the Energy AS banking industry and in 3M Education: Master of Group in the Nordic countries Economics and Business and USA Administration Education: Master of Economics and Business Administration Posten Norge GROUP MANAGEMENT 01 15 GRO BAKSTAD ELISABETH RANDI LØVLAND TORE K. NILSEN Executive Vice President Mail HEGG GJØLME Senior Vice President Executive Vice President Division (since September 2012) Senior Vice President of HR and HS&E Logistics Division Born: 1966 of Communications (since September 2008) (since October 2012) (since April 2000) Born: 1957 Born: 1956 Previous positions: Senior Vice President/CFO at Posten Born: 1960 Previous positions: Transport Previous positions: Executive Norge, Financial Advisor at Previous positions: Director Director and Communications Vice President Division Mail Procorp, Director of Finance at of Communication at Manager at Posten Norge, at Posten Norge, Group Ocean Rig Telenor Mobil, Marketing and Division Director and Strategy Director at Securitas, Divisional Education: Master of Communications Manager Manager at Bravida Oslo and Manager at Security Service Economics and Business at Oslobanken AS, Secretary Akershus AS, Union Manager Europe Administration and CPA General of Young Conservatives in The Norwegian Post Education: Norwegian Police Education: Bachelor of Organization Service Business Administration Education: Posten Norge Posten Norge 01 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Corporate governance Statement Each year the Board of Directors of Posten Norge submits a statement concerning the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance (NUES recommendation). Below (points 1-15) is a statement of how the developing a high standard for corporate points in the NUES recommendation have governance, equivalent to Norwegian standbeen followed in Posten Norge. This includes ards for best practice, including the NUES both details of how the principles have been recommendation, see www.nues.no/en/. Posmet, the reason for any non-compliance, if ten Norge is a limited company wholly-owned 16 applicable, and a description of how Posten by the Government. The Group’s corporate Norge rectified any non-compliance with the governance is based on and in accordance recommendation. with Norwegian law and the Norwegian The Norwegian government is the comGovernment’s ownership policy in force at pany’s sole owner. As a result of this, Posten any given time. Norge’s corporate governance deviates Good corporate governance is a prerefrom point 4 of the NUES recommendation quisite for a profitable and powerful company, on the equal treatment of shareholders and while at the same time the requirements and transactions with related parties, point 5 on expectations of the company’s owner must the free sale of shares, point 6 on general be fulfilled. The Board of Directors of Posten meetings, point 7 on election committees and Norge believes that there is a clear connecpoint 14 on company takeovers. tion between good corporate governance and The Board must also provide information creating value for the company’s owners. on corporate governance in accordance with Through its business activities, Posten Section 3-3b of the Norwegian Accounting Norge is a prominent member of society and Act. The statement below follows the NUES has been given an important social responrecommendation’s systematic structure. sibility with its licence from the Ministry of Point 16 contains a summary of where the Transport and Communications that of eninformation required by Section 3-3b of the suring nationwide, high quality and cost-efNorwegian Accounting Act can be found. fective postal services. This social task also entails a particular responsibility with regard to how this task is carried out. The Group’s common core values thus create an important premise for its activities 1. STATEMENT ON CORPOwith regard to employees and its operating RATE GOVERNANCE environment, such as its customers, suppliers and business partners. The Group’s values are The Board of Directors emphasises the Integrity, Respect, Cooperation, Openness and importance of establishing and further Courage. In addition to this platform of shared Posten Norge CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 01 values, ethical guidelines and leadership princiservice requirements, the Group shall also be is perceived by its customers, its operating ples have been established. run profitably on commercial terms, meet its principles and its shared culture and values. These ethical guidelines are also included owner’s required rate of return and adapt its Posten Norge shall provide a competitive in the Group’s integrity programme. The aim activities to the structural changes that take rate of return for its owner through profitaof the integrity programme is to increase place in the market. bility and value creation in line with the best awareness and knowledge about how to hanWithin this framework Posten Norge has in the industry. dle typical ethical dilemmas. This will help to developed over the past decade into an Posten Norge shall be an environmental ensure that the Group always takes human industrial group that operates in the mail leader and work actively to reduce the comrights, anti-corruption, working conditions, and logistics business areas with the Nordic pany’s impact on the external environment. HSE, discrimination and environmental condiregion as its local market. The markets in Posten Norge shall develop good and attractions into consideration. which the Group operates are characterised tive workplaces. by fierce competition and major technological Continuous improvement is an important and structural changes. These changes prescommon denominator in the development ent Posten Norge with significant challenges of the Group. This entails improvements to 2. BUSINESS with regard to the economics of the statuprocesses, products and services to increase tory services under its licence, competiveness, customer value and reduce unnecessary Posten Norge’s social responsibility is to enadapting to new customer requirements and use of resources. sure the provision of nationwide, high quality market position. Posten Norge also recognises the imporand cost-effective postal services. This social The following main strategies form the tance of corporate social responsibility in how responsibility is described in Posten Norge’s basis for the development of the Group: its operations affect people, the environ17 licence given by the Ministry for Transport and Posten Norge shall undertake its social ment and society. This is achieved by reducing Communications. The current licence applies duties in accordance with the adopted licence the impact of its activities on the external until 31 December 2016. requirements. environment as well as developing the Group Furthermore the Group shall run postal Posten Norge shall service customers’ as an attractive workplace with a diverse and and logistic operations on a commercial requirements and be available where the inclusive work environment. It is the opinion basis, as well as other activities directly customer is located. of the Board that by taking social responrelated thereto. Posten Norge shall develop independent sibility Posten Norge contributes to a good All of these conditions are stated in section competitiveness in the Group’s focus areas reputation, a reduction in risk and long-term 3 of Posten Norge’s articles of association. in the Nordic area. expansion for the Group. The complete articles of association are Posten Norge shall secure satisfactory Posten Norge’s operations are labour intenfound at the Group’s website. returns from investments made in its trasive. In total the Group’s workforce consists The Board of Directors establishes goals ditional core business and at the same time of approximately 20,000 full-time equivalents. and strategies, both on a Group-wide level the Group shall continue to invest in Nordic Health, Safety and the Environment (HSE) is and for each business area, which support the growth areas in order to ensure future proftherefore a high priority and the Group’s aim Group’s aims related to mail and logistics operitability and strength. is for nobody to be injured or become sick as ations. These documents are based on regular Posten Norge shall develop strong, profita result of their work. The Group works conassessments and decision processes which able and sustainable positions within the tinuously in a goal-oriented manner to reduce shall ensure that the Group has a well-founded areas in which the Group is involved. absence due to sickness and the number of and operational strategy at all times. Posten Norge shall work to extract cost employees who are newly incapacitated A central premise for Posten Norge’s benefits through efficiency measures, coordifor work and to avoid lost-time injuries. strategies and activities is that Posten Norge nation of the value chain and the implementaWith the establishment of a Group-wide shall be a country-wide service provider fotion of a Group-wide productivity system. integrity programme the Group is actively cusing on competitive pricing, high quality and Posten Norge shall have a balanced portworking to prevent corruption and contributgood accessibility. This is also a driving force folio of business operations that strengthens ing to respect for human and workers’ rights. for motivating employees and management in its ability to service customers’ requireIn this way Posten Norge’s Board wishes to day-to-day activities and it is fundamental in ments. This portfolio shall have clearly defined focus on how the Group’s operations can maintaining Posten Norge’s reputation. common characteristics for the Group’s role contribute to sustainable development. Refer As well as meeting its socially-defined as a trusted third party, the way in which it to the Sustainability report. Posten Norge 01 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3. COMPANY’S CAPITAL tion on different share classes and issues is not deemed to be relevant for Posten Norge. AND PROFITS Information regarding transactions with related parties is provided for in the annual Equity report, see note 28. As at 31 December 2012 the Group’s equity was MNOK 5,702 which gave an equity ratio of 37.7 percent of the Group’s total assets. This level is deemed adequate with regard to the Group’s required solidity in order to implement 5. FREE SALE the company’s goals and strategies within an acceptable risk profile. All shares are owned by the Norwegian state and managed by the Ministry of Transport Dividend and Communications. In accordance with Posten Norge’s general meeting is not bound section 3 of its articles of association, Posby the Board’s proposal for the distribution ten Norge is to operate as a limited company of dividends, cf. section 20-4 (4) of the Comwholly-owned by the Government. panies Act, and the company is thus subject Posten Norge deviates from the NUES to the Government dividend policy in force at recommendation on this point. Due to govany given time. The Norwegian government’s ernment ownership, the Board deems this 18 dividend policy for Posten Norge is that 50 point of the NUES recommendation not to percent of Group post-tax profits can be be relevant for Posten Norge. paid as a dividend. Before the annual dividend is determined an independent assessment of the Group’s financial situation and future prospects shall be carried out. 6. GENERAL MEETING The Norwegian Government, through the Minister of Transport and Communications, is 4. EQUAL TREATMENT the company’s general meeting. OF SHAREHOLDERS In accordance with the company’s articles of association, the ordinary general meeting AND TRANSACTIONS is to be held by the end of June each year. WITH RELATED PARTIES Posten Norge deviates from the NUES recommendation on this point because the Posten Norge has only one share class. All Companies Act section 20-5 (1) states that shares are owned by the Norwegian state the Ministry of Transport and Communicaand managed by the Ministry of Transport tions is responsible for sending notification and Communications. of both ordinary and extraordinary general Posten Norge and the state as owner have meetings and for deciding the method regular ownership meetings. The articles of of notification. association also state that Posten Norge is The Board of Directors, President obliged to present all cases deemed to be and CEO, company auditor and the Office of major social or fundamental significance of the Auditor General are invited to to the owner. the general meeting. Posten Norge deviates from the NUES The minutes from the ordinary generrecommendation on this point. Due to goval meeting are available on the company’s ernment ownership the NUES recommendawebsite. Posten Norge CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 01 7. ELECTION COMMITTEE these are nominated by the general meeting. As the sole shareholder the Norwegian state of the Posten Norge Group and supervises the Group’s activities in general. represented by the Ministry of Transport and This overall responsibility is described in The Norwegian Government, through the MinCommunications designates and selects all detail in the adopted instructions for the ister of Transport and Communications, is the the shareholder-appointed Board members. Board of Directors and in the Board’s plan only shareholder, and the company therefore There are currently six shareholder-appointfor its own work. Both these documents are does not have an election committee. The Board ed Board members. There are no deputies revised on an annual basis. of Directors is appointed by the general meeting for the shareholders’ representatives on The guidelines for the President in accordance with section 20-4 (1) of the Northe Board of Directors. and CEO’s work form part of the instrucwegian Companies Act. Posten Norge deviates By virtue of the agreement the employees tions for the Board of Directors of from the NUES recommendation on this point. have the right to elect up to four members Posten Norge. Four members of the Board of Directors are of the Board of Directors. Together these documents clarify the chosen by and from the employees in Norway. During the first six months of 2012 five of tasks and responsibilities of the Board A Group-wide scheme was established for the members of the Board were women, of of Directors and the President and CEO, the election of employee representatives to whom three were shareholder-appointed including which matters shall, can and the Board of Directors of Posten Norge. This representatives and two were employee repshould be handled by the Board. This also entails that all employees in the Norwegian resentatives. After the new Board was electincludes the President and CEO’s authoripart of the Group can be elected and have ed in 2012, four of the members are women, sation limits. Matters that typically appear voting rights. of whom three are shareholder-appointed on the agenda of the Board of Directors representatives and one is an employee on a regular basis are the preparation and representative. implementation of the Group’s strategies, 19 The election period for Board members the processing and approval of quarterly is limited to two years at a time. Continuity and annual reports, monthly performance 8. CORPORATE ASSEMBLY within the Board of Directors is ensured as reports, HSE issues, investments and relatAND BOARD OF DIREConly half of its members stand for election ed follow-up work, evaluation of the Group’s at the same time. risks and internal control as well as HR and TORS, COMPOSITION The Board members’ backgrounds are organisational issues. AND INDEPENDENCE described in the annual report and on the The Board ensures that the company Group’s website. fulfils its corporate social responsibility Corporate assembly commitments. Posten Norge is subject to the main rule Independence of the Board of Directors The Board’s responsibility for reviewing of the Norwegian Companies Act that a The Board of Directors assesses the indeand reporting risk management and internal corporate assembly must be appointed if pendence of its members on a continuous control is described in more detail under a company has more than 200 employees. basis. As at 31 December 2012 all of the point 10. However, the company does not have a corshareholder-appointed representatives The Board’s work and its meetings are led porate assembly as an agreement has been were deemed to be “independent” Board by the Chairman of the Board and based on entered into between the employees and the members, since they were not considered to presentations by the President and CEO. company that there is to be no corporate have commercial, family or other relationThe Company expects these presentations assembly in Posten Norge in accordance with ships that could be deemed to affect their to constitute a good and satisfactory basis section 6-35 of the Norwegian Companies evaluations or decisions as Board members for considering the matter. The Board has Act. The same agreement gives the right to of Posten Norge. appointed a Vice-chairman of the Board an expansion of employee representation on who functions as chairman if the Chairman the Board of Directors from three to four of the Board cannot or ought not lead the representatives. work of the Board. 9. THE BOARD’S WORK The Board held seven meetings in 2012. Composition of the Board of Directors The Board carries out an annual evaluIn accordance with the articles of associaDuties of the Board of Directors ation of its work and its competence. The tion the Board of Directors shall consist of The Board of Directors of Posten Norge AS Board is also evaluated by the company’s between seven to ten members. Up to six of is responsible for the overall management owner. Posten Norge 01 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors’ audit committee in the company’s articles of association and The Board has established an audit commitinternal governing documentation as well as tee consisting of two Board members. The in general legal provisions and clear recomaudit committee meets at least five times mendations based on best practice. per year. The audit committee shall operate The Board emphasises the importance as a case preparation body for the Board of a good and efficient control environand support the Board in carrying out its ment in addition to good control processes. responsibility for financial reporting, risk The company’s governing documentation management, internal control and external represents a good basis for this type of auditing. The committee’s main duties are: to environment and processes. The Group’s prepare the Board’s follow-up work on regoverning documentation establishes how porting processes for the financial accounts the management and control of the Group (including ongoing contact with the compashall be carried out. The documents set out ny’s external auditor regarding the audit of Group-wide requirements with regard to the annual financial statements), to superconduct in important areas and processes, 20 vise the systems for internal control and risk including ethical behaviour and how corpomanagement and to supervise the work and rate social responsibility is to be practiced in independence of the external auditor. the Group. The external auditor is present for all Risk management and internal control derelevant points on the agenda in meetings pend on people. Internal control cannot only of the audit committees. focus on guidelines, manuals and forms, but must also focus on the individual’s efforts at The Board of Director’s all levels in the organisation. The Board of Diremuneration committee rectors is therefore committed to integratA remuneration committee has been ing risk management and internal control established which consists of three Board into the Group’s core and support processes. members and is led by the Chairman of the Managers on all levels are responsible for Board. The remuneration committee holds ensuring that risk management and good regular meetings throughout the year. The internal control systems are established committee prepares and recommends prowithin their own area, that these have the posals to the Board related to remuneration necessary effect and that they are put into for the President and CEO. The committee operation in an expedient manner. otherwise contributes to the thorough and The Board ensures that an overall asindependent handling of remuneration issues sessment of the Group’s risk is conducted for leading employees. each year. This risk analysis is based on the Group’ strategy, business plans and targets. The process is based on COSO’s framework for risk management. The aim is to evaluate 10. RISK MANAGEMENT risks affecting strategy, finance, operations and reputation. The results of this process AND INTERNAL CONTROL are consolidated to form an assessment of the main risks to which the Group is exposed. The Board of Directors’ responsibility for risk This is followed up with actions and recommanagement and internal control is set out mendations in order to manage and control Posten Norge CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 01 the individual risk factors and avoid events that entail investment and sales in accordshareholder-appointed Board members has that can adversely affect the Group’s operaance with specified authorisation limits. a pension scheme or agreement on salations and reputation. A common ethical standard applies to all ry after leaving his/her position from the A central monitoring process for internal Group employees and continuous efforts company. Details of the remuneration for control has also been established to help are made to increase awareness of this the Board members in 2012 are presented ensure that there is adequate and effective standard. Posten Norge also established in note 2. internal control for specified risk areas. One an integrity programme which shall help to element in this process is to propose speensure a high and precise ethical standard cific measures to improve internal control. with regard to anti-corruption, competitive The implementation of proposed measures practices, social dumping and the handling is the responsibility of line management. As part of the central monitoring process of information. The Group’s suppliers and business partners are required to comply 12. REMUNERATION TO for internal control, the compliance of the with the same standard. SENIOR EXECUTIVES Group’s governing documentation, includOpenness is one of the Group’s core ing ethical guidelines, is also assessed. In values and a significant element in the The Board has prepared a statement conaddition, processes have been implementcompany’s general risk management and cerning the determination of salaries and 21 ed to ensure that the Group carries out internal control. With regard to breaches other benefits for the General Manager and systematic reporting of corporate social of the ethical standard in general, and the other senior executives. This statement is responsibility. integrity standard in particular, openness is prepared in accordance with Section 8, last Posten Norge’s consolidated financial especially important for the prevention and paragraph of the articles of association and statements are presented in accordance rectification of non-compliance. All employbuilds upon the principles in the Governwith the applicable IFRS regulations. The ees and business partners are therefore ment’s guidelines for state ownership on Group’s reporting process for the financial encouraged to report any censurable and/or this subject. accounts is described in the Group’s governillegal conditions as soon as possible. This is a The statement shall be presented ing documentation, which includes procepart of the individual’s responsibility. to the ordinary general meeting. dures and rules for monthly, quarterly and A corporate unit for misconduct has been The Board considers incentive systems to annual reporting. The Group’s accounting established to ensure good and safe receipt be an important tool for focusing manageprinciples are described in more detail in the and follow-up of reports. The corporate ment on increasing company profitability in Group’s accounting manual. The reporting unit for misconduct shall ensure that the line with the owner’s interests. It is against and consolidation of financial accounting reports are not met with negative reactions this background that a bonus scheme for information is carried out in a common reor sanctions. The Board of Directors’ audit individuals in key positions has been estabporting system. The Group utilises a common committee reviews the report from the lished. Payment under these schemes will be Group account plan and the Group accounts Group’s corporate unit for misconduct every covered by the company’s business. department makes use of both built-in six months. Routines have been established to ensure system controls and manual controls to that more than just the closest manager ensure complete and consistent accounting is involved in the decision-making process information. The consolidation of accounting concerning employment, pay and bonuses. information takes place at multiple levels In such situations, the person making the within the Group. Subsidiaries are responsi11. REMUNERATION TO THE decision/manager shall obtain approval from ble for their Group/Company accounts being BOARD OF DIRECTORS his/her immediate superior. reported in accordance with the Group’s The statement concerning the determiprinciples and routines. The Board members’ fees are set at the nation of salaries and other benefits for the The Group has established an advisory ingeneral meeting each year. Remuneration is General Manager and other senior execuvestment committee which handles all cases not dependent on results and none of the tives is included in note 2. Posten Norge 01 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 13. INFORMATION 14. COMPANY TAKEOVERS 22 AND COMMUNICATION Posten Norge deviates from the NUES The Group follows an open and proactive recommendation on this point. Posten communications strategy to support the Norge’s articles of association state that the Group’s business strategies and goals and company shall operate as a limited company contribute to a good reputation, strong wholly-owned by the Government, and the brands, satisfied customers and proud Board therefore deems this point of the employees. Guidelines for a code of conduct NUES recommendation not to be relevant have been established to ensure that Posten for Posten Norge. Norge acts professionally and uniformly in its communications. Financial information is reported quarterly at stipulated times as set out on the company’s website in accordance with the Oslo 15. AUDITOR Stock Exchange’s information requirements. These reports are made available via the Posten Norge has an independent external Internet in both Norwegian and English. auditor selected by the general meeting A communications policy has been drawn on the recommendation of the Board up and specifies who is entitled to speak on of Directors. behalf of the Group, including subsidiaries, The auditor takes part in Board meetings in various circumstances. The contingency that handle the annual financial statements plan for information in cases of a special in order to improve the Board’s basis for nature or media interest is also included in making decisions. In the same or a separate this policy. meeting the auditor presents the audit and The Board also emphasises the imporgives his view of the Group’s accounting printance of good communication with the ciples, risk areas, internal control procedures company’s owner outside the general and the Group’s bookkeeping. The conclusions meeting. Refer to point 4 for a more detailed are presented in an annual, numbered letter description of this communication. to the board. Posten Norge CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 01 The Group’s policy allows the use of the recommendations and rules mentioned in tion which regulate the appointment and auditor in naturally audit-related tasks in no. 1”: There are five cases of non-comreplacement of Board members”: see addition to the statutory audit. The Board of pliance described in detail in point 4 Equal point 8 Corporate assembly and Board of 23 Directors informs the general meeting of the treatment of shareholders, point 5 Free Directors, composition and independence. remuneration to the auditor. sale of shares, point 6 General Meeting, 8. “provisions of the Articles of Associapoint 7 on election committees and point tion and powers of attorney which give 14 Company takeovers. the Board the power to decide that the 4. “a description of the main elements in the company shall buy back or issue shares or company’s, as well as the Group’s if Group equity certificates”: see point 3 Equity and 16. REQUIREMENTS accounts are also prepared, systems dividends. OF SECTION 3-3B for internal control and risk management related to the accounts reporting proOF THE NORWEGIAN cess”: see point 10 Risk management ACCOUNTING ACT and internal control. 5. “provisions of the Articles of Association The Board must also provide information on which fully or partly expand or exclude corporate governance in accordance with provisions of chapter 5 of the Public LimSection 3-3b of the Norwegian Accountited Companies Act”: see point 6 General ing Act. Below is an overview of where in Meeting. the statement above this information is 6. “the composition of the Board of Direcdescribed. tors, corporate assembly, representative 1. “details of the recommendations and rules and control committee; if applicable any on corporate governance which cover working committee for these bodies, as the enterprise or which the enterprise well as a description of the main elements otherwise decides to follow”: see point 1 in the applicable instructions and guideStatement on corporate governance. lines for the bodies’ and, if applicable, the 2. “information about where the recommencommittees’ work”: see point 8 Corporate dations and rules mentioned in no. 1 are assembly and Board of Directors, compopublicly available”: see point 1 Statement sition and independence and point 9 The on corporate governance. Board’s work. 3. “reasons for any non-compliance with the 7. “provisions of the Articles of AssociaPosten Norge 01 HISTORY History Posten Norge’s history Some highlights of Posten Norge’s 366-year history. 24 • 1647 The Norwegian postal • 1855 The first Norwegian stamp service was established by was issued. the Danish governor in Norway, Hannibal Sehested. • 1871 A new Postal Services Act introduced a simplified price • 1719 The State assumed responsystem with a domestic postage sibility. rate, post boxes at post offices and mailboxes at the addressees’ • 1827 The need to improve postdoors. al delivery along the coast and abroad made the postal service • 1872 The postcard was into the country’s first steamintroduced. ship company. • 1920 Norway’s first official air • 1854 Posten Norge was also on route opened with Posten Norge board when the first railway was on board. established from Christiania to Eidsvoll. The Railways Act of 1848 • 1943 The postgiro was stated that mail should be introduced in Norway. carried by train and that postal stations should be located in • 1950 Norway’s Postal Savings train stations. Bank was established. Posten Norge HISTORY 01 • 1968 Postcodes were introduced • 2000 Posten Norge’s plans for to manage better the increasing transforming traditional post volume of mail. offices to Post in Shops were approved by Parliament. • 1976 Oslo postal terminal and the Postgiro building built. • 1998-2007 Posten Norge carried out a number of acquisitions in 25 • 1984 Changeover from conheavy goods and express transtents-based classification of port. This included the purchase letter post to pricing according of Citymail in Sweden. to time of forwarding (A, B and C post). • 2002 Parliament made Posten Norge a limited company: • 1995 Postbanken was established The Posten Norge Group. as an independent bank following the merger of Postbanken and • 2008 The new brand Bring Postgiro. In the same year Posten was launched, while the Posten Norge bought Statens DataNorge logo was modernised. sentral, merged it with Posten Norge’s Datasentral and renamed • 2010 Posten Norge’s South it Posten SDS (latterly EDB ErgoEastern Norway terminal at Group, now Evry). Lørenskog was officially opened by King Harald. • 1996 Posten Norge changes from an administrative agency • 2011 Norway’s new digital mail of the government to a state system, Digipost, opens 4 April. owned company with “limited liability”: Posten Norge BA. Posten Norge 02 Results KEY FIGURES IMPORTANT EVENTS PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS SEGMENTS MARKET REPORT IN THE FUTURE 26 Posten Norge 27 Posten Norge 02 KEY FIGURES Key figures 28 VOLUME VOLUME LETTERS PARCELS in mill. units in mill. units 2219 37,3 3000 40 2750 35 2500 30 2250 2000 25 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 TOTAL VOLUME OF LETTERS TOTAL VOLUME OF PARCELS Posten Norge KEY FIGURES 02 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 OPERATING REVENUES 22 925 22 981 22 451 22 613 23 940 MNOK EBIT MNOK 632 956 1638 269 -14 GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENTS MNOK 219 345 116 211 0 SHARE OF REVENUE FROM MONOPOLY AREA 14,6 14,8 14,7 15,3 14,8 (percentage) REVENUE FROM FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES 6434 6443 5959 5855 5871 MNOK 29 TOTAL PARCEL VOLUME, POSTEN NORGE AS 37,3 38,7 36,6 34,9 35,0 million units TOTAL LETTER VOLUME, POSTEN NORGE AS million units 2219 2337 2289 2284 2598 DEVELOPMENT A AND B MAIL (percentage) -8,2 -6,1 -7,2 -10,1 0,7 DELIVERY QUALITY FOR A MAIL (proportion delivered overnight) 85,3 85,3 83,5 88,3 87,1 (percentage) PROPORTION OF MACHINE-SORTED, ALL LETTERS 79,6 79,2 73,7 72 70 (percentage) EMPLOYEES (full-time equivalents) AS AT 31 DECEMBER 19 388 19 622 19 884 20 555 22 221 NUMBER OF SALES OUTLETS (post office/Post in Shops) 1407 1413 1434 1443 1455 POSTEN NORGE’S REPUTATION (proportion with a ‘good impression’) 57 69 63 61 55 (percentage) ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS, GROUP (percentage) 6,9 7,1 7,8 8,1 8,2 Posten Norge 02 IMPORTANT EVENTS Important events January March May • Posten Norge presents new • Posten Norge becomes the first partner • A new solution is introduced to analyses which show that approxin the new European trade organisation enable users to receive electronic imately 150 post offices can be E-Commerce Europe and simultaneously receipts in Digipost, the digital converted to Post in Shops. initiates an even closer collaboration with mailbox. trade association Distansehandel Norge. • From New Year, the prices to • The DNB Group signs agreements send letters are calculated from • For the first time, Posten.no wins the to use Digipost for the digital both the weight and thickness of Farmand Prize 2012 for best website in the distribution of letters. the letter. This is because volume “Non-traded” category. influences distribution costs. June • The Zero Emission Resource Organisation • Posten Norge becomes the first February (Zero) and Posten Norge initiate a collabNorwegian company to enable its 30 • In order to deal with the continuoration that includes electric vehicles and customers to BankID in its new ing steep decline in letter volumes, alternative fuels. application for iPad or iPhone. Posten Norge asks the Ministry of Transport and Communications • Posten Norge opens competitive tendering • The government discusses the to assess changes in the banking for the company’s IT contracts. The aim is post notification and decides that obligation, sales network and to collate the contracts with a small num149 post offices shall be convertSaturday deliveries. ber of suppliers. ed to Post in Shops. The conversions will take place in 2013 and • King Harald celebrates his April 2014. There will then be 30 post 75th birthday and Posten Norge • The government presents a white paper offices and around 1,400 Post in honours both the King and Queen supporting Posten Norge’s desire to limit Shops in Norway. with two hand-engraved stamps. its banking obligation and continue conversion to Post in Shops. • Idar Kreutzer is elected the new Chairman of the Board of Posten • Posten Norge acquires Fredrikstad TransNorge after Arvid Moss. port & Spedisjon AS. July • The EFTA court does not revoke the ESA’s • Posten Norge opens a new post fine for Posten Norge from 2010, but the office in “Cardamom Town” in size of the penalty is reduced. Kristiansand Zoo and Amusement Park, where adults and children • Posten Norge launches new iPhone and can purchase stamps, special Androd applications which enable users to envelopes and cards with images send postcards from mobile phones. from the town. • Larvik becomes the first municipality to use Digipost in its communications with the municipality’s inhabitants. Posten Norge IMPORTANT EVENTS 02 August October December • The Swedish government clarifies the • 94,000 households and 7,000 • Posten Norge invites tenders to provisions for the permitted weight and companies receive a new post deliver banking services within length of heavy goods vehicles that cross code due to population growth. Posten Norge’s sales network the border into and out of Sweden. (excluding the national postal • The Posten Norge Group is network) which gives suppliers the September restructured in order to right and an obligation to distrib• Posten Norge makes changes to Group strengthen competitiveness ute and market banking services management from 1 September. and customer orientation. Posten in this network. Norge now has four divisions: The • Clasohlson.no is selected as Webshop Mail division, the Logisitics Norway • Posten Norge desires stricter of the Year, Tretti.no receives the Innovadivision, the Logistics Nordic divirequirements regarding the tyres tion of the Year prize, and Shavecare.no sion and the E-commerce division. that shall be used on heavy goods becomes Newcommer of the Year at the vehicles than those presented in a 31 Load logistics and e-commerce event. • Posten Norge acquires Swedish new suggestion from the Norwelogistics company Ekdahls Åkeri. gian Public Roads Administration. • Posten Norge submits a new e-comIn the consultative statement, merce report which shows that e-comNovember Posten Norge also desires more merce has become commerce. • The government decides that frequent controls and stricter digital mailbox suppliers shall sanctions for drivers who break • Posten Norge AS, Aftenposten, Distribucompete for the sending of the rules. tion Innovation and Amedia distribution mail from the public sector. start a trial project to test opportunities Posten Norge’s solution, for collaborative distribution between Digipost, is developed with Posten Norge and the newspapers. the aim of meeting the needs of the public sector. • Bring is chosen as the supplier of logistics services for Statoil’s operations on the Norwegian Continental Shelf. • Posten Norge releases a new profile film, “Posten Norge is changing because people are changing”. Posten Norge 02 PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT Packed and ready for more e-commerce Changes in people’s mailing habits have been greater in the past 10 years than in the first 356 of the postal service. President and CEO Dag Mejdell is now gearing up to win the battle for e-commerce customers. Since the start of the 2000s, the number of letters in “No other areas have an equivalent rate of growth. We 32 Norwegian mailboxes has become fewer and fewer due must therefore be best among the competition. This is to electronic communication. The same trend has rea young type of activity with old services, and innovation sulted in more parcels to be delivered to all the country’s will therefore be important going forward. Recipients also inhabitants and companies, or across national borders. gain greater power because they decide which distribuThe online shopping market in the Nordic region is growtor shall transport the parcel to their home or local coling by around 15 percent annually. Posten Norge has lection point,” says Mejdell. therefore changed the company’s structure and created a dedicated e-commerce division. More collection points “One of the challenges facing postal companies is that In the next two years, Posten Norge will open 170 new e-commerce companies’ needs are covered by different Post in Shops across the country. This means even parts of the companies. We are now gathering togethgreater opportunities for the collection of parcels, and er those who have the most experience within e-comcustomers also appreciate longer opening hours. In tomerce in order to strengthen the services offered. We tal, Posten Norge will have over 3,000 collection points are the first of the postal companies to do this, and I’m across the country through post offices, Post in Shops absolutely sure that this will give positive results,” says and the rural postal service. President and CEO Dag Mejdell. “No other provider has such a finely-meshed network. We are, and will continue to be, the best in Norway,” says Significant growth Mejdell. The volume of e-commerce parcels (B2C) increased by 4,6 percent in 2012. The growth is most significant across Important meeting place national borders. Mejdell believes that this may become Post in Shops is becoming increasingly important as a one of the largest areas within the Posten Norge Group point of contact with customers. When the conversion in the long-term. In 2012, Posten Norge changed the deis completed in 2014, there will be only 30 post offices livery times for e-commerce parcels. Large areas of Norremaining in Norway. Fifty years ago, there were 5,000 way now receive their parcels a day earlier. You can now post offices. place an order on one day and receive it on the following “This is a consequence of societal development. A day. People want their parcels delivered as quickly as poscore part of what the post offices offered was banking sible, and want to know where it is at any given time. Good services. The use of banking services in the manual world tracking solutions are therefore important. has now become minimal, and we must therefore adapt. Posten Norge PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT 02 33 Posten Norge 02 PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT We cannot justify operating many post think of Bring and not the individual specialoffices with peak visits by customers twice ists. Our customers are asking for one point a day – once in the morning and once in the of contact with Bring. In order to become one afternoon. This is not a wise use of society’s Bring, the specialist names have now been reresources,” says Mejdell. moved. In addition, our largest customers will now have contact with one account manager Improved results across the organisation,” says Mejdell, adding A gradual conversion to Post in Shops over the that this may seem like a given, but is in fact past 10 years is one of the measures that has an important step in both appearing and becontributed to ensuring efficient operations coming more customer-oriented. and improved profitability in a declining market. “2012 was the fifth year in a row with an Oil logistics increase in profit. This is because we have When Posten Norge was established in 1647, worked extremely effectively with cost reboth digital mail and the production of oil in duction measures, while simultaneously being Norway would have seemed like wild ideas. successful in the market. I think this has been But now, 366 years later, both are important a good year,” says Mejdell. factors in how the Posten Norge Group is changing. In the autumn of last year, Bring enMore logistics tered into the largest ever logistics contract Logistics is now the largest area of the with Statoil, and this has become an impor34 business, with 58 percent of the turnover. tant growth area. In order to strengthen its competitive po“Firstly, activity on the Norwegian contisition against large international competnental shelf is in a growth phase. This will conitors, the Group has chosen to organise tinue due to new discoveries. The investments logistics activities by country. In the autumn look promising for the supply industry, and we of last year, a new division was established are a part of this. The agreement with Statoil – the Logistics Nordic Division, which is relays a good foundation for growth within the sponsible for Sweden, Denmark and Finland. area in the coming years,” says Mejdell. “I think we have taken many appropriate steps in 2012 towards becoming a Nordic, Mail of the future industrialised and integrated Group. We are With the major changes in people’s mailing working in a more industrial manner, and habits, Mejdell is extremely keen to develop have acquired Ekdals Åkeri in Sweden in ornew areas of expertise – because letter volder to strengthen the domestic position in umes are steadily moving in only one direction. Sweden. But we will also become better at “The year 2013 will be weaker than 2012 identifying synergies and coordinating opfor the mail segment, because the decrease erations through common terminals, among in mail volume is so great that we are unable other measures,” says Mejdell. to fully compensate for it. We estimate that the volume will decrease by 7 percent or more One Bring every year going forward. In 2020, we will only Since Bring was launched in 2008, the brand have half of the current letter volume,” says has emerged on the market as a series of Mejdell. This leads him to point out the changes specialists. This is something that Mejdell is that are necessary in responding to this trend. now working to change. “In order to further reduce costs, we be“I think that we have been more concerned lieve that Saturday distribution must be rewith our specialists than our customers. moved. We have notified the owner that this What we are hearing is that our customers must be considered if the cost of public secPosten Norge PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT 02 tor purchases is not to become too great. We health, we receive NOK 3.5 in return. If the are not doing our job if we do not point out effect were to prove to be equally great for the kinds of challenges that lie ahead. But we all our employees, we could save society NOK must also have respect for the fact that, ul150 million in costs relating to absence due timately, it is the politicians who will make this to sickness. If we were to convert this to the decision. It is important that additional funds kind of turnover we would have to have in orare provided if the politicians decide that the der to create an equivalent result, we would service level shall be maintained at a level for need to increase our turnover by NOK 3-5 which there is no market basis,” says Mejdell. billion,” Mejdell points out. Digital mail Less CO2 In response to the transition to electronic Posten Norge has a goal to reduce CO2 mail, Posten Norge launched the digital post emissions by 30 percent compared with 2008 system Digipost in April 2011 – a service for by 2015, and the Group is well on the way to sending important mail electronically. Last reaching this goal. An important measure is year, the government decided that this serto replace many of our 10,000 cars with othvice will be put out to tender for public sector er types of vehicles that run on electricity mail. Mejdell is happy about this. or biogas. The Group is now planning to pur“I’m very happy that the authorities have chase 200 biogas lorries. decided to put an electronic mailbox for digPosten Norge is a member of UN Global ital mail out to tender. When effective soluCompact. This is the UN’s initiative for co35 tions already exist, it is unwise to use public operation with businesses on sustainable resources on developing new solutions from development. As a participant, Posten Norge the ground up. We will now demonstrate that undertakes to integrate ten basic principles we can deliver a solution that Norway’s entire into its strategy and daily operations. The population will be satisfied with,” says Mejdell. Group is also committed to reporting activities and improvements relating to this. Healthier employees “In recent years we have improved our sysAn area close to the President and CEO’s tematic approach to our work in this area. heart is HSE. Since he started in his role in Membership of UN Global Compact gives us 2006, he has tirelessly maintained focus on the inspiration to become even better,” emhealth, safety and the environment. He is phasises Mejdell. therefore satisfied that the level of absence due to sickness in Posten Norge was 6.9 percent in 2012. “We started by building up good knowledge and reporting practices within HSE. Then we worked “2012 was the fifth year in a preventively. Now we’re moving onto health-promoting measrow with an increase in profit. ures. We have run pilot health tests on our employees, and this It has been a good year.” has enormously influenced sickness absences and other parameters such as cholesterol levels and weight. The tests show that for every NOK 1.00 we invest in Posten Norge 02 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board members 36 ODD CHRISTIAN TERJE SIGRID ANN ELISABETH GØRIL ØVERLAND WOLD HJØRNEGÅRD WIRGENESS HANNÅS Employee representative Board member (since 2010) Board member (since 2012) Employee representative Board member (since 2010) (since 2000) Born: 1963 Born: 1965 (sinde 2012) Born: 1968 Born: 1957 CEO of Invenia AS Director for renewable Born: 1961 Risk Manager, National General Secretary of the Education: Master of energy, climate and the Deputy union Oilwell Varco Norway AS Norwegian Postal and Science and Master of environment at Energy representative for Education: Master of Communications Workers’ Management Norway the Logistics Division, Economics and Business Union (Postkom) Education: Master of Member of the National Administration and PhD Offices: Chairman of the Executive Committee of Employee of Posten Norge Board of Abelia (NHO), Science Logistics since 1979 the Norwegian Postal and Board Member of VERDIKT Offices: Board member Communications Workers’ Offices: Board member (Research Committee), of Energi21 (OED), board Union (Postkom) Sigtor AS, Seamless AS, Tromsø International Film member of the Norwegian Smart Engineering AS, Festival, member of the Forest and Landscape Employee of Posten Norge Agder Energi AS Supervisory Board of Institute at UMB (LMD), since 1985 Gjensidige represents Energy Norway in the Environment and Sustainability Committee in Eurelectric (the European energy organization). Posten Norge THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 02 37 IDAR JØRGEN RANDI B. GEIR PAUL MAGNUS KREUTZER RANDERS SÆTERSHAGEN LØLAND GAMLEMSHAUG Chairman of the Board Board member (since 2011) Vice-chairman of the Employee representative Employee representative (since 2012) Born: 1945 Board (since 2010) (since 2012) (since 2004) Born: 1962 Professor of Climate Born: 1958 Born: 1958 Born: 1953 CEO, Finance Norway Strategy, Norwegian CEO, Medi 3 Innlandet AS Union Leader in Postal Mail Division employee Education: Master Business School (BI) Education: Master Employees Union representative. Member of of Economics and Education: PhD in of Economics and Employee of Norway the executive committee Business Administration Management Business Administration Post since 1979 of the Norwegian Postal and Communications Offices: Orkla, Statoil, Offices: Chairman of Offices: Board member of Workers’ Union (Postkom) Hydro, member of the the Board of yA Bank Grid Design AS, Elsikkerhet strategy Council for The ASA, Chairman of the Norge AS, Briskeby Employee of Posten Norge Government Pension Fund Board 21st Venture AS, since 1974 Eiendom 1 AS Global (NBIM), Chairman member of ”sustainability of the Board of the board ”The Dow Chemical Norwegian Refugee Council Company (USA) Posten Norge 02 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Report of 38 Group profit before non-recurring items and forefront of development, restructuring write-downs was MNOK 1,116 in 2012. This on a timely basis and working with employee is 6.2 percent higher than in the previous representatives, the Group has gained the year. In total, the Group’s streamlining promomentum needed to focus on new busigrammes implemented since 2008 contribness areas and markets. uted to reducing annual costs by billion NOK 3. Group operating revenue in 2012 were MNOK 22,925 and were at the same level as Society is changing the year before. In 2012 the Group acquired Posten Norge’s traditional mail business is logistics operations, which contributed to under pressure and services must be conthe increase in sales, but market uncertaintinuously adapted to new user demands if ty and weak international demand resulted in Posten Norge is to remain topical and relless activity on the logistics market in 2012. evant in the future. Through being at the E-commerce is growing 15 per cent anPosten Norge REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 02 the Board of Directors 2012 2012 was a good year for Posten Norge. For the fifth consecutive year the Group reported growth in income, and operating profit 39 before non-recurring items and write-downs was MNOK 1,116. Absence due to sickness was historically low. The long-term decline in letter volumes continues to be Posten Norge’s greatest challenge, but through extensive restructuring and streamlining of its operations, profitability was strengthened over the course of the past year. The Group is equipped for growth and will strengthen its investment in e-commerce and logistics. nually in the Nordic region. This is an imporfunctions to Sweden. A high percentage of tant focus area for the Group and it has Bring’s customer are requesting a Nordic now been organised as its own division. The offering and purchasing several types of goal is to take part in this strong growth by logistics services in addition to mail services. developing new solutions and concepts that To support this Nordic strategy and take will make the Group the preferred supplier a stronger position in the region, the Group for both recipients and senders. established a Nordic logistics division that is Of the Group’s sales, 30 per cent come based in Sweden. from operations outside Norway. Southern The Group would like to build upon PosSweden is becoming an increasingly importen Norge’s strong position and tradition as tant starting point for distribution to the a trusted distributor of mail and take part entire Nordic region and several Norwegian in digital message transmission. When the businesses have moved their warehousing Government switches from physical mail to Posten Norge 02 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS communicating digitally with the country’s Group as an attractive workplace with a diOPERATING REVENUES inhabitants, it is Posten Norge’s goal to be verse and inclusive work environment. the chosen supplier of public digital mail in AND OPERATING EXPENSES in mill. NOK the future in the same way as Posten Norge 22 925/21 090 has delivered physical mail for 366 years. The Government’s White Paper on PosREVENUE AND PORTFOLIO ten Norge (Parliamentary report 18 (2011DEVELOPMENT 25 000 2012)) was considered by Parliament in 2012. 20 000 Parliament expressed satisfaction with Posten Norge’s development and approved Posten Norge consists of two segments: mail the Group’s Nordic strategy with a focus on and logistics. Operating revenue for 2012 was 15 000 profitable growth in the Logistics segment. MNOK 22,924, which is the same level as last Efforts within HSE, diversity, integration and year. The Group’s operations outside of Nor40 10 000 the environment, and Posten Norge’s abilway had combined revenue of MNOK 6,434 in ity to carry out restructuring in particular, 2012, which is the same level as in 2011. 5000 were all praised. Furthermore Parliament gave its approval for the conversion of more Logistics segment 0 post offices to Post in Shops, so that a minLogistics is the Group’s largest segment and 09 10 11 12 imum of 30 sales outlets are maintained as accounted for 58 per cent of the revenue in OPERATING REVENUES OPERATING COSTS independently run post offices after 2014, 2012, with a turnover of MNOK 14,317. Acand banking services will be limited to the quisitions in 2011 and 2012 contributed to rural delivery network. The requirement for revenue growth and offset the fall in volume the return on equity after tax was lowered in the domestic parcels market. Combined from 10 to 9 percent per year. operating revenue outside Norway totalled As of 2013 the postal market throughout MNOK 5, 475 in 2012, which represented 38.2 all of Europe will be opened for free competiper cent of the segment’s total revenue. tion in accordance with the EU’s third Postal Directive. In Norway the government will use Parcels from abroad increasing its veto right contained in the EEA agreeParcel volumes were 3 per cent lower in 2012 ment and has notified the EU Commission than in 2011. Domestic parcel volumes in Northat Norway does not wish to implement the way fell slightly, but grew in Sweden and DenEU’s third Postal Directive. The remaining mark. Cross-border parcels increased as a reservation process and the consequences result of, in part, an increase in e-commerce this may have are still unclear. Only 15 perand the fact that an increasing number cent of Posten Norge’s income comes from of Norwegian companies are moving their business areas in which Posten Norge has a warehousing operations to Sweden. monopoly. Parcel volumes are to a large extent dePosten Norge takes social responsibility pendent on e-commerce. Both national and for how its operations affect people, the eninternational trends indicate that buying an vironment and society. Its main focus is on item online has become just as common as reducing the impact of its activities on the buying an item in a store. In the Nordic region, external environment and developing the 86 per cent of consumers shop online and 50 Posten Norge REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 02 per cent shop outside their home country. of the fall in volume on Posten Norge’s earnFreight volumes in 2012 were at the same ings, but did not fully offset this effect. QUALITY OF A MAIL level as last year, while thermo-transport in Parliament decided in 2012 that Posten IN NORWAY Norway had a weaker development in volume Norge’s statutory requirement to offer percentage than in 2011. The Group won several large customer banking services will be limited to the rural postal network. In 2012 Posten Norge opened 85,3 % contracts in 2012, including the logistics serits system of banking services throughout its 90,0 vices for Statoil’s operations on the Norwesales network to competition with the aim of gian continental shelf, a framework agreeentering a new agreement on commercial ment with Kværner Stord, a distribution terms. The extent to which Posten Norge will 87,5 partnership with UPS and a trial with home continue to offer banking services through delivery for Systembolaget in Sweden. its sales network will be determined in 2013. 85,0 Posten Norge’s digital mailbox system, DiAcquisitions strengthen market positions gipost, is generating considerable interest 41 Acquisitions of logistics operations will among recipients. An increasing number of 82,5 strengthen the Group’s position on the Norcustomers have signed contracts to send dic market and expand its logistics offering. In secure digital mail. A total of 240,000 people 2012 the Group acquired Fredrikstad Transhave registered as Digipost users and more 80,0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 port & Spedisjon and the Swedish transport than one million letters were distributed via QUALITY A MAIL company, Ekdahls Åkeri. Digipost in 2012. Bring Citymail Sweden distributed mail volPhysical and digital mail umes in 2012 that were at the same level as The Mail segment accounted for 42 per cent the previous year. of external Group revenue in 2012. Total revenue was MNOK 10,409, a decline of MNOK 198, Social mission and position in Norway or 2 percent, from the previous year. Through its business activities, Posten Norge Physical letter volumes, both addressed is a prominent member of Norwegian society. and unaddressed, continued to fall in 2012. The company undertakes an important social Addressed mail fell 8.2 per cent and unadresponsibility by ensuring nationwide, high dressed advertising fell 2.1 percent comquality and cost-effective mail services. pared to last year. Unaddressed mail adverPosten Norge AS received a new licence tising accounted for 53 percent of Posten that goes into effect on 1 January 2013 and is Norge’s letter volume in Norway, which was valid until 31 December 2016. The Ministry for the same as in 2011. Transport and Communications can change More customers are moving to digital the licence during the licence period. solutions, particularly with regard to retail Delivery quality for A mail delivered overand services. The decline in newspaper sales night was 85.3 per cent in 2012, which is the and the transition to in-house distribution same level as in 2011. The licence requirement systems contributed to a fall in newspaper is 85 percent. Posten Norge also fulfilled the volumes of 9.5 percent compared to last five other licence requirements for delivery year. Changes in the product and format mix quality for letters and parcels by a good maras well as price increases reduced the effect gin in 2012. Posten Norge 02 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Since 2001 Posten Norge has converted be evaluated. The Group’s EBIT margin before OPERATING PROFIT 700 post offices to Post in Shops. Customer non-recurring items and impairment losses surveys confirm that the service is working for 2012 was 4.9 per cent, compared with 4.6 (EBIT) in mill. NOK well and provides better accessibility for cuspercent in 2011. 632 tomers. During 2013 and 2014, Posten Norge will open 170 new Post in Shops throughout The return on invested capital before non-recurring items and write-downs (ROIC) 2000 the country to meet new customer requirefor 2012 was 18.3 percent, which is the same ments. When the transition is completed in as last year. 2014, Posten Norge will have around 3,000 The Group’s EBIT after non-recurring delivery points in the form of post offices, items and write-downs was MNOK 632, which Post in Shops and rural postmen/-women. is MNOK 324 less than the previous year due No other country has such a finely woven deto significant provisions for restructurings 1000 livery network as Norway. and impairment losses. 42 Earnings after tax in 2012 were MNOK 382 Reputation compared with MNOK 373 in 2011. Posten Norge’s reputation fell slightly in 2012 after several years of positive growth. An inLogistics segment 0 crease in prices and changes to the service The Logistics segment’s operating profit 10 11 12 selection had an adverse effect on Posten (EBIT) in 2012 was MNOK 112, which is an imOPERATING COSTS (EBIT) Norge’s reputation. New growth areas, for provement of MNOK 16 compared to 2011. example in international transport, present Profits were then burdened by MNOK 197 from the Group with new challenges. write-downs of fixed assets and goodwill. Customer satisfaction surveys show that In a market that is characterised by strong that customers are just as satisfied in 2012 competition, a number of measures intended as they were in last year. to improve profitability had a positive effect in most areas of the Logistics segment. The parcels business continues to be characterised by heavy competition and a drift toward low cost products. PROFITABILITY Economies of scale are larger on a national basis than between countries. The Group The Group’s operating profit (EBIT) before therefore implemented a country-based ornon-recurring items and write-downs for ganisation for its Logistics segment in 2012 in continued operations was MNOK 1,116 in order to facilitate joint production and closer 2012, which was MNOK 65, or 6.2 percent, integration of acquired operations. better than in 2011. Measures to improve Extensive programmes have been rolled profitability were implemented in both the out to take advantage of economies of scale mail and logistics segments. In total, the imin both of the logistics divisions. Work is unprovement programmes have contributed to derway, for example, on a new production more than Billion NOK 3 in improved profitconcept for parcels and freight, coordination ability since 2008. Efforts to improve profsimplification of transport routes and joint itability will continue and new measures will IT systems. A new terminal structure is under Posten Norge REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 02 development with the goal of gathering parcel the government granted MNOK 179 for simand freight production under fewer and largilar government procurements. The need for RETURN er units, both in and outside of Norway. The government procurements will be recalcuON EQUITY Group is planning to build a modern logistics lated in 2013 to ensure that compensation is after tax percentage centre for Posten and Bring at Alnabru in Oslo. Such a centre will be the hub of the Group’s in line with actual costs and exclusive profits from business areas in which Posten Norge 7,1 logistics operations and result in significant has a monopoly. 20 efficiency and environmental benefits. Bring Citymail Sweden implemented extensive measures to improve profitability. Mail segment The Mail segment’s operating profit (EBIT) Stabile financial result 10 was MNOK 561, which was MNOK 379 lower In 2012 the Group had net financial expensthan in 2011. Profits were adversely affected es of MNOK 84 compared with MNOK 156 by falling letter volumes, while price increasin 2011. The Group had long-term liquidity 43 0 es and comprehensive efficiency measures reserves of MNOK 3,403 as at 31 Decemimproved profitability. Provisions totalling ber 2012 compared with MNOK 3,481 last MNOK 331 were made for restructuring year. These reserves consisted of invested measures, which primarily are related to the funds and available credit facilities. In 2013 -10 08 09 10 11 12 conversion of 149 post offices to Post in the Group will refinance long-term loans RETURN ON EQUITY Shops. that mature. The Group emphasises financial Even if Norway has not opened the marflexibility and the ability to take advantage of ket for letters under 50 grams for compeopportunities in the market. tition, Posten Norge must still adapt to deAt Posten Norge’s general meeting in 2012 velopments, such as falling letter volumes, a dividend of MNOK 186 for 2011 was deand continue to restructure its business clared in accordance with the Board’s proand adapt the service level to the public’s posal. In addition, the general meeting decidchanged use of mail and banking services. ed on an extraordinary dividend of MNOK 90 The government wishes to maintain letter that burdened the 2012 financial accounts. distribution six days a week. The consequence The Board views the dividend policy in the of this is that the unprofitability of Saturday context of the company’s strategy and would distribution must be covered through inlike to continue with a dividend of up to 50 creased government procurement. per cent of the profits for the year. A positive effect of the fact that PosOrdinary earnings before taxes on continten Norge in recent years has successfully ued operations were MNOK 547 in 2012 comimproved efficiency more than anticipated pared with MNOK 800 in 2011. is that the need for government procurements of commercially unprofitable servicAssociated companies es has been found to be less than previously Posten Norge owns 40 per cent of EVRY ASA. estimated. In accordance with this arrangeFor accounting purposes, Posten Norge’s ment Posten Norge repaid in 2012 MNOK 165 ownership interest is treated as an associof received government procurements for ated company, and the Group’s share of the the year 2011, including interest. For 2012 result is classified under operations. Posten Posten Norge 02 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Norge’s share of EVRY ASA’s profit after taxBoard of Directors discusses annual risk es in 2012 was MNOK 79. (See note 24.) analyses that evaluate the Group’s total risk. To see accounts and notes: Please go to The risk analysis is carried out as a comprewww.postennorge.com/ Goodwill hensive process in which all divisions and maannual-report-2012/ The Group has a total of billion NOK 2.3 rejor businesses in the Group are involved and lated to goodwill from previous acquisitions integrated in the Group’s analyses. recorded in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2012. An evaluation of the current Measures and follow-up value of cash flows related to the acquired The evaluations are followed up and risk-mitunits in relation to the values recognised in igating measures are implemented to enthe balance sheet as at 31 December 2012 sure that the business achieves its goals. 44 resulted in a total impairment loss of MNOK In addition a less comprehensive half-yearly 21, which refers in its entirety to the Logistics follow-up process is carried out to see how segment. these measures have worked and if they have resulted in a reduction in Posten Norge’s Investments risks or if new risk factors have appeared. Total investments, excluding acquisitions, Posten Norge actively follows up the comwere MNOK 593 in 2012, which was MNOK 135 pany’s risk exposure with a focus on areas higher than in 2011. The majority of these insuch as strategic acquisitions or the sale of vestments were for IT and operational assets. businesses, regulatory conditions, competThe cash flow from operations and investitive conditions, operational conditions, the ment activities in 2012 was MNOK 692 lower implementation of major projects, available than in 2011. This change is due to variations competence and resources as well as dein receivables and provisions, higher tax payvelopments in absence due to sickness and ments and increased investments. incapacity for work. Risk management and internal control processes are described in more detail in the statement concerning the company’s principles for corporate governance. RISK Reduced financial risk Risk management and internal control are In 2012 Posten Norge continued the measintegrated into the Group’s business proures started in 2009/10 to reduce financial cesses and are central elements of Posten risk and increase financial freedom. Discipline Norge’s corporate governance. When develin the use of capital, a limited number of acoping strategies, business plans and goals, quisitions and a focus on cost-reducing and the aim is to create value by balancing growth revenue-increasing measures resulted in against profitability targets and other risks lower costs and a satisfactory result despite to Posten Norge’s activities. the decline in volume in the Mail segment in As part of its corporate governance the 2012. The Logistics segment increased its Posten Norge REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 02 earnings and profit but also experienced its handling of the appeal from Posten Norge pressure on its margin in 2012. in 2012. Posten Norge maintains that there GOVERNMENT PROCUREThis resulted in an increase in equity and are no grounds for compensation. MENTS AND DIVIDEND created the basis for increased headroom to in mill. NOK implement strategic investments. No long-term loans matured in 2012, but 219 the company has prepared re-financing for long-term loans that fall due in 2013. CredALLOCATIONOF 750 it and counterparty risk for the placement ANNUAL PROFITS of surplus liquidity is deemed to be limited as Posten Norge’s counterparties generally In 2012 Posten Norge AS recorded a post-tax 500 have high ratings. profit of MNOK 157. The Company had MNOK 45 826 in unrestricted equity as at 31 December Debt covenants 2012. 250 Some of Posten Norge’s loan agreements The Norwegian government’s dividend policy contain debt covenants that limit net interfor Posten Norge is that 50 per cent of Group est-bearing liabilities/EBITDA to 3.5 and repost-tax profits can be paid as a dividend. quire a minimum equity ratio of 25 percent. Before the annual dividend is determined, an 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 As at 31 December 2012 net interest-bearindependent assessment of the Group’s fiGOVERNMENT PROCUREMENTS DIVIDEND ing liabilities/EBITDA was 0.6 (up from 0.5 in nancial situation and future prospects shall be 2011) and the equity ratio was 37.4 per cent carried out. (up from 35.9 per cent in 2011). The Board of Directors proposes that a Posten Norge uses financial instruments dividend of MNOK 199 be paid from the annual to manage the risk associated with interest profits for the year and that remaining profits rate changes, exchange rate changes, diesel be transferred to other equity. The proposed prices and aviation fuel. dividend is equivalent to 50 per cent of the Group’s post-tax profits for the year. Fine from the ESA In 2010 ESA issued Posten Norge a fine of MEUR 12.9 in connection with previous exclusivity clauses in the Post in Shops agreements for the period 2000 2006. PosSOCIAL CORPORATE ten Norge disputes the ESA decision and RESPONSIBILITY brought the case before the EFTA court. The EFTA court did not find in favour of Posten Posten Norge works systematically to ensure Norge in its lawsuit, but reduced the fine to the Group’s activities contribute to sustainable MEUR 11.1. The logistics company Schencker development in line with the demands of cushas made a claim for compensation against tomers and the government’s ownership policy. Posten Norge but the case has been adThe company’s corporate culture is charjourned until the EFTA court has completed acterised by an active attitude to taking Posten Norge 02 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS social responsibility. A good reputation will Extensive restructuring of the mail busiEMPLOYEE help to attract and motivate employees, ness has a major effect on Posten Norge’s SATISFACTION strengthen competitiveness and provide employees. The Group believes that solid coon a scale from 1 to 100, where 100 is best increased freedom to develop further the operation between management and trade 78 Group’s business. As a participant in the Global Compact, unions is important, and it also believes that employees should be given time and pre80 the UN initiative for sustainable development dictability during the restructuring process. in business, Posten Norge has undertaken Through the development of new operational 79 to integrate ten fundamental sustainability solutions, efforts are made to maintain a high principles in its strategy and operations, as percentage of full-time positions and variawell as to report activities and improvements tion in tasks. During the redundancy process, 78 related to all areas with a social impact within Posten Norge endeavours to provide redunthe economy, environment and social condidant employees with support and assistance 46 77 tions. This will be followed up in the Group’s with the goal of gaining new employment reporting which comprises a combined anwithin or outside the Group. 76 nual and sustainability report based on the At the end of 2012 the Group had 19,388 framework of the Global Reporting Initiative full-time equivalent positions, which is 233 75 (GRI). less than at the end of 2011. Posten Norge 08 09 10 11 12 POINTS In 2013 the Group conducted a materireflects the diversity of today’s society and in ality analysis with the aim of identifying and the Norwegian part of the Group, 11 per cent prioritising the sustainability areas that are of employees have immigrant backgrounds. most important for the Group. The materiOver 70 nationalities are represented among ality analysis resulted in 14 prioritised areas Posten Norge’s employees. that will serve as the basis for the Group’s The aim is to continue to develop the disustainability reporting in the future. versity within the Group and increase the proportion of employees with immigrant backgrounds at more levels in the business. The Group wants to be seen to be creating opportunities through ethnic and cultural SOCIAL CONDITIONS diversity, providing equal opportunities for work and a career and ensuring the successSystematic health, ful integration of employees with different safety and environment work ethnic backgrounds. Language tuition is a Posten Norge’s operations are labour invital part of this work. Other measures are tensive. Health, Safety and the Environment implemented on the basis of experience and (HSE) is therefore a high priority and the new knowledge. Posten Norge has been a Group’s vision is for nobody to be injured or racism-free zone for more than ten years. become sick as a result of their work. SysThis means that everyone is welcome at Postematic and goal-oriented efforts to reduce ten Norge regardless of skin colour, religion absence due to sickness, the number of peoor cultural background. An agreement on a ple newly incapacitated for work and work inracism-free zone with Norsk Folkehjep and juries have generated very good results. Postkom covers the entire group. Posten Norge REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 02 Satisfied employees in the Federation of Norwegian Industries. The annual organisation survey showed an The decrease is due to both the change in the ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS increasing level of satisfaction amongst the definition and a sharp drop in the number of percentage of the Group Group’s employees. Overall employee satisfaction in 2012 was 78 points (on a scale from lost-time injuries. The most common cause of injury is falling 6,9 % 1 to 100 where 100 is best) compared with and this mainly occurs during the winter on 77 last year. slippery surfaces. The Group works system8,5 Absence due to sickness in 2012 was 6.9 atically with goal-oriented measures such as per cent, which is 0.2 per cent lower than the spiked shoes and shoe crampons for postal previous year. The long-term trend is showworkers, safety audits of terminals and re8,0 ing that the Group’s absence due to sickness views of the most serious accidents. declined from 9.2 to 6.9 per cent in the past 7,5 six years. This means that every day there are Pay and equality almost 500 more employees at work. Lower Posten Norge AS’s main principle is that 47 absence due to sickness is primarily impormanagement pay should be competitive, but 7,0 tant for the individual, but it is also important not leading the field for equivalent types of for Posten Norge and society. companies. Employment terms for managTo a large extent the Group has directed ers at Posten Norge AS are well within the 6,5 08 09 10 11 12 its focus towards following up on absence government’s guidelines for salary policies POINTS due to sickness, and it has introduced a good in state-owned enterprises. The Board system and structure for follow-up on an prepares a statement every year regarding individual basis. In recent years efforts have salaries and other benefits for management been made to work more with prevention by at Posten Norge AS for the coming financial focusing on healthy employees to avoid fuyear. This statement is included as note 2 in ture health problems. In 2012, 550 employthe annual report and is presented at the orees had a medical check-up as part of the dinary general meeting. Salaries, other remuGroup’s health-promoting programme. neration and accrued pensions for management totalled MNOK 27.4 in 2012, compared Nobody should be injured at work with MNOK 24.4 the year before. Efforts to reduce personal injuries have been Posten Norge’s recruitment policy requires concentrated on building a safety culture. In moderate gender quotas to increase the 2012 a joint safety standard was established number of female managers and employees that is followed up on through a self-evaluain male-dominated job categories. Posten tion and an audit. The increased reporting of Norge is concerned about equality on all levels. near-accidents has raised awareness of risk A review of the pay differential between areas and strengthened preventive work. women and men has not shown any signifThe number of lost-time injuries fell by 18 icant pay differences that could be due to percentage points in 2012 and the LTI ratio gender. was 5.3, which is almost a 50 per cent dePosten Norge’s Group management is 50 crease compared with the previous year. The per cent female. The proportion of women definition of the LTI ratio was changed as of among employees in the Group is 38 percent, 2012 and now corresponds to the standard and 31 percent among managers. Posten Norge 02 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Management development Moderate criminality EMPLOYEES (FULL-TIME EQUIVALENTS) Posten Norge is working on the continuCrime against Posten Norge is considered number ous improvement of leadership through the to be moderate. No robbery attempts were 19 388 systematic development of managers. Using the Plus discussions and management made on the post offices, Post in Shops or other units of Posten Norge in 2012, but the evaluations as a basis, managers are objecnumber of reports of criminal activities in 21 000 tively evaluated on their performance and the Group increased. This increase is primarpotential in parallel with the identification ily due to a stronger focus on reporting, but of development needs. Posten Norge has also to an actual increase, particularly with management development programmes regard to parcel theft. The Group has a ze20 000 for executive, middle and first line managro-tolerance policy for internal fraud. ers. During 2012, 190 managers completed Posten Norge focuses on all types of crimindividual programmes. These management inality and works actively to prevent and solve programmes have had a documented effect cases. Mail theft has increased internally in 19 000 in the form of greater employee satisfaction the company and in Post in Shops, and exterand lower absence due to sickness. nal attacks against rail containers increased 48 as well. An increasing number of customers 18 000 Employee development are falling victim to Internet fraud, which in 09 10 11 12 The Group emphasises skills development and some instances starts with the theft of perSTAFFING offers a variety of internal training courses. sonal information from letters in mailboxes. Interest in e-learning is on the rise and more The main conclusions and recommendae-learning modules are being developed. In totions from the July 22 report were reviewed tal, 12,000 e-learning modules were completand the Group decided to implement a stricted in 2012. In addition, traditional classroom er and more extensive follow-up of its risk courses and work-place based training were management work within the security area. also completed. The share of certificates of This will entail mapping the work with security apprenticeship is increasing through the adfollow-up/control, risk analyses, contingency mission of apprentices and employees who plans and exercises. receive their certificate of apprenticeship as Terrorist threats are evaluated on an onplacement candidates. The Group’s scholargoing basis and are assessed in conjunction ship programme distributes MNOK 1.5 every with the authorities’ terrorist threats as well year to employees who would like to expand as events and measures initiated by intertheir formal competence. national bodies such as the Universal Postal Union (UPU) and the International Civil AviaIntegrity programme tion Organization (ICAO). The integrity programme was introduced to ensure that everyone who represents the Group behaves in accordance with the Group’s ethical guidelines. The aim is to ensure a high ethical standard within anTHE ENVIRONMENT ti-corruption, competitive practices, social dumping and the handling of information. As one of the Nordic region’s biggest transThe programme also includes its own ethical port operators, Posten Norge has a particustandard and a system for following up on lar responsibility to reduce its environmental suppliers and business partners. impact and increase energy efficiency in the Posten Norge REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 02 Group. Posten Norge has set a goal to reon alternative vehicles. Posten Norge has duce CO2 emissions by 30 percent by the end 643 large and small electric vehicles. Posten ELECTRIC VEHICLES of 2015, measured against emission levels Norge also used 65 biogas vehicles and has number in 2008. Some of the most important measures Norway’s first hybrid truck in operation. Taken together, this is by far Norway’s largest in643 to reduce the impact on the climate include vestment in environmentally-friendly vehicles. transport optimisation, the transfer of 700 freight from air to the ground and from road to rail, the use of alternative vehicles and fuel, the use of renewable energy and other energy efficiency measures as well as the raising of CORPORATE 525 competence among managers and employees. GOVERNANCE The International Post Corporation (IPC) 350 carries out an annual ranking of the environThe composition of the Board of Directors mental work carried out by the world’s postal changed in 2012. Idar Kreutzer was elected 175 companies. In 2012 Posten Norge was ranked the new Chairman of the Board to replace in 5th place. Arvid Moss and Sigrid Hjørnegård replaced 49 Eli Arnstad as the new Board member. 0 09 10 11 12 Reduced CO2 emissions Ann-Elisabeth Wirgeness and Geir Løland NUMBER OF ELECTRIC VEHICLES In 2012 Posten Norge reduced its CO2 emiswere elected as employee representatives, sions by 5 per cent compared with 2011 for while Judith Olafsen and Annemarie Elstner the operations that are followed up against left the Board. Posten Norge’s Board of the emissions level from 2008. The Group Directors consists of 40 per cent women. consumed less energy in its buildings in 2012 primarily due to energy-saving measures. Best practice This reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 3 The Board of Directors emphasises the imper cent. portance of establishing and further develThe environmental accounts that are part oping a high standard for corporate governof the sustainability report provide more deance, equivalent to Norwegian standards for tail about the type and volume of the pollubest practice (Norwegian Code of Practice tion from the Group. for Corporate Governance, NUES). As a limThe Group offers “Climate-neutral Service ited company wholly owned by the GovernPack” and “Climate-neutral mail distribument, the Group’s corporate governance is tion”. These services were developed in acbased on Norwegian law and the Norwegian cordance with the Consumer Ombudsman’s Government’s ownership policy in force at any specifications for environmental labelling given time. which entail that Posten Norge carries out Each year the Board presents a statement specific measures to reduce greenhouse gas on the company’s corporate governance emissions for the entire value chain which are which forms part of the annual and sustainaudited by Co2 focus. As compensation for ability report. The goal of this declaration is residual emissions, Posten Norge purchases to give those with interests in Posten Norge climate quotas through the Climate and Polconfidence in the company’s leadership syslution Agency (KLIF). tems. Posten Norge received the ‘Green Car’ The Board’s audit committee supports the award in 2013 for its comprehensive focus Board in carrying out its responsibility for fiPosten Norge 02 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS nancial reporting, risk management, internal mail and logistics group. This means that VOLUME control and external auditing. The audit comthe Group should develop leading positions mittee had 6 meetings in 2012. throughout the Nordic region in selected PARCELS in mill. units The Board’s remuneration committee service areas and offer our customers Nor37,3 prepares and recommends proposals to the Board related to remuneration for the dic solutions. The Group should take advantage of economies of scale by linking value 40 President and CEO. The committee also conchains in each country with a distribution and tributes to the thorough and independent terminal network and a coordinated customhandling of remuneration issues for senior er interface. The Group will create increased executives. customer value and competitiveness through 35 standardisation, the development of modShared values ule-based solutions, industrial customisation Posten Norge has established Group-wide and continuous improvement. core values, governing principles for the The market prospects for 2013 and 2014 50 30 Group and central disciplines, leadership are characterised by low economic activiprinciples and ethical guidelines. Posten ty among Norway’s most important trading Norge also has a Group-wide Whistle Blowpartners. The Board of Directors believes 25 ers’ channel, the Corporate unit for misconthat the Norwegian economy will be a bit 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 TOTAL VOLUME OF PARCELS duct. No major cases were reported in 2012. stronger and report moderate growth in its domestic production and demand. Evaluation of own work The main challenges for the Group will be The Board carries out an annual evaluation to adapt costs to the continuing fall in letter VOLUME of its work, competence and working methvolumes. Restructurings and streamlining of LETTERS ods and also evaluates the content of the the operations will continue at the same levin mill. units instructions for the Board of Directors toel. At the same time, there will be a focus on 2219 gether with the company’s principles for corporate governance. growth within the Logistics segment, and the Group will take advantage of attractive ac3000 In addition to being a decision-making and quisition opportunities if such arise. control body, the Board wishes contribute to the development of the Group by being a Physical and digital mail 2750 valuable discussion partner for the compaPosten Norge’s forecasts show that physical ny’s management and owner, based on good letter volumes in Norway in 2020 are expect2500 insight into Posten Norge’s strategies, value ed to constitute just 30 percent of the volchain and processes, combined with relevant ume of the top year of 2000. Posten Norge is external competence. focused on developing and adapting services 2250 to new customer and user requirements and contributing to ensuring that the mailbox is the preferred channel for small items bought 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 2000 online and an important channel for commuTOTAL VOLUME OF LETTERS FUTURE PROSPECTS nications and advertising. It is Posten Norge’s goal that its digital mailbox, Digipost, will be Posten Norge’s strategy is to develop a the selected channel for public digital mail, so leading Nordic, integrated and industrialised Posten Norge can deliver mail in digital form Posten Norge REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 02 for the government, municipalities and other counting standards and give a true and fair public bodies just as Posten Norge has delivview of the Group and the parent company’s ered physical mail for 366 years. consolidated assets, liabilities, financial position and results of operations. Growth in e-commerce The Board also confirms that the Report Online sales are growing sharply, but they are of the Board of Directors provides a true still in an early growth phase in the Nordic and fair view of the development and percountries. The Group has established a sepformance of the business and the position of arate division for e-commerce and in doing the Group and the parent company together so has equipped itself to take a significant with a description of the key risks and uncerportion of the growth in this market. The oftainties that the company is facing. fering is being developed to consist of flexible solutions that are adapted to the needs of the sender and the receiver with a focus on 22 March 2013 high quality deliveries. 51 Focus on Sweden Sweden is the largest logistics market in the Nordic region and southern Sweden is developing into an increasingly important hub for distribution to end customers in all Nordic countries. Acquisitions made in recent years and future acquisitions and organic growth will position Posten Norge as one of the leading logistics actors in Sweden. Responsible development The Group will undertake continuous, longterm and systematic work within sustainability with a particular focus on health, safety To see accounts and notes: and the environment (HSE) and the climate. Please go to The Board thanks all of the employees of www.postennorge.com/ the Group for their cooperation and joint reannual-report-2012/ sponsibility for Posten Norge’s development. STATEMENT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with approved acPosten Norge 52 Posten Norge 53 Posten Norge 54 Posten Norge 55 Posten Norge 56 Posten Norge 57 Posten Norge 58 Posten Norge 59 Posten Norge 60 Posten Norge 61 Posten Norge 62 Posten Norge 63 Posten Norge 64 Posten Norge 65 Posten Norge 66 Posten Norge 67 Posten Norge 68 Posten Norge 69 Posten Norge 70 Posten Norge 71 Posten Norge 72 Posten Norge 73 Posten Norge 74 Posten Norge 75 Posten Norge 76 Posten Norge 77 Posten Norge 78 Posten Norge 79 Posten Norge 80 Posten Norge 81 Posten Norge 82 Posten Norge 83 Posten Norge 84 Posten Norge 85 Posten Norge 86 Posten Norge 87 Posten Norge 88 Posten Norge 89 Posten Norge 90 Posten Norge 91 Posten Norge 92 Posten Norge 93 Posten Norge 94 Posten Norge 95 Posten Norge 96 Posten Norge 97 Posten Norge 98 Posten Norge 99 Posten Norge 100 Posten Norge 101 Posten Norge 102 Posten Norge 103 Posten Norge 104 Posten Norge 105 Posten Norge 106 Posten Norge 107 Posten Norge 108 Posten Norge 109 Posten Norge 110 Posten Norge 111 Posten Norge 112 Posten Norge 113 Posten Norge 114 Posten Norge 115 Posten Norge 116 Posten Norge 117 Posten Norge 118 Posten Norge 119 Posten Norge 120 Posten Norge 121 Posten Norge 02 MAIL SEGMENT Mail division For accounting purposes, the Posten Group reports on two segments: Mail and Logistics. The Mail segment consists of the Mail division and the Logistics segment consists of the Logistics Norway division, Logistics Nordic division and the E-commerce division. 122 Posten Norge MAIL SEGMENT 02 Digital developments present new opportunities MAIL DIVISION • Responsible for traditional postal services in Norway (including statutory services as per licence requirements) and Sweden (through Bring Citymail). • Responsible for running the Group’s In 2012 the Mail Division took extensive measures to meet focus on digital services and dialogue new customer requirements. services. • Develops new physical and digital services and infrastructure. The digitalisation of society has increasingly Increased efficiency threatened the profitability of the traditional With the permanent fall in letter volumes part of our mail business. At the same time, Posten Norge has to work on a number of changes in customer requirements have led to different measures to compensate for the new and exciting opportunities. The Mail Dividrop in revenue. On the expenses side work sion has therefore gone through a significant continue to adapt operating volumes, intro123 reorganization in recent years which continduce a new distribution structure for the enued throughout 2012. tire country, further automation and various measures to increase mechanical sorting. Increased accessibility Posten Norge’s value chain consists of sevIn the spring of 2012 the Norwegian goveral parts. The largest links in the value chain ernment backed Posten Norge’s request to are Production, Distribution and Transport. limit its banking obligations and continue the The most important measures to improve conversion programme for Post in Shops. efficiency in Production for 2012 were a gen149 post offices will be converted to Post in eral adaptation of volumes and investment Shops in 2013 and 2014. After this there will in new technology for increased mechanical be 30 post offices and around 1400 Post in sorting. For example in 2012 Posten Norge Shops in Norway. Post in Shops is a popular has invested in technology which reads and concept both for customers and shops. Cussorts based on the recipient’s name and not tomers are pleased with the increased acjust their address. This increases the proporcessibility in the form of longer opening hours tion of mail sorted mechanically and enables and stores see Post in Shops as an attracnew processes to be introduces such as the tive service to offer their customers. automatic sending of re-addressed post. In As a supplement to Post in Shops deliv2012 the proportion of mechanically sorted ery and collection solutions for commercial mail of dispersion sorted post rose to 79.6 customers will be offered at locations with a percent from 79.1 percent the previous year. significant number of business transactions. Posten Norge also has a network consisting Distribution of over 1600 rural postal routes which in Distribution includes all postal delivery staff addition to regular mail delivery offer bankin Norway. Currently these workers are oring services, parcel delivery and the collection ganised into 233 distribution units across the and sending of post to households located country. Postal delivery workers visit more far from Post in Shops or post offices. than 2.2 million post boxes six days a week. Posten Norge 02 MAIL SEGMENT The most important measures to improve mailbox, was also developed for smartefficiency in Distribution are a general adapphones in 2012. Business areas tation of volumes and adapting to automation • “Climate-neutral distribution” was launched and changed living patterns. In addition Posten at the beginning of 2012 and guarantees Sales and customer service: Responsible for all customer activities such as sales, Norge is working on more structural changes customers that the distribution of conmarketing and customer service for the in Distribution such as the greater centralsignments is climate-neutral. This means Mail Division in Norway and the Nordic isation of manual sorting and increased dethat Posten Norge is obliged to reduce area. Private customers are served livery specialisation. Despite reduced volumes greenhouse gas emissions from transport through Posten Norge. In the private marand different ways of working, Posten Norge and also compensate for remaining emisket the nationwide distribution of mail is a strives to maintain a large proportion of fullsions through the purchase of certified clicentral service, in addition to the sale of products and services through the post time positions for our employees where this is mate quotas. office network and Post in Shops. Busipossible. • In 2012 work began on multiple changes to ness customers are served through Bring pricing including a product and price model Mail. The main products and services for New services and price changes for newspapers. The changes came into efthe business market are the distribution The development and further improvement fect on 1 January 2013. of addressed and unaddressed mail. of attractive services as well as the correct 124 The regions: Six regions develop and pricing of services are two other areas which Quality is important to Norway operate Posten Norge’s physical network were subject to specific work in 2012. Post and customers in Norway. The network comprises the production and distribution of letters • In 2012 a new service was offered to the Posten Norge’s services which are covered and mail advertising and services all e-commerce market which was launched by licence requirements have specific qualipostal addresses in Norway (both for on 1 January 2013 – “Small packets – letty requirements. The licence requirement for private persons and companies). In total terbox delivery”. The service is well suited A mail entails that 85 percent of post must the regions operate nine terminals for to e-commerce customers who send small be delivered overnight. In 2012 Posten Norge letter production and are responsible for products of varying weight and who require met the licence requirement for three of the nationwide network of post offices and Post in Shops. delivery to their customer’s mailbox. four quarters and for the year as a whole, but • In the spring of 2012 the Mail Division not in the fourth quarter. Reasons for this Digipost: Posten Norge’s digital mail system through which all Norwegian launched “Find a good deal”. This is an interinclude the huge volumes the operational apcompanies, public sector enterprises and net site where customers can upload Diparatus has to deal with at Christmas as well private persons can send and receive rect Marketing (DM) material and customer as weather-related challenges, particularly in digital letters. magazines which will give them digital covthe South West Coast. Bring Citymail Sverige: Provides diserage in addition to via the mailbox. Regular, high quality services are importribution of letters and advertising to • “Box of product samples” was introduced in tant and the Mail Division is strongly focused business customers in Sweden and dis2012 as a new service for the distribution on quality for all of its services – including tributes post to almost 2.4 million houseof samples. Market research shows that those not covered by statutory licence reholds in Sweden. This means addressed mail from companies to other companies “everyone” who received a “Box of product quirements. or private persons. samples” opened it. Bring Dialog: Helps companies to develop • “Facts about the letterbox”, which is a colPositive development for the and care for their customer relationlection of websites with facts and docuBring specialists ships through customer dialogue. mentation about the mailbox as a channel Bring Citymail Sverige showed a positive was further developed in 2012 and launched trend throughout 2012, even if profits are at bring.com. “Facts about the letterbox” is not yet satisfactory. The company recruited primarily a tool for media agencies. a new CEO in the spring of 2012. • “Online postcard service” which enables Bring Dialog continued the good trend images to be sent digitally which are then from 2011 and delivered a satisfactory printed on paper and sent to the recipient’s operating profit in 2012 Posten Norge MAIL SEGMENT 02 Digipost in the bidding The way forward Posten Norge’s national digital mail system, Posten Norge will continue to provide good Digipost, which was launched in spring 2011, and affordable postal services for the whole New opportunities had almost 250 000 registered users at the of Norway. The Mail Division’s most important end of 2013. The services offered are subject task in the future will be to continue to proDevelopments in society are moving in to continuous development and new services vide a good supply of postal services to the the direction of more services being digitalised. Even though such digitalisaand areas of use are added. For example in entire country while improving the efficiency tion has a negative effect on traditional, 2012 electronic receipts and the sending of of operations to ensure profitability. physical letter volumes it also offers letters from health services were launched. opportunities for Posten Norge. Posten At the end of 2012 the government decided Future-oriented Norge is already at the vanguard of that digital mailbox providers shall compete The conversion of the post office network the postal industry with regard to autoto send mail from the public sector. Digipost is an example of Posten Norge changing bemating operations through the establishment of the South Eastern Norway will work systematically towards the tender cause peoples’ requirements change. Most terminal in 2010 and the development process to become the natural first choice people carry out their banking online and of new digital services such as Digipost. when the public sector is choosing its providsend fewer letters. At the same time, inThis work will continue at full steam er of digital mail. creased e-commerce means that customduring the coming years. ers increasingly want to have more parcels 125 The environment delivered. Post in Shops are a good alternaThe Group aims to reduce CO2 emissions by tive with long opening hours and good acces30 per cent by the end of 2015. In the Mail sibility. Division the most important environmental Over the last ten years more than 700 post initiatives are the replacement of traditionoffice have been converted to Post in Shops. al vehicles powered by fossil fuels with enIn 2012 the process of converting a further vironmentally-friendly alternatives such as 149 post offices began. Market research electric cars, electric carts, electric mopeds shows that Post in Shops is an unqualified and electric jeeps. success and customers find the solution to Another measure to reduce CO2 emisbe a future-oriented and excellent service. sions is environmentally-efficient and safe All customer service staff that are going to driving. In 2012, 2048 postal delivery workers work in Post in Shops complete a thorough received such training in the Mail Division. In training programme to ensure a good level of total, between 4000 and 5000 postal delivservice to customers. ery workers will have been trained in environmentally-efficient and safe driving when Digitalisation the training programme is completed in Developments in society are moving in the 2013. direction of more services being digitalised. The Mail Division management team is Even though such digitalisation has a negative responsible for corporate social responeffect on traditional, physical letter volumes sibility, while follow-up work is carried out it also offers opportunities for Posten Norge. and results achieved in the regions. QuarPosten Norge is already at the vanguard of terly reports are completed detailing both the postal industry with regard to automatthe number of vehicles using fossil fuel and ing operations through the establishment of the number of drivers who have completed the South Eastern Norway terminal in 2010 training. The number of litres of fuel per kiloand the development of new digital services metre driven can be followed for an individsuch as Digipost. This work will continue at full ual region steam during the coming years. Posten Norge 02 LOGISTICS SEGMENT Logistics Norway Effective logistics solutions LOGISTICS NORWAY DIVISION • Delivers integrated, industrialised in an integrated network and efficient logistics solutions to the Norwegian market. • Develops and delivers the Group’s The Logistics Norway division was founded last autumn. total offering for the logistics segment in Norway. Several large customer contracts were signed. • Logistics Norway operates all of the domestic parcel and freight terminals and transports mail, In 2012 Bring won several large contracts plete logistics services for its customers parcels and freight. with customers such as Statoil, Aker Soluthrough its business areas: Parcels and • Is responsible for air freight tions and Kværner. Freight, Offshore and Energy, Warehousing and the main postal network. The Statoil agreement, which is Norway’s Services and Thermo (goods that require • Bring has operations in the United largest logistics contract, initially is valid for temperature regulation). Kingdom, the Netherlands, Central four years. By using road, rail, air and sea, Parcels and Freight is the division’s de126 Europe and Hong Kong. Bring is customising freight solutions for cidedly largest business area. In the future, Statoil on the Norwegian continental shelf. production, transport and the range of With its own staff based at Statoil’s locaservices in this area will be consolidated, intions, Bring ensures a close follow-up and tegrated and simplified. takes responsibility for customs clearance Offshore & Energy as a business area is and quality assurance. becoming increasingly important. As a result of this agreement, the Oil ExWarehousing services that are part of press, the Bring fleet of customised vehicles Bring Warehousing Norway are focusing on that deliver to the oil bases, will be expanded sales to increase capacity utilisation. Online from 60 to 75 modern semi-trailers. stores are one example of customers who need to outsource their warehousing funcNew organisation tion and manual provisioning functions. Following the Group’s reorganisation in Despite growing competition and price 2012, four regions were given responsibility pressure on the thermo-transport market, for their own regional sales team. Central Bring Frigo Norway improved its profits in sales resources are responsible for national 2012. Improved traffic control will ensure and Nordic customers. In addition, the bidthat load ratios are higher and that the ding function will be strengthened. Group has return freight so the vehicles are In October, Large Business Logistics Cusloaded in both directions. tomer Service took over responsibility for around 900 of Bring’s largest customers. New terminals and biogas facilities Private and SMB customers are served by Joint production and coordination of para joint Posten Norge and Bring Customer cels and freight will be the new norm. InService department. This presents a more tegrated production is also the idea behind uniform interface for Posten Norge and a new terminal structure in Norway with Bring and it is simpler for customers. fewer but larger terminals for joint parcel and freight production. A new joint Bring Complete logistics services terminal for parcels and freight was opened The Logistics Norway division offers comin Ålesund in 2012. During 2013 new Bring Posten Norge LOGISTICS SEGMENT 02 terminals will be opened in Fredrikstad, Alta improved its delivery in southern Norway by and Haugesund. Plans for a joint Bring facil24 hours in 2012. ity with parcels, freight and thermo-transBusiness areas port at Alnabru in Oslo will be finalised in Better profitability Parcels and Freight: Responsible for 2013. When the new terminal structure is The Spinnaker profitability programme in the range of services for parcels and completed, there will be 19 Bring terminals the Logistics Norway division captures the freight. for joint production of parcels and freight most important measures for improving Regions: Four regions operate parcel in Norway. the division’s profitability. In 2011 and 2012 and freight terminals in Norway. TransIn 2013 a new biogas facility is planned at profitability improved by more than NOK port mail, parcels and freight both the South Eastern Norway terminal. The 500 million. The goal for the next two years nationally and locally. goal is to have 200 lorries fuelled by biogas is to realise another NOK 650 million in imOffshore & Energy: Industry concenin the next three years. provements. More than NOK 500 million of tration in offshore and project logisthis will come from major change initiatives tics. Also has the Air service area. National and international logistics and the rest will come from everyday imSupply Chain: Responsible for the main Logistics Norway will ensure the efficient provements. postal service and line haul traffic in Norway by road, rail and air, as well cooperation between the Mail division and as international line haul traffic. Also Logistics Nordic. It is essential that PosCorporate Social Responsibility responsible for Bring’s international ten Norge capture the flow of goods into Groupage, full vehicles and shortest routes operations outside of the Nordic and out of Norway and the Nordic region. are all optimal environmental measures. region and the Sea service area. 127 Bring purchased Fredrikstad Transport & Increasing use of the rail when possible is Bring Frigo: Offers logistics solutions Spedisjon in April 2012 and strengthened another central element. Bring also places for foodstuffs. Leader in temperaits position in cross-border transport to specific environmental demands on its subture-controlled logistics. and from the Nordic region. Bring’s new dicontractors. Bring Warehousing: Offers third-party rect train between Alnabru and Jönköping’s Posten Norge received approval from logistics and warehousing solutions for all types of products. Bring terminal in Torsvik runs six days a the Norwegian Public Roads Administration week and transports goods corresponding to train 1,600 of its professional drivers in to 144 trailers a week. accordance with new EU regulations. This Mybring popular training will be held in seven locations with Usage of the Mybring customer website Delivery quality in-house instructors. The drivers are takexploded and there are currently Bring has clear quality targets for its enen out of service while they are undergoing around 30,000 registered users. In 2012 tire range of services and monitors line training. In 2012 25 courses were held and Logistics Norway reported sales of more haul traffic for mail, parcels and freight 259 drivers participated. In 2013 training than MNOK 100 via Mybring. Customers in Norway 24 hours a day. This means that courses are planned for 400 drivers in Poscan use Mybring to place orders, book couriers, track packages in the Nordic customers can be quickly notified if there ten Norge and Bring. region and, via Quickpack, in the world, are delays that will affect delivery to the During the autumn speed limiters were inor print out reports. Many smaller cusrecipient. stalled in 450 Posten Norge lorries to limit tomers are using Mybring, which is a free The goal is to notify both the sender and the speed to 83 km/hr. The plan is to also alternative to EDI (direct data exchange). the recipient as early as possible in the install them in Bring’s vehicle fleet. Many retail chains also use Mybring. event of delays. In 2012 a proactive warning Posten Norge proposed that the requiresystem for parcels in Norway was launched. ment on the tread depth of winter tyres for This system provides the customer with lorries and trailers be increased from three precise information via the desired chanto five millimetres and that the tread renel and on time about delivery delays, the quirement apply to semi-trailers, single-axmeasures Bring is taking and when delivery le trailers and multi-axle trailers. will take place. By implementing new production procedures for service packs, Posten Norge Posten Norge 02 LOGISTICS SEGMENT Logistics Nordic division LOGISTICS Gathered under a Nordic roof 128 NORDIC DIVISION • Responsible for all logistics operations related to local, national, Nordic and international logistics services in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. • The division will establish, develop and The new Logistics Nordic division will ensure that the Group operate networks for parcels and has a solid presence and logistics position in the Nordic region. freight in the Nordic countries and build a stronger position in Sweden, which is a natural hub for logistics in and out of the Nordic region. The Logistics Nordic division was established The Logistics Nordic division will create a • The logistics divisions will serve in the autumn of last year and is responsible clear service portfolio for the market so that customers in a uniform manner, for all of the logistics operations in Sweden, it is easy to be a Bring customer. optimise national networks and take Denmark and Finland. Through the Bring In order to succeed in the Nordic region, it advantage of economies of scale that brand, the division offers a wide spectrum of is necessary for there to be successful coexist between countries and business local, national, Nordic and international logisoperation between the logistics divisions in areas. tics services. Norway and the Nordic countries, for examThe goal is to increase competitiveness ple to develop and manage the Group’s netand long-term profitability in Sweden and work of agents across the world. Scandinavia. The logistics divisions will jointly serve customers in a uniform manner, optimise nationCross-border cooperation al networks and take advantage of econoThe management team of the division is now mies of scale that exist between countries gathered under one roof in Stockholm. The and business areas. new structure will establish a foundation for a more extensive cross-border cooperaOne Bring – a consolidated sales force tion between specialists in the three Nordic FIt is important to simplify for the customer. countries. Operations will be coordinated and Customers meet one Bring with a compreshared resources will be better utilised. hensive Nordic offering within express, parPosten Norge LOGISTICS SEGMENT 02 cels, Frigo, warehousing services and freight. Carrier Management will improve condiThe sales team will no longer sell products tions in the market and secure a common from each individual business area, but talk network. This is an important step toward Business areas about the opportunities that are available the goal of becoming a Nordic, integrated and Parcels and express: The entire range 129 for all services and products. A consolidated industrialised Group. of services within parcel shipping, sales force will sell all of Bring, not just parts A newly formed department in the Logiscourier services and home delivery. of Bring as it did before. tics Nordic division is responsible for this Frigo: Logistics solutions for foodstuffs new specialist area. Carrier Management will that require temperature-controlled Sweden a natural hub begin with cross-border dry and temperate logistics. Sweden is the largest logistics market in the goods in the Nordic region and domestically in Groupage and part loads: Has the entire Nordic region and a natural hub for distribuNorway. This will take place during the spring range of services within the shipping tion to the entire Nordic market. of 2013. The solution will then be used for doof groupage and part loads. Bring has a total of 35 terminals in Sweden mestic transports in Sweden, Denmark and Warehousing: Offers third-party and Denmark distributed across different Finland. logistics and warehousing solutions. business areas. In the future these terminals Supply Services: Fourth party logistics. will be coordinated so that each individual Acquisitions and position terminal will produce more services. Operating revenues from foreign companies The goal is a joint terminal structure and represented 30.5% of the Group’s turnover in joint line haul traffic. This will increase oper2012. Growth potential for Bring is also largational efficiency and raise the load ratios of est outside of Norway. vehicles. Through the acquisition of Ekdahls Åkeri in 2012, Bring strengthened its position and New transport project presence in the Swedish domestic market. One of the largest areas of focus for the The goal is to achieve organic growth in Logistics Nordic division in the future is Carboth Sweden and Denmark, but attractive rier Management. This new specialist area acquisition possibilities will also be considered. coordinates the purchase of transport serThe international market for air and sea vices in the entire Group in addition to the transport in the Nordic region is NOK 35 billion utilisation of Posten Norge’s own transport annually. Sea and air transport are attractive capacity. This will create economies of scale markets and could generate increased voland ensure that contracts, prices and quality umes for Posten and Bring’s distribution and are maximised. transport networks. Posten Norge 02 LOGISTICS SEGMENT E-commerce division E-COMMERCE DIVISION Nordic • Specialists in online shopping • Shall be the Group’s spearhead out in the e-commerce market • Shall ensure that Posten Norge and e-commerce experts Bring’s clients attain success within e-commerce The new E-commerce division’s most important task • Shall ensure that Posten Norge is to help customers attain success with online shopping. achieves its goal to be the Nordic region’s leading supplier of services and solutions to companies who sell Posten and Bring have provided solutions Close collaboration products online and services for the e-commerce market The most central services include Service in the Nordic region for many years. In the Pack, Home delivery, small packets – letterbox Nordic region, online shopping has grown delivery, Letterbox delivery and cross-border by 15 per cent annually and is one of the variants of these services. 130 “Everyone” shops online Group’s most exciting growth areas going The E-commerce division provides no proAn increasing share of the population in forward. Posten has therefore estabduction itself, but is responsible for ensuring the Nordic region purchase goods and lished a separate division for e-commerce an efficient interface between other diviservices online. Posten Norge’s E-com– the first postal company to do so. We sions that are responsible for the implemenmerce report for 2012 states that almost “everyone” shops online, regardless are now preparing ourselves to be the tation and provision of the services. of age, gender and place of residence. preferred supplier for both recipients and Online shopping has become a natural senders. Client perspective part of everyday life, and almost 90 per The E-commerce division is responsiThe division possesses expertise and is able cent of the population in Norway, Sweden ble for the services offered, as well as clito provide advice on various aspects of and Denmark currently shop online. It is ent relationships with the largest Nordic e-commerce. estimated that the market in the Nordic region grows by 15 per cent annually. e-commerce customers. By considering the Through the client relationship, the division entire delivery chain from manufacturer to is responsible for the client across the entire consumer, the division shall provide services Group’s service portfolio. Dedicated account and solutions that contribute to efficient managers discover clients’ needs, act as adand attractive e-commerce and customer visors and develop customised solutions. This satisfaction. shall provide increased customer satisfaction, profitability and growth. Recipients in the driving seat The division develops services based upon The aim is to help customers attain succlients’ needs by focusing on the client’s cuscess with e-commerce by offering flexible tomers. Highlighting the recipient’s perspecservices, solutions and concepts that are tive and increasing the recipient’s range of developed from a recipient’s perspective. choices in delivery methods and payment alPosten shall offer seamless deliveries ternatives is important for success. across the entire Nordic region, developing customer-specific and industrial solutions Competition that ensure efficient operations, competE-commerce has become an increasingly imitive terms and good profitability for the portant sales channel for companies and comGroup, and take a strong position towards petition for customers from both local and recipients within the Nordic region. global market participants is strong. Quality Posten Norge LOGISTICS SEGMENT 02 and flexibility are crucial in obtaining good disand tablets. Likewise, the future champions of tribution agreements in the Nordic region. the e-commerce market will be those who can tailor the customer experience to individual E-commerce report customers through excellent service, good adE-commerce services The division issues Posten and Bring’s Nordic vice and choice in the purchasing process. The E-commerce division is responsible e-commerce report, which analyses the online for the e-commerce services offered by shopping market in Norway, Sweden and DenLOAD Posten Norge and Bring. mark. The report focuses on consumers and Posten and Bring arrange an annual training Service Pack: The recipient collects trends, maps general e-commerce patterns day for e-commerce participants, known as the packet from one of 1,400 collection and looks in detail at how companies themselves LOAD. At LOAD, a jury identifies the best onpoints. The packet is delivered cliact and respond in terms of online shopping. line stores. The jury consists of various exmate-neutral across the entire country The report for 2012 states that almost perts within e-commerce. Around 350 clients, within 1-3 working days. everyone shops online, regardless of age, genpartners and representatives from the proHome delivery evening: The recipient der and place of residence. E-commerce has fessional environment participated at LOAD can book delivery of the packet to their door between 17.00 and 21.00 in most become a natural part of everyday life – in fact, in 2012. cities and larger towns. The recipient is E-commerce has become commerce. In 2013, the division will develop more meetnotified twice via SMS when the packet is The report also shows that more Danes ing opportunities for online stores as a part on its way and telephoned 30-60 minutes 131 than Norwegians or Swedes purchase physical of the efforts to develop the Posten Norge prior to delivery. Delivered within 1-3 products online, while the proportion of people Group as the leading supplier of services, exworking days. who purchase services online is fairly similar in pertise and advice to the industry. Letterbox delivery: E-commerce offers each of the three Nordic countries. Consumtwo different packet alternatives that ers believe that in 2013 they will purchase more Internasjonal virksomhet are delivered to the recipient’s mailbox. products online within all product categories, The e-commerce market is international and Small packets: Sent as A mail or particularly within travel/tickets, books and the E-commerce division must therefore take climate-neutral B-Economy, and the customer pays based on the average clothing/shoes. a boundaryless approach to both suppliers weight. This product is targeted towards and recipients. The e-commerce market deonline stores who send small, moderately Delivery alternatives a deciding facto velops rapidly and the end customer’s needs priced packets which fit in mailboxes. Consumers are interested in the possibility to and desires are important driving forces in Small packets are sent without tracking. have products delivered to their home, and the the development. Mini packets: Sent as small packets, but delivery alternatives offered by online stores The division shall closely monitor this develfeatures extra security with tracking. is a deciding factor in which online stores conopment in the Nordic region and Europe, and sumers purchase from. Concerning delivery alshall be aware of what is happening within ternatives, the report shows that consumers e-commerce. At the same time, it is important want large and heavy products delivered to to maintain close contact with customers in their home, small, cheap products delivered in order to be able to develop flexible and intheir mailbox, and small and expensive products dustrialised services, solutions and concepts either delivered to their home or for collection adapted to changing needs. at a collection point. Shopping at overseas online stores is most Alliances common in Norway, but uncertainty regarding Strengthening internal competence about customs charges and duties is a significant the market and online shopping trends is also barrier which prevents people from purchasing a central focus within the division. It is thereproducts from abroad. In the coming years, mofore important to develop alliances with relebile solutions will become increasingly important, vant market participants and partners within and people will shop from their smart phones the industry. Posten Norge 02 MARKET REPORT Market report Continued turbulence with weak optimism International financial turbulence characterised 2012, but a careful optimism has resulted in new, big changes in the mail and logistics 132 industry. This positive development has resulted in restructuring and several acquisitions in the logistics market. The past year as not produced radical The population’s need for fast commuchanges in technology in the mail and logisnication and immediate response will be, tics industry, but the technology has mato an increasing extent, covered through tured and the possibilities have been exploitdigital channels such as social media and ed to an even larger extent than previously. e-mail. At the same time, there is still a This market report describes the changneed for secure delivery of information and es in the mail and logistics market in 2012, documents. In order to meet this need the and how Posten Norge expects them to invarious postal companies around the world fluence the market in 2013. are increasing the focus on developing digital mail solutions. However, the solutions are difDigital mail services ferent from country to country. The letter volumes continue to fall at an Experience from the Nordic area so far increasingly fast pace. The trend is the shows that it often takes some time before same throughout the Nordic region. The the digital mail services start being used to development is expected to continue with any great extent by customers and addressunabated stamina over the coming years. ees. It is therefore too early to pass judgeTowards the end of 2012, the Nordic mail ment on them. companies experienced a reduction of At the same time, processes are under way over10 percent in addressed letters comfor the digitalisation of communication and pared to 2011.The focus on costs from interaction between the Government and the businesses and altered communication and population in several of the Nordic countries. interaction habits amongst the population The result from these will, to a large extent, are some of the reasons for the reduction influence the further development of the digin the amount of letters. ital mail services in the Nordic area. Posten Norge MARKET REPORT 02 The increased use of smart phones and of Nordic consumers state that the online tablets means that people are becoming stores’ delivery alternatives are important used to constant access to updated inwhen choosing an online store. This results formation wherever and whenever. This in a shift in the balance of power within also puts more demands on the postal and e-commerce from the stores dictating logistics industry. Easily-accessible and which delivery alternatives and conditions updated tracking information on parcels the recipients get to the recipients deciding and goods, as well as the demand for serwhat the online stores must offer in order vice when convenient for the customers, to make sales. are examples of customer demands that, Logistic companies wanting a role in the to an increasingly larger extent, affect e-commerce market must, therefore, be the day-to-day operations of the logistics the preferred alternative for recipients. 133 companies. These customer demands play That the recipients can more often choose a role in deciding the companies’ service delivery and payment alternatives in online development around the world. stores shows that the online stores, to an increasing extent, understand the inIncrease consumer power creased recipient power. Today, ‘everyone’ shops online. While two For the mail and logistic companies this of 10 Nordic consumers shopped online is about creating services that the recipin 2002, nine of 10 shopped online in 2012. ients want, and delivering them with high Parcel volumes are therefore growing suband stable quality. In 2012, this has led to a stantially. The growth in European e-comlarge degree of innovation and development merce is expected to be over 20 per cent in both among the Nordic and international 2013. In order to make up for the fall in revlogistics companies. New delivery methods, enues from reduced letter volumes and to better return schemes, improvements to develop new business areas, several posthome delivery offers everything centres al companies, including Posten Norge, are on becoming the recipients’ preferred detherefore investing heavily in the growing livery supplier and thus the online stores’ e-commerce market. preferred logistics partner. The more safe consumers feel about E-commerce is erasing national borders. e-commerce the larger the demands placed Last year, more than four of 10 Nordic conon the shopping experience. And consumsumers shopped online outside their own ers have both the knowledge and funds to homeland. The more safe Nordic consumstand behind their demands. ers feel about e-commerce and the more Posten and Bring’s Nordic e-commerce used to it they become, the more it is to be report for 2012 shows that simplicity and expected that international shopping will convenience are the most important reaincrease. At the same time, there are still sons why people shop online. Therefore, barriers to cross-border e-commerce in online stores with good delivery and reEurope. Therefore, the EU commission in turn schemes are preferred. The majority 2012 put the spotlight on intra-European Posten Norge 02 MARKET REPORT e-commerce, with a goal of reducing the in recent years. Cities such as Gothenburg, barriers to and further increasing EuropeTrondheim and Oslo have initiated projects an e-commerce. for reducing both environmental and traffic In 2013, it is expected that several measemissions in the urban areas. ures will be implemented that will minimise This will have major significance for logistheses barriers. The high Nordic cost level tics companies. For example, this can mean is an important reason for shopping abroad alternations in the way goods are distributand, with the strong NOK exchange rate, it ed in cities, in addition to new types of veis expected that Norwegians’ e-commerce hicles. An extensive cooperation is required 134 from abroad is expected to increase signibetween authorities and players in order ficantly in 2013. to succeed with improving efficiency of the The increased volume in e-commerce city logistics. from abroad also increases the need for a The authorities must make demands, good range of services in the Nordic area but also create the conditions that make for international online stores and their achieving them possible. The logistics playsuppliers. As a result of this, several interers must be innovative and exploit the posnational logistics companies have increased sibilities. In the coming years it is expected their activities in the Nordic area over the that more Nordic cities will follow suit and course of 2012. In this way, the global logisincrease the requirements. City distributics players are strengthening their ability tion in the Nordic cities will probably change to be leading e-commerce partners for inconsiderably in the next 10 years. ternational online stores with customers in the affluent Nordic area. The importance of Nordic solutions being able to manage e-commerce deliverAs in previous years, the consolidation of the ies across land borders is expected to furcompanies’ distribution activities continues ther increase in the years ahead. in the Nordic area. New technological possibilities and more advanced management sysNew distributions solutions tems enable the centralisation of production The cities in the Nordic countries are growand storage in and outside the Nordic area. ing quickly both as a result of increased miEconomies of scale benefits and lower cost gration to the cities and increased immigralevels that are not at the expense of service tion. This also results in increased transport and delivery quality are now feasible. and distributions in the cities. This transAn increasing number of companies are port produces noise, heavy traffic, the porealising their moving plans. In particular, the tential for dangerous traffic situations and production of goods in the Nordic countries high levels of environmental emissions. is being reduced to the advantage of Asian or Therefore, the authorities in several large Eastern European low-cost countries. This Nordic cities have dealt with this situation changes the market’s logistics structure Posten Norge MARKET REPORT 02 and needs to a great extent. So far, quality ticularly within the goods segment, but also and reliability of the Nordic players have repwithin storage services, reserve parts disresented growth potential, but the positions tribution and similar. are being challenged ever stronger by south The competition in the Nordic marand eastern European low-cost carriers. ket is larger than ever. Global players The developments have several consehave strengthened their Nordic positions quences for the players in the Nordic logisthrough the establishment of several new tics market. First of all, the need to be able offices and distribution hubs in Scandinavia. to deliver total services is increasing such that the customers’ combined logistics Continued uncertainty in Europe 135 needs are fulfilled in an efficient manner. As a The economic development in Europe is very minimum, this entails the ability to distribute uncertain in the coming years. In 2012, both throughout the Nordic region. For the Nordic Norway and Sweden experienced growth, logistics companies this also entails the abiliwhile Denmark was characterised by the ty to transport goods and parcels to or from Euro countries’ financial challenges to a the Nordic area. larger extent. In the coming years, Sweden The logistics companies in the Nordic area is expected to follow in Denmark’s footsteps will, to an increasing extent, depend on inin terms of weaker financial growth. ternational alliances or their own presence This will have consequences for the develin markets will export to or import from. The opment in the Nordic logistics market. The logistics hubs in Europe will increase in sigresult can be increased emphasis on improvnificance as a result of the centralisation ing efficiency and cost-cutting in logistics of production and storage. Being present for Nordic companies. This could, in turn, lead and offering excellent customer service in to very pressed margins for the logistics these hubs will be crucial in the years ahead companies. For players with access to capfor companies that want to compete in the ital, this kind of market can create the conNordic logistics market. ditions for several purchases and further consolidation of the Nordic logistics market, Purchasing trends while others will cease operations. The purchasing rate in the logistics marIn 2013, Norway will also probably continket has reached a new high. The Scandinaue as a different country in Europe and exvian postal and logistics companies have perience financial growth. This will further strengthen their logistics positions with strengthen the Norwegian purchasing powseveral purchases in 2012. These purchaser, increase cross-border e-commerce and es contribute to developing the companies’ imports to Norway. A continued increase of opportunity to deliver total logistics soluthe Norwegian cost level could also reduce tions and the ability to establish a more the demand for Norwegian exports and efficient Nordic distribution network, parweaken the trade balance with Europe. Posten Norge 02 IN THE FUTURE In the future 136 Posten Norge IN THE FUTURE 02 • Posten Norge will open 170 new Post in Shops in 2013 and 2014. • Posten Norge is entering into new IT agreements that shall ensure greater competitiveness. • Develop a Bring organisation in the Nordic region and gather management for the Nordic logistics activities in Stockholm. • The Group is coordinating the value chains in order to make logistics more efficient and less harmful to the environment. Establish common terminals for parcels and freight. • Posten is participating in a tendering process regarding the digitalisation of public sector mail with the Digipost service. 137 • Posten Norge is integrating Ekdahls Åkeri with Bring and establishing a national freight and parcels distribution network in Sweden. • Bring will deliver more than 1 million home deliveries of furniture and interior products, food, electronics and other products to consumers across the Nordic region. • Bring is opening a new common logistics terminal for freight, parcels and home deliveries, as well as warehousing services in Västberga in Stockholm. • Posten Norge will publish its annual e-commerce report with analyses of the Nordic development and assessments from the world’s leading e-commerce experts. • Bring will inaugurate a new freezer terminal at Flatholmen in Ålesund for the export of fish. • Bring is opening a new common logistics terminal for freight, parcels and home deliveries, as well as warehousing services in Malmö. The terminal will also function as the main terminal for the export and import of goods in Sweden and the Nordic region. • Bring is opening a new warehouse with expanded capacity in Jönköping as a hub for Nordic distribution solutions. Posten Norge 03 Sustainability POSTEN NORGE AND SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDERS ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT WORKING ENVIRONMENT REPORT INTEGRITY REPORT 138 Posten Norge 139 Posten Norge 03 POSTEN NORGE AND SUSTAINABILITY Posten Norge and sustainability Working with sustainability 140 The Group is committed to long-term sustainable development that balances social and environmental responsibility against financial results. Global Compact’s ten Posten Norge views corporate social retation will help to attract and motivate emprinciples sponsibility to be about how its operations ployees, strengthen competitiveness and affect people, the environment and society. provide increased freedom to develop furThe environment, integration and diversity ther the Group’s business. Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and are areas of priority for the Group. The company’s corporate culture shall be respect the protection of internationally This means that the Group will take recharacterised by an active attitude to takproclaimed human rights; and sponsibility for specifically reducing the ing social responsibility. impact of its operations on the external • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. environment. In addition, the Group has a Group Policy racism-free profile and takes an active role – Corporate Social Responsibility Labour in integration work. Work on a healthy work In 2011 the Group introduced a specific • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold environment is a strategic area of focus for Group policy for corporate social responthe freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to the Group and all organisational and comsibility. This policy is a part of the Group’s collective bargaining; mercial development should take the work governing documentation and describes environment into consideration. how the different technical areas are to be Continued on the next page For Posten Norge work with sustainability governed and controlled in the Group. is about how the Group’s activities can conThe purpose of the policy is to ensure tribute to sustainable development that is in that the Group complies with current legal line with the demands of customers and the requirements and expectations from the Government’s ownership policy. Group’s stakeholders for protecting people This work is important for securing Posand the parts of society and the environten Norge’s strong position in society and ment that are affected by its operations. strengthening its reputation. A good repuThe Group Policy Corporate Social ResponPosten Norge POSTEN NORGE AND SUSTAINABILITY 03 sibility is based on “Ethical guidelines for the pact is the UN’s initiative for sustainable dePosten Norge Group”. velopment in business. Adopting a global initiative such as the Global Compact is therefore • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms Goal-oriented work a natural extension of Posten Norge’s focus of forces and compulsory labour; Posten Norge has had a solid tradition for on more socially responsible operations. • Principle 5: the effective abolition many years of reporting the measures taken As a participant in Global Compact Posten of child labour; and and the results the Group achieved through Norge promises to integrate ten basic prinits work on and commitment to corporate ciples into its strategy and daily operations • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect 141 social responsibility. This work was further and to report on activities and improveof employment and occupation. strengthened through the publication of ments related to these principles. The princithe Group’s first integrated annual and susples are divided into four areas: human rights, Environment tainability report in 2010. In the 2011 report labour standards, the environment and anti• Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach Posten Norge has further expanded suscorruption. to environmental challenges; tainability reporting to include reporting The Group is a member of the Global Comon several indicators as well as an external pact Nordic Network, which consists of 140 • Principle 8: undertake initiatives audit of the report. In 2012 we started work member companies from Norway, Denmark, to promote greater environmental responsibility; and on a materiality analysis that was completed Finland, Iceland and Greenland. The netin 2013 and determined which GRI perforwork arranges two meetings each year at • Principle 9: encourage the developmance indicators are the most relevant for which member companies can gain inspirament and diffusion of environmentally Posten Norge to include in its report. We will tion and new knowledge as well as exchange friendly technologies. use these results in the future to ensure experiences. Anti-Corruption that our reports are relevant and accurate. As a member of Global Compact, Posten • Principle 10: Businesses should work Norge is committed to providing social reagainst corruption in all its forms, Global Compact sponsibility reports once a year. These reincluding extortion and bribery. Posten Norge became a member of the UN’s ports are presented through an integrated Global Compact in March 2011. Global Comannual and sustainability report. “The company’s corporate culture shall be characterised by an active attitude to taking social responsibility.” Posten Norge 03 POSTEN NORGE AND SUSTAINABILITY The Group’s prioritised sustainability areas 142 In 2013 the Group completed a materiality analysis in order to identify and prioritise the sustainability challenges that are most important for Posten Norge. By prioritising the challenges it will report on, opportunities and risks for these areas have the Group ensures that it is only following up been mapped. on and monitoring relevant areas. The Group thereby avoids reporting on areas that are Identification of appropriate not of significance for our industry or our key performance indicators stakeholders. Posten Norge applies the recommended reThe materiality analysis was conducted porting tool, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). with participants from the steering group for Using the results of the materiality analysis sustainability reporting in the Group as well as as its basis, our external advisor on sustainrepresentatives from our strategy departability, Ernst & Young, was assigned the task ment and the different business areas. of recommending which GRI performance indicators are most relevant and significant Methodology for the Group. The methodology was based on two main diThe review identified a total of 22 permensions of our work with corporate social formance indicators that were relevant for responsibility: Posten Norge’s report. These 22 indicators fall within the economic, environmental and • Importance for prioritised stakeholders social indicator categories. Individual areas • Importance for Posten Norge’s long-term identified by the analysis are not covered strategic goals by the GRI performance indicators. Posten Norge will therefore evaluate in the future As a result of this analysis, the Group idenif it should develop its own report to entified fourteen areas that are important for sure that these areas are satisfactorily Posten Norge’s sustainability work. Both the described. Posten Norge POSTEN NORGE AND SUSTAINABILITY 03 SIGNIFICANT ■ To be trusted ■ Transparency and effective dialog ■ Available ■ Fair competition ■ Health, Enviroment and safety ■ Labor rights ■ Corruption and financial irregularities ■ Data security ■ Future-oriented service and product development 143 ■ Competence development ■ Climate effective transport and distribution IMPORTANT ■ Safety in ■ Responsible Supplier traffic Management ■ Diversity and integration Important for stakeholders ■ Resource-efficient buildings and terminals ■ Local air quality ■ Noise ■ Energieffektive IT-tjenester IMPORTANT SIGNIFICANT Important for Posten Posten Norge 03 POSTEN NORGE AND SUSTAINABILITY To see our GRI performance indicators: Please visit www.postennorge.com/ annual-report-2012/ Framework, level and 144 scope of the report Posten Norge uses the globally recognised framework, the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, from the Global Reporting Initiative as the basis for its reporting. These guidelines are recommended by Global Compact. The GRI framework consists of principles and environmental impacts of the company’s measurement indicators for the reporting of products and services, resource consumpsustainability and describe why, how and what tion, consumption of hazardous substancan organisation should report. The meases and raw materials, emissions of greenurement indicators (hereafter called perhouse gases and other pollutants, waste, the formance indicators) are continuously being costs of environmental investments and developed and improved. fines and penalties for violations of environToday there are 84 performance indicators mental legislation. for financial, environmental and social results: The social indicators are grouped into The economic indicators address the three categories: labour-related issues, hudirect economic impacts of the organisaman rights and more general social issues retion’s activities on society and the economic lated to consumers, communities and other value added by these activities. These cover stakeholders. Such information can be diffithe reporting of salaries, pensions and other cult to quantify. This is why it is also possible benefits to the company’s management and to provide qualitative descriptions. employees, payments received from customers and payments made to subcontractors. Management approach Environmental indicators concern an Management approach contains a brief sumorganisation’s impact on living and non-livmary of how the Group manages its work on ing natural systems, including ecosystems, sustainability within each of the indicator land, air and water. The indicators include categories. Posten Norge POSTEN NORGE AND SUSTAINABILITY 03 Level ers the Group’s companies in all countries. In accordance with the requirements for The exceptions are due to the companies not application level B, the Group reports within yet having established reporting in certain the GRI requirements on profile disclosures, areas or the companies’ contribution in some management approach and performance inareas not being deemed significant. There are dicators. Posten Norge reports on the most also natural limitations based on whether comrelevant indicators for its business, which panies actually contribute to environmental provide the best picture of the Group’s conemissions in certain areas. 145 tinuous work towards more socially responThe Group works continuously on meassible operations. ures to improve measurement and reporting In this year’s report the Group has 31 perof sustainability. formance indicators that are fully reported Methods to calculate and measure within and 5 that are partially reported. This correthe individual technical areas are based on recsponds to Application Level B+ in 2012. ognised and established technical standards. Reporting scope Audit As far as these are relevant, sustainability The audit applies to the entire base figures reporting uses the principles which apply for and texts for sustainability reporting. Posten accounts reporting, including completeness Norge thereby qualifies for Application Level and comparability, as the basis for reporting. B+ for its 2012 report. With some exceptions, reporting cov“In this year’s report the Group has 31 performance indicators that are fully reported and 5 that are partially reported. This corresponds to Application Level B+ in 2012.” Posten Norge 03 STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholders Suppliers Employees Private Business customers clients Influence Posten Interest Owner organisations 146 Have an Are influenced interest by Posten in Posten Our stakeholders Our owner, business clients, suppliers and employees are Posten Norge’s most important stakeholders. The Group’s stakeholders are placing increasthe strategy department and the different ingly higher demands on systematic work with business areas. sustainability, and they expect Posten Norge, Defining our key stakeholders was a central in its position as a prominent Norwegian pubpart of this analysis, since the stakeholders lic body, to work methodically on this subject. are involved in establishing the framework In 2013 the Group conducted a Materifor our work with social corporate responality Analysis in order to identify and priorisibility. The stakeholders each have their own tise the sustainability challenges that are requirements on and expectations for Posten most important for the Group. The analysis Norge. was conducted with participants from the Our most important key stakeholders were steering group for sustainability reporting identified as the owner and authorities, busiin the Group as well as representatives from ness clients, suppliers and employees. In addiPosten Norge STAKEHOLDERS 03 tion, private customers and interest organisatisfactory manner. This applies both in adsations play a central role in the Group’s work vance of entering into a contract and during with corporate social responsibility. the term of the contract. STAKEHOLDERS The Group also maintains a dialogue with Read more about the Group’s supplier Definition other smaller stakeholders such as trade management in the Integrity report. For Posten Norge, stakeholdunions, business and employee organisations, ers are actors who influence political parties, supervisory authorities, Arenas for dialogue: or are influenced by its activcompetitors and the media. • Meetings – for each procurement ities and/or have an interest The dialogues with our stakeholders are process and afterwards in the Group working with held in various formal and informal arenas. The • Workshops – for each procurement corporate social responsibility and how this happens. . frequency of these meetings varies dependprocess ing on the requirements and demands of the • Contract signing – for each procurement stakeholders. process OWNER BUSINESS CLIENTS The Ministry for Transport and CommunicaPosten Norge does not carry out customer tions owns Posten Norge. The Group is theresurveys that specifically include questions refore subject to the Ministry’s corporate govgarding social and environmental issues. For ernance of the company. Posten and Bring sales team, corporate so147 Executive management has quarterly meetcial responsibility is a topic that is brought up ings with the Ministry for Transport and Comas needed when requested by customers. munications and corporate social responsibility Bring conducted an analysis of its comis a point on the agenda as needed. petitors in 2012. In this analysis customers of In 2012 the Ministry for Transport and ComPosten, Bring and other actors were asked munications was informed about how the Group the following questions: “If you were to rate works with corporate social responsibility. the different suppliers in groupage and part loads, who would you consider to be the most Arenas for dialogue: environmentally friendly?” and “If you were to • Reporting meetings – quarterly rate the different suppliers in parcels, who • Ad-hoc meetings as required would you consider to be the most environmentally friendly?” Compared to its three main competitors in Norway, Bring is considered to be the most SUPPLIER environmentally friendly supplier in both groupage and part loads and parcels. Dialogue with suppliers, both existing and Sixty-one interviews were carried out in potential, is a central part of Posten Norge’s the parcels segment and 83 in the groupage procurement procedures. Posten Norge and part loads segment in 2012. The sales maintains both written and verbal dialogues in department and product owner work in a the form of workshops as part of its standgoal-oriented manner with the answers in orard procurement process. The Group emder to create improvements. phasises overall good business practice and We endeavour to follow the Norwegian compliance with the Group’s ethical principles Marketing Act in all market communication and values in dialogues with the supplier marwith the Group’s customers. The quality of ket. Trust in the supplier market is a prereqthe Group’s annual market plan is checked uisite for achieving good terms and covering against this legislation. The Group has a prothe Group’s procurement requirements in a cedure to ensure that the quality of all exPosten Norge 03 STAKEHOLDERS ternal communication must be checked by ees in 2012 include measures to promote a Corporate Staff Communication. healthy workplace, job security, alternative The focus on corporate social responsibilvehicles, integrity and cabotage. All of these ity among Bring’s customers is growing, partopics are included and detailed in the Group’s ticularly in the Offshore & Energy segment. company newspaper and on the Group’s inHealth, the environment, safety and quality tranet. It is possible to send in opinions to the are therefore on the agenda at all operationcompany newspaper and comment on and real meetings, both internally and externally at spond to articles on the intranet. customers and suppliers. Offshore & Energy Dialogue with employees on central measis certified in accordance with ISO 9001:2008 ures and topics which affect work processand Achilles (NorSok S006N). The certificaes and the working day out in the units is the tions clarify the requirements on Offshore managers’ responsibility. & Energy within the areas of health, the work In 2012, the Group President and CEO held environment, safety, external environment four online meetings via the Group’s intranet. and quality. During these intranet meetings the Group’s employees can freely submit questions diArenas for dialogue: rectly to the President and CEO. The themes • Customer surveys – annually for the intranet meetings in 2012 were ex148 • Reputation surveys – annually pectations for 2012 (January), vision and val• Focus groups – as required ues (April), new organisation (September) and • Competitor analysis – annually how to win over the customer (December). • Operational meetings – as required Arenas for dialogue • Organisation survey – annually • Internal company newpaper – monthly EMPLOYEES • Intranet – daily as required • Intranet meetings with the President and Posten Norge carries out an organisational CEO – four per year survey of its employees each year. In 2012, 90 • Annual and sustainability report – annually per cent of the Group’s employees responded • Group-wide environmental network – daily to the survey. Two of the statements in the as required survey are ‘My unit demonstrates corporate • Training – as required social responsibility by considering the exter• Management meetings – as required nal environment’ and ‘In my unit there is no • Personal development discussions– two discrimination’. per year All managers in the Group are required to • Lectures/presentations – as required follow up on the results from the organisa• Team meetings – as required tional survey. Managers must establish measures for their unit in a specific “Smart Plan”. It is possible to follow up on the smart plans and the progress being made in carrying out the measures. It is also possible to measure PRIVATE CUSTOMERS the development of the results of the organIpsos MMI carries out a profile survey of large isational survey from year to year on a unit Norwegian companies each year. In 2012, 116 level (if the unit has more than five persons companies in 13 different industries were who answered). evaluated with regard to environmental Other central topics taken up with employawareness, corporate social responsibility Posten Norge STAKEHOLDERS 03 and ethics. A nationally-representative samA cooperation with organisations for disaple of 2,000 persons over the age of 15 rebled persons was established in “Cooperation ceived the survey and of these 51 per cent forum for universal design of mail services”. responded (1,017 persons). The forum has six members from organisaIn this survey corporate social responsitions for disabled persons and three from bility and ethics are defined as a company’s Posten Norge. The forum is led by Posten ability and willingness to follow laws and rules, Norge and meets at least two times a year. and to act in a just and responsible manner During the establishment of a new post office towards employees, customers, consumers concept in 2012, changes were made after inand the authorities. In 2012, 43 per cent statput from several interest organisations. The ed that they have a good impression and 31 introduction of a telecoil at all cash points is per cent that they have a bad impression of one example of this. Posten Norge in this area. After a long period Posten Norge is a member of the Swan during which Posten Norge strengthened its Purchasers’ Club, Eco-Lighthouse, RENAS reputation in corporate social responsibili(EE waste), Green Dot Norway and IPC (party and ethics, it fell from 5th place in 2011 to ticipant in the EMMS environmental pro19th place in 2012. gramme). The Group also participates in the Environmental awareness is defined as Biogas Alliance, Zero and SINTEF (Green City the impression of a company with regard to Distribution in Oslo) and exchanges experi149 protection of the environment in the widest ences and competence with the Norwegian sense, both in terms of production and the Association Against Noise. use of products in general. In 2012 Posten Posten Norge is required through its arNorge placed 12th place in this ranking, down ticles of association to follow the principles 5 places from 2011, when we were ranked 7th. of the act concerning the use of Bokmål and Our score in the good impression category Nynorsk in public services for customer inforincreased by three per cent since 2011, but mation about the services that are subject to competition hardened and we therefore fell a delivery obligation. Concrete inquiries also in the ranking. In 2010 the percentage with come from The Language Council of Norway a good impression increased to 40 per cent and The Norwegian Language Society. Other(8th place), in 2011 to 48 per cent (7th place) wise the principles of the act shall be followed and in 2012 to 51 per cent (12th place). as far as possible but only as far as they do not represent any disadvantage to the comArenas for dialogue pany compared with its competitors. Posten • Reputation surveys – annually Norge reports to the Ministry for Transport and Communications upon request and when questions are raised from individuals or interest groups. INTEREST Arenas for dialogue: ORGANISATIONS • Cooperation forum for universal design of mail services – two per year Interest organisations are defined as organ• Inspections – as required isations established to promote their mem• Informal meetings – as required bers’ interests. For Posten Norge this refers • E-mail – as required to organisations that have a special inter• Process meetings – as required est in how our services are performed and adapted. Posten Norge 03 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Environmental report ORGANISATION Toward more environmenWork • A central environmental team in the corporate HR unit ensures an effective tally efficient operations, system, Group-wide re-use of good solutions and an overall approach. • A Group-wide environmental network one step at a time that consists of environmental resource persons from all business areas ensures that the Group makes use of Goal-oriented work to ensure more environmentally efficient experiences and best practices from throughout the organisation. operations produces results. In 2012 the Group took more 150 • The Group ensures access to the steps toward its goal of a greener business. necessary expertise in specific areas through external partners and suppliers. The environment is one of the Group’s most It is not currently possible to make this • In order to register the Group’s total important focus areas within corporate completely eliminate the CO2 emissions climate impact, a climate reporting social responsibility. As one of the Nordic from this service. To compensate for the system was acquired and implemented region’s largest transport operators the remaining emissions, Posten Norge buys in 2012 and will be used by the entire impact of CO2 emissions in particular is sigclimate quotas to make the product cliGroup. nificant. Posten Norge is therefore activemate-neutral. The quotas are UN-approved, ly working to reduce the extent to which it recommended by the Norwegian authorities affects the environment throughout the and purchased by the Climate and Pollution Group’s activities. Posten Norge’s environAgency (KLIF). mental vision is “to work in a goal oriented manner to achieve environmentally efficient Communication operations and sustainable development In 2012 the Group worked on increasing the leading to it becoming the world’s most fuvisibility of its environmental efforts both ture-oriented mail and logistics group”. internally and externally through various measures and communication activities. Climate-neutral services These measures include the launch of cliIn addition to a climate-neutral service parmate-neutral letter products, an environcel, Posten Norge launched a service in Janment fund and environmental certification uary 2012 that targets the business market of six new units. and offers climate-neutral distribution of Through its own notices, Posten Norge addressed and unaddressed mailings. The hopes to increase the visibility of the most important internal measures for reGroup’s environmental measures internally ducing the CO2 emissions from this service and externally. These notices are placed on are to make use of vehicles that do not run cars, buildings and other visible surfaces on fossil fuels and to conduct a course in enwhich represent the Group. vironmentally efficient driving for our drivers. The Group was also represented at Posten Norge ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 03 industry seminars and conferences in downtown Oslo. In 2012, Bring Express was a 2012, including the Zero conference, NHO key player in a test of different electric cars ‘Green Management’ and UNIO/YS ‘Green during the distribution of express assignMANAGEMENT Workplaces’. ments inside Ring 3 of Oslo. The environment In 2012 the Group continued its coopera• Environmental work is high on the Interaction and cooperation tion with ZERO (Zero Emission Resource Oragenda for the Group. To solve the major environmental challengganisation) to strengthen both technical and es facing the Group, cooperation between industry-related cooperation on selected • The Board and executive management are regularly updated on the status companies, organisations and research inclimate issues. For example, the Group parand risk profile of and ongoing initiastitutes is key. ticipates in ZERO’s biogas forum with other tives within the Group’s environmental Posten Norge has adopted the Ministry transport companies and fuel providers. work. of the Environment’s Climate Promise and Posten Norge also takes part in Cities of • Group management is updated on maintains industry cooperation through the Future, which is a collaboration between the environmental work several times participation in the International Post Corthe authorities and the 13 largest cities in a year, during which the progress of poration. This cooperation includes the reNorway to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. central measures is presented. 151 porting of climate impact for sector bench• Environmental work is defined in a marking and the sharing of best practice Posten Norge largest in alternative vehicles separate environmental policy and amongst members. In 2012 Posten Norge The focus on the environment at Posten strategy that is supported by action participated in a workshop on green prodNorge has resulted in the Group having plans in the business areas. uct development. Norway’s largest vehicle fleet that runs on • The Group works according to environPosten Norge is also a member of the alternative fuels. In 2012 Posten Norge’s almental action plans in each business Swan Purchasers’ Club, which helps the ternative vehicle fleet consisted of 643 elecarea. The plans apply for the period Group make the most environmentally contric vehicles, including 261 electric mopeds, 2010-2015 and detail the environscious choices when purchasing products 213 electric jeeps, 24 electric cars and 145 mental work to be carried out and the and services. electric trailers. effects this work has on CO2 emissions. The action plans were updated in 2012 Posten Norge and several other compaIn June, Posten Norge participated in the to take into consideration changes in nies signed an agreement in 2010 with Oslo annual race for alternative vehicles arranged framework conditions, the market and Municipality for ‘Business for a Better Enby Zero. Posten Norge crossed the finish line technological development. vironment’. This cooperation continued in in an electric Ford Connect. 2012 with participation in network meetings. Bring Express in the Nordic region uses bicycles when delivering express packages in Will reduce greenhouse gas emissions cities. In total, it has 37 bicycles. The Group is part of Green Goods Transport a research project with the aim of making the Comprehensive biogas initiative transport of goods more environmentally and The Group implemented a large biogas initiaclimate-friendly. tive in 2012. In March, Posten Norge acceptPosten Norge is also a member of the ed delivery of its first biogas vehicles, which steering group for the project “Green City consisted of 31 cars. Today, the Group’s veDistribution”, which is owned by Oslo Munichicle fleet has a total of 65 biogas cars. The ipality, in cooperation with Sintef, and supinitiative will continue in 2013. ported by the Research Council of Norway. Bring also has 43 biogas cars in Sweden. The aim of the project is to reduce greenBring Frigo used 5,313,533 litres of Preem house gas emissions for goods delivery in Evolution in Sweden in 2012, which is an inPosten Norge 03 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT crease of 15 per cent compared to 2011, arrived from Oslo to Jönköping Intermodal ELECTRIC VEHICLES and reduced emissions by 3,010 tonnes of Terminal in Torsvik. Bring’s direct train will number CO2 compared to fossil fuels. In addition run six days a week with a freight volume that 643 Bring Frigo is taking part in the testing of a Volvo biogas/diesel hybrid in Skåne. corresponds to 144 trailers a week. Raising competence 700 Updating the vehicle fleet In 2012 the Group continued its systematPosten Norge updates its vehicle fleet regic work to give all employees training in the ularly, which helps reduce emissions. In the environment, including the Environmental 525 parent company, 16 per cent of its vehicles Diploma. The Environmental Diploma is an 152 are Euro 4 and 82 per cent are Euro 5. With e-learning module that provides a fundaregard to the age of the remainder of the mental introduction to different environ350 parent company’s reported vehicle fleet, 85 mental issues. The Environmental Diploma per cent of its own vehicles are from 2009 was launched in 2009 and by the end of 2012 175 or later, while 50 per cent of leased vehicles in a total of 3,449 employees had completed the Group are from 2009 or later. the e-learning module. In addition, more than In the parent company an 83-85 km/hr 700 people were in the process of complet0 speed limiter was introduced on 400 trucks in ing the module. 09 10 11 12 2011. This has benefits both for the environIn 2012 a separate environmental module NUMBER OF ELECTRIC VEHICLES ment and for safety. In 2012 this development was developed for the HSE course for new continued with the introduction of speed limemployees. iters on 30 cars in Bring Express, 72 cars in The Group is prioritising environmentally Bring Frigo and 78 cars in Bring Cargo. efficient driving education for its drivers. In 2012, 2,828 drivers completed the course. Percentage of rail reduced The percentage of rail fell from 78 to 66.9 Posten Norge and Bring’s per cent in 2012. This decrease is due to transport supplier programme varying rail punctuality and extensive mainSuppliers are important partners in Postenance work on the railways in the summer. ten Norge’s efforts to reduce the Group’s Closures at Oslo S meant that there were greenhouse gas emissions. In 2012 the periods during which the Group had to utitransport supplier programme was devellise more vehicles than otherwise during the oped and piloted. The programme contains year, in contrast to previous years, since the specific requirements and follow-up measGroup has a reduced number of routes durures that contribute to a reduction in the ing the summer. suppliers’ climate impact. To help reduce its impact on the environment, the Group has long focused on movStandardisation and certification ing freight from air to road and from road Environmental certification provides clear to rail. In December the first freight train documentation of the environmental work Posten Norge ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 03 carried out by the individual unit. Certification is also an important contribution to building a culture of continuous improvement in Posten Norge. Posten Norge has a “The focus on the environment at Posten total of 19 units that have Eco-Lighthouse certification and 10 units that have ISO Norge has resulted in the Group having certificates. Bergen Mail Terminal expanded its enviNorway’s largest vehicle fleet that runs ronmental work by, for example, receiving the Eco-Lighthouse certification in 2012, on alternative fuels.” which contributed to it winning the Bergen 153 City Environmental Award. Posten Norge is a member of Global Compact and reports on the environment via GRI’s reporting requirements. Energy efficiency Posten Norge purchases electricity with certificates of origin. This is electricity produced from renewable energy sources (sources without emissions). Posten Norge is working to reduce its electricity consumption. An important tool in this work is location-based electricity meters which allow consumption to be monitored from hour to hour. Local managers and building managers can use this information to initiate savings measures. Most of the Group’s units use this solution. During 2012 electricity-saving measures were implemented at Bring Frigo and Bring Warehousing, including competitions, sensor-controlled lighting and timed usage of lights and units. In total Posten Norge has reduced its electricity emissions from buildings by 2 per cent. Posten Norge 03 WORKING ENVIRONMENT REPORT Working environment report ORGANISATION The best HS&E year in the history of the Group Work • Development work in the long-term strategic work with HS&E is centralised to the Corporate Staff HR in the Group. Health promoting work is worthwhile. Since 2006, absence due • The divisions reserve services from Corporate Staff HR, which also functo sickness in the Group has been reduced from 9.2 % to 6.9 %. tions as a coordinating body for the management line in the divisions. A working environment that promotes good sence due to sickness, in addition to increas• There is also a local support apparatus health where no one gets injured or ill as a reing enthusiasm and well-being. The HS&E in the discipline area in the regions and sult of the work is a strategic goal for Posten effort also provides a business-related 154 business areas. Norge. Over time, long-term and systemadvantage through increased productivity atic HS&E work has produced results. Taiand profitability. lor-made initiatives and innovative solutions Lifestyle planning is offered to workers have greatly contributed to the development within the framework of the health proin positive results. moting programme in order to give them the knowledge and motivation needed they More people at work need to take responsibility for their own Today, 430 more employees are at work comhealth. In 2012, about 550 workers planned pared to 2006. This provides the Group with their own lifestyle and made individual action annual savings of NOK 60 million. At the same plans, in addition to plans and initiatives at time, there has been a significant reduction in the group level. As a support to managers in the number of serious lost-time injuries. The the work to create a health promoting enpositive trend for lost-time injuries in 2011 vironment, a scheme involving health moticontinued in 2012. In 2012, total lost-time vators, who will function as driving forces in injuries for the Group was 0.2 percent lower the local health work, has been established. than in 2011. The goal of 6.9 % absences due The Group’s communication channels will be to sickness was achieved. used to increase health competence among managers and workers. Health promoting programme This also concerns taking social responsiVarious pilot programmes that were launched bility in order to spread knowledge to other in 2012 formed the basis for the development workplaces in the public and private sectors of a comprehensive health promoting proabout how to work while promoting good gramme. This program has a unique approach health. to work in that it creates the conditions for In 2012, health promoting work was a topa good lifestyle in a good working environic in the mandatory management training on ment. The purpose is to influence the factors HS&E and at the annual HS&E conference. promoting health both in relation to the inIn addition, tools, methods and systematics dividual’s lifestyle and the good psychosocial are implemented in the organisation as the conditions at the workplace. This reduces abpilot projects and evaluations are completed. Posten Norge WORKING ENVIRONMENT REPORT 03 More safety representatives 2013 based on the IA agreement between Changes were made over the course of the Posten and the Norwegian Labour and year to the scope of the third-party coopWelfare Administration (NAV). In addition, a MANAGEMENT eration for HS&E (participants are managmore coordinated cooperation structure HS&E ers, employee representatives and safehas been established between Posten and • HS&E is the first topic on the agenda ty representatives) in the Posten Norge NAV. Work is under way to achieve “equal and at all management and staff meetings. Group. The change primarily involves that predicable services from NAV throughout the number of protected areas has been Norway”, which has served as a part of the • HS&E results are reported systematically in the Group. expanded from about 200 to about 370. intention with Posten’s consortium agreeThis has been carried out in order to ensure ment with NAV. • Every month KPIs (key performance that the HS&E work is fulfilled as close to Doctor-certified sick leave is now at a indicators) are reported to the Group the workplaces as possible. Benefits include historic low of 6.9 %. There are probably management. This includes key figures for the number of employees absent more regular meetings and discussions several reasons for the decrease. Systemdue to sickness/the number of emabout HS&E in connection with daily operatic and long-term follow-up through the ployees at work, H1 and H2 values, the ations. Third-party cooperation has been Post model has produced results, including number of employees incapacitated for 155 established at the division and regional level the increased use of a graded medical cerwork, almost accidents and undesirable in addition to local interaction groups in the tificates and altered procedures involving incidents. geographical protected areas. All safety earlier contact for follow-up between the • The Group’s Board of Directors representatives have completed or regisemployer, doctor, company health service receives reports and analyses about tered for mandatory basic training. In addiand worker in order to make adjustments HS&E results at all board meetings. tion the rules, responsibility and division of according to ability to work. • All guidelines, policies and action plans roles have been established and implementfor HR are reviewed once a year. They ed in the organisation. Long-term work with safety at work are available via a shared HS&E system. Of the permanent employees in the Group, The Group’s long-term and systematic work 96.1 % are employed in the parts of the opwith safety at work has contributed to a erations that have formal health and safety robust platform with tools, systems and committees. The committees provide advice competence. The Group works with, among and monitor initiatives that promote health other things, safety reviews of operational and safety. units, investigation of accidents, reporting of near-accidents/undesirable incidents It helps and safety discussions between managers In 2006, the group began using the “It helps and employees. methodology”. The methodology is the In addition, focused action campaigns are Group’s systematic approach to getting being implemented in the most vulnerable workers with repeated absences over time areas such as, for example, falls on ice, truck back to work. The methodology is continuaccidents and crush injuries. ously further developed, and it has also had In 2012, a safety standard, which is based a good effect in 2012. Workers who are abon legislation and regulations in the Scandisent 24 days or more in the past three years navian countries, was prepared within HS&E have been a prioritised group in this work. for all Bring terminals and cold storage faThe group was reduced by 28 % in 2012. cilities. The standard comprises 81 control The Group continued work on regional IA points covering everything from securing action plans in 2012 for the period 2010 to buildings and goods to the most important Posten Norge 03 WORKING ENVIRONMENT REPORT areas in order to create a safe working ensummer of 2012. Despite that not all units ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS vironment. Over the course of autumn 2012, were completely injury-free, several large percentage of the Group eight audits were completed in relation to units and more than 600 smaller units dis6,9 % the new standard. Running parallel with the completed audits, 66 Bring terminal managtinguished themselves as injury-free for the second year in a row. The total number of ers completed a self-evaluation of the conlost-time injuries was significantly reduced. 8,5 trol points contained in the safety standard. It has been decided that the standard and Manager and team development the associated auditing tool shall be used in For many years the Group has worked sys8,0 the whole Group and include transport and tematically to develop its managers. One of mail distribution. The original auditing meththe measures that has lasted several years ods will be phased out when this is ready is mandatory raising of competence for all 7,5 over the course of 2013. Over the past managers through an annual three-hourthree years, 51 audits were completed in long HS&E course. In 2012, the main topic 156 Posten Norge pursuant to previous audition was a workplace that promotes good health. 7,0 methodology. The results from the audits Almost 100 managers also received training have gradually improved. in the work promoting good health through 6,5 In 2012, 77 investigations of incidents the CEO’s annual HS&E conference. At the 08 09 10 11 12 POINTS where workers injured themselves were conference the CEO hands out the HS&E completed. This means that almost four of award to a unit that has distinguished itself 10 lost-time injuries are investigated. The with systematic and good HS&E work over reports are anonymous and made available the course of the year. on the Intranet. In 2012, the group development method Group Development Questionnaire (GDQ) Lost-time injuries was put into use. This is a tool for measurThe definition of injuries was changed as of ing and developing work and management 1 January 2012 in order to comply with the groups. Using the questionnaire, the workstandard in Norwegian industry. One efers and managers’ perception of how the fect of this is improved focus on the most group functions at a given point is measserious injury cases, for example that only ured. The results demonstrate, among othlost-time injuries requiring medical treater things, how productive and efficient the ment are now included in the H1 value, while group is, what it succeeds at, what prevents all other personal injuries are registered as the group from improving, what should be H2 injuries. improved and which questions the group The change in the definition means that should focus on in order to increase its proH1 values in 2012 can not be compared with ductivity, well-being and to increase the fothe H values in previous years. The number cus on good health at work. of lost-time injuries has reduced (independent from the change in the definition) by half Attractive workplace from 357 in 2011 to 166 in 2012. One of the Group’s main aims is to be an atThe H1 value for the Group was 5.3. The tractive workplace. As of 31 December 2012, goal for 2012 was 8.5. there were 20,646 permanent employees in A safety campaign was carried out in the the Group in 15 countries. The Group has Posten Norge WORKING ENVIRONMENT REPORT 03 temporary employees, including on-call subGroup had a stable and good working envistitutes who work in periods as required. Of ronment with an increase in employee satisEMPLOYEE the permanent employees 80.2 % work in faction. The Group achieved a total score of SATISFACTION Norway. Employees in the other 14 countries 78, a one point improvement over 2011. on a scale from 1 to 100, where 100 is best are primarily local employees. This is because the Group has expanded by purchasing loIn total, 90 % of employees answered the organisation survey. Of those who answered, 78 cally-established companies. The Group has 85 % report completing appraisal conversa80 decided (but not fully implemented) action tions with their immediate manager and 85 rules that will govern central aspects of lo% report that they were satisfied with the 79 cal recruitment in relation to recruitment quality of the appraisal conversation. processes, equality, non-discrimination and 78 intra-Group mobility. Regulated working life In 2007, 37.9 % of all of the Group’s permaA constructive and professional cooperanent employees were women. Of the Group’s tion with the employee representatives is a 77 manager’s 30.5% were women. premise for a good development in the sala157 The Group has a good overview of the salry and personnel policy. In the Group, 96.6 % 76 ary level in the different job categories and of the employees work in a company where the different countries where we operate, one or more wage agreements have been 75 08 09 10 11 12 as well as the relationship between men and established. POINTS women’s salaries in the Group. The Nordic In the Norwegian companies, as a link in countries do not have a minimum wage. The the work to establish a well-functioning salary level and starting wage are regulated cooperation, necessary role clarifications in the negations between employee reprehave been made and training of employer sentatives and the employer. There are no and employee groups based on the rules gender-related differences in salary level of cooperation in the relevant Main Agreebetween men and women in the Group. ments has been completed. Management In 2012, 1,551 employees were hired in training on this topic is now also being ofpermanent jobs in the Group, of which 1,176 fered through Internet-based training and were hired in Norway. In total, the Group information modules. had a turnover of 10.2 % in 2012. There was The planning shows that no company has a 9.5 % turnover in Norway. For the Group denied a submitted request for a tariff as a whole the turnover among women is 0.4 agreement. In 2012, negotiations with em% higher than among men. There is higher ployee representatives in the Group were turnover among workers under 30 years old competed and an agreement was signed than among workers 31 years old and oldwith a European Works Council (EWC). A new er. Of the employees who went on parental election of employee representatives to the leave in the parent company, 96 % returned Board of Directors of Posten Norge was to work at the end of their leave. There were also conducted. more men than women who returned at the end of their leave. Pension advice offered under the auspices The annual organisation survey was upof the company dated into a new format in 2011. The result Employees of Posten Norge have pension from the survey in 2012 shows that the and employee insurance schemes through Posten Norge 03 WORKING ENVIRONMENT REPORT DNB life insurance. The company is also conIn 2011, the Group developed a new manEMPLOYEES (FULL-TIME EQUIVALENTS) nected to the joint scheme for contractual agement programme for top managers. The number pension (AFP). The Norwegian subsidiaries programme will contribute to further devel19 388 have similar pension and employee insurance schemes. oping a leadership style among participants that supports the strategy on becoming an Posten Norge AS has an internal advisory integrated, Nordic and industrial Group. The 21 000 body for pensions. The company’s employees first group of 11 participants completed the are thus offered to receive individual pencourse over the course of 2012. sion advice before they turn 62 years old. For many years, the Group has focused on Over the course of 2012, 513 such individual mandatory competence raising for all man20 000 advisory sessions were carried out. Expandagers through an annual three-hour HS&E ing the advisory function to the Norwegian course. In 2012, the main topic was a worksubsidiaries is under consideration. place that promotes good health. The measure shall ensure that the indiThe Group has also contributed in the 158 19 000 vidual’s decision regarding when to retire development of management groups and and when pension withdrawals are made is teams in all divisions in 2012. based on correct information. As of 1 Janu18 000 ary 2011 a pension reform was implemented Development of talent 09 10 11 12 STAFFING in Norway that, among other things, opens In 2012, the Group has continued the work the possibility for flexible pension withdraws. with the development of “Management ReToday, a trend has been identified that more view” and the Talent Programme. employees in the age group 62 years old are In “Management Review” all top and middle continuing to work. managers in the Group are assessed using a systematic evaluation. In addition, the ambiManager and team development tion and desire for organisational and geoFor many years, the Group has worked sysgraphical mobility is documented. tematically to develop its managers. In 2012, the Group completed the Talent In 2012, 174 managers completed a manProgramme for 14 middle managers. The goal agement program conducted by the Group. was to stimulate mobility across divisions, Eleven managers participated in the top highlight management talents and generate management programme, 61 managers motivation for careers in the Group. have participated in the middle management The Group’s two-year-long trainee proprogramme, and 92 managers have particigramme was conducted for the 13th year pated in the first line manager programme in a row. Following a thorough evaluation “More secure as a manager”. process, where also management potenIn 2010, the Group launched the protial is assessed, seven Group trainees were gramme “Aspiring Managers”. The purpose recruited in 2012. Continued strengthened was to recruit more first line managers from profiling towards Swedish colleges and uniour own employees. The programme is carversities has resulted in a great deal of ried out as required in the relevant regions. good Swedish applicants. New this year was In the spring of 2012, region south western a strengthened profiling of the programme Norway completed Aspiring Managers for towards Swedish universities and collegthe second time with 10 participants. es. Summer Internships with four summer Posten Norge WORKING ENVIRONMENT REPORT 03 trainees as well as a Norwegian Business nationalities. Of all of the Group’s managamong managers in carrying out good sick School internship with three trainees were ers, 3.3 % have an immigrant background. leave follow-up of employees with immigrant completed. Today in the parent company, the share of backgrounds. immigrants within the staff and manageImportant competence measures ment is 4.49 %. “You make a difference” The Group has its own education portal The Group has a goal that 15 % of the The internal development programme “You Posten Norge and Bring Academy that is company’s employees in Norway shall have an make a difference” for employees with famoffered to all employees in the Group. The immigrant background by the end of 2015. In ily backgrounds from outside the Nordic Academy offers everything from specialorder to increase the amount of diversity in area was continued in 2012. The programme ly-designed e-learning to standard courses positions in corporate staff units and manis particularly aimed at operational employin cooperation with external suppliers. agement in Norway, a special goal has been ees who have competence they are not able The Group offers a scholarship scheme established that 7.5 % of employees in these to use in their present positions. In total, 49 as a supplement to the other competence position categories have a immigrant backapplications (73 the previous year) were remeasures. The scheme shall contribute ground at the end of 2015. ceived, of which four employees were choto motivating employees to expand their sen as trainees in corporate staff units and 159 knowledge in a chosen discipline through Racism free zone management for a year. strengthened formal competence. In 2012 In collaboration with Norwegian People’s two application processes were carried out. Aid, Posten has been a racism free zone Our own mentor programme The Group received 104 applications and 44 since 2001. In 2011, the agreement was In 2012, Posten’s own mentor programme were awarded scholarships. There was a toexpanded to apply to the whole Group. The for promoting integration among unemtal of 280 applications in the period 2009agreement entails that all units will highployed immigrant women started up for the 2012, and of these applications 162 schollight and demonstrate that the company second time. The programme is intended to arships were granted. Through cooperation is racism free and that there is zero-tolhelp these women find employment and prowith the Ministry of Education and Reerance for discrimination. The Group’s corvide knowledge about the Norwegian worksearch and the agency VOX, 75 employees in porate unit for misconduct did not treat ing life. NAV Alna and NAV Grünerløkka conthe Group in Norway completed a 100-hour cases concerning discrimination in 2012. tribute in the recruitment of relevant and course with a focus on basic competences Since 2005, the Group’s annual organisainterested candidates for the programme. such as reading, writing and computing. The tional survey has contained the statement, The Group has a total of 10 women who are focus on basic competence is an important “There is no racism in my unit”. On a scale of mentors. instrument for advancing integration of 1-7 where 7 is the best result, this stateemployees with immigrant backgrounds. In ment rose from 6.1 in 2011 to 6.2 in 2012. Internship for immigrant women 2012, 51% of course participants had a miIn 2012, funds were announced (for the In 2012, eight internships were created (up nority language background. second time) for measures that promote from four last year) for immigrant womThe Group continues its focus on certifidiversity and integration under the camen who have never before worked in Norcates of apprenticeship by making arrangepaign, “With us, differences are the norm”. way. The project is in cooperation with NAV ments for placement candidates and bringFunds were allocated to five different Grünerløkka, NAV Østensjø and NAV Alna, ing in apprentices. measures. which provide the candidates. In 2013, the diversity work will continue Ambitious diversity goals Cross-cultural sick leave follow-up with all the measures that were initiatIn 2012, 11.2 % of the Group’s employees had In cooperation with NAV, a course on sick ed in 2011 and completed in 2012, with the an immigrant background. In Norway, 12.2 leave follow-up in a cross-cultural perspecexception of the sick leave follow-up in a % of the Group’s employees had a minority tive was completed for the second year in cross-cultural perspective. background, divided between more than 70 a row. The goal is to increase competence Posten Norge 03 INTEGRITY REPORT Integrity Report Integrity report During 2012 the Group worked intensively to implement the Integrity Programme to all areas of the Group. In October 2011 the Group launched its first Integrity Handbook 160 integrity programme. The integrity proThe handbook is based on the ethical guidegramme will help strengthen the Group’s lines but goes into more detail for topics the standard for ethics and integrity. It consists Group has chosen to focus on in the integrity of several tools which aim to give employees programme: anti-corruption, social dumping, and selected business partners advice and information security and legal competitive guidance related to: practices. All employees in the Group received a copy of the handbook in Norwegian, • anti-corruption Swedish or English via Post & Bringavisen • legal competitive practices and Bringnews. • social dumping • information security E-learning module on integrity An e-learning module has been created using the information in the ethical guidelines and The tools have been created to make it easthe integrity handbook. It is based on various ier for employees in the Group to live up to dilemmas about integrity that the Group’s the requirements and expectations Posten employees can meet. The target group for the Norge has of them. They include ethical guidee-learning module consists of the employees lines, an integrity handbook, an e-learning in the Group deemed to be most vulnerable module, a tailored training programme and a to typical risk situations discussed in the incorporate unit for misconduct for employees. tegrity programme (primary target group). In 2012 around 2,280 employees completed the Ethical guidelines module. This corresponds to around 11% of The integrity programme rests in its entirety the total number of employees in the Group on the Group’s ethical guidelines, which were and around 44% of the primary target group. adopted in 2006. In 2012 the Group’s ethical [GRI S03 – partially reported]. guidelines, in Norwegian, Swedish and English, were once again distributed to all employTailored training programme ees in the Group via Post & Bringavisen and E-learning is not sufficient as the only trainBringnews. ing tool. Managers, support staff, sales and Posten Norge INTEGRITY REPORT 03 marketing resources and other persons who for the follow-up of all reports have been knowledge about the integrity standards of will function as resource persons with reprepared to ensure that the person reportour business partners. The Group has develgard to integrity-related issues must undering the concern is not subject to negative oped clear criteria for performing integrity go further training. Therefore, a course was repercussions.. due diligence of businesses before an agreedeveloped for this specific target group usIn 2012 the corporate unit for misconduct ment is signed. In 2013 integrity due diligence ing “classroom teaching”. These courses are received nine reports, which were investiof the business partners considered to repbased on the e-learning module, but go into gated and assessed. None of these cases resent the largest risk for the Group will be more detail and focus on discussing relevant referred to an alleged breach of corruption prioritised. problems that arise. In 2012, approximately rules. 700 people participated in the training course. The Group’s corporate unit for misconduct Supplier management reports to the audit committee of Posten The Group places minimum requirements on 161 The corporate unit for misconduct Norge AS once every six months. The report its suppliers as described in the document The Group’s standard for ethics and integridetails the number and type of cases as well “Ethical standard for suppliers”. ty is outlined in its ethical guidelines and its as the results of each case. In addition the In 2012 more than 46 per cent of the supintegrity handbook. If employees experience, measures taken and activities implementpliers with existing framework agreements discover or suspect unacceptable conditions, ed and completed by the corporate unit for were reviewed for their compliance with the they are encouraged to notify their immedimisconduct during the six-month period are ethical standards. ate superior. reported. The Group installed an IT system in 2012 In the event it is not possible or is considfor supplier management of corporate social ered to be difficult to notify an immediate suPlans and main goals for 2013 responsibility. Pilots for testing and adapting perior, the Group has an in-house corporate The main focus for 2013 will be to conclude the the IT system were conducted in Bring Cargo unit for misconduct (established in 2006). implementation of the integrity programme East, Bring Cargo Offshore&Energy and CorThrough the implementation of the integrity with regard to Group employees. In particular, porate Staff Procurement in Posten Norge programme, it was announced and clarified the tailored training course still needs to be AS. Group management decided in December in 2012 that this is channel is available to all held for the target groups that did not take to implement the programme for supplier Group employees regardless of their country the course in 2012. management throughout the entire Group. or company. Important suppliers will be the main priorThe corporate unit for misconduct places Control and compliance ity, as well as high-risk suppliers within the emphasis on the fact that it should be easy Another important focus area in 2013 is the Group’s core business. to raise a concern, and it can be reached by introduction of measures and control mechIn 2013 the Group will continue to educate e-mail, telephone and post. The contact deanisms to ensure that the Group complies the managers at its subsidiaries in supplier tails were distributed in 2011 and 2012 via the with and fulfils the integrity standard. This will management and establish networks of cointegrity handbook and can also be found on be achieved through reporting from Group ordinators to follow up on the suppliers in the Group’s intranet. managers as well as other central control their business. In addition, the Group works continuously measures. The Group will also further strengthen its to ensure that reports are handled appropriposition as one of the best mail and logistics ately, both in regard to the person reporting Focus on business partners providers in the Nordic region with regard to the concern and the person or entity whose An important part of the integrity prosupplier control of corporate social responactions have initiated the report. Procedures gramme is to ensure that we have sufficient sibility. Posten Norge Posten Norge AS, PO Box 1500 Sentrum, 0001 OSLO, NORWAY. Telephone: +47 23 14 90 00. www.postennorge.com
