KAPITEL UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IN 2012 2012 COP for EAC EAC is delighted to present its stakeholders with the Group’s In 2012 EAC followed up on the business segments on a continuous third Communication on Progress towards implementing the 10 basis. This resulted in policies and systems such as; HR systems, UN Global Compact principles. EAC supports the international staff manuals, supplier code of conduct, an internal grievance community’s call for improved corporate sustainability governance mechanism and in whistle blower functions being strengthened. through new and revised guidelines. EAC also makes continuous EAC also assisted the business segments with the implementation efforts to adapt its sustainability activities to the global megatrends of improved local organisational anchorage of CSR management, that form the business opportunities of Santa Fe and Plumrose. training in CSR performance measurement, internal and external EAC focuses on meeting the growing expectations of customers, benchmarking and reporting. During 2012, EAC together with the employees, authorities and other stakeholders and on ensuring that Santa Fe Group developed an e-learning tool for training managers the businesses take every opportunity to include sustainability in and staff across the group. their long-term profitability strategies. EAC’s role is to provide inspiration and to secure the quality of the 2012 was a year of continued implementation and integration of businesses’ strategy and efforts based on the People-Planet-Profit systems and guidelines. During 2012 focus was on implementing matrix that EAC has established as a framework for its sustainability systems to strengthen EAC’s capabilities in business-driven work. EAC ensures that the businesses set up the necessary systems sustainability management. Relevant data collection, performance to comply with international standards of socially, environmentally measurements, target setting, risk assessments, e-learning and and economically sustainable development, and EAC regularly a clear delegation of roles and responsibilities will make up the evaluates and reviews the businesses’ data collection, performance backbone of EAC’s strategy to adequately address the need for measurement, target setting, risk assessment, etc. For EAC, it is key sustainability governance, including adequate procedures to combat that the businesses exploit the business potential inherent in their corruption. EAC systematically implements IT systems to support sustainability work. data collection, information management and training of staff. In 2013, EAC will enhance the businesses’ commercially driven EAC not only aims to make collection of quantitative and qualitative sustainability approach by using the improved access to performance data an essential part of the strategic management of CSR issues, data to benchmark operational units against each other and set but also to use it as an operational management tool across new targets. EAC will also step up the integration of CSR data in its businesses and countries. Strategic management of sustainability quality control and environmental management systems, and the risks and opportunities is an integral part of good governance at Group’s CSR activities will be extended to include contracts and EAC. Therefore, EAC applied implemented data collection in 2012 follow-up on selected sub-suppliers’ performance. throughout most of the Interdean business acquired in 2011. Niels Henrik Jensen President & CEO 1 UN GLOBAL IMPACT / COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS business segment has a top-level CSR/Ethics committee and persons Group CSR Policy responsible for the daily management and coordination of CSR The CSR policy of the EAC Group is based on the 10 UN Global efforts. CSR standards and processes are increasingly integrated Compact principles (UNGC) along with compliance with international into the business segments’ functional work instructions, procedures and national laws. Where international minimum standards for and delegation of responsibilities across business and country CSR are higher than required those by national law, EAC strives to operations. Despite the progress made over the last couple of years, uphold international standards. In addition, EAC goes beyond legal the EAC Group Management is committed to improved sustainability compliance in a number of areas where the company can contribute governance, and sees it as a continuous learning process. to sustainable development by applying its core competences. The CSR policy outlines EAC’s social, environmental and economic responsibility and commitment. For the full CSR policy of the Structure of the Report EAC Group and more information on how each business segment Please see the following sections for more information about CSR implements and plans to implement CSR, see www.eac.dk. implementation, performance and planned activities in the Santa Fe Group and Plumrose. The remainder of the report is divided into two Organisational Anchorage sections separately presenting the progress of each of the business segments. EAC Group Management in close cooperation with the business segments oversees the CSR processes and efforts, including the This report meets the requirements of section 99a of the Danish development of the businesses capacity in order to ensure that Financial Statements Act. they continually use strategic CSR as a means to create value for the Company and contribute to its sustainable development. Each This report is available on www.eac.dk PEOPLE • Continuously improve EAC’s governance • Continuously seek to improve EAC’s system to ensure compliance with basic awareness, processes and production human rights facilities in order to set new environmental • Identify ways of maximising the positive standards in markets whenever possible. social impact of EAC’s business operations where EAC has special skills, products or services to make a difference. PROFIT • Apply a zero-tolerance approach with PLANET respect to corruption, extortion and bribery in accordance with principle 10 of the UN • Assess and reduce the negative impact Global Compact. of EAC’s operations on the environment, • Continuously work to improve governance including climate change structures to combat corruption in all its • Meet or exceed applicable regulatory forms. requirements wherever EAC conducts its operations 2 UN GLOBAL IMPACT / COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IN 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 SANTA FE GROUP Page 1 of 19 1892 1959 1980 Statement of continual improvement The Santa Fe Group is delighted to present its third Communication on Progress report in support of our continued commitment to the 10 UNGC principles. The Santa Fe Group has gone through many changes in the past 3 years with the acquisitions of Wridgways in Australia and Interdean in Europe. As our global footprint expands, so do our business activities. We recognise that long-term sustainable growth is only possible if our services represent an inherent good to our clients and only if the possible negative impact of these services can be avoided or minimized. We have spent the last 12 months focusing on collecting information about our CSR business activities and implementing consistent reporting across all areas of the business. Investment in data collection by means of a software package used across locations allows us to truly see how we are performing and identify areas where improvement is needed. A key highlight of 2012 was the integration of 6 European offices into our CSR programme. Self assessments were completed allowing offices to assess their individual performance. In 2012 the Santa Fe Group continued to demonstrate our commitment to the communities in which we do business, and a number of charity events took place to raise money for causes. We held a number of training conferences to bring staff together to share ideas and best practices. We are delighted to also confirm the appointment of a Group Director of People, Talent and Culture, who has started working on a number of projects to increase learning throughout the company via the Santa Fe Academy. In the Santa Fe Group we want to be part of the solution for environmental change and our plan for 2013 will be to really drive some of the great initiatives that have been implemented in some of our operations such as trucking route planners. In addition we will be giving our clients the opportunity to offset carbon emissions associated with their relocations. We continue to combat corruption and in 2012 we released a Code of Conduct for all managers accompanied by an eLearning module on anti-corruption. In 2013 we intend to release an employee manual covering business ethics within the Santa Fe Group. We understand that in order to truly be part of the campaign against corruption we must extend our values to our supply chain and in 2013 we will be providing anti-corruption training to companies that do business with us. The UNGC principles will continue to act as a guide, an inspiration and an aspiration to help create a sustainable future. The Santa Fe Group will continue to drive forward its commitment to the UNGC guided by its own longstanding values of trust, honesty and integrity. Page 2 of 19 We hope you enjoy reading the report and look forward to communicating our progress next year. Lars Lars Lykke Iversen CEO of Santa Fe Group Contents page 1. Overview 2. Social contributions 3. Human rights 4. Labour standards 5. Environment 6. Anti-corruption Page 3 of 19 OVERVIEW People Social Sustainability Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Support freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Support the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: Support elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment & Guidelines & Systems Actions Status/ Results targets Continuous monitoring of our governance system to Business Code of Conduct All managers to sign the Achieved ensure compliance with Business Code of Conduct basic human rights within our organization and those 85% of major suppliers to In progress with whom we interact Supplier Code of Conduct sign the Supplier Code of Conduct Compliance with national legislation Formally release the Ensure that all middle Grievance mechanism and grievance mechanism and managers and above whistleblower system whistleblower system In progress complete the eLearning throughout European modules on antioffices discrimination and corruption Sofi data collection system Ensure management are On going engaged in CSR activities Continue to reduce workrelated accidents eLearning antidiscrimination module Create a Health and safety In progress Work towards reducing virtual team to promote employee turnover and educate staff on Health and Safety policies health and safety matters and management systems Director of People, Culture and Talent to put in place In progress career progression plans, training and other initiatives to retain staff. Page 4 of 19 Planet Environmental sustainability Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies Commitments & Targets Guidelines & Systems Actions Status/ Results Reduce the negative impact of our business on Standardize key ISO the environment, meet or environmental objectives exceed regulatory across the Group. requirements and In progress continuously seek to ISO 14001, environmental Internal and External improve our processes to management systems. audits to measure achieve high standards. compliance to 14001 and Group Environmental adherence to UNGC Reduce carbon emissions. Policy principles Ongoing Implement a voluntary Sofi data collection system Create an Environmental programme to allow clients virtual team to promote to offset Carbon emissions and educate staff on on their relocation. environmental matters. In progress Ensure as a minimum Communicate off-setting In progress Euro 2 norm for trucks by emissions to clients and end of 2013 create an online payment facility Reuse 100 % of packing material where quality is not compromised. Profit Financial Sustainability Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitments & Targets Systems Actions Status/ Results Apply a zero tolerance approach with respect to Financial audits corruption, extortion and bribery. Continuously identify ways of Code of Business Conduct Signed by all Managers Completed maximizing the positive impact of our business operations where we have Employee Code of Employee awareness In progress special skills, products or Conduct campaign on business services to make a ethics to be launched. difference in the communities where we live Supplier engagement in In progress and work. Supplier Code of Conduct CSR. Managers to complete Roll out whistleblower In progress eLearning training Whistleblower system system in Europe modules on anti-corruption 85 % of major suppliers to eLearning anti-corruption Management engagement In progress sign the code of conduct module in CSR activities 75 percent of external Sofi Data collection suppliers to undergo antisystem corruption training. Page 5 of 19 PEOPLE Social Contributions The Santa Fe Group remains active in a variety of ways in support of community events and charitable organizations. We believe that, in supporting charities and community events, we not only improve the communities and world we live in, we also motivate staff and create goodwill. The Santa Fe Group sees itself as a company that can provide not only financial contributions but also time, expertise, resources and experience to our communities. The community organizations supported by the Santa Fe Group include women’s groups, crisis help lines, international schools, amateur arts organizations, non-profit organizations sports leagues, Oxfam, Marie Curie Cancer Care, The Johns Hopkins Research Fund which focus on the treatment of breast cancer care. In 2012 the Santa Fe Group continued its commitment to Cancer Research, Santa Fe Asia and Australia contributed USD 5.00 per move performed to Johns Hopkins Research Fund raising USD 94,795. Santa Fe also organized a fun run to raise money for John Hopkins which contributed a further USD 21,068. In Europe money is raised and logistical services are provided to Marie Curie Cancer Care including a charity box scheme collecting unwanted household goods for distribution at Marie Curie’s national network of shops. In 2013 Santa Fe Asia and Interdean Europe will contribute USD 5.00 to Bartrams School for every relocation performed. The money raised will be used to expand the school’s grounds so that children can continue their education up to the seventh grade instead of the current fourth grade. WridgWays Australia will be supporting Red Kite, a charity that supports children and young people with cancer. Red Kite support services include financial assistance, emotional support and education assistance. WridgWays will contribute USD 5.00 for every international outbound relocation performed. The Santa Fe Group is also a proud sponsor of the Foundation for Social Change, a not-for-profit organization whose primary purpose is to improve the lives of impoverished women around the world. The Santa Fe Group’s commitment to our communities 2012 Breast cancer research Santa Fe Hong Kong walking for Breast Santa Fe Dubai walking for Cancer Research Cancer Research In November 2012 Santa Fe Dubai participated in In October 2012 Santa Fe Hong Kong The Burjuman Pink Walkathon in support of participated in the Pink Walk for Breast Health Breast Cancer Research. Over 13,000 people 2012 – an annual walkathon organized by the attended the event to raise awareness. Hong Kong Breast Cancer Foundation (HKBCF) for making bigger strides in eliminating the threat of breast cancer USD 12,290 was raised for the organization. Staff wore specially made pink Santa Fe T-Shirts to mark the occasion. Page 6 of 19 Children’s rights and welfare Santa Fe employees support local community school in Phuket Thailand. Approximately 100 Santa Fe employees took part in a community project, working with 60 children from the Tessaban Muang Phuket School in Thailand. Employees from across Santa Fe’s Asia Pacific, European and Middle Eastern offices, who had travelled to Thailand for the company’s Asia Pacific strategic meeting, spent the final day working with the children. The children, aged 9-11 years received donations and books from the Santa Fe Group which will be used to help in their development. The Sante Fe Group’s staff and the children took part in teambuilding exercises which encouraged teamwork, social development and language training. Santa Fe New Delhi has been associated with the NGO Sahara for the past 3 years. Sahara provides care and support to substance users. It also runs an informal school for under privileged children and a home for destitute women. The new Delhi office regularly donates wood pieces and plywood which is recyclable waste generated from the Art Carpentry Dept. The wood is used for various purposes ( at times even burnt to keep them (who?) warm during the long and cold winter). This year employees suggested that we can help train the men undergoing rehabilitation to make some useful things from the wood that was donated to them. Our carpenters conducted a 1/2 day workshop where they trained them to make small items like benches and stools. Page 7 of 19 PEOPLE: Social contributions Continued In 2012 Santa Fe Group employees contributed more than 755 hours to volunteering, and monetary contributions of USD 121,000 to NGOs. More details about contributions are provided in the charts below. 140000 120000 100000 80000 60000 Santa Fe 2011 USD Santa Fe 2012 USD 40000 20000 0 Monetary Monetary Value of in kind Value of in kind contributions to contributions to contributions to contributions to NGOs etc breast cancer NGOs etc Others research 1800 1600 1400 1200 1000 800 Santa Fe 2011 600 Santa Fe 2012 400 200 0 Hours of in kind Hours of in kind Hours of employee contributions to NGOs contributions to Others volunteering [h] etc [h] [h] Page 8 of 19 PEOPLE: High standards for high quality service The Santa Fe Group positions itself within the industry worldwide as an attractive employer capable of recruiting and retaining top quality employees. The Santa Fe Group works to ensure good working conditions for all employees and strives to be an exemplary employer. To maintain high quality standards that result in employee satisfaction and low employee turnover, Santa Fe supports a work environment conductive to good health. The Santa Fe Group strives to be the employer of choice for 2,683 employees. This includes respecting and supporting internationally proclaimed human rights including the basic principles of the International Labour organization’s Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Turnover The average employee turnover increased again in 2012. Similar trends from 2011 were observed with high employee turnover rates in Asia and Australia. 40% Locations such as China, Singapore and Korea continue to yield high employee turnover rates 30% where English speaking abilities are in high demand. Australia 2011 Employee continues to yield a high turnover 20% Turnover whilst this is a market where employee turnover is generally 2012 Employee high. We hold it a high priority to 10% turnover reduce the employee turnover. In 2012 Santa Fe Group confirmed the appointment of a Director of 0% People, Talent and Culture to deal with these challenges and further Asia Australia Europe develop our employees. Employee feedback is invaluable to Santa Fe. Many offices have a suggestion box whereby feedback can be given to the Company. For the third year Interdean London participated in the ‘Best Companies Awards’. Employees at all levels complete questionnaires which are designed to measure employee commitment. Interdean London were awarded a ‘One to Watch’ status. Page 9 of 19 Diversity Whilst the moving and storage industry remains mainly male dominated, Santa Fe believes in equality; treating staff fairly regardless of their gender. New members of staff and managers are recruited exclusively on the basis of their qualifications and experience. Skills, performance and ethical conduct are our only indicators of employee qualifications. Santa Fe will not tolerate discrimination with respect to gender, race, age, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, national origin, social status or any other protected discrimination grounds. The percentage of female employees increased by 4% in 2012 compared to 2011 and we hope to continue to see an increase in the gender ratio in the years to come. Santa Fe Gender Ratio 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 2011 30% 20% 2012 10% 0% Total Total Senior Senior Middle Middle workforceworkforcemanagementmanagementmanagementmanagementMale Female Male Female Male Female Australia On closer observation of the data whilst the Santa Fe Group showed an overall increase of No. of Males 4% this is predominately due to the addition of Total workforce European offices who yield a very positive 29% gender ratio. Our operations in Asia and Australia employ packing crews, which make 71% up a large proportion of the male workforce, No. of Females whereas in Europe this role is subcontracted. Total workforce Page 10 of 19 Asia Europe No. of Males No. of Males Total workforce Total workforce 33% 47% 53% 67% No. of Females Total workforce No. of Females Total workforce Training A wide range of personal and specialised training provisions enable employees to improve their knowledge and skills allowing for personal and professional development. The Santa Fe Group is committed to on-going training of all employees and consistent delivery of a ‘first class service’. Quality can only be achieved through a proactive, managed training and development programme. Induction programmes for all staff regardless of position and ongoing training typically includes training in the following areas:  Health and safety training and procedures  Quality programmess and policies  Human Resource issues including, but not limited to, discrimination, corruption and data security  Company profile/-policies  Customer service, sales, operations, service delivery, insurance etc.  Whistleblower and grievance mechanism  Environmental awareness All employees are encouraged to further their careers and development through recognised qualifications. For example there are employees studying for qualifications in areas as diverse as finance, global mobility, business administration, sales management, health and safety, customer service and real estate. The Santa Fe Group also runs exchange programmess allowing employees from across the region to experience working in another country. In 2013 eLearning modules on non-discrimination will be released to managers in support of the Business Code of Conduct. In 2012 Santa Fe Group employees had an average of 14 training hours per employee. This included 8,720 hours of health and safety and environmental training. In 2013 our goal will be to increase the average number of training hours per employee to 20. Page 11 of 19 Hours of Training by employee category 30000 25 25000 19,6 20 20000 13,5 13,6 13,6 15 12,4 2011 15000 2012 11,8 10 Average Training 2011 [h] 10000 5,1 Average Training 2012 [h] 4,9 5 5000 0 0 Senior Middle Staff Training Temporary Management Management [h] workers Training [h] Training [h] Training [h] Training continued In February 2012 over 100 employees from Europe gathered in Kiev for the annual Sales and Operations Conference. The theme chosen was ‘A Learning Experience’ which involved various workshops covering Relocation, Information Security, AntiCorruption, Sales techniques, Operations and Quality. In 2012 the focus was on staff training with the release of ‘The Perfect Relocation’. Summits were held in London and Germany to bring staff together to learn and share knowledge and skills specifically relating to Relocation Services. In November 2012 over 100 employees attended Asia Pacific Strategic Meeting in Thailand. Awards were give for outstanding performance and it was an oportunity for employees to come together to learn and share success stories . Page 12 of 19 The academy formally known as the Interdean Academy has been rebranded and is now known as the Santa Fe Group Academy which is available to all employees in the Group. The Academy now led by the Group Director of People, Talent and Culture has changed the way in which learning is done and perceived across the Group. Academy training has become much more than face to face training sessions with our FIDI certified training staff and due to our Global footprint additional resources such as webinars, and prerecorded training videos are being utilised by staff across the world. Health and safety Occupational Health and Safety are important priorities for the Santa Fe Group and is actively managed by means of risk assessments and regular information to employees about avoiding accidents, illnesses and maintaining a healthy life-style. Occupational Health and Safety is more than a set of procedures and processes at the Santa Fe Group as employees play an important role in contributing to a safe work environment e.g. reporting accidents, communicating areas for improvement and adhering to company best practices. The Santa Fe Group currently has 12 offices certified to BS OHSAS 18001/ AS-NZ4801 (Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems). The Santa Fe Health and Safety policy underpins our systematic approach to managing health and safety in the workplace. Standardised processes and internal and external audits ensure that minimum standards are in place throughout the company. Health and safety training remains an important task in the Santa Fe Group and health and safety indicators highlight the results of our efforts, for example the number hours spent on health and safety and environmental training increased in 2012. 8,720 hours were spent on H&S and environmental training in 2012. Health & safety and environmental training hours 7000 6000 5000 Health & Safety and Environmental 4000 Training 2011 [h] 3000 Health & Safety and Environmental 2000 Training 2012 [h] 1000 0 Asia Australia Europe Page 13 of 19 Number of work accidents 200 150 100 2011 2012 50 0 Asia Australia Europe In 2012 better recording of data saw consistent accident reporting throughout the Group. Our goals for 2013 will be to reduce work place accidents. This will be driven by the virtual health and safety committee and will consist of monitoring safety in the workplace by means of risk assessments identifying trends in accidents and preventative action plans. The number of work-related fatalities in 2012 was 0. People targets and commitments for 2013  Reduce staff turnover  Reduce workplace accidents  Average 20 hours training per employee PLANET  Train all managers on the issue of non-discrimination and equal opportunities  Create a virtual Health and safety team Page 14 of 19 PLANET Group wide guidelines Our actions are guided by our group-wide environmental policies. At present Santa Fe Asia, Interdean Europe and Wridgways Australia all have separate environmental policies implemented within their respective companies. Our goal in 2013 will be to create and release a Santa Fe Group Environmental Policy, incorporating the policies already in place so that there is one consistent message being received by staff. Environmental management The Santa Fe Group complies with all the environmental regulations and standards that apply to its various offices and has implemented ISO 14001 (environmental management system) in 26 offices. ISO 14001 certification has proved to be a useful management system allowing ownership at the executive level and contributions by all staff throughout the company. ISO 14001 certification has allowed locations to actively think about their contributions to preserving the environment and seek ways to improve. In 2013 four offices in Europe will undergo internal and external audits to evaluate their environmental management systems and will seek ISO 14001 certification. With the CSR software that has been implemented throughout the group we are now able to accurately record and track our environmental activities on a group-wide basis. Promoting environmental awareness We use both internal and external communication and training to increase our employees’ awareness of environmental issues. In 2013 our goal will be to create a virtual environmental team who will drive environmental awareness within their respective locations. The team will also track and monitor trends, seek out opportunities for improvement, share best practices and implement environmental initiatives across the group. Energy management Potential areas for saving energy are systematically identified in many parts of the company, especially in locations that have achieved ISO 14001. The Santa Fe Group continues to work towards further reducing specific energy consumption by implementing initiatives like solar panels and energy-saving light bulbs. Energy consumption per employee (MJ) Energy consumption per employee saw an increase in 2012. The increase is due 52.084,89 to the addition of 6 European offices into the Group. We will be implementing ways to reduce the energy consumption through the virtual environmental team who will look at initiatives such as 49.017,78 automated computer shut downs after working hours. 2011 2012 Page 15 of 19 Material efficiency 1.735.102 The industry in which we operate is heavily reliant on natural resources, in particular 1.329.424 materials such as paper, cardboard, plastic, tape etc. for office use and packing materials. The Santa Fe Group tries to make efficient use of materials reusing them where quality will not be compromised. Total waste recycled [kg] Total waste for landfill [kg] Reducing emissions As a logistics provider with a fleet of over 678 vans and trucks in Asia, Australia and Europe, road transport is and will continue to be a major environmental impact area for the Santa Fe Group. Interdean in Europe which relies heavily on road transportation has implemented a transport team which co-ordinates truck movement throughout Europe to consolidate shipments where possible and reduce the number of empty trucks on the road. In 2013 we will be providing our clients with the opportunity to offset the emissions associated with their relocation. We will also be looking at ways to improve our trucking activity, ensuring that trucks and vans are at full capacity whenever possible. By enhancing our fleet efficiency we hope to reduce our emissions in the interim, our long term goal being to become carbon neutral. Fuel Comnsumption [MJ] per tonnage [m3] 117,52 100,21 2011 2012 The below chart shows energy consumption in MJ by region. Page 16 of 19 2013 Targets and commitments  Implement systems to allow clients to offset carbon emissions on their relocations  Create a virtual environmental team  Implement environmental management systems in four European offices  Continue to develop trucking systems to increase efficiency. Page 17 of 19 PROFIT: Financial sustainability The Santa Fe Group considers integrity and responsible behaviour in our dealings with business partners and our employees to be fundamental values that underpin everything that we do as a company. The Santa Fe Group complies with the relevant laws and legislation as a matter of course and is against all forms of corruption including extortion, bribery and any illegal or immoral behaviour. Code of conduct In 2012 the Santa Fe Group published its first Business Code of Conduct for Mangers. The Business Code of Conduct is designed to serve as a useful reference guide for management and staff, outlining company policies towards corruption and how to manage any situations that may arise. The Code forbids all forms of corruption including bribery, facilitation payments, extortion and also lays down further ethical requirements. It serves as a guide for Managers and aims to encourage integrity and ethical requirements and behavior. 100% of Managers read and signed the Code of Conduct. To support the release of the Code of Conduct, an eLearning module was released to coach and train Managers on fighting corruption in all its forms. 36% of Managers completed the eLearning module. An important goal for the Santa Fe Group in 2013 will be to release a Code of Conduct for all employees, supported by training and coaching for staff. Whistleblower system In parallel with the release of the Code of Conduct a whistleblower system was established with the purpose of managing the CSR roll out and ongoing compliance management. Employees can report incidents relating to accounting and financial irregularities, violations of laws and regulations, instances of corruption or discrimination via the dedicated hotline and/or via the confidential email address. An ethics and compliance committee was established within the organization to support the whistleblower system. Suppliers The Santa Fe Group expects our suppliers to adhere to the same ethical principles as outlined in the Business Code of Conduct and, as such, a Supplier Code of Conduct is in place. The Supplier Code of Conduct details our expectations of our supply chain in line with the 10 UN Global Compact Principles. In 2012 we saw a 33% increase in major suppliers who had signed the Supplier Code of Conduct. Major suppliers that have signed the Code of Conduct 76% 43% 2011 2012 A key priority in 2013 will be monitoring instances of corruption in our supply chain. Suppliers will be expected to complete a quarterly declaration detailing any instances on corruption within their organization. The Santa Fe Group will also be providing eLearning anti-corruption training for businesses we work with. Page 18 of 19 2013 Targets and commitments 85% of major suppliers to sign the Supplier Code of Conduct Release the Code of Conduct for employees eLearning training for employees on anti-corruption and business ethics Implement systems for recording instances if corruption in our supply chain eLearning training on anti-corruption for suppliers. Formally release the whistleblower mechanism to offices in Europe For further information on the Santa Fe Group’s CSR activities please contact Alan.Cartwright@santafegroup.com Page 19 of 19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IN 2012 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS “Plumrose’s CSR strategy is to turn long-term development issues into business opportunities – thereby seeking to provide solutions which are profitable and sustainable.” Bent Porsborg President & CEO Plumrose Latinoamericana C.A. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 1 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Dear Reader, Plumrose is pleased to present you with its third report on corporate social responsibility. The report presents our progress in 2012 on implementing the Global Compact principles within the areas of people, planet and profit. Plumrose is the country’s largest meat processing company and will be celebrating its 60th anniversary of operations in Venezuela later this year. Plumrose owns the entire value chain, from ‘farm to fork’ and strives to be present and readily available to all Venezuelan consumers and part of every eating occasion, offering innovative, high-quality, convenient, nutritious and tasty products. CSR strategy Plumrose’s CSR strategy is to turn long-term development issues into business opportunities – thereby seeking to provide solutions which are profitable and sustainable. The rationale for the company’s wider CSR efforts is to increase Plumrose’s ability to operate in an ever-changing market, improve its license to operate, be a step ahead of the competition, protect and increase its brand value, and promote its ability to attract and retain talented and productive employees and increase customer loyalty. People – Positive health and nutrition programme results While pursuing its core business, Plumrose makes an effort to actively support and create positive changes for its workers and local communities. This is done by offering job opportunities with favourable working conditions and strong benefits promoting knowledge of and education on health, nutrition and entrepreneurship in the local community. An excellent example is the positive impact of our health and Nutrition programmes. During 2012 we were very happy to receive positive results on the Health and Nutrition programmes we have been carrying out over the last two years in local schools and communities. Not only did the children improved their knowledge, but teachers, parents and local community representatives also showed important improvements in their knowledge base on health and nutrition. The holistic impact on the community is important for the knowledge to translate into healthy habits and positive lifestyle changes. The quantitative results revealed a large percentage drop in the number of malnourished and obese children. In this way the community project is a way for Plumrose to generate a positive contribution to society as malnutrition is a problem recognised publicly in Venezuela. Planet – Environmental improvements are good for business We are well aware of global trends and convinced that environmental sustainability and animal welfare will also become key differentiators in the Venezuelan market in the future. This is why we invest and dedicate resources to continuously improving and staying ahead of our competitors. Our farms received special attention during 2012. With the inauguration of new administrative and training facilities and a general overhaul and improvement of stable facilities, focus was placed specifically on the themes that really matter – farm efficiency, animal welfare and work conditions. Improved farm productivity and environmental management systems, including manure handling, are directly linked to environmental improvements. The investments in installations, people and animals are already starting to show signs improving indicators and, in turn, a positive effect on the environmental impact. Profit – Whistleblower function It is important for Plumrose to consistently be a good corporate citizen in every way. Therefore, we re-launched an improved whistleblower function during 2012, focusing on more and better channels for reporting of any deviations from the company’s code of business conduct. The whistleblower function did not record any incidents or allegations of corruption. Plumrose reputation and corporate sustainability As our business is dedicated to producing and selling high-quality branded meat products, held in high regard by our clients and consumers, it is essential that we constantly improve the reputation and corporate sustainability of our brands living up to consumer expectations and the seal of quality that our brands represent. Bent U. Porsborg President & CEO Plumrose Latinoamericana C.A. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 2 OVERVIEW OF PROGRESS UN Global Compact Commitment and 2013 targets Systems in Place 2012 Actions 2012 Results Principles People Social Commitment: HR policy and systems Continuous Important benefit and salary sustainability: PLUMROSE recognises that its employees are an essential ensuring: improvement of improvements provided in resource, and they are essential to making the company no underage workplace renegotiations of 2 existing Principle 1: Support and successful. Throughout all operations PLUMROSE supports the recruitment conditions and collective agreements respect the protection of human rights of its employees and stakeholders as established in facilitation of equal technology. during 2012 + one new, internationally proclaimed the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. opportunity first-time agreement human rights. freedom of Installation of negotiated for the recently 2013 targets: association new training and acquired La Montserratina Principle 2: Ensure not to Continue current donation and social support programmes. remuneration and medical service Company, bringing total be complicit in human communication installations on number of Unions and rights abuses. Communication campaign targeting employees to raise awareness channels to discuss several sites. collective agreements to 6. about business sustainability issues and corporate culture. grievances and Focus on Principle 3: Uphold the opinions. industrial safety Increased hours of training freedom of association 3 collective agreements to be negotiated during 2013 training per worker per year, up 27% and the effective Code of business vs. 2011 Recognition of the right to Improve training hours per employee by 20% conduct. Improvement of collective bargaining. facilities for Lower employee turnover Reduce work accidents by 10% persons with ratio reduced by 8 pp vs. Principle 4: Support the disabilities. 2011 elimination of all forms of Hiring process forced and compulsory focused on Fewer accidents per worker, labour. equality. down 8% vs. 2011 Principle 5: Support the Programmes & The number of effective abolition of child initiatives malnourished children down labour. promoting good by 75% and the number of nutritional habits, obese children down by Principle 6: Support the healthy 32% in participating schools elimination of lifestyles, food discrimination in respect safety and More than 740.000 meals of employment and women served in company occupation. entrepreneurship cafeterias, up 6,5% vs. 2011 in local communities, with positive results. Planet Environmental Commitment: Impact specifications Solid separation Improved conversion rate sustainability: PLUMROSE recognises the impact of the business on the per facility regarding from manure saving resources (feedstuff environment and complies with local regulations. e.g. waste water, focus. to pig weight gain). Principle 7: Support a In addition, the company is committed to continuous improvement emissions and solid precautionary approach to and pursues reductions of emissions and waste throughout the disposal. ISO 9001 Improved solid separation environmental challenges. value chain. Continues to search for better utilisation of resources, certification and rate at farm reducing especially in energy, water, packaging and other raw materials. Internal compliance ISO 14001 environmental impact Principle 8: Undertake Pursues international environmental, health and safety standards and follow-up report preparation in initiatives to promote in manufacturing facilities. feed mill. Heavy investment in stable greater environmental Internal & external renovations and animal responsibility. 2013 Targets: audits. Initial welfare Continue implementation of environmental management system environmental Principle 9: Encourage and principles. Start preparation for at least one ISO certification management Compostation pilot test the development and Improve productivity KPIs at farms. system (further implementation diffusion of development. dependent on ministry environmentally friendly Improve solid separation rate by 5pp approval) technologies. Internal and Reduce water consumption per kg of finished product produced external Important water saving per environmental kg of products produced Improve animal welfare and reduce environmental impact on farms campaigns to through best practices and projects. reduce consumption Install new water treatment plant at La Montserratina and promote recycling. Optimise resource consumption Profit Financial Commitment: Code of ethics Re-launch of No cases or allegations of sustainability: PLUMROSE code of business conduct, applicable to all units, new and corruption have been prohibits bribery and harassment and aims to work with suppliers Permanent informative improved reported through the Principle 10: Work against that adhere to the same principles. campaigns regarding Whistleblower whistleblower function corruption in all its forms, codes of ethics, values, function including extortion and 2013 Targets: whistleblower function bribery. Continue current systems and controlling efforts. Management Expand whistleblower system to include external parties. Information systems Independent controlling & auditing PEOPLE: SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 3 Collective agreements During 2012 three new collective agreements were negotiated with the respective labour unions, yielding important salary and benefit improvements and consolidating the Plumrose benefits and remuneration package as among the best in Venezuela. The Plumrose Group is currently covered by 6 different collective agreements, as the recently acquired La Montserratina business successfully formed its first union with worker representatives and negotiated its first collective agreement. Before the end of 2013 all 6 collective agreements are expected to have been renegotiated for the coming 3–year period. 2010 2011 2012 Plumrose spent more than USD 14,9m on other direct social benefits, in addition to employee incentives and salaries. Employees 3403 3567 3735 The table shows selected indicators of Plumrose’s social sustainability impact. Average seniority 6,9 8,1 8,3 Other indicators are displayed throughout this report. Employee turnover 18,5% 16,1% 8,0% Salary + Benefits VEF 531m VEF 779m VEF 1.072m Training & accidents Plumrose continues its efforts to ensure a high level of training for employees in their working area and general employment health and safety – as training is recognised as one of the key levers to improve product and process quality and lower the number of work accidents. In 2012, a total of 105,000 training hours were completed – this was more than a 42% increase compared to 2011. The 2012 numbers include training at La Montserratina. Nevertheless, the consolidated average number of training hours per employee increased from 22 hours/year to 28 hours/year in 2012 representing a 27% increase. During 2012 investment was made in dedicated training facilities at several locations to improve the learning amenities. Given the recorded results from increased training efforts and increased training requirements, certain training programmes and initiatives will be rolled out to rest of the organisation and further intensified during 2013, leading to expectations of significant an increase in training hours per worker for 2013. With the inclusion of La Montserratina in the 2012 data the total number of work accidents increased slightly in absolute terms to 1,004 in 2012 from 962 in 2011. However, looking at the accidents/worker ratio a decrease of almost 8% was achieved. This means that the result fell short of the 2012 goal of a 10% reduction in work accidents. Although the goal was not reached the general trend was positive and important lessons have been learned on how to further improve the indicator during 2013 and following years. In addition the severity of accidents was diminished when we consider the total number of days lost/worker/year, as accidents decreased more than the accidents/worker. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 4 At this point it is important to mention that more than 50% of the total recorded work accidents also include minor incidents like 2011 2012 paper cuts and bee stings etc. with no work days lost as a Work related accidents per headcount 0,29 0,27 consequence. Nevertheless, the goal for 2013 is to reach a level of Days lost due to accidents per headcount 3,51 2,94 less than 900 work accidents and continue the positive trend for Total number of Work accidents 962 1004 the accidents/worker and days lost/worker/year ratios. Work accident without lost days 52% 52% As in previous years, no work-related fatalities occurred during 2012. “Space for Diversity” campaign and execution In 2011 an informative internal campaign was rolled out nationwide creating awareness and identification of workstations and functions that could be carried out by employees with various disabilities. During 2012, important investments were made to accommodate facilities, where needed, to guarantee equal opportunities for job candidates. Plumrose currently employs more than 80 people with disabilities. “Plumrose is a company committed to its people and the statutory requirements. The installed facilities are fundamental for the mobility of people with disabilities, pregnant women and in general all employees of the company. We Hope Plumrose will serve as an example for other organisations” Representative of National Council for Persons with Disabilities (CONAPDIS) during inauguration of elevators in Cagua Plant Health and Nutrition for School Children and their families As a responsible food company Plumrose seeks to promote health and nutrition by providing education and resources to schools and local communities. In that way, the company can generate a positive impact on the community as malnutrition is a publicly recognised problem in Venezuela. Many of us have also benefited from the nutrition programme at home, because now my mom has improved in the kitchen and makes healthier food 10 year old student at participating school in Bejuma The first 2-year cycle of Plumrose´s nutritional education programmes, in schools and local communities, were finished and evaluated with very positive results. Apart from the initial reports by the schools regarding improved attention and the elimination of children fainting in class, documented results has shown important and tangible achievements. Qualitative results showed that overall knowledge about nutrition and health, based on standardised testing, grew by 28%. Quantitative results, based on financial evaluations, showed how knowledge has translated into real change of habits and healthier lifestyles in the community. The number of malnourished children fell by 75% and the number of obese children fell by 32% at participating schools. Plumrose will continue extending the nutritional education programme to new institutions and local communities in the vicinity of company locations after each 2-year cycle has closed. You cannot only talk about what happened during the programme, but what is still going on. It is clear that the participants have adopted a new food culture Director of participating school in Tejerias UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 5 Women Entrepreneurs During 2012 phase one of a new programme to empower women entrepreneurs in the local community was completed. Programme focus centres on the Cagua Plant and Slaughterhouse where Plumrose employs a large percentage of male factory workers. The programme is designed in sections providing the basic knowledge and skills to run a small food preparation business, in addition to the support and selfconfidence to start the business. A micro credit fund is available with the programme and already 40% of the initial participants are in the process of starting, or have already started, their businesses. The programme will continue and develop more entrepreneurs during 2013. Workforce by gender distribution 2010 2011 2012 Female 13% 14% 15% Male 87% 86% 85% Because of my relationship with Plumrose now I feel like an entrepreneur and I can help other women to learn like I did. Female participant from Cagua who opened up her house for on-going training sessions. Supporting communities Plumrose assesses the various needs of surrounding communities, municipalities, public services and NGOs and seeks to support these through its donation programme, including donations of own products based on specific and documented needs, requests etc. In addition to scholarships given to employees and their children as Social Benefits, Plumrose continues to support scholarship programmes called “Friendly Hand”, “Knowledge Partnership” and “I Want to Graduate”. These programmes provide financial support to enable students from low income families to get a high school, technical or college degree. Plumrose also continued sponsoring sports and organising events promoting healthy lifestyles. The largest event during the year was a 10 km running/walking race through the streets of Caracas, with more than 4,300 direct participants and thousands more participating indirectly. Proceeds from this event benefitted a breast cancer foundation (SENOS AYUDA). Plans for the future Plumrose will continue to re-invest in the company, its employees and local communities based on the growth of the business and for the benefit of all. Plumrose will continue its efforts to minimise any negative social impacts of its operations, while increasing the positive impacts. External community programmes will be extended with the aim of promoting healthy habits and to increase awareness and promote issues of sustainable development. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 6 PLANET: ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Plumrose is aware of the various impacts its operations have on the environment. The aim is to maintain a consistent focus on reducing environmental impacts and to make it an integral part of the Plumrose Culture. Before CSR was adopted as a structured initiative, focus was primarily on compliance with environmental legislation, whereas now environmental impact and resource efficiency is an integral part of project evaluations. WATER CONSUMPTION IN SLAUGTHERHOUSE Farm Efficiency as facilitator for environmental sustainability In terms of environmental impact the heaviest part of the value chain is the agroindustrial businesses. Operational efficiency is not only good business but it is also good for the environment. Some of the biggest opportunities to improve the environmental impact on the farms are directly linked to production efficiency. During 2012 significant improvements were registered for feed conversion rates and mortality at pig farms in Venezuela. Farm efficiency is at the very top compared to Venezuelan peers; however, there is still a gap to top performers in the Americas and Europe. Consequently, our primary focus is to improve management practices and farm process execution during 2013 and thereby improve the relative impact on the environment per pig produced. Specifically the aim is to continue the positive trends from 2012 regarding piglet mortality and general mortality, ensuring that every resource consumed at the farms is eventually converted into consumer products with the lowest possible environmental footprint. 2010 2011 2012 At one of the farms experiments have been carried out regarding compostation of Conversion rate* 2,66 2,72 2,60 dead animals. Traditionally dead animals and organic waste from the production *Kgs feedstuff/kg live weight at farms have been incinerated. However, this consumes energy and generates few other benefits. To lower the environmental impact from disposal of dead animals a special compostation project has been introduced for approval to the Ministry of environmental affairs, when approved during 2013 this project will be initiated and mortality and other organic material will be up-cycled to organic fertilizers that will be used to improve productivity in other parts of the farms. Studies were carried out to ensure improved animal welfare with the extensive renovation of stables at both farms during 2012. Improvements were made in both farrowing and gestation stables and temperature control systems were also improved. Solid separation percentages were improved to about 40%, significantly above the targets set for 2012. Continuous improvement of this indicator is a management priority and one of the principal levers to minimise the environmental impact of the oxidation ponds. Water consumption Part of the 2012 training efforts was aimed at cleaning procedures and water utilisation in production areas, leading to increased awareness and ultimately knowledge on how to ensure higher food safety standards while using less water. The result was a decrease of one litre of water per produced kg of finished product in the meat processing plant in Cagua from 9,6 to 8,6 litres per kg produced. 2010 2011 2012 Liters (MP*)/kg produced at MP 9,5 9,6 8,6 Liters (SLH**+MP)/kg produced at MP 12,8 13,3 12,1 Liters (Farms)/Pig produced on Farms 4.046 * MP Meat Processing Plant ** SLH Slaughterhouse The main technological reduction initiative during 2012 was the installation of a state-of-the-art laundry. Industrial laundry services offered locally generally use 28-30 litres of water per kg of work uniform washed. The new laundry allows lowering the utilisation of water per kg of washed uniform by up to 50%. By insourcing the laundry activity Plumrose will effectively increase direct water consumption from this concept in 2013 reporting. However, the indirect impact through inefficient outsourced laundry service suppliers will be eliminated and the overall impact on the community will be significantly improved. The laundry also serves to improve food safety as the special barrier concept effectively eliminates cross contamination from dirty work uniforms to clean ones as the laundry process flows are completely separated. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 7 The farming business by nature consumes large quantities of water. To mitigate this impact, at both farms efforts are made to recollect liquid in the form of manure and reutilise as much as possible for irrigation of surrounding pastures and fields in production of cattle and crops. Water consumption in m3 2009 2010 2011 Environmental commitment The feed mill prepared for its first ISO 14.001 audit during 2012. The implementation timeline was however, slightly delayed and instead of rushing final certification, it was rescheduled for mid-2013. In all production units basic principles and processes of environmental management systems are being implemented little by little. Preparation for further ISO certifications is planned to be initiated in at least one additional business unit during 2013. In line with the growth plans for La Montserratina, the Tejerias plant has made a commitment to build a new water treatment plant by Q3 2013 that will yield sufficient capacity to accompany the planned incremental production volumes in the future. At the Cagua plant a new storage area was built for hazardous waste, avoiding the risk of leaks during storage and before recollection by authorised destruction companies. Despite deficient nationwide recycling and proper waste disposal infrastructure, Plumrose and its employees are committed to proper disposal of hazardous materials and recuperation of recyclable materials generated both inside and outside the work setting. The “green project” is on-going and expanded with special recycling operatives and initiatives. PROFIT: FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Plumrose continues to focus on maintaining a high reputation of integrity in the way we do business in Venezuela. The company’s code of business conduct has been widely shared in all locations and is used as an integral part of job contracts. The right way to operate is also stated in the core values of the company, and it is a subject of permanent internal campaigns. According to plan, Plumrose launched a new and improved whistleblower structure that allows four different ways of reporting breaches of the code of business conduct under complete confidentiality. An important improvement from previous whistleblower initiatives is the focus on reporting channels open both from within and from outside the company. This means that workers from all levels can either send an e-mail from the comfort of their home or make use of the voicemail box on a public phone number accessible from any cell, public or stationary phone. No cases or allegations of corruption have been reported through the whistleblower function. Taking advantage of the new and open platform structure for reporting breaches of the code of business conduct, in 2013 the possibility of reporting will be communicated to all external business partners, suppliers etc. thereby giving them the same opportunity to report any deviation from the code of business conduct related to Plumrose employees. Compliance with the code of business conduct is also under constant supervision through a permanent internal control and audit team reporting directly to the CEO. The dedicated team plans year-round audits on procedures and results in all operations. For 2013, plans include tighter control of livestock inventories, yield control in external operations, forecasting accuracy along with general shrinkage and resource optimisation. For more information regarding the sustainability efforts of Plumrose, please contact Vice President of Strategic Planning, Mr. Frederik Guldager Madsen, at fmadsen@plumrose.com UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 8
