July 28, 2013 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations 3 United Nations Plaza New York, NY 10017 Re: Communication on Progress (COP) report for July 2012 through July 2013 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, DigiCert hereby states is continued pledge of support for the ten principles within the United Nations’ Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and we provide our annual Communication on Progress in the following four areas over the past year as follows: Implementation of Principles on Human Rights Over the past 12 months DigiCert and its employees have engaged in humanitarian efforts to curb homelessness by contributing time to Habitat for Humanity and donating time and money in other efforts to assist the poor. We continue to encourage our business partners, suppliers, and customers around the world in Europe, Asia, and elsewhere to respect the internationally recognized human rights of all persons, and we continue to discourage all forms of wrongful discrimination. Implementation of Labor Principles We have moved our facilities to a new and improved location to provide a more safe and healthy working environment for our employees. We continue our efforts to prevent harassment and other kinds of discrimination and to improve the labor conditions of our employees. Implementation of Environmental Principles DigiCert continues to promote recycling and environmental sustainability. We endeavor to maintain paperless operations, and we encourage our business partners and customers to replace paper workflows with paperless ones. Our new facility is more environmentally efficient, and we continue to upgrade our systems in conjunction with the US EPA’s Energy Star program. Implementation of and Adherence to the Anti‐Corruption Principles DigiCert is aware that in many countries corruption--in many forms, including extortion, bribery, terrorism, and other forms of criminal behavior--undermines the stability of government, the economy, and the respect for the rule of law. DigiCert is publicly committed to the principle that its customers provide truthful and accurate information in their dealings with DigiCert and third parties, and we prohibit the practice of bribery in our negotiations with customers. DigiCert’s customers are contractually required to comply with applicable laws. We also support efforts to prevent denied persons and entities from engaging in terrorism, money-laundering, and other corrupt behavior. Sincerely yours, Nicholas E. Hales President and CEO
