GS E&C INTEGRATED REPORT 2012 www.gsconst.co.kr GS E&C Integrated Reporting CEO Message 02 Company Profile 04 This report aims to incorporate our strategies and financial and non-financial achievements and to share with stakeholders. 06 Vision OUR BUSINESS Integrated Reporting Map Plant 12 Power & Environment 14 Elements for Integrated Reporting Civil Engineering 16 Architecture & Housing 18 •Business Models of GS E&C •Crises and Opportunities of the Construction Industry •Sound Corporate Governance Technology 20 •Concerns of Stakeholders •Our Promise for the Better Future GREAT CHALLENGE Securing New Growth Engines 24 Integrated Thinking Strengthening Overseas Business 27 Reinforcing the Existing Core Businesses 30 Corporation Strategy Value Adding Activities •Management Principles & Vision 2020 •Creating Financial Results and •Securing New Growth Engines Economic Values GREAT INNOVATION integrated Financial •Cost Reduction •Strengthening Overseas Business Green Technology 36 Strategy Performance: •Our Business •Reinforcing the Existing Core Sustainable Construction 40 Businesses Response to Climate Change 50 Safety & Health Management 54 Shared Our Values Strengthening Our Values activities as Non Financial •Stakeholder Management a corporate Performance: •Ethical Management, Win-Win Management GREAT PARTNERSHIP •Customer Satisfaction citizen Management •Environment Management, Customer 60 •Social Contribution Activities Safety & Health Management Suppliers 62 •Talent Management Employees 66 Local Communities 70 OUR SUSTAINABLE Integrated Reporting PERFORMANCE Participation of Stakeholders and Materiality Test 75 Governance 77 Ethic Management & Compliance 78 Cover Story Risk Managment 80 Operational Data 82 2010 2011 2012 Report of Independent Auditors 85 GS E&C has drawn the nine major The current Integrated Report GS E&C has set the goal and issues reflecting a variety of incorporates our Annual Report with action plans based on our vision Financial Performance 86 stakeholder interest to link with our annual Sustainability Report, for achieving sustainability is Report of Independent Accountants’ Review of 90 its core values. We commissioned providing stakeholders with a to “pursue growth by creating a third party to audit and verify balanced and comprehensive sustainable value together with Internal Accounting Control System the accounts for sustainability disclosure of the economic, stakeholders.” Relevant details achievements to ensure the environmental and social value are covered in this integrated Report on the Operations of the Internal Accounting 91 trustworthiness of the content. that GS E&C has created. report. Control System (IACS) A separate Annual Report will not be published starting from 2012, 3rd Party Assurance Statement on Integrated Report 92 and the information that previously was covered in the Annual Report 3rd Party Assurance Statement on Greenhouse 94 will be presented in this Integrated Gas Inventory Report. GRI Index 96 UNGC / ISO26000 100 Establishment of Green Management System 102 Associations/Awards 104 CEO's Message Greetings, Stakeholders GS E&C has been providing values needed for our customers and community while making a solid growth thanks to well-balanced portfolio covering plant, power, environment, architecture, and housing business since its foundation in 1969. The year 2012 was extremely challenging for us. Although sales increased slightly, profit declined from the previous year due to a rise in cost rate of the projects won over fierce competition since 2010. As global economic recession persists and growth slows down, competition in the construction industry is expected to become even harsher in 2013. However, GS E&S has grown as a global company overcoming numerous difficulties in business environment for the last 44 years. We are certain that we are able to survive the current adversity as long as we take this crisis as an opportunity to look back on our past, grow, and respond to the challenge We will make our together with all our members. GS E&C Growth Strategy is based on Vision 2020. We are implementing action plans in the direction of the three main strategies of “Reaching full potential of the best effort to become current operations,” “Nurturing new growth drivers,” and “Securing core competence” and having visible results including the M&A of the Spanish desalination facility maker Inima, and the signing an MOU with the Algerian state energy firm Sonatrach. a sustainable For a successful achievement of our Vision 2020, strong corporate culture is more important than anything else. Corporate culture is one of the core competitiveness of a company to unite its members. We are committed to global leader instilling our core values –“Great Challenge,” “Great Innovation,” and “Great Partnership”into our employees’ way of thinking and doing their jobs. Communication is also important. We can prove our trust and sincerity only when we listen to the voice of our stakeholders including customers, shareholders, suppliers, and workers on that grows with you. the construction site as well as our employees and apply their opinions to management activities. We will continue our best effort to become a sustainable global leader that grows with you. July 2013 GS E&C Corp. President & CEO Byeong-Yong Lim Company Profile GS E&C has been making a constant growth thanks to a well-balanced portfolio covering plant, power, environment, architecture, and the housing business since its foundation in 1969. We will remain committed to advancing toward a top-tier company that puts the priority on creating great customer value and being the best partner, growing together with stakeholders. General Information Corporate Name GS Engineering & Construction Corp. (GS E&C) Date of Establishment December 19, 1969 Representative Byeong-Yong Lim Head Office GS Yeokjeon Tower, 537 Namdaemun-ro 5-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul No. of Major Domestic Domestic: 251 sites, Overseas: 49 sites, and Overseas Sites Total: 300 sites Main Businesses Plant, power & environment, civil engineering, housing, architecture, and development Location of the Sites Overseas Subsidiaries Credit Ratings AAby Korea Ratings (as of Dec. 2012) Overseas Branches No. of Employees 6,727(as of Dec. 2012) Spain Domestic & Overseas Subsidiaries GS Inima Environment S.A England Iraq Division Name Main Businesses London Baghdad Parnas Hotel Co., Ltd. Hotels & travel Italy Iran Russia EziVille Inc. Value-added networks Milano Poland Tehran Moscow GS E&C Poland SP.ZO.O Xi service Construction Kuwait Canada Kuwait City G-Estec Co., Ltd. Construction Saudi Arabia GS E&C Construction Canada Ltd. Kazakhstan China GS Construction Arabia Co.,Ltd. GLS Service Services Astana GS Saudi Co., Ltd. GS E&C Nanjing Co.,Ltd. Domestic Turkey United States Al-Khobar Beijing GCS Plus Services Istanbul Riyadh Shanghai Houston Taiwan BSM Processing services Texas Bahrain Manama U.A.E GS O&M Services Thailand Abu Dhabi GS E&C Thai Co.,Ltd. Contract food service Algeria Dubai Sanglak Food Co., Ltd. Bangkok management Panama Algiers GS E&C Panama S.A. Eunpyeong Saegil Co., Ltd. Construction Libya Cambodia GS E&C Nanjing Co.,Ltd. Construction Tripoli GS (Cambodia) Development Co.,Ltd. Colombia GS Nha Be Development One-Member LLC Construction Bogota India Egypt GS Saigon Development One-Member LLC Construction GS E&C India Private Ltd. Cairo Vietnam New Delhi Indonesia GS E&C India Private Ltd. Construction GS Nha Be Development One-Member LLC Ecuador Qatar Jakarta GS Saigon Development One-Member LLC Overseas GS (Cambodia) Development Co.,Ltd. Construction Hanoi Quito Doha GS Construction Arabia Co.,Ltd. Construction Oman GS Saudi Co., Ltd. Construction Muscat Singapore GS E&C Poland SP.ZO.O Construction Singapore GS E&C Construction Canada Ltd. Construction GS E&C Panama S.A. Rental GS Inima Environment S.A Construction GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 4•5 Vision Mission Statement Vision 2020 The mission statement of GS E&C is to Create Value of New Lifestyles and Dreams of a Better Tomorrow with Customers. Our vision aims to become the Best Partner and the First Company by creatively and passionately building value for the world and earn The statement demonstrates our commitment to creating value that can be shared among various stakeholders and fulfilling trust to grow as a sustainable global company. responsibilities as a corporate citizen. Best Partner & First Company Creatively and Passionately Build Value for the World and Earn Trust Best Partner, First Company Customers are part of the GS E&C family. GS E&C realizes the dream for a better future. Vision Global Best & First We think and act from the customers’ perspective, We cultivate and realize the potential of businesses and want to be near them always. and people, and our passion and readiness to face Together Dream for challenges help create a better future. with a Better Customers Tomorrow Sustainable Global Company Vision 2020 New orders of KRW 35 trillion, Revenue of KRW 27 trillion, and Goal Operating Profit of KRW 2 trillion Creation New Ideas of Value of GS E&C stays ahead of the times. Lifestyle GS E&C leads to improve the value of life. GREAT innovation We respond well to the demands of the time with an We create tangible and intangible value to make Great Challenge open mindset and lead progress. life more comfortable and pleasant, helping all in Core GREAT PARTNERSHIP society to enjoy a higher quality of life. Values Strategic Directions and Blueprint for GS E&C 2020 Core Values Three main strategic directions and the blueprint for GS E&C 2020 are summarized as followed: Core values of the company is a medium through which employees share common values and a foundation for realizing our First, realize the highest revenues possible based on the maximum operational efficiency for current operations; Second, nurture new growth engine corporate vision and mission statement. GS E&C will lay the groundwork towards sustainable growth and development by maximizing businesses strategically. GS E&C will focus on the 3 Main Pillars of Growth for the next ten years: (1) industrial plants, power plants and environmental organizational competence based on core values of Great Innovation, Great Challenge and Great Partnership. facilities including nuclear, coal-fired/ combined cycle thermal power plants, seawater desalination plant, and natural gas liquefaction—areas where we already enjoy world-class status; (2) profit-oriented development projects such as real estate development and private participation in infrastructure projects; and (3) offshore projects that generate synergy with onshore projects. Finally, to successfully follow the two strategic directions (strengthening GREAT innovation Great Challenge GREAT PARTNERSHIP current operations and nurturing new businesses), we need to secure core competence to enhance fundamental competitiveness. GS E&C aims to distance itself from the past in terms of financial performance, portfolio and growth base. Our business goal is to grow 3~4 times the Change myself first with Be the Best with passion and Grow together with respect and current financial results. As for portfolio, we set global strategies to expand technology-intensive projects and to increase the proportion of overseas creative ideas readiness to face challenges communication projects up to 70%. To achieve these goals, we will pursue global operation and increase M&A expanding the proportion of local employees to over 50% Our people, who embrace with various viewpoints, Pioneering Spirit, Initiative, Excellence Our people Inside the company, our employees cooperate of our workforce including executives and managers and bringing in global leaders in the industry as our subsidiaries. have adopted a collective attitude to ensure their set challenging targets and assume responsibility with one another based on mutual trust and grow creativity is exercised fully, laying the groundwork for their duties on their own to build best value. together with the organization. Externally, we for sustainable development by responding This attitude serves as one of the main sources practice ethical and eco-friendly management astutely to the rapidly changing environment. of power to achieve business targets and secure approaches with respect to our customers and competitive advantages. society and maintain a dialogue with them. These management practices are credited with fulfilling the needs of external and internal customers to earn their respect. GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 6•7 Vision Vision 2020: 3 Main Strategic Directions and Pillars of Growth Vision Pursue Growth by Creating Sustainable Value Together Vision with Stakeholders Strategic Specified Action Plans Major Achievements in 2012 Major Objectives in 2020 page Directions Strategies Industrial plants, Reach the full power plants and Reach the full •Grow by diversifying customer base for •M&A and PMI with the Spanish company, Inima •Secure global leadership in oil refineries/ 29, potential of environmental potential of Oil refineries and Petrochemical plant •Signed an MOU with the Algerian company, petrochemical projects as one of the top three 3133 facilities-areas where existing mainstay •Bolster fundamental competitiveness companies existing mainstay Sonatrach we already enjoy businesses •Gain solid leadership in the technology-intensive businesses (New orders/ Cost) •Carried out advanced BIM-based projects world-class status •Develop global technology-intensive civil market; core technologies of plant/power/environment engineering projects •Expand technology-oriented civil engineering projects in the global market Strengthen Growth Fostering new •Expand a presence in the overseas core •Moved into the overseas coal/combined-cycle •Solidify the position as a leading global FPSO 25-28 growth engine markets power plant contractor Regime Profit-oriented business 3 Main Nurture new 3 Main development projects such as real estate strategically •Carry out offshore business •Qualified as arranger for developing nuclear power plant •Spread into related areas such as FLNG and Subsea •Expand development projects Strategic growth drivers Pillars of development and •Signed an MOU with KOGAS to enter the strategically private participation Directions Growth in infrastructure global liquefaction market projects Secure core •Secure core technologies through R&D •Conducted 17 government –commissioned •continues to create technology-based future 24-25, competence •Cost innovation projects growth drivers 30 •Cost innovation activities •Lay groundwork for cost innovation and obtain innovation capabilities Advanced •Improve environment management •Operated and improved green management system •Enhance green management system 51, environment policies and guideline •Expand internationally certified environment •Achieve the KPIs of corporate-wide green Offshore projects that 40-47 Secure core management •Operation of domestic and overseas management experts management generate synergy with Establish a competence onshore projects environment performance management •Achieved the KPIs of corporate-wide green system system management Establish a Expand green •Expand green business •Realized technology commercialization •Foster green projects into main businesses 36-39 Low-carbon, business •Expand green R&D rate of 44.7% Green •Applied 108 new technologies to 89 Management construction sites System 2013 Management Strategic Directions Strengthen •Manage domestic and overseas GHG •Create the Energy Management Committee •Reach 100% coverage of domestic and overseas 50-51 response to inventory •Assess GHG emission and find cases of GHG inventory To resolve project risks and strengthen internal soundness, while domestic and global economic slump persist, we will set the management direction of climate change •GHG reduction activities emission reduction at domestic and •Realized the goal of GHG reduction 100% overseas sites “bolstering competitiveness by practicing basic principles” to carry our business in 2013. •Respond to climate change •Minimize risks (cost, reputation) through proper •Wage energy saving campaigns at the response to climate change headquarters and construction sites Management Environment Management Strategic Directions Strengthen •Enhance win-win cooperative system •Improved cash payment ratio to 76% •Achieve zero delinquency rate of major suppliers 62-65 win-win •Increase social contribution (cash equivalent payment ratio: 100%) •Increase the proportion of strategic social cooperation 70-73 Market Outlook Bolstering competitiveness by practicing basic principles •Supported the dissemination of green contribution to over 30% management •Delay in economic recovery of advanced nations and slowing economy in Strengthening •Enhance project skills •Conducted strategic CSR activities emerging markets business abilities •Establish task-oriented operation system Expand Social Established •Strengthen ethical management •Cases of ethical standard violation decreased •Zero cases of ethical standard violation 78-79 •Tightening global austerity measures and financial regulation an advanced Key •Create results from cost innovation activities Responsibilities corporate •Enhance anti-corruption and anti-trust •Can Happy Family program •Zero cases of anti-corruption and anti-trust violation 68-69 Cost Innovation policies •Persistent uncertainty in key economic indicators such as exchange rate/ oil price Action •Retrenchment culture •Enhance employee satisfaction •Lasting weakness in the domestic construction market Plans •Disseminate core values to more employees Cash Flow, •Cash Flow-centered management •Delay in real estate market recovery Profit-focused •Profit-focused order winning strategy Enhance •Operate advanced safety education system •Created the safety innovation team •Realize zero fatality 54-57 safety •Strengthen domestic and overseas safety •Revamped curriculum for Safety Innovation School management •Invest in the future growth engines management system •Conducted visiting consulting service External Evaluation of Sustainable Management 2012 Vision and Performance of Sustainability Management Listed on the DJSI World Index for 3rd Year in a Row, Recognized as the World Sector Leader in the Consturction Category “Pursue Growth by Creating Sustainable Value Together Vision with Stakeholders.” Details are covered in the related pages. We set our strategic GS E&C has been listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World for the third consecutive year since 2010 and selected as the world sector leader in directions toward sustainability as “Establish a low-carbon, green management system,” “Strengthen the profit-oriented, new growth regime,” and the construction category. In addition, the Company was awarded the gold medal at the 2013 Sustainability Olympics at the World Economic Forum in “Expand communication with stakeholders” in association with GS E&C’s core values of Great Innovation, Great Challenge and Great Partnership to take Davos. Going forward, we will fulfill our obligations as a leader in sustainability management practic our sustainability management to the level of global standards. Now we are implementing the related action plans. In addition, GS E&C operates a dedicated organization for sustainability management. All sustainability management-related activities are carried out Listed on the DJSI World in 2012 Won the gold at the 2013 Supersector Leader Sustainability Olympics under the supervision of the Sustainability Management Committee and the Management Committee as the top decision-makers with the participation of with various related organizations. The Head Office and all other operations, both domestic and overseas, including subsidiaries and branches, affiliates and field offices, carry out sustainability management activities in GS E&C. GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 8•9 OUR BUSINESS GS E&C will become a sustainable company by bolstering competitiveness by practicing basic principles. GS E&C has pursued management activities to become a global top-tier company by establishing Vision 2020 and is delivering “the values of the world” to stakeholders through these efforts. However, our business performance was rather slow due to the prolonged global economic recession and heated competition between construction companies. We will commit ourselves to surviving the current crisis and becoming a sustainable global company based on the experience for the past 40 years, for which we has grown as a global player overcoming a number of management difficulties. 12 Plant•14 Power·Environment•16 Civil Engineering•18 Architecture·Housing 20 Technology OUR BUSINESS Plant | Power·Environment | Civil Engineering | Architecture·Housing | Technology Plant Values of the World” We aim to deliver through the Plant Business 2012 Performance Summary GS E&C is recognized as a competitive EPC company in the global market thanks to its technological In 2012, the Plant Division won orders for the Rabigh-II project in Saudi Aravia and UHV project in Unit: billions of KRW We aim to become the competence and operational abilities accumulated from many large-scale projects in the refinery, Thailand, strengthening the stature of GS E&C in the Middle East, the world's largest market for new New Orders Plant Business Division contributing to raising the petrochemical, and gas processing industry it successfully conducted at home and abroad. However, we will not rest on our laurels and continue our efforts to diversify our business portfolio and the market through a thorough risk analysis as a global leading company in the plant industry. plant construction and Asia, an emerging market. In addition, winning orders for the Vietnamese NSRP project enabled us successful inroads into a new regional market receiving new order of KRW 3.2 trillion. However, we were faced with unexpected risks in machinery, materials and construction cost in 3,195 GS E&C is taking full advantage of its 40-year experience and technological knowhow to provide products implementing projects. Also, fierce competition between domestic EPC companies for the last two or quality of life of humankind Order Backlog through win-win growth with suppliers as well as and facilities customers needs and wants and to create social values for local communities. Firstly, we help supply energy source required for the development of the community and the improvement of residents’ quality of life. Not only that, GS E&C is playing an important role in increasing export of the three years led a drop in profit in overseas market, especially in the Middle East. 2013 Outlook and Plans 12,197 nation and growing together with suppliers through collaboration with the manufacturers of machinery global customers. The decline in new orders last year resulted from the competition in the plant business but we expect Sales Revenues 3,953 and materials related to the plant business. At the same time, we are taking the lead in mitigating the a fair profit rate in the future as we were able to win orders for projects which guarantee a proper unemployment problem by creating new jobs through business expansion. margin. However, we stay alert and establish a range of measures to detect and resolve potential risks of individual projects to deal with ever-present risks such as a rise in raw material price and volatility in 2012 Business Environment of the Plant Industry exchange rate. Also, we will implement stronger strategies to cut cost by strengthening VE activities and Gross Profit 234 The plant market has witnessed increasing uncertainties due to the global economic recession including change management activities, running a dedicated organization, and reducing operational cost. the European sovereign debt crisis. As a result, the issuance of new orders for some large projects In order to pursue our mid-term and long-term visions, we will accelerate preparation to move into the was delayed or cancelled with decreasing investment. At the same time, competition for winning new gas liquefaction business, participate in marine plant projects and continue fostering experts in the orders between domestic EPC companies is heightening. To deal with this challenge, GS E&C is trying related fields. We need to grow in the technology-intensive market such as refinery and petrochemical to focus on profitable projects instead of blindly pursuing large projects. In addition, we concentrate on plant to the maximum and solidify our global leadership to reach the full potential of our existing the analysis and response to risks of the past projects as well as creating business opportunities in the mainstay businesses. current market. New orders in the plant business mainly arise from the following three types of owners, who respectively focus on; technology, relationship, or financial benefits. Until now, GS E&C tended to target the last two types of owners based on a customer network and price competitiveness. From now on, we will expand our customer base to include those who put priority on technology, quality and trust. 01 UAE Green Diesel 01 02 03 ·Location : Ruwais, UAE ·Vacuum unit 35,000 ·Hydroacker 41,000 ·Gas oil hydrotreater 44,000 Project Period : Jan. 2008-Nov. 2011 02 Manifa Gas Facilities Project ·Location: Khursaniyah, Saudi Arabia ·Gas inlet facilities, gas processing: 90 MMSCFD ·Condensate stripping : 66,400 BPSD ·SRU : 900 TPD×2 Project Period : Aug. 2008-Oct. 2011 03 IRPC Project ·Location: Thailand Project Period: Aug. 2010-Dec. 2012 GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 12•13 OUR BUSINESS Plant | Power·Environment | Civil Engineering | Architecture·Housing | Technology Power•Environment Values of the World” 2012 Performance Summary We aim to deliver through the Power and Environment Business The Division’s power plant segment performed well for new domestic business by winning orders for the Unit: billions of KRW Playing a lead role in GS E&C is striving to become the best partner of our customers based on the technological knowhow Andong combined-cycle power plant and the Dangjin 4 biomass power plant project, a domestic renewable New Orders domestic and overseas power and environment and experience we have had in the environment industry whose coverage ranges from water treatment to waste treatment and the power business which provides light and energy to the world. GS E&C is delivering a variety of social and environmental values based on these accumulated energy source business. Overseas, the Division won an order for the PP-12 project, a combined-cycle power plant in Saudi Arabia, the largest power market in the Middle East. In the environment segment, the Division won domestic bids for the modernization of basic environmental 1,697 competence. First of all, we are creating environmental values using the past experience and skills facilities (e.g. waste water reuse) in Gumi City; wastewater treatment plant in Busan Nambu. Overseas, the market by nurturing Order Backlog creative talents and accumulate technological including water treatment technology. With our advanced technologies in sewage and waste water treatment, we are taking the lead in water resource management, which has become a buzzword in the business. Also, we are participating in addressing environmental issues such as waste treatment Division completed the M&A with Inima, one of the world’s top ten reverse osmosis desalination specialists and established a collaborative system to exchange technologies and carry out projects together laying groundwork for future growth. In the new growth business segment, the Division won the tender for the 3,906 and recycling projects. We understand exhaustion of natural resources and pollution due to increase Dangjin 4 biomass power plant project and soil remediation project at the Janghnag Refinery. capabilities Sales Revenues 1,113 in energy demand along with the world’s economic growth and increase in income will become major issues in the future power industry. Against the backdrop we will proactively address these issues by participating in the development of cogeneration plants and renewable energy sources to increase 2013 Outlook and Plans energy efficiency contributing to the creation of economic values of the community. Major domestic competitors are trying to move into Africa and South East Asian market as well as the Gross Profit 109 existing Middle East area while actively pursuing opportunities to participate in the national and international IPP projects. The overseas environment market is expected to grow especially in the Middle East and Asia. 2012 Business Environment of the Power•Environment Industry The Division will focus its competence on areas where competition is relatively lower while exploring new The overseas power plant construction market is expected to grow over the long term, mainly in Asia, markets in addition to the Middle East to increase new orders from the overseas. In the case of EPC projects Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, while competition with other Korean contractors as well as with growing competition, we will overcome difficulties by raising the success rate of winning orders by European and local constructors will become fiercer. Domestically, new orders for power plants are selection and focus. In the overseas environment segment, the Division will focus on lucrative projects projected to increase because the power reserve rate has become lower, and the implementation of in the target regions while trying to win bids for SWRO projects and participate in concession business renewable energy quotas will likely boost the share of renewable energy projects in the overall mix. through technological collaboration with Inima in the new growth business segment. Domestically, we will Under these circumstances, the Division is making continuous effort to strengthen capabilities to actively seek opportunities to join the IPP project as well as focusing our efforts on winning private power execute new growth projects such as renewable energy and nuclear power plants. construction projects. The Division will continue its efforts to secure cost competitiveness for sustainable growth by; applying cost innovation process to all its projects. We also strengthened our issue reporting system to proactively respond to cost and other risks. 01 Mapo Municipal Solid Waste 01 02 03 Treatment Plant Location : Seoul, Korea ·Incineration plant : 250 ton/day×3units ·Stoker type Project Period : Nov. 2001-Apr. 2005 02 Youngheung Wind Power Center Location : Incheon, Korea ·Total 20MW Project Period: Jan. 2010-Jul. 2011 03 Yerevan Combined Cycle Power Plant Location: Yerevan, Armenia ·Combined cycle power plant: 230MW ·Gas turbine 167MW×1 ·Steam turbine 63MW×1 Project Period : Dec. 2007-Apr. 2010 GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 14•15 OUR BUSINESS Plant | Power·Environment | Civil Engineering | Architecture·Housing | Technology Civil Engineering “Values of the World” 2012 Performance Summary We aim to deliver through the Civil Engineering Business Although the Civil Engineering Division received new amounting an approximate worth KRW 577.2 billion, Unit: billions of KRW Growing as a global toplower than those of the past three years, due to reduced order volume domestically and internationally New Orders 557 GS E&C successfully completed numerous civil/ SOC projects with the pride in contributing to the balanced development of the land and growth of the national economy. The Civil Engineering Division as well as fierce competition, it was able to diversify its business portfolio by completing Mokpo Grand tier company by building is providing high-quality infrastructure service with excellent technology and responsible construction Bridge and Yeosu Grand Bridge – which won the Gold Prize at the 2013 Contest for the “Best civil a wide range of social amidst heated competition with big domestic constructors and global companies. The Division boasts Engineering Structures of the Year” – and getting more experience in technology-intensive projects. In and environmental of supreme technological competence in the segment of bridge building and underground space. We addition, the Division earned the market trust once again by completing large government projects in Order Backlog values to make the life of stakeholders better have built and are currently building many civil engineering structures some of them considered as landmarks across the national borders and regions. Building on these achievements, GS E&C is creating a wide range of social and environmental values to make the life of stakeholders better by generating time such as the Four River project and Gyeongin Ara Waterway project. In the overseas market, the Division solidified its presence as a global contractor by launching a 500 million-dollar subway project in Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam. We also raised our status as the best partner and the first company in the 4,419 economic values of the corporation. First, we build social infrastructure such as road, bridge, and advanced construction market by achieving BSC and the TBM Breakthrough for the first time out of the Sales Revenues 1,239 railways to help balance development of the land and national economy, based on which every member 10 construction sections of the DTL2 MRT project in Singapore. *BSC: Basic Structural Completion, TBM: Tunnel Boring Machine of the society can share social values equally. Additionally, the Division provides stable supply of water for community residents and protection against natural disasters through the construction of dams. We have returned cultural values as well as natural 2013 Outlook and Plans Gross Profit 45 values to Seoul citizens by recovering the Cheong-gye stream and restoring surrounding ecosystem and In 2013, domestic construction market is expected to continue its slow pace centered around the timely completion a 600-year-old cultural heritage. of existing projects including a highway project while, on the other hand, the overseas market shows signs of activity as increasing infrastructure demand in the south East Asian region and expected boost in demand before the 2022 FIFA World Cup Qatar. To respond to these changes, the Division will concentrate on profit-oriented public 2012 Business Environment of the Civil Engineering Industry and private projects in the domestic market to build a base camp to advance smoothly into the global market. On Domestically, the construction market was slow as the government budget was assigned mainly for the the overseas front, we plan to receive new orders worth KRW 2.1 in 2013 by expanding market share on strategic timely completion of existing public projects such as the Four Major River Restoration Project. many positions and diversifying strongholds to the Middle East. For the mid-term and long-term, the Division will continue of the planned projects have been canceled or delayed to the next year according to the policy to raise to increase the proportion of overseas projects as the slump in domestic market is expected to last due to market investment efficiency decreasing the number of potential new orders. Poor management performance saturation. In the year 2020, when our Vision 2020 will be achieved, we will be winning orders worth KRW 3 trillion of some established constructors and contractors heightened the burden on big corporations. On the from overseas out of KRW 4.3 trillion, the 2020 goal for new orders. To achieve the goal, the Division will pursue overseas front, it was not easy to win the bid for lucrative projects as the issuance of the new orders for diversification of regions around key businesses we have competitive edge over our rivals; special long span bridge, large-scale projects was delayed in the Middle East and the South East Asia toughening competition underground transportation infrastructure, and port construction. Also, we will strengthen our competitiveness to between bidders and underbidding by overseas construction companies. win orders by expanding business scheme such as increasing the proportion of PPP projects and partnering with global prestigious design companies and advanced construction companies. 01 Mokpo Bridge 01 02 03 Location : Mokpo, Korea ·Total length 4.1km ·Cable-stayed bridge 900m, PSC Bridge Project Period : Nov. 2004-Dec. 2012 02 Downtown Line No.2 C913 Location : Singapore ·Shield TBM Extension 1.23km ·Stations and Elevated Highway Project Period: Aug. 2009-Jul. 2015 03 Ruwais Refinery Expansion PKG7 Location: UAE Abu Dhabi ·Access Trestle Extension 5.2km ·Berth 3 Units Project Period: Dec. 2009-Jan. 2014 GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 16•17 OUR BUSINESS Plant | Power·Environment | Civil Engineering | Architecture·Housing | Technology Architecture•Housing “Values of the World” 2012 Performance Summary We aim to deliver through the Architectural & Housing Business We provided Dongtan Central Xi apartment buildings, mostly middle and small-sized units to meet Unit: billions of KRW We will lay a solid The architectural & housing business builds the final objective public and private clients require customer needs in Phase 2 of the Dongtan new city and sold Andong Cetnral Xi units through the KT&G New Orders foundation to grow by creating synergy and and conducts planning, design, and construction of a wide spectrum of architectural products from residential space to work and manufacturing facilities. The industry has bigger boosting effects by creating values and new jobs than others and plays a role of a locomotive to vitalize economy. group housing project with success. Also, Shinchon Xi-Ella apartment units were provided through a profit-oriented real estate project targeting students and office workers as end users. In 2012, GS E&C received new orders of KRW 1.2 trillion and sales revenue of KRW 1.1 trillion while 3,639 pursuing growth in substance instead of in size amidst persistent recession in the real estate market. raising efficiency The Division was created by integrating the Housing Division (mainly dealing with apartment building Order Backlog through organizational integration. projects) and the Architecture Division (covering work areas, commercial facilities) in 2012 to create synergy effect in building business. We believe we will continue our growth as a market leader by minimizing repetitive tasks and taking focusing on the strengths of each segment. Due to poor performance in the Middle East and public sector, the Architectural business achieved KRW 2.4 trillion in new orders, 16 % decrease from the previous year’s KRW 2.8 trillion and KRW 1.6 trillion in sales, 28 % decrease from the previous year. However, the Division won order for the NgTeng Fong 17,055 GS E&C is delivering unique values of its own to customer and community with advanced technological Hospital Project in Singapore consolidating its status in the South East Asian market. Sales Revenues 2,705 capabilities in the architectural and housing business. GS E&C has always been leading housing culture in the nation. Recently, we are creating sound social capital of the local community by providing the 2013 Outlook and Plans space for communication and cultural activities such as “Xian Center.” Also, GS E&C provides local In the housing business, we expect homebuyers are considering the purchase of new houses with the residents more access to cultural events by constructing a variety of cultural and art centers based on its expectation about a rise in rents and deposits as well as the new government’s real estate policies Gross Profit 280 excellence in technology and ample experience. We are also playing a role in establishing green housing and there is a slight increase in the transaction of apartment units. Although it is premature to predict culture by introducing green smart system reducing energy consumption. full recovery, the Korean housing market is forecast to rebound slightly in the latter half of the year. In addition, the domestic architectural market is expected to depress in both public and private sectors 2012 Business Environment of the Architectural & Housing Industry as government offices completed moving reducing new issuance of orders and economic uncertainties Domestically, the business environment was unfavorable as the lasting housing slump led to the linger. On the contrary, the market is forecast to grow with continuing orders from the Middle Eastern decline in transaction amount and prices. This trend brought about new changes in the housing market and south East Asian market and business expansion into the electricity and communication segment. including a rent rise. Also, the government implemented policies to promote real estate market through The Architectural Division is ready to jump into the overseas market as well as the domestic market in controlling housing demand and supply by reducing Boguem-jari public housing project as well as 2013. We will enhance our competitiveness by focusing on lucrative projects in the public T/K market reforming real estate market regulations. and private business while winning more new orders from the South East Asian customers with the In the domestic architectural market, the Division did fairly well in the public sector with the increase Singaporean sites as a stronghold. We will also carry out aggressive sales initiatives to win bids in the in new orders for the residential units as well as the transfer of government offices. However, private Middle Eastern region including Saudi Arabia. The 2013 businesses targets were set at KRW 2.4 trillion projects showed slow growth heightening the overall competition. Globally, we received new orders for in new orders and KRW 1.8 trillion in sales revenue. residential and hotel projects thanks to the increase in demand in the Middle East and for reconstruction projects. Also, the Division increased its market share slightly in South East Asia. 01 IFC Seoul 01 02 03 Location : Seoul, Korea Total floor area: 509,524㎡ B7-55F, Work Facility, Hotel, and Commercial Facility Project Period: Jan. 2008-Dec. 2011 02 Fusionopolis 2A Location: Singapore Total floor area: Tower AB 84,215㎡, Tower C 19,418㎡ Tower AB B3~18F, Tower C B2~5F Project Period: Tower AB – Nov. 2011-Mar. 2014 Tower C – Dec. 2011-Feb. 2015 03 Ng Teng Fong Hospital Location: Singapore Total floor area: 237,191㎡ Regional Hospital (8~16F, 700 beds), Community Hospital (12F, 400 beds), Specialist Outpatient Clinics (8F) Project Period: Jun. 2012-Feb. 2015 GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 18•19 OUR BUSINESS Plant | Power·Environment | Civil Engineering | Architecture·Housing | Technology Technology “Values of the World” 2012 Performance Summary We aim to deliver through the technological development The Division has committed itself to review strategies and organization, to reduce cost and secure business Unit: Case Innovative Profit Center The Technology Division, the core competitiveness of GS E&C, concentrates on advancing into new abilities for conducting new business to realize Vision 2020. We are finally seeing the results of R&D efforts No. of Patents Registered leading the future with innovative technologies for businesses through securing global top-tier technologies, bolstering the technological competitiveness of the existing businesses, and conducting research on state-of-art technology to lead the future of the and accumulated technological competence for new growth drivers such as natural gas liquefaction, RO desalination, special long span bridge, and green smart building. Also, we are making progress in support for winning orders and project performance by bidding and design support, VE activities, and technology 170 construction industry to create the best values with technology. In addition, the Division reestablished its and safety inspection. In addition, we continue to obtain intellectual properties through R&D and promoting value creation mid-term and long-term strategies to successfully achieve Vision 2020 and is working based on the three Unit: billions of KRW main strategies; “supporting new growth businesses by securing core technology; maximizing cost saving our technological power through technology marketing and network building. R&D Investment 67.3 through technology’ and strengthening the technological strategy to create promising business areas for the future. The Best Values GS E&C pursue include environmental values as well as economic values of the company such as cost reduction and optimal operational efficiency. A case in point is our effort to address 2013 Outlook and Plans social issues such as water shortage through seawater desalination technology. We are also establishing In the coming year, the Division will focus on strengthening technology-based business competitiveness human-friendly housing environment harnessing new housing and building technology. In addition, we are and cost innovation activities, securing new growth business competence and doubling the future prediction providing sustainable environmental values of GS E&C to our customers and community by securing green efforts following the directions of the Division such as; strengthening business abilities, implementing technologies for waste treatment, offshore wind farm, and liquefaction of natural gas. cost innovation, conducting profit-oriented projects, and bolstering risk management amidst prolonged slump in domestic and global market. First, we will secure global technological competence required to conduct overseas business through active R&D activities including open innovation in order to sharpen 2012 Business Environment of the Technology Division the competitive edge of technology-based business. In particular, we will reinforce the management of Global economy is faced with unfavorable conditions in the wake of the European sovereign debt crisis and technological risks at the overseas and special sites by creating synergy from collaboration with Inima in the financial crisis in the United States. This challenging environment reduced new issuance of orders and the water treatment segment. Second, cost innovation activities aim to address risks of on-going projects of toughened competition. Rivals in and outside the nation are struggling to create new business opportunities the Division and bring solid profits. To this end, we will strengthen technological support during the bidding/ in the Plant and Power industries as well as to foster talents and secure technological competence. design stage, cross projects between Divisions, and the sites under direct management of the company and expand the application of skills to enhance productivity obtained as a result of our R&D efforts. Finally, we will create/ select new growth business and promising future business through the analysis of technology trends and the market to secure abilities to predict the future and conduct new growth business. Also, we will make sure that we acquire core technologies for the selected new businesses at an early stage. GS E&C Research Institute of Construction & Economy In 2008 we established the GS E&C RICE, the first economic research institute in Korea’s construction industry, to respond to global market developments in a timely manner, manage operational risks effectively and identify business opportunities at an early stage by analyzing the fast-changing international business environment. We aim to become a world-leading think-tank in Construction by strengthening risk management through the analysis of macro and microeconomic indices as uncertainties in the global economy increased in the wake of the European financial crisis. • Forecast global economy and construction market Analyze and forecast economy and • Analyze and evaluate major issues of the global economy and the construction industry the financial market • Analyze key issues related to internal and external construction Analyze global construction management problems management strategies Global • Analyze global business trends Think • Operate the RM Council and analyze risks of housing projects Tank Cooperate with and support business divisions • Research new businesses and markets • Analyze government’s economic and construction policies and Develop strategies and respond to seek response measures institutional changes •Make policy suggestions to the government through construction organizations 용인 기술 연구소 GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 20•21 OUR APPROACH GS E&C has put efforts into overcoming the risk factors and gain a momentum for long-term growth amidst persistent global economic slowdown and lingering uncertainties. We aim to maintain corporate values for the future and grow as a sustainable company by securing new growth drivers as well as strengthening overseas projects and the existing mainstay business. OUR EFFORTS GS E&C went a step further to creating a new growth engine centered on our three main growth pillars. Also, we are making continuous effort to increase the proportion of overseas projects from the Middle East and South East Asia to include North and South Americas and Africa. Not only that, we aim to maintain fundamental competitive advantage as a construction company by securing cost competitiveness through cost innovation and realization of the full potential of the existing mainstay business. CREATED VALUE GS E&C is creating social and environmental values as well as economic values in a wide spectrum of business segments. We are creating additional economic values through innovation such as cost reduction and contributing to the development of the community and national economy by generating values from production. Not only that, we are delivering social and environmental values to the community through waste water treatment, water treatment facility construction and soil remediation projects. 24 Securing a New Growth Engine•27 Expanding Overseas Business 30 Strengthening the Existing Mainstay Business IFC Seoul Sohar Aromatics Banpo Xi •Location: Seoul, Korea •Project Period: Jan. 2008-Dec. 2011 •Description: IFC Seoul, located in the Yeouido district, the financial heart of Korea, is a landmark serving as a multi-functional finance center. Great Challenge Securing a new growth engine | Expanding Overseas Business | Strengthen the existing core business Securing a new growth engine GS E&C was qualified as the national organizer for developing the nuclear power plant in 2102. At first, we will go overseas in collaboration with the government organizations to get better prepared to compete Our Approach How to Create Our Value in the global market. At the same time, we will pay constant attention to securing global talents with a nuclear power plant background. GS E&C coordinated its mid-and-long-term growth strategies and GS E&C tries to enhance the company’s economic values by creating Coal-fired and combined cycle thermal power plants are continuing its growth. GS E&C won an order goals to accommodate the changes of the internal and external new growth engine businesses. for the Saudi Arabia’s PP-12 project. We expect to grow our engineering competence and attract more business environment especially including financial crisis. We went orders. Also, GS E&C is making equity investment in IPPs (Independent Power Producer) and taking a step further to creating a new growth engine by exploring, testing, orders in such areas as EPC (Engineering, Procurement, and Construction) based on the investment. and complementing new businesses leaving behind our old growth RO (reverse osmosis) desalination technology is the latest technology in the seawater desalination model – highly dependent on contract projects. This is accompanied market and its commercialization is expected to happen in the near future. GS E&C bought the Spanish by our investment efforts centered around core growth segments and company Inima, which has the world’s top desalination technology and experience and collaborating continuous endeavor to grow the existing core businesses to make on developing desalination technology and exchanges of personnel with domestic and international them reach their full-potential. organizations including KAUST (Saudi). Our goal is to enter RO desalination market concession projects •Industrial plants, power plants and to grow as a leading global water resources company. environmental facilities-areas where we already enjoy world-class status •Development projects such as real estate development and private participation in Development projects; real estate, private participation 3 Main Pillars of Growth infrastructure in infrastructure •Creating economic values with new growth engines Profit-oriented development projects such •Offshore projects generating synergy with •Growing as a sustainable company as real estate development and private onshore projects Real estate development is a type of business including total life cycle of a project from the early-stage investment in infrastructure planning/ exploration to operations and management (O&M) after the project as well as the conventional portfolio centered on the construction work itself. Building on the achievements in the development projects, GS E&C hopes to grow as a leading company Main Business in the industry. To reach this goal, we established firm business principles and a total risk management •Real estate development •Private investment in infrastructure system. In 2012, We conducted advanced real estate projects such as the Gohyeon Port redevelopment 3 Main Pillars of Growth World-class Industrial plants, power plants in Geoje Island while releasing a new model of apartment units, Xi-Ella, customized to the urban life Industrial plants, power plants and and environmental facilities Strategies for nurturing new growth drivers style. Also, we tested a new business model, KT&G group housing projects. Currently, we are considering environmental facilities—World-class GS E&C identified the “candidates – types of businesses with potential to become new growth engines competence a joint venture of project management consultancy for complex development in cooperation with the •Get projects under way to maximize within 10 years” based on our competence such as past achievements/experience, easiness to secure development profits Japanese real estate development company, Mori. In addition to development projects based on a new Main Business required resources and market appeal. Selected candidates – natural gas liquefaction, nuclear power model, we are planning to conduct a wide range of advanced real estate development projects providing •Continuous investment to secure a generation, combined cycle power generation, desalination of seawater – will be nourished as new package of competencies •natural gas liquefaction customized housing, for instance, compact homes or silver town. •nuclear power core businesses to grow world-class through massive investment. GS E&C is planning to break into the GS E&C established the Global Investment Team to analyze international market trends in an effort to •coal-fired | combined cycle thermal power natural gas liquefaction market -which is currently dominated by a handful of large global companiescreate new business opportunities through equity investment instead of the traditional contract projects; •seawater desalination in collaboration with LNG export companies to gain experience first and then join the race of big civil engineering PPP, power plant PPP, and concession agreement in environment filed. This change players based on the domestic demands and performances. In 2012, GS E&C focused on accumulating Strategies for nurturing new growth drivers will lead us to maximize long-term operational profits and earnings sustainably. technologies and project experience as it signed the MOU with Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) to secure •Focused pre-investment in a few selected a bridgehead to enter the natural gas liquefaction market and performed the 17 projects commissioned items with potential for massive global growth by the government. We plan to participate through equity investment in the future project when KOGAS •Participate in overseas IPP projects to secures a gas filed while continuing to carry out national projects to build up technological competence improve competitiveness and work experience. Value Created Activity. Creating social values; participating in the construction of public INPUT. What kind of organizations are in place in GS E&C to secure new growth engines? facilities and infrastructure GS E&C is contributing to the national economic growth as it helps building social infrastructure GS E&C is installing new departments and reorganizing the existing structure to overseas market. New Business Development Teams are operated by business for the public good. In 2012 we took order for domestic projects such as; Wonju-Gangreung railway lay the groundwork to create new growth engine businesses in a more systematic division. Housing Division runs New Housing Business Team and recently Section No. 7, the 2nd Outer Icheon-Osan Expressway, and Siheung Bangsan sewage treatment manner. First of all, we established Global New Business Division to accelerate transferred Vietnamese/Cambodian Projects under the direction of CFO to raise facility. Internationally, we are helping developing countries through the construction work of social new business development overseas including; I&I Sales, Market Intelligence, and operational efficiency. Civil Engineering, as well, is reinforcing its organization by infrastructure, including Bahrain’s waste water treatment facility and the Vietnamese HanoiOffshore Sales Team. adding a new team in charge of increasing Vietnamese projects. Haiphong Expressway project. At the same time, we are exploring various business strategies –IPP, PPP, * IPP (Independent Power Producer), PPP (Public Private Partnership) concession agreementat Global Investment Team, newly installed to analyze GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 24•25 Great Challenge Securing a new growth engine | Expanding Overseas Business | Strengthen the existing core business Offshore projects that generate synergy with onshore projects The offshore plant market is expected to grow at a constant pace at an annual annual average of 10 percent Expanding Overseas Business 3 Main Pillars for Growth as offshore production cost of oil and gas increases. GS E&C is interested in moving into the offshore plant Offshore projects that generate synergy with onshore projects market utilizing its competence in onshore plant projects. We are looking to expand into FLNG and Subsea Our Approach How to Create Our Value segments in the future after successful entering in such areas as fixed platform, artificial island, and FPSO Main Business Overseas sales account for 49.6% of GS E&C’s total sales in 2012. GS E&C will expand global business to increase economic values of Topside. In 2012, we created teams for plant offshore projects and offshore sales to get offshore plant Despite the prospect for heightening competition in the global market, the company. Currently we are creating values for global communities •FPSO business moving. First, we are trying to win orders for fixed platform projects and while recruiting individuals •FLNG we are aiming to increase the share of overseas sales up to 70 per through a variety of construction work in many regions. For instance, •Subsea with offshore experience. Also, we are training engineers through simulation project to help them raise cent through more strategic approach to the various regional markets waste water treatment and soil remediation projects are adding great competence. On the other hand, we are considering investment in offshore designers and engineering, including Middle East, South-east Asia, Americas, and Africa. values to the environment. procurement, construction, and installing company to create synergy effect. Strategies for nurturing new growth drivers * FPSO(Floating Production Storage Offloading, FLNG(Floating liquefied natural gas, Subsea. •Increasing economic values through expanding overseas businesses •Generate synergy based on onshore EPC •Overseas Business Performance 2012 •Creating value in local communities through competence •Create Network by Region regional diversification Division Performance 2012 •Enter market swiftly through M&A and •Enter the African Market •Creating environmental values with waste water nurture as a growth engine •Established Global New Business Division and organize specialized teams Overall •Special Issue; Acquisition of Inima treatment and soil remediation projects I&I Sales team and Market Intelligence team •Securing bridgehead for entering natural gas liquefaction market → Signed MOU with KOGAS Industrial plants, power plants and •Accumulate technologies and experience through government-commissioned projects environmental (17 projects including natural gas liquefaction and offshore development in 2012) facilities—World•Overseas coal-fired/ combined power plant (Saudi PP-12) class competence •Qualified as arranger for developing nuclear power plant •Established strategies for conducting development projects through company-wide task force Global Business •Advanced real estate projects (Gohyeon Port redevelopment in Geoje Island –selected As the global economic slump drags on and the domestic construction market growth slows, competition Global Order Backlogs as preferred bidder) Domestic Order Backlogs Unit: KRW billion Real estate •Launched Xi-Ella, urban-lifestyle apartment units for winning orders is getting tougher in the global market. In 2012 GS E&C newly established overseas sales development and private investment •New business model Andong KT&G group housing project division integrating the existing sales operations under each business division. We opened new branches 14,105 13,253 in infrastructure in Turkey, Iraq, and Libya and aggressively hired local talents to strengthen our global network. In the Civil •Forming joint venture of project management consultancy for complex development with 9,107 6,387 Japanese real estate developer, Mori Division, we are diligently moving to win orders for subway works in the Middle East area based on our rich 5,868 •Established Global Investment Team for market analysis (IPP, PPP, Concession) 4,632 experience of subway projects in East Asian countries such as Singapore and Viet Nam. In the Construction division, we won orders for large-scale projects including NgTeng Fong hospital construction in Viet Nam. 7,718 7,385 Offshore projects Established new teams to supplement offshore business generating synergy → Plant Offshore team and Offshore Sales team Plant Division is considering expanding into unconventional oil business such as Shale gas based on the 4,475 with onshore projects Conducted marine simulation projects (Fixed Platform, FPSO) experience form the Canadian Black Gold Oil Sand project. 2010 2011 2012 Interview Creating new growth drivers based on Vision 2020 Interview Securing a New Growth Engine in the Global Market Recently, construction companies are faced with harsh business environment such as reduced domestic orders and Korea’s domestic construction market is saturated and competition is getting ever fiercer with latecomers such as increasing uncertainties in the overseas market and under pressure to create “new growth engines.” Against the backdrop, India and China joining the race of big global players. To find a breakthrough in the overseas market, most construction GS E&C has chosen drivers responsible for future growth of the company through intensive investment. It seems to set a companies are pushing ahead with aggressive strategies to expand overseas sales. I understand GS E&C is also trying good precedence to its industry peers as well as identifying its future image. to set global strategies centered on overseas business and diversifying its business structure with the increase of I believe Vision 2020 and the 3 main pillars for growth –established to preemptively respond to the challenges toward overseas operation. I believe Canada’s Black Gold project, nation’s first oil sand project, and purchase of the Spanish sustainable and profitable growthwill help the company to secure sustainability in its future business activities. GS E&C water treatment company, Inima, will serve as a leaping board for becoming a leading global construction company. selected the three main growth drivers and Seed business after prioritizing a range of new growth engines of leading global Inima, currently in the post merger integration process after the merger in May 2012, is already creating successful companies and business opportunities induced by the company. The criteria for selection were the feasibility to secure core economic results and expected to play a role of a bridgehead for exploring new markets in the future. competences and business appeal. In order for GS E&C to hold a dominant position in the global construction market, two things need to be considered. I expect GS E&C to be able to generate more profits than its rivals by focused investment in selected business –requiring preFirst of all, you need to take full advantage of local talents; not only hiring them but also raising their competence. Also, investmentinstead of distributed investments over a number of businesses. Moreover, balanced allocation of short-term and localization strategy needs to be set before entering into a new market to better understand the culture and sentiment mid-long-term investment resources will help realize sustainable growth, more than just temporary growth in size. of the local community. Lastly, For GS E&C to grow as a global sustainable corporation built on its past achievement, the company needs to Finally, I know that recently there has been loss in an effort to underbid others among heated competition for taking strengthen its core competitiveness to keep raising shareholder’s values and nurture global leaders as well as proactive and orders. In the future, GS E&C will have to develop strategies to win order considering profitability and find a way of doing focused investment on new growth engines. business overseas representing social and environmental values of the company. Shim Seung Taek, Partner, Bain & Company Seung-Hwan Lim, Assistant Manager, YTN GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 26•27 Great Challenge Special Issue. Acquisition of Inima Networking by Region We selected major regions based on volume of orders, profitability, competition, and the need for a sales GS E&C bought the world’s top water treatment company, Inima, in May 2012 as a stepping stone to join the global water treatment business. During the network in the mid-and-long term perspective to strengthen global business more strategically. We early stage of M&A, we integrated organizational culture. approach each region with different networking strategies. First, the Middle East/ Asia region is a big market with a secure project order plan. We will fortify the existing sales network to enhance competitiveness in the region. On the other hand, Latin America/ Africa/ Turkey & the CIS region is an unproved market but has a great growth potential with rich natural resources. Business Performance We are planning to establish and expand sales network in the region as a future strategic market. In 2012, GS E&C posted 144 million euros in sales and 8.9 million euros in operating profit, respectively 14.8% and 19.6% higher than planned. We will continue this robust growth pace with the goal of 153 million Major Regions euros in sales and 11.5 million euros in operating profit for the year 2013, which are up by 6.4% and 28.6% from the previous year. For the first year after acquisition, GS E&C focused on profitability and cash flow management of Inima and set a priority on establishing a new system as an independent company maintaining “stability amid changes.” We will optimize the collaboration between GS E&C and Inima to generate great synergy to 03 expand overseas business and ultimately nurture Inima as the top global player in the water treatment industry with the 2020 sales goal of KRW 1trillion. 01 Sales Operating profit Expected results Unit: Thousand Euros Expected results 02 Actual results Actual results Unit: Thousand Euros 125,436 7,447 2012 2012 144,042 8,910 01Americas •Latin America, Great potential with rich natural resources 2013 153,024 2013 11,456 / North America, new growth engine business opportunity Latin America, Need to create business opportunities through financial arrangement •Increased opportunities for business including consulting services from Business Status 02Africa the mid-and-long term perspective Accumulating experience through ODA business Responding to localization needs in the northern African region In 2012, water treatment market environment was unfavorable with reduced bidding opportunities due to Need to take initiative in sub-Saharan Africa with early start of sales operation budget cut of governments of major clients amid persistent global recession, which made competition in the Middle East, the biggest demander of the water treatment services, fiercer than ever. 03Turkey•CIS •Tendency to put orders based on relationship Need to take initiative with sales based on network to secure profitability Inima plans to create new business opportunities as it breaks into new markets including the Middle East and south East Asia in partnership with GS E&C in addition to the Spanish and Latain American market where we’re already doing business. Not only that, we will continue to pursue social and environmental values by addressing issues such as Moving into the African Market water shortage and soil pollution while creating high added values in the RO desalination, water and waste water treatment, and soil remediation projects in the Latin American region. Africa is a market of strategic importance with growing business opportunities. In 2012, GS E&C signed a MOU with Sonatrach, the Algerian state-run oil company and now is in the process of establishing a joint venture for EPC to fully engage in the local market. We are planning to expand our business to the The 10th biggest water treatment company in the neighboring countries in the continent with Algeria as an advance base. world’s Reverse Osmosis desalination industry, Inima was a Spanish company established in 1957 and built the world’s first desalination plant Performance 2012 and has successfully conducted a number of RO desalination projects in North America, South Category Performance 2012 America and the Northern African region. •Laid groundwork for business in Saudi; obtain the IK-EPC (In Kingdom Engineering, Procurement & Construction) license and grow GSCA •Secured a bridgehead for the African market – signed MOU with the Algerian national Global Sales oil company, Sonatrach •Established GTM strategy and action plans to enter/grow in major regional markets •Selected target customers and hired executives to manage Huston, America to diversify industrial plant customer base •Acquisition of Inima, Spanish RO desalination plant and water treatment company Compnay-wide •Conducted post merger integration process of Inima •Operating Global Operating Model T/F * IOC(international oil company), NOC(national oil company) GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 28•29 Great Challenge Securing a new growth engine | Expanding Overseas Business | Strengthen the existing core Business Strengthening the Existing Mainstay Business We put emphasis on integrating tasks to raise overall efficiency. Key action plans include securing Key cost innovation activities purchasing competitiveness and activating integrated issuance of orders. We also created guidelines Optimize safety management Our Approach How to Create Our Value on cost innovation activities and manage the process systematically through weekly checkups, regular Standardize materials meetings of the persons in charge, and various communication channels online. We will continue our Create VE of housing projects and maximize its On the global front, economic recovery in the advanced markets is GS E&C aims to enhance sustainability and achieve a qualitative growth application effort to make cost innovation one of our fundamental competitive advantages by identifying tasks and being delays while uncertainties persist in emerging economies with by bolstering fundamental business competitiveness such as cost Promote integrated issuance of orders between sites create results. slow growth and volatility in exchange rate and oil price. Domestically, reduction, new orders, and excellent technology. Expand supplier pool for civil & architecture prolonged depression in the construction market and slowing recovery procurement and strengthen bidding process Reach the full potential of the Existing Mainstay Business by Division in the real estate market are threats to the business environment. plant purchasing Plant | The mainstay businesses of the Division are EPC projects in refinery and petrochemical plant. The Other risk factors in the industry include heated competition in the Minimize plant rework market is forecast to grow 2 to 3 % in volume and is divided into two extreme types; 1) companies based plant market in the Middle East and reduction in the issuance of new Optimize outsourced design work on advanced technologies; 2) companies based on cost competitiveness. Against the backdrop, we need to (Power&Environment Business Division) orders from the public organizations. To overcome the obstacles GS achieve maximum growth in the technology-intensive market such as refinery and petrochemical projects E&C is carrying out corporate-wide cost innovation activities to secure and consolidate global leadership for the existing mainstay businesses to reach their full potential. New cost competitiveness, a fundamental strength a construction company orders in the plant business mainly come from the following three types of owners, who respectively focus should have. Also, we pursue diversification of regions by adding Latin on; technology, relationship, or financial benefits. Until now, GS E&C tended to target the last two types of America –with potential for growth and sound profitability to our owners based on customer network and price competitiveness. From now on, however, we need to expand existing market list of the Middle East and the South East Asia. our customer base to include those who put priority on technology, quality and trust. •Reducing expenditure by cost cut and creating •Cost innovation economic values by enhancing work efficiency Architecture | Mainstay business of the Division is general construction projects ordered from the •Reaching full potential of the existing •Contributing to the national economy and community public, related companies, and private organizations. The architectural market is going through a slump business by Divisions by producing and generating additional values with increasing competition with smaller companies not to speak of the five major players. Under the circumstance, we need to strengthen fundamental competitiveness in the domestic market and focus on selected orders after careful review of strategic values and profitability of a project in the overseas market Cost Innovation for the existing mainstay businesses to reach their full potential.It means that in the construction business, Given the unfavorable business environment where the domestic and global market become sluggish we are able to create stable results through constant bolstering fundamental competitiveness. Interview Cost Innovation and competitors take aggressive measures to win orders, it is imperative for a business to strengthen with a number of key people in the industry showed that they consider the current construction market a •Conduct corporate-wide innovation tasks crisis with slowing growth and decreasing profits. It was difficult to find successful examples of domestic cost competitiveness “continuously” and ”incessantly” to survive and thrive. GS E&C is concentrating •Disseminate the Lessons Learned rivals in the overseas market because they are able to generate profits only after complete localization its competence on maximizing profits through cost reduction as profit rate in the construction industry •Strengthen the skills to implement the declines to overcome economic slump and recession. in the unfavorable local business environment. Analysis of the past examples revealed that only 1 to 3 % innovation tasks of the past year GS E&C has set the action plans for the mid-term and long-term to save cost including; conducting of profit is expected even in the areas where the companies had capabilities and localization needed to corporate-wide innovation tasks; disseminating the Lessons Learned; and strengthening the skills to conduct the project. It means we need to set the direction in the overseas market to gradually expand the implement the innovation tasks of the past year. We are also carrying out the 8 innovation tasks at the market by winning orders while establishing competence instead of seeking growth in volume. company level including the “advancement of the construction management by applying Bim+Lean.” This Civil Engineering | Mainstay business of the Division is general civil works whose orders were placed by is expected to save roughly KRW 114.7 billion in overall cost. In order to strengthen cost competitiveness the public organizations. The market is expected to record a negative growth in real terms and also the even further we share the Lessons Learned by stage to apply before launching a project and expand the competition is increasing. Against the backdrop, we need to strengthen fundamental competitiveness best innovation practices from the last year to corporate-wide projects. – cost and new orders in the domestic market and expanding overseas projects gradually centered The goal of cost innovation is improving the organizational health to make it more cost-effective. To around the technology-intensive projects such as special long span bridge, underground transportation this end, we create a roadmap of cost innovation activities by Division and by function to monitor the infrastructure, and port construction to reach the full potential of the existing mainstay business. progress. 30 tasks were identified throughout the whole business process from receiving orders to design and construction and categorized into 4 different phases. Plan to implement tasks by phase Value Created Activity. Generate Economic Activities Indirectly Production inducement effect” means how much effect increased end-user demand by one unit for 2012 Production inducement effect PH1 PH2 PH3 Wrap up a particular product has on productive activities in all industries, directly and indirectly. Construction 8.59 tends to stimulate more economic activities than other industries. According to the Bank of Korea, the trillion production inducement coefficient of Korea’s construction sector is 2.104 for every KRW 100 million. 12.8~12.11 12.12~13.3 13.3~13.6 13.7, 4 weeks If you calculate our domestic production inducement effect for 2012, you will get KRW 8.59 trillion. KRW •Secure purchasing •10 others in addition to •8 others in addition to BM •Integrate and draw From the perspective of the national economy, added value means how much an individual company competitiveness operation of outsourcing calculation implications contributes to the national income. Based on the added value inducement coefficient of 0.749 for every 2012 Added value inducement effect 3.58 •7 others in addition companies •Assess Impacts KRW 100 million announced by the Bank of Korea, we helped generate more than KRW 3.59 trillion in trillion to VE systemization •Establish the next steps economic activities contributing to the national economic growth in 2012. and milestones Production inducement coefficient: 2.104/ KRW 100 million, Added value inducement coefficient: 0.749/ KRW 100 million KRW (Input-output tables of Korea, The Bank of Korea, 2012) GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 30•31 Great Challenge Securing a new growth engine | Expanding Overseas Business | Strengthen the existing core Business Housing | Mainstay business of the Division is mass apartment units development projects and maintenance works. The market is sluggish and profits are declining while target market of GS E&C is gradually reducing. Under the circumstance, we need to maximize profits by repositioning brands in the domestic market and focus on development projects and establishing brands successfully in the overseas market for the existing mainstay housing businesses to reach their full potential. Core strategy to maximize profits in the housing business is to continuously strengthen the position of Xi as the top domestic brand. Xi is considered to hold a dominant position over other competing brands by successfully positioning itself as a “premium mass” brand. 2012 Major Achievements Division 2012 Major Achievements •Received new orders for large global projects (Rabigh–Ⅱ) •Signed an MOU with PSOCO (in an effort to enter the Metal Plant business) Plant •Created new business (Shale Gas, Metal Plant etc) Architectural and •Green Building NTFH in Singapore Housing •Established global growth strategies for technology-driven projects and FU •Conducted bidding for collaborative projects with an advanced global company (w/Vinci) •Signed the technological alliance and provided technological services – suspension bridge Civil Engineering technology for the 2nd Namhae Grand Bridge: T.Y Lin(US), IHI(Japan) •Nurtured seed business[Near-surface urban railways system], Signed an MOU with Korea Railroad Research Institute (Dec. 2012) Technology •Established the process for BIM-based advanced construction projects DPR(US) and NC-soft Corporate-wide •Operated cost innovation task force 1 and 2, Selected tasks by segment Case Study. Concentrating on technology-driven projects The Civil Engineering Division aims to expand presence in the high-added value market for technology-intensive projects such as special long span bridge, underground transportation infrastructure, and port construction, breaking the existing low-added value business scheme including the construction of highways, railways, LTR, and housing complex. For example, building special long span bridges is lucrative business with high success rate for winning orders because of the limited competition due to high entry barrier. GS E&C is planning to expand global market presence by partnering with overseas companies and operating dedicated organization possessing core technologies, based on our experience of completing Mokpo Grand Bridge and Yeosu Grand Bridge, cable-stayed bridges with the central span of over 4oom. Underground transportation infrastructure is emerging as an alternative without land acquisition and near-surface hindrance and overseas large underwater tunnel projects are in the pipeline. GS E&C achieved a breakthrough by using TBM for the first time out of two sections of the C913 subway project in Singapore in 2012. In the coming year, we aim to win orders for the construction of Thomson Line in Singapore and Doha Metro in Qatar. We are building effective talent pools of experienced workers and sharpening competitive edge through alliance with domestic and overseas research institutes. As global port construction market is less competitive than other segments with many large projects in the pipeline, we need to secure competitiveness for winning orders and carrying out the projects. The Division manufactured and launched successfully a large caisson with 8,000 ton-capacity at the site of Southern Breakwater for Pohang Youngil New Port in 2012. Once we complete the project and the RRE#7 project in UAE, we will be ready to make a bid for overseas projects more aggressively based on the experience and personnel engaged in the making of large caisson. Yeosu Bridge •Owner: Jeollanam-do Provincial Government highways, roads, special long span bridges, Technology •Location: Yeosu, Jeonnam, Korea General high-speed railways, tunnels (using excavator), intensive •Project Period: Nov. 2007~Oct. 2012 Projects railways, LTR, housing complex, ports, dams Projects •Total Length: 1945m and bridges (hydro power and tidal power) GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 32•33 OUR APPROACH GS E&C is proactively responding to the global trend focusing on environment and safety issues in the business world. We are laying the groundwork for sustainable growth by developing green technologies emerging as a new future competitive edge, minimizing environmental impact through the business cycle, and preventing major disasters and accidents through preemptive safety measures. OUR EFFORT GS E&C is developing a wide range of green technologies through strengthening infrastructure and carrying out green businesses in connection with the developed technologies. Also, we are committing ourselves to minimizing environmental impact throughout the process from design, to procurement, transportation, construction, operation, and demolition to practice Life Cycle Assessment. Not only that, we are trying our best to minimize environmental and social cost through corporate-wide preventive measures to reduce Mapo Municipal Solid Waste Treatment Plant safety accidents and pollution. •Location: Seoul, Korea •Project Period: Nov. 2001 May. 2005 CREATED VALUE •Capacity: 250 ton/day × 3units •Waste Heat Boilers 44 ton/hr × 3units With green technology, GS E&C is creating environmental and social values as well as economic results by minimizing environmental impact through business activities. In addition, we are putting efforts to realize social values through green communication while implementing environmental values –such as carbon emission reductionby proactively responding to climate change. Our corporate-wide precautionary safety initiatives have enabled us to prevent environmental accidents to minimize the environmental and social cost. 36 Green Technology•40 Sustainable Construction•50 Response to Climate Change 54 Safety & Health Management Jeju Advanced Sewage Treatment Plant Chungju Area Incineration Plant GREAT INNOVATION Green Technology | Sustainable Construction | Response to Climate Change | Safety & Health Management Green Technology Developing green construction materials and tecnology Green Construction Materials | 53% of carbon emission from construction materials during the Energy Zero construction stage from the life cycle of construction comes from concrete. GS E&C developed green concrete with reduced carbon emission in 2011 and improved its endurance and cost element in 2012. Concept Our Approach How to Create Our Value Apply up-to-date heat insulation, renewable energy The average price of green concrete is lower than normal concrete by 6% contributing to cost reduction. solution, and energy management system to Construction industry involves a host of technologies during the process GS E&C develops and adopts green technology not only to contribute to Green concrete is not only eco-friendly with reduced carbon emission but also has high resistance to apartment units in order to reduce energy demand from design, execution, maintenance, and demolition. Such technologies creating economic values but also to minimize environmental impact by and maximize energy efficiency crack growth and durability. are applied in various processes and construction methods to create the its business activities as a leader of green construction. Not only that, Technology facilities as well as in the facilities. GS E&C put its effort into capturing we deliver social value for our stakeholders by providing a technological 3 Zero House | GS E&C’s 3 Zero House is an eco-friendly residence model that features reduced energy •Technology to reduce energy loads for heating and cooling new business opportunities by acquiring green technology –attracting solution to social issues such as noise between floors. consumption (Energy Zero), free-noise residential environment (Noise Zero), and clean indoor air (Air •Optimization technology to apply renewable energy Pollution Zero). The 3 Zero House will help GS E&C create eco-friendly lifestyles and improve quality of sources attention as the future competitive edge – while strengthening •Integrated energy supply and control technology technological competitiveness in the existing business. Through the life for residents. •Technology to implement geothermal airconditioning system aggressive investment in environmental R&D, we are expanding green Green & Smart Building | GS E&C has proposed the Green & Smart Building model as a future-oriented business as the basis for sustainable growth. construction approach that features eco-friendliness and intelligent functions, and developed related Noise Zero technologies. The eco-friendly construction technologies are combined to form a solution package, Concept which has been applied to actual projects. The technology set has helped the company build structures •Improve infrastructure for eco-friendly technology Insulate noise transmission between floors, block with eco-friendliness, economic benefits and fine external appearance. Based on construction projects noise from outside, and remove equipment noise •Develop green construction materials and •Create economic value by securing new growth effectively to make the residential environment free construction technology completed during 2012, 55% of total projects were executed with eco-friendly technologies. engine and cost reduction from noise •Nurture low-carbon industry * Projects completed by the Architectural & Housing Business Division in 2012 •Create environmental value by developing green Technology •Develop water resources technology such as minimizing pollution •Active noise control •Conduct waste-to-energy program •Create social value by providing technological •Optimized acoustic design solution to social issues •High Performance sound absorption and •Strengthen the link between technology and business Nurturing low carbon industry insulation system •Soundscape design Smart Grid | GS E&C has participated in the Jeju Smart Grid Test-bed since December 2009 to secure core technologies. In addition, in order to verify micro-grid technology at the building level, GS E&C Strengthening Infrastructure for green technology Air Pollution Zero established a demonstration facility applied with the building integrated photovoltaic system (BIPV), Environmental R&D budget Personnel & Budget | GS E&C is expanding investment in green R&D and supplementing the research wind power, geothermal heat, and fuel cells at the residential hall of GS Research Institute in the city of Concept Unit: KRW 1 million personnel. In 2012, R&D budget stood at KRW 12.7 million, which mainly went to the lab equipment Yongin, in Gyeonggi Province. Remove chemical gases, viruses, fungi and other hazardous materials to create safe and clean indoor 2000 supply and field support activities to help preemptive technology development. At the same time, we environment. brought in 15 new employees in core technology fields such as industrial plant, energy, and environment Large-capacity LNG Plant * | Natural gas is thought of as a clean, stable, and convenient alternative 1,785 Technology and plan to recruit more talented individuals in 2013 to carry out core new growth business, cost to fossil fuel as the world energy market if faced with new environmental constraints such as GHG •Nanotechnology-applied, eco-friendly materials 1,269 emissions control as well as resource nationalism. This has brought attention to the LNG plant industry , 1000 innovation, and commercialization of technology. •Building design to prevent pollution spread including the processes for pre-treatment and liquefaction of natural gas. GS E&C is planning to develop •Intelligent air purifying system 748 Government-commissioned Projects | GS E&C is conducting several tasks in collaboration with the LNG plant process control and design technology to secure its own technological competency on LNG 2010 2011 2012 government which recognized its advanced green technology. In particular, we present opinions on policies plant and enter the global LNG plant market. 0 related to; energy consumption in buildings, greenhouse gas analysis & management system development, * LNG Plant: Natural gas extracted from the gas field is pretreated and condensed into a liquid by cooling it to −162 °C (−260 °F) to make it * Net Research Expenses Except Labor about 1/600th the volume of natural gas in the gaseous state for ease of storage and transportation. and integrated certification system for green architecture based on green index as we carried out “The and Equipment Costs establishment of the integrated system for evaluation and certification of GHG emission to promote green architecture,” a project commissioned by the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs. Thanks to these efforts, we received the Minister of Land, Transport and Maritime Award at the “8th Construction Environmental Management Best Case Competition” and participated in the “6th Construction Technological Research Presentation” confirming our leadership in the construction environment field. Case Study. Developing technology to set up a high-rise fire scenario GS E&C developed a technology to build a high-rise fire scenario for the first time as a domestic construction company. It is one of the core technologies in disaster prevention and Korean companies used to totally depend Input. What is GS E&C doing to nurture talents with technological expertise? on foreign developers until now. GS E&C established a high-rise fire scenario conducting “The Development of a High-rise Fire Safety Technology, ” a research project supervised by the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime GS E&C is securing and nurturing experts to accelerate the development and Affairs starting from 2009. We quantified frequency and impact of a total of 148 cases of high-rise fire through Plan 2013 to enhance expertise and work competency of employees commercialization of new growth business technology. In 2012, we nourished statistical analysis of the major high-rise fire in the world and created a program which enables users to select the Increasing operational Strengthening global appropriate fire scenario with ease. In the past, disaster-preventing design of a building meant randomly applying core talents in 8 fields – including offshore and desalination – and provided efficiency of the employees competency of personnel Securing outside experts self-development opportunities for overseas employees based on-the-job a few cases out of the 7 fire scenarios announced by the National Emergency Management Agency. GS E&C •Expert rotation between •Hold PTH Roadmap* expert •experts in core new growth training required for global tasks. Also, we established a technological experts business divisions courses for new growth business scenario is considering both frequency and impact based on the data from the 2010 Analysis of the cases of fire in •Flexible management of business •experts in cost innovation and rotation system between divisions. In 2013, we will support systematic expert the special buildings published by Korea Fire Protection Association so that users are given choices to select from R&D and tech support •Conduct OJT at overseas technology commercialization training course based on PTH Road Map*, recruiting outside experts, and OJT at personnel according to sites and apply. It makes GS E&C high-rise fire scenario far more reliable than the old ones and expected to play an business environment overseas sites in order to give momentum to new growth business. important role in enhancing fire safety in very tall buildings. * PTH Roadmap : Product – Technology – Human Roadmap GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 36•37 GREAT INNOVATION Green Technology | Sustainable Construction | Response to Climate Change | Safety & Health Management Outline of the Smart Water-Energy Technology Water Resource Development 2012 Major Achievements in the Development of Green Technologies Smart Grid System Water Reuse System | GS E&C’s water reuse system is an active response toward the government’s Technology/ Major Projects in 2012 Apply information technology to the policy encouraging sewage reuse and a realistic alternative to address water-related risks such as Divisions Description Eco-friendliness Major Objectives in 2013 supply and demand sides of power grid Products Manage changing electricity prices water shortage. The system consists of advanced wastewater treatment, sewage reuse, and sludgedue to balance between supply and to-resources parts and features recycling water with high efficiency at 10% lower production costs A technology to minimize electricity • Reduce carbon • Carry out two joint R&D projects • Carry out SWRO/PRO hybrid process demand on a real time basis Low-energy consumption to a level of 3.0kWh/ emissions with overseas organizations: development commissioned by the Smart Water System compared to conventional methods. We developed wastewater reuse technologies, including the reuse of seawater ton KAUST, USC, INIMA government desalination • Develop SWRO/PRO hybrid process • Support research and winning orders for An optimal system for low-energy reverse osmosis concentrate and automated indicator of economic terms for cleaning the RO membrane ocean tides control process desalination plant • Develop Smart WE seawater Smart GS E&C’s optimal, split-partial RO at desalination plants to minimize emission of hazardous materials and secure a new growth engine desalination process Water-Energy system Technology in connection with operating / management technology as well as raising EPC business competency at Smart Energy System A low-energy technology of • Minimize energy • Develop low-energy high• Develop technologies to reduce 10% of home and abroad. Hybrid, low-energy technology that Water reuse construction and operation for consumption efficient MBR processes with energy cost compared to the causes renewable energy sources system water treatment using inorganic • Minimize waste water total phosphorus emissions and conventional sewage treatment to be incorporated into conventional Seawater Desalination Technology | Seawater desalination is a new growth area with great potential, membrane and industrial wastes technology to treat wastewater for technology power grids industrial use which can help GS E&C enter the global desalination market as well as create huge added value. Our Smart Water Energy well-known technologies is the “Smart WE (water-energy)” technology, which allows an operator of an RO Management System A total solution model for • Produce and provide • Carry out the Eco-Smart Water • Secure technologies to design, build, and desalination plant to reduce power costs. This technology will play an important role for GS E&C to advance production/supply of high-quality customized water Supply project commissioned by operate high-performance water System to manage electricity charges Integrated tap water and optimal operation/ services the Ministry of Environment treatment plant and water supply system into overseas desalination markets. Management of management • Increase efficiency of • Carry out the Next-generation • Commercialize technologies developed Waterworks limited water resource Intelligent Water Supply Network through test-beds in Daegu, Gwang-ju and energy use project commissioned by the in Gyounggi province, and Ministry of Environment Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Major Waste-to-energy Solution Technologies Projects where Applied A project to design and construct • Reduce GHG emissions • Develop a program to design • Complete the development of large Developed Waste-to-energy Solution | GS E&C has carried out an R&D project for a total solid waste-to-energy Large-capacity an waste treatment and energy/ incinerators stoker incinerator with the daily capacity solution, which features optimal methods for all the processes from waste collection to final disposal. clean incinerator materials recovery plant through • Develop a fire grate with capacity of 200 to 500 tons Medium-length span (60m) PSC Government offices in Block plant incineration of combustible waste of burning 500 tons of solid waste girders 2-1, Sejong City The integrated solid waste collection and treatment process transmutes wastes into harmless materials Power & per day and relates to green technology and business which recovers useful energy (electricity, heat) and Environment Optimal MBT A project to design and construct • Reduce GHG emissions • Reduce KRW 2.46 billion in • Carry out certification of new green MBT optimal Daegu Green Energy materials (compost, construction materials) from the waste. GS E&C will minimize the environmental design technology Infrastructure project processes for an waste treatment and energy/ operational cost by applying technology and social impact of business activities while raising economic efficiency and recycling rate of resources high WUR(water materials recovery plant turning waste-to-energy facility to Daegu • Apply to the private investment projects combustible waste into RDF Crosspieceusing our eco-friendly facilities. uptake rate) style damper for Daejeon Central Xi waste treatment multiunit housing Stronger connection between technology and business A project to design and construct • Hazardous waste-to• Develop high-efficiency hybrid • Optimize Hybrid Biogas process and New Bundang Line extension Biogas an waste treatment and energy/ energy biogas anaerobic digestion develop component technologies (Jeongja-Gwanggyo section) of Commercializing New Technologies | GS E&C has commercialized 44.7% of the technologies developed production Green concrete materials recovery plant turning • Reduce GHG emissions (dry-wet process) double-track electric rail Section 12-16 of Cheong-jin over the past three years. In 2012, 108 of our original technologies were applied at 89 construction sites. process organic waste into biogas A business to build a door-to• Reduce GHG emissions • Develop automated one-way waste • Maximize technological integrity Automated platform system transferring wastes collection system for buildings waste collection from the large-scale/ apartment system complex to dump sites/ treatment facilities. Interview Secure sustainability through the development of green technology A technology to design offshore wind • Reduce GHG emissions • Carry out feasibility study on • Continue to carry out feasibility study on Recently, many construction companies are focusing on the development of environmental system and technologies to Design and farm, to design and interpret wind offshore wind farm complex offshore wind farm design secure a new growth engine. Green technology, in particular, the new buzzword in the industry has become an important construction of farm structure, and to develop green • Design support for offshore • Support bidding for offshore wind farm Offshore Wind construction method projects planned to bid for element considered by the clients and is seen as a key indicator of a company’s growth potential. • Carry out simulation test for green Farm construction method of offshore Against the backdrop, the following needs to be considered for GS E&C to achieve sustainable growth. First, although wind farm most construction companies are developing green technology with the increase in demand from customers and the government, they are still highly dependent on foreign technology or just blindly following a uniform pattern instead of A technology to build a super-long • Reduce travel distances • Develop high-performance • Develop technologies to secure stability Underground span tunnel of over 50 meters in technologies for tunnel support in excavating tunnels reflecting their own strengths and competence. Civil transportation length within a short period of time system • Develop technologies to control air GS E&C needs to focus on what it can do best and continue to develop technology with which foreign technology can be Engineering infrastructure • Develop technologies to improve pressure in submarine tunnels modified to meet the conditions of the domestic market. Next, in order to establish a competitive construction business, water resistance of tunnels the company needs to nurture SME partners by developing new technology together and provide them with patent support. It is crucial to keep a win-win relationship with SMEs through active technological exchanges and collaborative Civil New Bundang Line extension • Reduce GHG emissions • Carry out feasibility study on green • Continuous effort to commercialize Engineering Green concrete (Jeongja-Gwanggyo section) of concrete and apply new technologies at R&D activities. & Housing double-track electric rail construction sites Last, you cannot overestimate the importance of the determination of the CEO to pursue sustainable management Section 12-16 of Cheong-jin • Apply to upper frames such as green management and the company vision and goals must include environmental indicators. These efforts will help keep business relation with clients and builders as a business partner and also serve as a stepping stone to A business combining cutting• Save energy • Establish BIM Lean Process • Secure core competency for green edge technologies such as Green • Improve environment • Analyze green building business remodeling business outperforming its competitors. Green & Smart Buildings, Intelligent Buildings and in the Middle East • Establish energy-saving quality Architecture Building specialized designs, which will lead control system Professor Dong Jong In, University of Seoul future construction market GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 38•39 GREAT INNOVATION Green Technology | Sustainable Construction | Response to Climate Change | Safety & Health Management Sustainable Construction Consider Sustainability Prior to Construction Sustainable Procurement and Construction Our Approach How to Create Our Value Green Procurement Based on the Life Cycle Assessment, GS E&C is taking into GS E&C takes into consideration not only raw material innovation and Provide Green Certification and Incentive > GS E&C has established green procurement guidelines and when Green Procurement Records in 2012 consideration impact to the environment in all business activities as economic value but also the value of social environment in all of its registering new companies is awarding additional points to those companies that have acquired green certification. Unit: billions of won well as technologies and management techniques needed in planning, business practices. Through green construction and green operation GS HB Label In doing so, we are contributing to our partners actively looking to possess green certification. In addition, while green procurement, transportation, construction, operation and demolition. By pursuing these green business activities GS E&C will E&C is creating its very own eco-friendly value. In addition, through green procurement we strive to create growth together with our partners and we are actively identifying, registering and managing alternative green product manufacturers we are also giving additional points during regular evaluation of our partner companies (once a year) to those holding environmental 70.85 continue to work on sustainable development and stakeholders as well create eco-friendly economic value in addition to social value. High-Energy-Efficiency Equipment & Materials certification and are giving financial rewards as well as exemptions on contract performance securities to 25.51 as reduce environmental effects on the surrounding ecosystem. outstanding companies. Also, through our green procurement system we manage information on certified •Early Prevention of Impact to the Environment •Create environmental value through manufacturers of companies producing eco-friendly materials and monitor green procurement records. sustainable procurement, transportation, Energy Efficiency Ratings 1~2 •Sustainable Procurement and Transportation Encourage Participation from Procurement Partner Companies > GS E&C has included 3 of the 10 52.38 construction, operation and demolition. •Sustainable Construction •Achieve growth alongside our partners G-SCM participant companies (an arm of the Ministry of Environment’s Support Project to Spread Green •Sustainable Operation and Demolition through green procurement. Management) as a procurement partner companies to establish a green management system, acquire Eco-label green technology certification, publish reports on the environment as well as participate in exhibitions abroad to support the establishment of green management. 79.40 Key Activities of Environment Manager Activities to Prevent Impact on Environment Publish and Distribute Green Procurement Guidelines > GS E&C has published “Green Procurement Energy Savings Label Build System for On-site Management of Environment | Since 2010, GS E&C has been building a system Guidelines” which include an overview of general rules for green procurement, process, product type 2.09 •Mar~May Special inspection of dust Overview •May~June to conduct environment-related work by designating a person to be in charge of managing the environment and new company registration in addition to the reward system and procurement results. The Green Inspect Environment Special inspection of waste Response •Dec~Jan at each work site. The assistant foreman on-site also serves as the environment manager and chooses an Procurement Guidelines will become a requisite for partner companies and other construction companies in Total 230.23 Illegal incineration during winter months employee to be in charge in each of the four high risk areas (documents on the environment, environmental green management •Inspect facilities facility management, environmental monitoring, green information system operation). Inspect Environment and Overview of Civil •Train workers on the environment Green Transportation Complaints •Prevent local civil complaints Conduct Environmental Impact Assessments | GS E&C is reducing the number of civil complaints and Eco Driving Campaign > GS E&C has started the Eco Driving campaign to minimize environmental impact •Vehicle Wheel Cleaning Facilities/ during the green transportation process. Drivers of on-site equipment and construction cars are given inA Look at Video-Conferencing in Action Sludge Dryer impact to the environment while conducting its business activities, in addition to writing and managing Install/operate onsite environmental •Waste storage etc. reports that outline plans on managing the environment for each construction site. For those sites that house training on preventing pollution, maintaining appropriate driving speeds and restraining from use of facilities •Waste water disposal facility/ septic tank are targets of environmental impact assessments, we conduct post construction environmental impact aged equipment, vehicles etc. In the future, Eco Driving posters will be distributed and related campaigns Training on the •Training for environment manager evaluations each quarter and by managing environmental facilities and preserving the surrounding ecology will be launched regularly to promote eco-friendly driving. Environment at the Head Office and Activities with Local •Local council at each head office we prevent any damage to the environment. The Q∧HSE/CM team is in charge of leading and inspecting basic Video Conferencing System > Since 2010, GS E&C has been conducting its regional environment Council •Contact at each head office environmental impact assessments for the entire company while the Green Environment Team is in charge management meetings via video conference. Environment management guidelines by issue/time and of environmental support for any problems that may arise. real-time key environmental information are shared via video conference. Not only does the system improve work efficiency but it minimizes travel by car thereby contributing to the reduction of gasoline use. The number of management and employees participating in video conferencing in 2012 totaled Interview I hope the foundation for sustainable construction is based from the 83,430 which equals a reduction in GHG by 3.53tCO2 –e. viewpoint of the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). *This is similar to the amount of carbon dioxide emissions by a 2000cc car traveling round trip between Seoul~Busan 25 times. One can say that the sustainability of green management related to the environment in the construction industry is one area of sustainable management from the point of view of the entire company. However, with the exception of some of the leading companies the level of those responding to this is still sub-par. In this situation, GS E&C’s green management activities set INPUT. What is GS E&C doing to prevent Q∧HSE risk on-site? a good example in the industry. In particular, by conducting research and technology development, procurement, transport, GS E&C has built and is operating a failure management system which is a database of similar failed cases (incidents/ Number of Support construction, operation and demolition, from the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) vantage point all of the processes in the accidents) in the areas of quality, safety and environment that have taken place abroad. For ease of use, related information for Failed Cases Unit: Cases construction industry can be improved on to become eco-friendly processes. I believe that all of the data on raw materials is provided in a single sheet to on-site employees and by sharing this throughout the company awareness and ability for risk Quality and energy use at each business site is that is collected contributes greatly to creating not only social and environmental prediction is increased. The Failed Case Management System is made up of 4639 domestic and foreign mid-large incidents value but economic value for GS E&C as well. As such, through sustainable construction, GS E&C can set differentiated goals and each case can be searched by key word/area/date. In the future it will be linked to risk prediction activities and a DB 1,564 at each phase from procurement to demolition and a detailed action plan provides a realistic and comparable advantage over system that is made up of defect cases and information customized by construction type, equipment type, etc. is in the works. Safety its competitors. I believe that in the future GS E&C needs to set goals and sustain activities that are specific only to GS E&C 2,626 instead of merely reacting to government policy and generational trends or criteria and methods similar to its competitors. Environment In particular, I believe that the establishing action plans that are realistic, systematic management and assessment of items 449 that are being promoted, process improvements and improvements in the materials used and equipment is needed and in Total doing so will ultimately enhance GS E&C’s competiveness as well as help in securing sustainability. 4,639 Korea Land and Housing Corporation, Land and Housing Researcher, Dr. Son Jong-rak Support of Today’s Failed Cases by Site Support for Failed Cases through Search by Information GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 40•41 GREAT INNOVATION Green Technology | Sustainable Construction | Response to Climate Change | Safety & Health Management Considerations for Sustainability in the Construction Phase Consideration of Sustainability during the Post Construction Phase Sustainable Construction Sustainable Operation and Demolition Technology Information Management System(TIMS) Support | In the event environment technology and Green Operation Eco-friendly Unit: Structure, test analysis related to pollution and civil complaints is needed during construction, technical support is Expansion of Eco-friendly Certified Buildings > GS E&C has constructed eco-friendly buildings Structure Certifications Accumulation requested from TIMS (Technology Information Management System) our in-house information system and applying various green technologies and these efforts have been recognized through Green Building 20 21 speedy assessment of the level of pollution at the construction site and control measures are presented. Certifications. GS E&C will strive to increase the number of its certifications such as the Green Building Certification, the LEED certification of the USA, and Singapore’s Green Mark for its commercial building When a Request Test Analysis Propose 01 Situation for 02 Discussion 03 04 Measures and housing. 16 Support Occurs and Support • Occurrence of suspected • Confer with person in charge • When on-site testing is • Review adequacy of analysis 10 contamination of research lab possible → Adjust researcher’s results Building Energy Management System > GS E&C is currently in the process of adopting the Building 8 schedule • Confer with green • Request TIMS technical support • Judge whether there is contamination following Energy Management System (BEMS). BEMS is a system that supplies the optimal strategy through environment team • Water Quality Analysis (Technology Research Lab) criteria and propose • Collect sample and ship → Takes 2 weeks after measures to cope with it analysis and management of the energy consumption status and once adopted will reduce energy use by 2010 2011 2012 samples are received • Final review by green 0 • Soil Analysis (Technology environment team 10% annually. In addition, we can expect to see a reduction in equipment maintenance costs and longer Research Lab) → Takes 2~3 weeks after samples are • Take actions on-site life span for equipment. GS E&C is conducting energy assessments on its head offices and is drawing up received Eco-friendly Structure Certifications 2012 measures to improve energy performance and through building renovations and application of BEMS it is looking to strengthen its energy management capabilities. Structure Certification Certification Protection of Biodiversity | GS E&C is minimizing the impact of construction on the environment in order Date Type Activities to Preserve the Ecosystem at the to preserve the ecosystem and plants and animals. In addition, the company is promoting activities to Green Demolition Korea Credit Feb 2012 Pre-certification Jinju~Kwangyang Kyungjin Rail Construction Site Guarantee Fund, New preserve biodiversity and through its green information management system is managing information on Eco-friendly Demolition Processes > A large volume of waste and pollutants may be released during the Daegu Headquarters conservation areas, endangered animals and plants to prevent pollution and damage to the ecosystem as demolishing of a structure. GS E&C created waste management guidelines to minimize environmental Kuwol Home Mar 2012 Pre-certification a result of construction. In 2012 Pre/Post Environmental Impact Assessments will be conducted at Yongbo impact during the demolishing processes. Strict guidelines are implemented from the time waste is GS Square, Anyang May 2012 Certification Industrial Park, East Coast~Samchungak Highway site and Jinju~Kwangyang Kyungjin Rail sites. produced to ensure different types of waste are separately managed, stored and disposed of. After Sejong City Government May 2012 Pre-certification Office 2-1 Area demolition is complete, all the waste is collected from the site and handled by properly licensed wasteEnvironmental Accidents and Dispute Prevention | GS E&C is strengthening initial support and on-site training Military Culture July 2012 Pre-certification treatment specialists. When the demolition project is performed by a supplier, GS E&C requires the Research Center on the environment in order to prevent environmental accidents and disputes on-site as well as monitoring the supplier to establish and implement site management plans on its own. A dedicated environmental status of environmental accidents and disputes. In addition, in order to minimize such accidents and disputes manager is employed on the site to prevent dust and regular noise measurements are conducted to help Sejong City Government Office the “Environmental Dispute Prediction Program” developed in 2005 is being used and at various sites SMS (May 2012/Eco-friendly Structure Pre-certification) Prior to construction on the Jinju-Kwangyang minimize noise and vibration damage to local residents. Rail project to add new tracks, GS E&C conducted based communication activities are being used to manage civil complaints. As a result in 2012 although there Environmental Impact Assessments on the areas were a total of 7 environmental accidents, fewer than in 2011, the cost of settling disputes increased. Proper Disposal of Waste Asbestos > GS E&C has developed the Asbestos Abatement Manual in surrounding the planned tracks that were expected to be affected by construction and operation. The compliance with the Industrial Safety and Health Act of Korea and US Environmental Protection results revealed a wide variety of plants and animals, Environmental Accident and Disputes Unit: Case, Causes of Environmental Accidents Unit: Case Agency (EPA) standards. The manual was designed to remove waste asbestos appropriately during the in particular legally protected otters, leopards, Hundred Million 15.0 demolishing of a structure, thereby protecting workers and residents living in the vicinity. Furthermore, large swans, eagles and the appearance of 6 bird of Won 12.8 Cause 2011 2012 species. Following this, the area under construction we have created an “Asbestos Abatement Data Center” within the TPMS to share information on was monitored monthly and measures to minimize 8.6 Waste 1 0 12 asbestos demolishing facilities and worker protection equipment. A final clearance test for asbestos is interference to the habitat were established, grit Dust 2 2 chambers and silt protectors were installed all of 10 9 also conducted after the deconstruction process is over to ensure the asbestos is completely removed. Environmental which worked to minimize any damage to the plant 7 7 Disputes Noise and Vibration 6 5 5 and wildlife and environment. Settlement Costs Water Quality, Soil Pollution 0 0 Disputes Total 9 7 2010 2011 2012 Accidents CASE STUDY. On-site Environmental Inspection GS E&C regularly conducts on-site accident analysis and provides customized on-site support based on the information Environment Inspection Process derived from improvements in each business area. Through the TPMS (Total Project Management System), Environment GS E&C’s Eco-friendly Construction Management Information System and Green Information Management System, training on the environment, accidents, cases, A detailed look at the eco-friendly environment management guidelines by area, Q&A from the Environment Ministry, environment results, greenhouse Environmental construction management GS E&C Accident Data GS E&C produces an environment management guidebook each year and distributes it to all of its and amount of energy generated etc. is managed. Environment inspection is divided into two groups; for support Analysis is promoting at its construction sites construction sites using it to inspect and prevent pollution of the surrounding environment. purposes: map inspection, general survey, pre-support and issue monitoring and for monitoring purposes: special inspection. There were 89 on-site inspections in 2012, 15 map inspections and 74 special inspections. In addition, items Air Quality Water Quality Noise and Vibration Soil Pollution pointed out during inspection and feedback on measures taken, are managed by the inspection system and can be Waste Management Management Management Management Management checked on a real-time basis. On-site Visit Derive GS E&C has developed guidelines In order to prevent dust at Grit chambers, silt fences, Noise and vibration management In order to prevent soil pollution Support and Improvement by Environment Inspection Results (Unit: Case) Monitoring each Business for waste management and is construction sites a wide variety temporary drainage ditches guidelines have been developed occurring on site, thorough Improvement Unit applying them to all construction of activities to improve air quality and other water quality control which call for complying with management of facilities as well Map Inspection Special Inspection Total sites. is being carried out. facilities at construction sites to the installation of sound barriers as the report/analysis/treatment minimize environmental damage prior to construction as well process of soil pollution is being 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 have been installed. a s t h e m e a s u re m e n t a n d carried out. management of noise pollution. 261 72 15 24 3 74 285 75 89 GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 42•43 Value Created Activity 02 Design Phase GS E &C is not only creating economic value through raw material innovation in all of its business processes but is also creating environmental/social value through environmental pollution inspection and improved customer satisfaction. Solve Social Problems, Maximize Customer Satisfaction through Development of Inter-floor 01 Business Phase Noise Prevention Technology Recently noise from neighboring floors has created problems between neighbors and is making headlines as an issue faced by society. The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport has overhauled laws related to noise performance between neighboring floors at construction sites. However, research in the field of noise from floor impact has been experimental and we are faced with limits on finding the key cause and Conserving the Ecosystem through Restoration of Soil Polluted by Oil developing plans to reduce such noises. GS E&C has developed a floor system that reduces noise from GS E&C was awarded a project to restore polluted soil to restore the desert in Kuwait contaminated by impacts on the floor and a noise machine that minimizes noise from the bathroom and applied them an oil leak. GS E&C in playing a role in restoring the ecosystem in the contaminated area by collecting during the construction of Dongtan’s Central XII. We believe that this technology will reduce social issues the residual oil and restoring the soil in the areas that are most contaminated. American environment caused by inter-floor noise as well as create customer satisfaction for home owners. experts ‘EBI (Environmental Business International)’ a consulting company and UK government Bathroom Noise Machine Installation organization ‘JEMU (Joint Environmental markets Unit)’ are predicting that the soil restoration market will grow to $53.4 billion (approx. 60 trillion KRW) in 2015 from $30 billion (approx.. 33.735 trillion KRW) Improve Constructability and Reduce Waste through use of Eco-friendly Paper Molds in 2005. Keeping in step with this trend, it is expected that restoration of contaminated soil in war-torn GS E&C is using paper molds to reduce waste, minimize the generation of dust and air reduction effects areas like Kuwait, Iraq and Libya will become a new global environment issue and new business models post-construction. Unlike existing plastic and metal materials, paper molds are easy to install, move and related to it will actively be developed. As such, it has provided new opportunities for GS E&C which take apart making it excellent for use in construction. It is a construction method that generates little dust has focused on soil restoration as a new growth area in the environment field and we expect to create during the finishing stages, is vibration-free and creates little noise which minimizes damage from civil environmental value by conserving the ecosystem in regions with soil contamination. complaints. In addition, paper can be recycled as scrap not only reducing waste disposal costs but also by saving resources we can seek out economic benefits. By applying this to the circular columns at our Soil Polluted by Oil government office construction site in Sejong City we reduced waste disposal costs by 25.4 million KRW. 25,4 million KRW Reduce Waste Disposal Costs Sejong City Government Offices Construction Site Kuwait Soil Restoration Project Site (Circular Column Paper Molds) GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 44•45 Value Created Activity 03 Construction Phase 04 Operating Phase Seek Customer Satisfaction through Management of Emotionally Driven Civil Complaints Create Economic and Environmental Value through Green Solar System Smart Applied Technology Depending on the frequency of lawsuits, requests to stop construction and request for damages arising as a result •Integrated Building BIPV System of noise, vibration, and cracks in buildings, GS E&C designates someone on-site to send out daily texts informing GS E&C is creating economic and environmental value by applying Green residents near construction sites of construction dates and when vibration/noise is expected to occur. By Smart Applied Technology during the operation process. In particular, managing civil complaints that are emotionally driven, environmental disputes and civil complaints have dropped eco-friendly system facilities (heat source system, automatic trash Home Network System by 37% and these activities are expected to build a positive company image and help secure future customers. •Gas Valve, Heating, collection system, rainwater recycling system), electric eco-friendly Lighting Control System systems (home network system –gas valve, heating, lighting control), Increased Work Efficiency and Reduced Pollution through Building of Temporary Bridge solar systems (solar BIPV* system, solar street lights) etc. have been Automatic Trash Collection applied to the Mesena Polis Building in Seogye-dong Mapo-gu. The heat By building a temporary bridge on-site GS E&C has both improved work efficiency and reduced dust. In System source system is based on a small heat generator system using gas to the early stages, despite being the same construction site, in order to use the local road cutting across the Solar System produce electricity and the waste heat generated is used in incidental site vehicles had to go through vehicle wheel cleaners making it troublesome to go from one location to •Solar Street Lights facilities for heating and hot water thereby saving energy. In addition, the next. In addition, it was discovered that due to frequent use of vehicle wheel cleaners, part of the earth Rainwater Recycling System through the eco-friendly system facilities, rainwater is recycled and is and sand and wash water leaked out and there was a risk of on-site vehicles colliding with general traffic. Existing Facility Existing Facility used for water in the home, landscaping and industrial use. During heavy To cope with this GS E&C built a temporary bridge to cross over the local road and in doing so transport (Before Change) (After Change) rainfall, it not only prevents flooding, but it is an efficient use of water time was reduced, travel become smoother and the increase in the number of trips led to improved work Resident's vehicles resources to prepare for future water shortages and creates economic efficiency. This also led to a reduction in labor costs and minimizing of pollution to the environment. Bldg.101 Heat Source System Non-resident's •Small Heat Generator benefits by reducing water and sewage costs. Also, the electric ecovehicles •Water-Cooled EHP + friendly system BIPV system is used to produce pollution-free, unlimited, Create Economic and Environmental Value through Recycling of Heavy Water Office facilities Ice Thermal Storage System noiseless energy and the low maintenance cost as well as external ecoBldg.102 •Water-Cooled EHP System In order to solve the problem of the increase in cost ratio due to the skyrocketing cost of tap water and friendly image provide a great deal of promotional value. shortage of water as a result of industrial development, GS E&C is using heavy water instead of water * BIPV (Building Integrated Photo Voltaic) : ): Refers to solar energy modules integrated in a building. during testing of oil storage tanks. The result was not only a 75% reduction in water costs but a reduction in the use of energy equivalent to four days of energy use by the population of the entire country. Expected Effect, Economic Effects & Energy Reduction Effects Tap Heavy Heavy Water Tap Water → Heavy Water Use Water Heavy Water 32,000㎥ Reused Water 64,000 50% Reduction in Water Costs 64,000 Additional 25% Reduction in Water Costs 32,000 Incheon Airport Refueling Facility m3 m3 m3 75% Reduction in Water Costs (48 million KRW) Reduction in Energy Use Equivalent to Four Days Use by Population of Entire Country (Population Using Water 48.385 million 16,104㎥/day → Approx. Reduction of Four Days Use) 37 % Ratio of Reduction in Environmental Disputes and Civil Complaints 65 48 million KRW million KRW Reduction in Costs Resulting from Ratio of Reduction in Water Costs Building of Temporary Bridge (Reduction Costs) GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 46•47 2012 Environmental Performance Sustainable Construction Process INPUT Investment in Environmental R&D Activities (Unit: millions of KRW) 2010 748 2011 1,785 2012 1,269 Resource 01 88,694 2,063,610 341,262 218,300 m3 m3 m3 ton Green Technology Consumption Sand Ready-mix concrete Aggregate Reinforcement bar Development and Design •Strengthen green technology development Plaster board 2,230,998 m2 Cement 1,236,241 ton Asphalt concrete 362,964 ton Recycled Aggregate 83,508 m3 *Data Collection Range: 250 domestic construction sites •Commercialize green technologies Water Consumption 1,124.730 564,210 351,156 2,040,096 41,308 (Unit: m3) Underground River Water Total Recycled Water Tap Water Water 02 Green Procurement *Data Collection Range: 250 domestic construction sites, 11 office buildings •Green certified product procurement Buildings Civil Engineering Architecture Housing Plant Power Environment Consumption by Energy Source in 2012 Consumption by Unit: TJ •Expand green procurement by Energy Source partner companies 426 1,622 431 232 603 461 1% 3,774.5 TJ Total 2012 4% 1% 5% Diesel 461 330 1,504 794 292 383 558 Electricity 03 Green Transportation LNG 2.2 2011 reduction •Build green transportation % Gasoline system compared to previous year 306 1,526 133 199 240 433 LPG 2010 Kerosene 37% 52% *Data Collection Range: 250 domestic construction sites, 11 office buildings 0 1000 2000 3000 Amount of Waste, wastewater and The amount of waste disposal outsourced Amount of wastewater Amount of waste asbestos waste asbestos 04 Green Construction Waste concrete 152,307 ton Mixed construction waste 84,155 ton 935,980 •Activities to reduce resource use 226 m3 ton •Activities to minimize environmental impact Waste asphalt concrete 27,195 ton Waste synthetic resins 4,923 ton Construction waste soil and stones 27,854 ton Waste wood 3,382 ton Construction sludge 18 ton Total 299,835 ton 05 Green Operation *Data Collection Range: 250 domestic construction sites •Eco-friendly construction technology Greenhouse Sales in KRW (Greenhouse gas emissions/Sales) •Expand development and certification emissions Buildings Domestic project sites Overseas project sites 2010 Exceeded 2012 3% 27,868 187,778 71,543 greenhouse gas emission 4.25 tCO2-e/ 100 million KRW reduction targets (unit) 2012 06 Green Demolition Range of greenhouse gas 2011 82 % 26,794 214,769 63,219 inventory construction at 3.88 •Minimize construction waste tCO2-e/ 100 million KRW overseas sites •Proper handling of asbestos 2011 (unit) •Recycling resources 2012 37,444 200,091 Energy and power reduction 6% at the headquarters 3.39 tCO2-e/ 100 million KRW 2010 (compared to 2011) (unit) CO2 0 100,000 200,000 OUTPUT *Data Collection Range: 250 domestic construction sites, 36 overseas project sites, 11 office GREAT INNOVATION Green Technology | Sustainable Construction | Response to Climate Change | Safety & Health Management Response to Climate Change Energy Management Committee Activities | The Energy Management Committee is continuously carrying out and monitoring the “Energy Savings Campaign” to ensure that all of the employees both at the head office and on-site live those ideals in their everyday life. In 2012 the campaign was carried out in three Green Touch Program stages and it is being rolled out to construction sites, the head office and throughout the entire company. Our Approach How to Create Our Value As part of the Green Site campaign energy saving activities are not only As climate change is emerging as a global issue, it is having a large GS E&C is securing renewable energy businesses and new growth being carried out at the head office but also on-site minimizing GHG emissions. impact on the sustainability of the country, society and companies. engines based on the risks and opportunities from climate change. Upon leaving the office, computers are turned off, office temperatures are adjusted, engine idling on heavy-duty equipment is stopped and a campaign to GS E&C is responding to climate change and carrying out its social The company is taking this opportunity to reduce carbon and not only reduce the use of disposable items and paper towels that advocates using a responsibilities by strengthening its carbon management system realize environmental value but through green communication also single paper towel instead of two or three is being carried out. Green Site Green Shake through its target of reducing GHG by 30% compared to the BAU realize social value as well. Through a campaign to save paper towels, we recommended Green Touch Program Results (Business As Usual) levels by 2020 and pursuing GHG and energy employees to use one piece at a time rather than two to three pieces. 3,735 Encouraged employees to participate in the campaign by posting campaign reducing businesses as well as conducting green communication posters all over the headquarters. Installation Personnel (65.8%) People activities to spread awareness throughout the company and its partner companies. Me First Green Touch The computer power savings program run by the Ministry of Environment led to a reduced use in energy resulting in cost savings Energy Savings 149,276 kwh •Create Environmental Value Together with and lower CO2 emissions. Securing Business Opportunities through Automatic energy savings when computer is not in use, provide verification service on amount of energy savings. CO2 Reduction 63.3 Ton Response to Climate Change •Establish Energy Management Committee •Achieve a Win-Win Partnership and Spread •Operate Green Information Management System Campaign Promoting “Me First to Carry Out Energy Savings” Environmental Value through Green Support of Reduced number of times elevator operates and turn off •Manage Company-Wide Green Management KPI Partner Companies unnecessary office lights during lunchtime. Operate Green Information Management System GS E&C has developed and operates a green information management system for managing Green Environment Training Unit: People environmental performance systematically and easy monitoring of data. In 2011, we expanded the scope of collecting environmental data by establishing the GHG inventories not only at domestic sites but also key 2010 5,785 overseas sites. 2011 3,343 Establish Energy Management Committee 2012 3,476 Role of Environmental Information Management System Detailed Look at GS E&C’s Environment GS E&C has launched the Energy Management Committee to prepare for the increase in energy costs as a Establish and Implement •Establish and monitor quantitative targets for green management Management Strategy and Task Force result of rising global oil prices and the GHG/Energy Target Management System that will be implemented Green Management Strategies •Manage green management performance indicators in the construction sector starting in 2014.nvironmental monitoring, green information system operation). Environment Management Strategy Prepare for Potential Regulatory •Prepare for potential regulatory risks regarding climate change by measuring Energy Management Committee Introduction | The Energy Management Committee that was established Risks Regarding Climate Change and analyzing GHG emissions Environment Management Task Force for representatives of business divisions and building managers to discuss ways to efficiently save •Replace offline activities and paper copies with online business practices Cost Reduction See the official homepage of GS E&C. energy. In order to save energy and reduce GHG, energy reduction goals for the company were •Unify information collection channels to prevent excessive workload established and an energy campaign continues to take place and is monitored to establish tasks on •Raise employee awareness by sharing information on a real-time basis areas to be improved. Raise Awareness on Green Management •Disseminate green management practices into construction sites Energy Management Committee Energy Management Committee Implementation Plan Manage Company-wide KPIs for Green Management 2013.4 2013.9~10 2013.11~12 2014.1~ GS E&C set short-term (annual) and mid-/long-term targets for green management, and the performance of the targets is managed by establishing enterprise-wide KPIs. GHG-Energy Target Management System Test Project Participation Target Management (Jun~Dec 2013) Response Mid-/Long Term Achievement against KPI Definition Target (2020) targets for 2012 Establish Mid-Long Term Energy Saving Measures and Direct GHG Emissions (tCO 2 -e) Annual direct GHG emissions 7.1% On-Site Compared to BAU Achieved Review Effect-Economic Feasibility levels, Building 26.7% Reduction 8% Perform Energy Savings and GHG Reduction Activities Indirect GHG Emissions (tCO 2 -e) Annual indirect GHG emissions 7.1% On-Site Compared to BAU Achieved levels, Building 26.7% Reduction 25% Establish GHG Reduction Strategy Rate of Waste Reused Proportion of waste reused Recycling Rate Over 90% Achieved and Recycled (%) /recycled to the total waste 33% Set Reduction KPI for Promotion Establish Reduction KPI and Pilot Performance Rate of Raw/subsidiary Materials Proportion of expenses on 11.8% Above High Obtained through Green materials with green certification -33% Procurement Processes (%) to the total materials costs •Establish Reduction Environmental Protection Proportion of investment in green Above 50 Cases Annually Achieved •Perform Pilot: On-site/ Measures •Reduction Activities/ Activities (No. of activities) 46% technology to the R&D investment Building, One Each •Establish Reduction KPI Monitoring Rate of R&D Investment to Technology development investments 70% Above High Develop Green Products (%) against investments in research and -3% development for green technology GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 50•51 Responsible G-SCM Green Supply Chain Management Support Project to Spread Green Management Major Performance of Suppliers through G-SCM Project For the sustainable growth of its partner companies, GS E&C is supporting them by establishing a green management system, nurturing green management experts, establishing a GHG inventory and green communication through the “Support Project to Spread Green Management in the Construction Industry” led by the Ministry of Environment. In 2012, three of the ten companies that participated were included as procurement CO2 partner companies and by establishing a green management system, obtaining green technology certification, publishing an environmental report and participating in overseas exhibitions we supported the establishment of green management in our partner companies. Impact on Electricity KVER *Reduction according to certification Consulting on Publishing Cost Savings Environment Report and Reduced Printing Costs 13,899 10,655 tCO2eq 1,500 thousand million Highlight of Key Activities in 2012 of KRW* KRW (23 % ) Establish Green Management System Nurture Green Management Experts *105 KW/ kwh for unit cost of electricity and 786KW/ * KVER(Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction): Nm3 for unit cost of LNG Project to voluntarily reduce GHG Impact on Electricity Cost Savings For the establishment of a green management system in our partner companies, GS E&C is carrying out Energy Management Workshops and training to nurture GS E&C has published an operations guideline. In addition, through a green experts in order to improve the work abilities of workers and strengthen the green management awareness survey and status diagnosis green management vision management mindset of employees in its partner companies. In particular, in order and goals for each participating company was established. In 2013, an integrated to get an understanding on overseas eco-friendly technology and material trends an environment management guideline by construction type will be produced overseas benchmarking program is in place through which partner companies have Key G-SCM Activities and Results and published in order to spread the green management strategy of the host visited Singapore and Japan. In 2013, through the CEO forum and G-SCM results organization to all participating companies. presentation, our good business performance over the past three years will be Year 1 (Understanding Green Management) Year 2 (Establishing Green Management) Year 3 (Disseminate Green Management) shared and used as the foundation for disseminating green management Training to Develop Experts Develop Green Develop Books for Exclusive Talent On-site Training for Participating Companies Management Experts Overseas Benchmarking (Singapore) Overseas Benchmarking (Japan) Overseas Benchmarking (China) Green Management Diagnosis and Evaluation Establish Green Management Vision, Goal and Policy Green Technology Certification Green Management System of Participating Companies Publish Green Management System Operations Guideline ISO 14001 Certification (Taehyung Company) Publish Integrated Environment Guideline Establish GHG Inventory for Participating Companies Establish DB for Reduced Items Drew items to be reduced GHG Support and Publish GNG Inventory Guideline Evaluation Reduction Potential Rate of Publish GHG Inventory Guideline Energy Management 5 Manufacturing Companies Partner Company Diagnosis (Interview) Produce Integrated Overseas Benchmarking Diagnosis on Resource and Energy Energy Diagnosis (Sungchang Environment Management Energy Diagnosis (Sungchang ITS, Taehyung Company) Efficiency of Participating Companies ITS, Taehyung Company) Guideline based on the Characteristics of each Develop IT Based Green Procurement System Disseminate Green Procurement System to Expand Application of Green Procurement System Construction Type Partner Companies Green Procurement Draw-up Supplements to Test Applications of Training on System Use for Partner Companies Publish Green Procurement Guidebook Participating Companies that are not Participating Companies GHG/Resource and Energy Management Green Communication Establish Internal/External Stakeholders Print Poster on Energy Savings Publish Participating Companies Companies by diagnosing the efficiency of their resources and energy and GS E&C has published and distributed posters on saving energy and guidelines on of Host Organization Green Management Casebook establishing a DB for items that have been reduced. Through these efforts, reducing GHG/Energy to its partner companies and all of its construction sites. In Green Communication Establish Green Communication Roadmap Energy/GHG Reduction Guidebook Publish Environment Report (2 Companies) participating companies have been registered as Korea Voluntary Emission 2013, the company plans on publishing the host organization’s integrated report Publish Sustainability Management Report Reductions (KVERs), given ISO14001 certification, certified as Greenbiz, and and environment report of partner companies to be used in marketing activities (Host Organization: GS E&C) Publish Environment Report (1 Company) Results Presentation and CEO Forum obtained environmental new technology and environmental marks. In 2013, through and to share information on the results of green management with stakeholders. energy diagnosis of our partner companies, optimized energy use, regulatory risk In addition, a casebook on green management will be published/distributed to analysis and future emissions data for each company will be used to carry out GHG/ disseminate green communication. Energy reduction activities. Expected Effects of Support Project to Spread Green Management Phase 1 Phase 2 Partner Partner Through the G-SCM project GS E&C is passing on green management know-how and using this as a foundation Companies Companies to establish a cooperation system for green management with partner companies. In the future by establishing an 1 integrated environment management system in the construction field we expect to build a two-way communication 4 channel and continue to spread it. GS E&C G-SCM Participating 1. Pass on GS E&C’s green management know-how through the support for spread of the green management project. Companies 2. Strengthen competitiveness through win-win management between GS E&C and participating companies. 2 3. Phase 1 Dissemination: Through the support for spread of green management project and acquired experience, establish a cooperation system for green management with partner companies. Publish Environment Report Energy Savings Guidebook (Taehyung Company) 4. Phase 2 Dissemination: Push forward with the support for spread of green management project with phase 2 partner 5 companies and from those already participating. Greenbiz Certification Energy Diagnosis of Participating Companies 5. Phase 3 Dissemination: Establish cooperation system for green management with phase 1 participating partner companies 3 GS E&C’s Other Partner (Spacemax) Companies and relevant phase 2 partner companies. GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 52•53 GREAT INNOVATION Green Technology | Sustainable Construction | Response to Climate Change | Safety & Health Management Safety & Health Management Safety & Health Management Organization | GS E&C has a Quality, Health, Safety and Environment (Q.HSE) steering committee at company level, to encourage employees to pay more attention to safety and to strengthen quality and environment management activities. The committee is led by the Chief Domestic Business Officer (CDO) and attended by business division leaders and support departments. At Our Approach How to Create Our Value the committee, the participants share and discuss major Q•HSE issues and prepare solutions. In 2012, we In the construction industry, safety at sites is as important as providing GS E&C prevents and controls major disasters and accidents under created a Safety Innovation Team to improve our skills to ensure safety at work and effectively implement reliable construction. GS E&C is preventing various accidents at the safety and health management implementation system. We safety measures and brought in health experts. construction sites through systematic preemptive measures and striving minimize environmental cost by preventing environmental accidents to realize the goal of “making sites accident-free for a long time” by means through safety and health management, safety education, and the Preventing Accidents of sticking to basics and principles. At the same time, we are incorporating development of safety gear. In addition, we are reducing social cost advanced safety culture through advanced safety management techniques from safety accidents by achieving “zero major accidents at work.” Visiting Consulting Service | GS E&C provides consulting to manage sites more effectively to prevent future safety accidents. Our consulting team, which comprises safety team, equipment management and site-centered safety and health management. Also, we are raising Accident Rate Unit: % team, quality team, and green environment team, offers consulting mainly to high-risk sites where major construction worker’s awareness on safety by streamlining safety and accidents, cardinal rules violation, and other major issues have been reported. The team visits the sites to health management system and providing safety education. We will Construction Industry Average conduct self-inspection, customized education for individual site, and risk assessment on the process for continue our effort to prevent and control safety accidents through safety Domestic Average GS E&C the next two or three months. 1.00 management matching global standards. 0.84 0.71 0.70 0.70 0.74 0.75 Permit To Work Operation | GS E&C has a Permit To Work system to prevent safety accidents form high0.64 0.69 0.65 0.50 0.65 0.59 •Strengthening safety and health management system •Minimizing environmental cost from accidents risk core activities. The PTW is created daily to be posted in high-risk work areas including areas where 0.19 0.15% 0.25 0.13 0.12 0.12 •Activities to prevent safety accidents through safety management there is a risk of fire or explosion and confined areas and safety mangers are checking regularly if the PTW (예상) •Minimizing social cost from accidents through 0.00 •Nurturing equipment specialists procedure is strictly followed. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 health management •Safety and health measures at overseas sites Communication Expansion | GS E&C carries PCM(Pre-Construction Meeting) to identify and prevent major Casualties Unit: persons risk factors in advance and it is a operation by the field and Technology Division. PCM is a meeting where construction process is simulated before high-risk process and relevant parties share their opinions. All the 2010 2011 2012 employees attend the meeting to discuss response measures to risk factors and to establish action plans to be applied at the site. In addition, we created a joint management-worker health and safety committee 8 6 9 where labor and management discuss and decide on important health and safety issues to protect workers • Source of domestic and industrial average: from potential risks or health problems. Industrial Accidents in 2012, Ministry of Employment and Labor Safety and Health Certificates Strengthening Safety and Health Management Implementation System Accidents Status Management | GS E&C tracks and manages accidents at work through the Q.HSE • GS E&C’s data: converted accident rate obtained by GS E&C information system. In 2012, a number of major accidents took place mainly due to mishandling of (the converted number of industrial Establishing Safety & Health Management System | GS E&C is implementing advanced safety accident victims / the number of KOSHA18001 and OHSAS 18001 equipment and inadequate supervision and accident rate is estimated to be 0.15%. Based on this See Certification Status in details management and site-centered safety management by means of sticking to basics and principles to permanent workers x100) experience, we will strive to minimize the number of accidents by pursuing safety activities continuously achieve “zero major accidents.” In 2012, we established an integrated system to incorporate KOSHA 18001 and improving the equipment management system. with the safety and health related institutions of the company and the construction industry. We made the whole process of identifying risks and taking response measures accessible by construction managers so that they can get a good grip on the potential risks while simplifying administrative tasks to raise work efficiency. We will continue to improve the system solving problems found during a pilot program and provide on-site training for our employees and partner companies. Interview We will continue safety management to match the global standards Safety management is crucial at construction sites. We are committed to achieving “zero major accidents at work” VALUE CREATED ACTIVITY. Anticipated Effects Description through advanced accident prevention and safety-focused business operations, by means of sticking to basics and principles. To make this happen, we consistently upgrade our safety management system and implement the Reducing social cost by establishing Safety & Health Human 0.5 person / site Reduce workload of workers at sites by simplifying the “behavioral-based safety” strategy that requires thinking and acting from the workers’ perspective while managing Resources risk assessment process (supplier, supervisor, safety Management System manager) ▶ Increase time to take care of dangerous tasks at sites equipment to prevent accidents. In addition, we work with our suppliers to raise the awareness of on-site workers about safety and share safety culture. Time Decrease 75% from Reduce time to create and review risk assessment On the other hand, GS E&C implementing active safety and health programs with the goal of “no accidents for 5 million GS E&C is creating social values as well as economic values such as cutting the current practice table by over 75% hours at overseas construction sites.” Recently, we are running AIPP, an accident preventive program completed after down labor expenses and other cost by minimizing risks of loss from accidents. (About KRW 1.3 bil.) (100 min. ▶ 25 min.) two years of development effort, as a pilot program for the IRPC project in Thailand and other four overseas sites. We introduced the Safety & Health Management System in pilot programs and I believe such aggressive safety and health activity is GS E&C’s one of the biggest strengths and the reason the were able to enhance efficiency by reducing time to prepare risks assessment Cost Save office supplies Reduce print-out costs by establishing electronic company is considered a global leader in the safety and health management. This is a key requirement to consider (About KRW 45 mil./ settlement system linked with TPMS table, TBM materials, daily safety check table, and meetings. At the same year) (150 sites × KRW 0.3 mil. per site/year) for sustainable growth of business. We will continue our effort to establish a safety management system of global time, we are creating social values we pursue by cutting down social cost from standards by implementing safety and health management from the long-term and lasting point of view based on our accidents. Save costs from skills and competence in safety and health measures. Reducing In the case of achieving the goal of reducing 20%; Accidents accident loss (Save KRW 33.72 bil. (Estimated cost from accident (About KRW 6.74 bil.) loss in 2012)× 20% = KRW 6.74 bil.) GS E&C Q.HSE Team Jones Stephen GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 54•55 GREAT INNOVATION Special Issue. GS E&C Safety Management on Overseas Sites Safety Innovation School We founded a safety innovation school in March 2006, the first of its kind in Korea’s construction industry, •Achieve a goal through teamwork to nurture safety innovation leaders through hands-on experience and practical training. In 2012, we •Strengthen Leadership revamped its courses to improve related abilities, induce changes in attitude, and enhance complex risk Improving •Establish action plans SKills management skills. First of all, we provided training by organization at construction site, a change from the •Learn safety culture previous training by the type of work. Next, we reinforced case studies such as virtual reality simulation of through experience •Safety management dangers at work under the scenarios such as fire/explosion, confined spaces, emergency and electric field Implementing practices training along with programs to reinforce beliefs and raise awareness on safety. Not only that, we regularly Safety Culture monitor those who finished the course to see if they are actually applying what they learned at sites while •Build the spirit of change and innovation paying special attention to those who did not receive safety training. •Tasks by position Thanks to the efforts, our safety innovation school is benchmarked by many other domestic companies and New Start South East Asian nations. In 2012, field construction personnel from overseas sites ,including Vetro[name needs to be confirmed] in Vietnam and the JCT project in Singapore, visited the school. •Reinforce Beliefs Safety •Create a sense of engagement Direction of course reorganization at Safety Innovation School Innovation Mindset Curriculum Hands-on Experience Case Study Oman SNDC Project, Workers' ceremony on the Safety Inspection Day Mock Drill for Fire Emergency Goal Attitude change through practice Improve complex risk management skills •Create evacuation plan / How to extinguish fire •Draw risk factors and establish response measures in the case of combined works Practice Safety Management on Overseas Sites •Install lightning arrester/ How to check dangerous Contents machinery •Analyze causes for accidents by position Improve “Near Miss” Reporting | GS E&C is expanding the range of near-miss cases to prevent safety •How to deal with chemical materials / How to deal •Learn risk management skills by teaching with emergencies accidents at work as well as raising awareness on safety. We embrace employee suggestions on benefits, environment, health/ sanitary facilities for operation. Equipment Manager Training Compliance with Cardinal Rules(mandatory GS safety rules) | GS E&C is encouraging 100 percent Equipment Manager Training | GS E&C is reaching the goal of “Zero Accident” for all the equipments compliance with the 6 cardinal rules required to prevent safety accidents at overseas sites as well as used in its construction sites through equipment manager training. In 2012, we conducted two rounds of domestic sites. This enables us to minimize safety accidents by removing unsafe behaviors and status in equipment management training for 226 site equipment managers. The course consists of main tasks and advance. When in violation of the rules, the offenders are ordered to leave the site as punishment and best performance report of the equipment management team, introduction to key safety management policies, practices are rewarded with incentives. In addition, we try to emphasize the importance of the 6 cardinal and understanding about construction machinery and safety management. After finishing the course, rules through programs such as safety slogan-shouting at the safety meeting and annual safety rally. attendees took a test designed to raise safety competence at the site. Cardinal Rules Equipment Inspection at Overseas Sites | GS E&C is dispatching equipment specialists to overseas sites such as the Middle East and South East Asia, which are in need of experienced equipment operators, to help construction operations. In 2012, our equipment specialists visited the Nielsen Arch Bridge Safer Workplace in Kuwait construction site in Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam to support local construction workers and conduct equipment Fire mock drills | GS E&C conducts fire drills to get better prepared for emergencies such as fire, explosion, inspection. They monitored the whole process from bringing in SPMT and assembly, to final checkup and and other fatal situations. We carry out customized training for each process of a site focusing on the setting, to disjointing while giving safety management and technological support especially during the training of how to respond to accidents and to give first-aid treatment in the case of emergency. Kuwait process involving difficult equipment operation. construction site is equipped with emergency facilities such as fire fighting appliances, and fire alarms and * SPMT (Self Propelled Modular Transporter) conducts regular equipment inspection. HSE Program | GS E&C operates the HSE Program to provide services from heavy equipment operation training to health care for employees. Through this program, we check up physical and mental health CASE STUDY. How is GS E&C dealing with safety accident risks? of the employees on a regular basis and consider individual employee’s conditions to allocate them to a in August 2012, a fire broke out on the construction site of the new national art museum, central Seoul. The specific position given the various risk factors on the construction site. On the other hand, we hold the HSE Employee Check-up main cause of the fire was a short circuit and the number of casualties reached 15 including 4 deaths from committee every month to share the accident trends, review the cases of safety rule violation, check worker’s gas poisoning. Immediately after the accident, GS E&C took safety measures to prevent similar accident from happening again, including; creating related departments, expanding communication between headquarters and overall health status, and identify dangerous areas. sites, and hiring and allocating more safety personnel. First of all, we created the Safety Management Team and supplemented health staff in the Q.HSE team for more Safety Awards | GS E&C finds and rewards exemplary workers who comply with the construction site safety effective safety management. Next, we conduct regular meetings chaired by the CEO, to make decisions on major rules at the site to help safety rule observance become a part of corporate culture at every site. Two or three safety policies and support construction sites. Other safety measures include; establishing standards for fire workers are selected weekly and rewarded with a citation and meetings are held for all the workers to share fighting and air supply/exhaust system installation, tightening safety assessment standards, and emergency drills. HSE issues. We will commit ourselves to thorough prevention and systematic site management to prevent similar accidents From the fire safety guideline at construction sites from happening again. A Safety Award Winner GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 56•57 OUR APPROACH It is essential to achieve active communication and cooperation with various stakeholders for sustainable management. GS E&C supports active communication to build mutual trust and share created values with our stakeholders. OUR EFFORT GS E&C aims to achieve ‘customer emotion management’ beyond simple customer management. We provide elegant products and services through meaningful activities. We also support management, finance, education, and training courses to build an ethical and transparent relationship with our suppliers for a win-win corporation. It is our priority to invest in diverse training programs and activities to strengthen our employees’ abilities. Their satisfaction is boosted by fair and rational performance evaluation and rewards. Furthermore, we contribute to public welfare by running a major program for social contribution, which reflects on characteristics of the construction industry. CREATED VALUE GS E&C focus on customer satisfaction management, which fulfills both rational and emotional aspects, to maximize customer satisfaction and increase customer benefits. We also share sustainable values with our suppliers through projects for green management promotion. Our goal is to create employment effects through continuous employment, promote active regional economy, and support sustainable growth of both companies and individuals with the reinforcement of training, investment, assistance, etc for talented people. We also participate in activities for strategic social contribution, which are related to our business, to achieve the value of sharing and increase our corporate and brand values. 60 Customer•62 Suppliers•66 Employees•70 Local Communities University Student Volunteer Corps House Repair of Hope GS E&C Employee(May, 2013) GREAT PARTNERSHIP Customer | Suppliers | Employees | Local Community Customer Customer Emotion Management Reinforcement of Customer Communication | We communicate with customers by publishing ‘Gaga Xi’, a lifestyle magazine aimed at residents, contractors, and members, and also sending contractors ‘Xi Story’, an additional newsletter which describes the dynamic processes of a construction site. Our Approach How to Create Our Value GS E&C ‘thinks and acts for customers and always stays with them GS E&C performs customer satisfaction management to determine Activity Promotion in a Housing Complex | We are promoting activities such as foot volleyball, service closely.’ Based on our management philosophy, we have built a customer needs and fulfill rationality and emotions. for the elderly, and barbeque parties, in which our employees and residents can participate together to customer satisfaction system and advanced various activities. In improve the atmosphere in the housing complex. These activities lead to natural creation of customer 2012, a sincere activity for customer satisfaction was carried out to communities in the housing complex and offer opportunities for customers to experience high-quality achieve ‘customer emotion management’ beyond simple customer lifestyle, which is Xi’s ultimate goal. Application Development management. We promise to take the lead in providing diverse and We have developed integrated applications for elegant products and services and developing high-level housing smartphone and tablet PC users to receive various kinds of life and cultural event information such as culture with a customer-oriented mindset. house-selling situations. •Customer satisfaction management •Maximize customer satisfaction •Customer emotion management •Increase customer benefits •Customer satisfaction activities •Develop housing culture Customer Satisfaction Management VOC System | We are maintaining a Voice of Customers (VOC) system and a resident customer complaint The Number of Home Buyer Complaints system to facilitate communication with our customers. The VOC system is designed to collect Unit : cases complaints and reports from customers and transmit them to the relevant departments. In principle, 2000 complaints registered through the resident customer complaint system should be responded to instantly. Serious issues are brought up for discussion at the Customer Relations Management (CRM) committee Activities for Customer Satisfaction 1,748 and handled according to their grade. 1:1 Personalized Customer Service | GS E&C provides personalized customer service for every inquiry, 1,403 Results of GCSI Surveys including household checks, scheduling, customer call service on delays and defects, and a happy call 1000 VOC System Brand name: Xi Unit: score service after problem-solving, depending on an individual customer’s schedule and situation. Especially, 662 we developed a ‘Mobile Happy Call’ system in 2012, which is unprecedented in the industry. It enables 2010 2011 2012 Receipt Process Handling Process 0 2010 2011 2012 VOC system Management Case referral to relevant teams customers to evaluate their satisfaction on results of customer service directly and submit complaints through text messages. 71.4 71.4 71.9 Cyber consultant team Handling Petition Classification, complaints Customer Privacy Protection | According to the extended range of personal information in the Personal Mailing Phone Handling process Information Protection Act, GS E&C encrypts personal information of, not only customers and recruiting, Mail Manual Process for Pre Quality Control Relevant but also employees and suppliers. We also control access to the personal information processing departments The Construction State E-mail Assignment Answer and Completion system by a solution developed to control access to the database. We also established a corporate personal information protection committee in 2012 and conducted a variety of activities, including Lot test(D-90) Results of Client Satisfaction Surveys Construction the establishment of a role and direction for personal information protection, creation of a privacy (commencement of work D-85) agreement, examination of amendments, etc. A total sum of customer Lot test(D-70) satisfaction index average Unit: score Construction Preparation of Pre Quality Control(PQC) Manual | GS E&C has created a ‘Pre Quality Control(PQC)’ Customer Satisfaction Survey | GS E&C has conducted customer satisfaction surveys to determine PQC Gaga Xi event(D-37) application manual, which responds to defects in advance. This minimizes the increasing number of complaints customers’ needs and complaints and offer better services. ‘Xi’, GS E&C’s representative apartment 2011 88.73 (commencement of work D-85) Opening event(D-30) about defects in the housing industry and maximizes customer satisfaction. PQC refers to a pre quality brand, has been ranked No.1 for consecutive 8 years in the Global Customer Satisfaction Competency Move-in control performance which is conducted by the cooperation of GS E&C, its suppliers, and the customer Index(GCSI) which is a housing-related customer satisfaction survey conducted by the Japan 2012 83.49 Handover to Move-in(D-Day) relationship management(CRM) organization from 85 days before apartment move-in to 60 days of Management Association. Meanwhile, we conducted a questionnaire on project management, human CS functions (commencement the early stage after the move in. The PQC manual introduces phased work processes, including a lot resources, communication, etc., to provide high-quality services for our clients. Handover to CS of work D+45) functions(D+45) test(BS), for employees and suppliers to comprehend defect-related tasks before and after the move-in. GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 60•61 GREAT PARTNERSHIP Customer | Suppliers | Employees | Local Community Suppliers Selection Process for Bid Participatns Confirmation Confirmation Review of Regional Verification of Review of Examination of Selection of Bid of Construction of Construction Requirements, Bid License Order Price Applications Participants Orders Types Restriction, etc. Our Approach How to Create Our Value GS E&C is building a sustainable management system with suppliers GS E&C contributes to suppliers’ economic achievements by Confirmation of Screening suppliers Confirmation of Consideration of Reassessment of Frequency of application Construction Orders available for relevant license possession implementation suppliers’ conditions Quarterly evaluation in accordance with social requirements and corporate group policies establishing an ethical and transparent transaction relationship types based on the price Assessment of profitability for mutual growth. Considering the construction industry’s high with corporate companies. We are also running green management Regional classification dependence on suppliers and needs for strategic promotion, we have promotion projects and supplier technology contests to share Score adjustment performed win-win partnership activities, including financial and environmental values and technologies with suppliers. management support, construction execution enforcement, productivity Risk Management of Suppliers > GS E&C are promoting diverse risk management performance, growth through innovation, communication improvement, etc. including visual inspection of suppliers, monitoring the volume of transaction of insolvent construction firms, credit grade management, etc, based on management guidelines of suppliers. High-risk suppliers •Establishment of win-win partnership are subject to bid restriction. Meanwhile, the percentage of bankrupt suppliers in 2012 increased by •Suppliers’ economic achievements through the •Communication improvement activities for purchasing process of their products and services 2.43% from the previous year due to the increasing number of suppliers in financial difficulties, affected Win-Win partnership •Sharing sustainable values with suppliers through by continuous economic recession in the construction industry. By contrast, risks decreased as the •Great partnership package operation Green Supply chain management(G-SCM) prediction rate of bankrupt companies in 2012 increased by 13.7% from the previous year. Establishment of Win-Win Partnership Communication Enhancement Activities through Win-Win Partnership Activities to Improve Communication Business partners’ abilities and competitiveness play a key role in establishing GS E&C’s long-term growth GS E&C’s Shared Growth Commission | GS E&C has been running ‘GS E&C’s Shared Growth with Suppliers foundation. GS E&C considers suppliers as long-term partners and attempts to achieve mutual growth. Commission’, created in 2010. It consists of top executives and is in connection with the ‘Shared Growth •Shared growth and education According to GS E&C, suppliers refer to companies which contribute to GS E&C’s successful project Conference’, performed by the group. The president of the commission is GS E&C’s CEO. information offer Purchase from Suppliers GS Partner •Bid·Contract·Purchase The ratio of purchases generated in the achievements based on stable performances. GS E&C has been in partnership with 755 companies as of 2012. (Domestic) management whole partners in comparison with Xi CEO Forum | ‘Xi CEO Forum’ is a representative activity for shared growth, aimed at the CEOs of •Supplier information those of local partners management Unit: one billion KRW System to Select, Manage, and Evaluate Suppliers suppliers and executives of GS E&C, which has been held regularly (twice per year) since 2004. GS •Bid·contract·purchase Supplier Selection > GS E&C established an automatic bidder selection system for competitive suppliers E&C’s executives and the CEOs of suppliers discuss management innovation and competitiveness management 32.7 % GS Partner to secure bid opportunities through fair and transparent processes. We select the most appropriate reinforcement in this forum. (Domestic) •Global project information offer 30.8 % •Management of 2,000 domestic and 30.6 % partners by proposing requirements to suppliers, which accord with quality, labor, and international foreign companies Great Partnership Shared Growth Commission and Subcon Board | The Shared Growth Commission standards in conformity to suppliers’ guidelines. Also, regional preference is considered for the selection 780 was established in 2011 for better communication with the CEOs of 20 major suppliers in the •Daily task management system 700 768 of suppliers to stimulate the regional economy and support outstanding suppliers. •Process·Recourse·Status construction industry. It acts as a forum to consider difficulties and complaints of suppliers. Also, the TPMS management 680 •Reduction of unnecessary elements Management and Evaluation of Suppliers > GS E&C conducts a quarterly performance review policy, Subcon Board is held 2-3 times a year for GS E&C and suppliers to discuss and find solutions on main and increase in productivity 2010 2011 2012 500 to evaluate construction site management, quality, environment, and safety of suppliers in each policies and issues. construction site to improve their executive abilities for sustainable business. Evaluation items include •Understanding opinions of suppliers Cyber Cyber Petition | ‘GS Partner’, a cooperative website, acts as a place in which we exchange real-time •Prevention of unfair trade price competitiveness, quality level, delivery, completion by deadline, defect management, safety Petition •Ethical management practice The Proportion of New Registration information with 2,500 domestic and foreign suppliers for better communication. We also take the lead of Local partners management, and level of cooperation. Evaluation standards are specified by characteristics of contract in preventing unfair trade through cyber petition. products. Evaluation results are open to suppliers transparently to secure the fairness of the evaluation and its management. We also conduct an overall assessment once a year, based on results of the 28.9% 26.1% 39.6% quarterly performance review policy. Assessment results with feedback are used for re-registration, 2010 2011 2012 selection, and promotion of suppliers. Case Study. Running Supplier Technology Contests | Ilyang Construction Co.LTD | Special Bridge Bearing Method in the No.2 Subway Line | Seungyeon Co.LTD | F.R.P* Exterior Molding Technology Ilyang Construction developed the ‘Bridge bearing method’. Its improvement in As existing exterior molding finishing materials for apartments had durabilityGS E&C found through meetings, seminars, etc that suppliers have difficulty developing technology due to the lack of the construction method reduces the construction period, secures economic related limits and risks of industrial accidents, Seungyeon developed exterior resources available to them. To solve this problem, we have held supplier technology contests since 2008 to promote efficiency, and increases the stability of the No.2 subway line structure. molding finishing materials which are economical, eco-friendly, and functional. excellent technology marketing. We select about 20 teams each year for research and development support and offer a It reduces production costs related to exterior molding and rooftop ornament reward for the final 8-10 suppliers to promote suppliers’ technology development. We also offer incentives such as bid | Minye Co.LTD | External Thermal Insulation Composite System construction and provides essential solutions for customer complaints. opportunities and additional points for finalists, and advance strategic partnerships for excellent technology to increase Minye developed environmentally friendly products which are made of a limited *Fiberglass Reinforced Plastic(FRP), which consists of thermosetting resins and glass fiber, is referred to as the the participation of suppliers. The supplier technology contest plays a key role as a means to create high value-added material of the 21st century. With its strong and light characteristics, it can be used in many fields. combustible insulator. External finishing can be applied to them in various ways. It acquired products and encourage shared growth partnership through technology cooperation. It is our plan to develop suppliers the Certification of Green Technology to satisfy needs for construction and production cost through mutual interest in new technology trends and business connection reinforcement. We will also support finance, with regard to domestic and international policy reinforcement in environment and energy. technology, etc, to become the best partner, which is GS E&C’s vision. GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 62•63 GREAT PARTNERSHIP Customer | Suppliers | Employees | Local Community Operation of the Great Partnership Package Results of 2012 Win-Win Management Activities GS E&C has operated the Great Partnership Package to achieve inter-corporate development and shared Division Program Main Contents Major achievements 2012 growth through mutual competitiveness reinforcement beyond simple assistance. The Great Partnership Package refers to efforts of GS E&C and its partners to encourage the Win-Win culture, which secures •Provide an advance upon request •Supported KRW 15.6 billion to constructional performance reinforcement and price competitiveness, and builds mutual trust through •Scale of up to KRW 15 billion per year 20 suppliers Business support fund financial soundness improvement and horizontal communication. It aims to develop competitive partner groups and maintain sustainable shared growth between GS E&C and its suppliers. The package consists •Create the Win-Win Cooperation Deposit amounting KRW 30 billion to support loans •Supported KRS 20.49 billion to of four sections, including constructional performance reinforcement, establishment of productivity(loan interest reduction by 1.5%) 27 suppliers Win-Win Cooperation Deposit improving culture through structural construction culture innovation, financial soundness through * decreased the volume of deposit from KRW 60 billion to 30 billion and increased the reduction rate of loan interest from 1% to 1.5% for practical support effects financial and management support, and mutual trust enhancement through horizontal communication. Financial and •Recommend suppliers to financial institutions to provide preferential loan examination •Sustainable management Management Financial Management Construction Performance Productivity Growth through Communication Support Network Loan •Loan limit: 1/6 of the record of transactions with GS E&C in the previous year •Joint overseas expansion with the ExportSupport Reinforcement Innovation Improvement Import Bank of Korea Signing an agreement for mutual cooperation program •Business support fund •Automatic bidder selection •Technology contest •Shared growth commission system •Win-win cooperation deposit •Handover between preceding •Subcon Board •Improve the ratio of cash payment •The proportion of cash payment 76.8% •Cycle management by group and following companies (100% of cash payment) •Improvement of payment •Online portal websites of •100% compliance with the ratio of cash payment conditions •Joint overseas expansion •Quantification and domestic and international Improvement of payment conditions •Payment date: on the 10th of the next optimization of bid conditions suppliers •Xi CEO forum •Site manager training month after a monthly closing •Green management •TPMS •Potential CEO training •Safety innovation school promotion •Cyber petition, etc •Business doctor program •Exempt excellent/meritorious suppliers from bid/warranty bond to reduce their •Commission reduction assistance by KRW Exemption of Bid Bond cost burden 450 million per year Technological Assistance for suppliers’ competitiveness reinforcement | GS E&C performs continuous Education for New CEOs at Suppliers •Provide opportunities to foster the next CEO’s management capabilities •Completed by 27 people activities, such as joint technology development, technology workshops and seminars, technology contests, etc, to improve technological competitiveness of suppliers. Jointly developed technologies •Site supervisor training completed by •Improve site supervisors’ work competency Training for Suppliers’ Current and 120 people are actively used, from ordering and sales stages through to MOU. Workshops and seminars are held Incoming Site Supervisors •Provide advance education for suppliers’ candidates for future site supervisors •Future site supervisor training completed by regularly to reinforce technology. Also, we present reward for outstanding suppliers and make an 60 people agreement with them for technological cooperation through the technology contest. Furthermore, Education• Training and Safety Innovation School •Experimental learning for safety awareness •939 people we have implemented a technology escrow, which deposits suppliers’ core technology ideas in public Communication Improvement institutions for technology protection. •Provide education for suppliers’ working-level officials on labor affairs, leadership, Training for Suppliers’ •141 people Working-Level People and quality •Invite distinguished speakers for presentation and award excellent/meritorious Xi CEO Forum •Held twice suppliers Subcon Board •Gatherings to collect suppliers’ opinions •Held twice Joint Development of •Undertake joint development and patent application of new technologies •13 joint development are underway New Technology Technology Workshop•Seminar •Organize workshops & seminars to raise technological competitiveness •Held 23 times Interview I hope shared growth activities will be continuous throughout the G-SCM project. Technological Support •Award suppliers with excellent technologies and adopt those onto •9 cases awarded Supplier Technology Contest It is important to achieve joint technology development and patent application support through small and medium-sized the construction sites (7 cases signed for technological cooperation) supplier training for the establishment of a competitive construction industry in Korea. Despite the economic recession •Protect important technologies of suppliers by putting the technologies in escrow •5 escrow contracts signed for in the construction industry (due to decrease of the real economy and increase of unsold housings), GS E&C actively Technology Escrow services offered by public agencies agreement collected social needs on shared growth and performed activities to maintain technological competitiveness and manage risks. Especially, our company participated in GS E&C’s G-SCM project, which was implemented to execute sustainable •A Group-level council for pursuing shared growth GS Group Shared Growth Council •Held twice management with its suppliers. Thanks to this participation, we entered the environment field, which small and medium•Members include suppliers’ CEOs sized companies generally have difficulty accessing. Our partner’s green consultations helped us build a green management and purchasing system. We also built an inventory which led to the acquisition of the Certifications of Carbon Emissions Estimation and Excellent Green-Biz. These activities contributed to creating a positive brand image for stakeholders inside GS E&C Shared Growth Committee •Review the existing shared growth programs and discuss additional programs •Held twice and outside our company. It also helped secure distinct business competitiveness with low cost. Like other industries, the Management Support construction industry is influenced and developed by various stakeholders. I hope GS E&C will show its social leadership for Great Partnership Shared shared growth by communicating with various stakeholders and operating diverse shared growth programs. •Top management discusses shared growth with suppliers’ CEOs. •Held twice Growth Council *Green Supply Chain Management Eunyeong Yu, Deputy General Manager at Spacemax Management Doctor •Support the Management Doctor operated by the Federation of the Korean Industries •No performance yet GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 64•65 GREAT PARTNERSHIP Customer | Suppliers | Employees | Local Community Employees Sexual Harassment Prevention Education Title of Education Core Curriculum Hours GS group common curriculum, exterior breakfast seminar for executives, executive 6,617 Executive Education Participants value seminar, chief executive office program Management 5,720 GS group common curriculum, exterior breakfast seminar for executives, executive Education Core Talent Education 5,164 Our Approach How to Create Our Value (First School) value seminar, chief executive office program Basic Common Task 200 online courses, such as Introduction to Construction Sales GS E&C believes that sustainable growth comes from talented people. GS E&C strives for sustainable corporate and individual growth by Training 1hr 1hr 1hr It is our priority to invest in diverse training programs and activities to enhancing education, investment, and assistance for talented people by FM Program A total of 25 programs including contract management, construction, civil engineering, and environment development 2010 2011 2012 strengthen our employees’ abilities; their satisfaction is also increased seeking to do the following Talent Development Program Program for enhancement of overseas work competency by fair and rational performance evaluation and rewards. In addition, for Overseas Business we aim to create an innovate organizational culture that improves work Task Education Expert Development Program PM, CM, EM, LE, sales, estimation, QA, HSE, finance and economy, IT, (Best School) in 16 Professional Fields judicial affairs, etc. Welfare Benefit Policy efficiency, establishes a work environment in which employees work Expert Development Program University for finance and economy, university for purchasing, overseas sales Life | Leisure Assistance with pride, and helps them maintain the balance between work and by Division expert training •Establishment of informal group / Activity cost support Other Core Curricula Certificate acquisition support program, supplementary education for construction life. These goals are summed up in the following five points, which •Assistance for use of recreational facilities, engineers and consultant engineers, etc. such as membership resorts represent targets for GS E&C •Generating employment effects through continuous Communication improvement program (GBC, BBC, AMBC, etc.) •Customized leave policy job creation and activation of the regional economy Global Language Course Practical English improvement program (GBS, ABS, SCS, etc.), video English •Enhancement of employee work competency learning course, online foreign language learning course Childbirth | Maternity Protection Support •Creating sustainable economic values through •Support and child care benefits •Fair performance evaluation and rewards Global Education Online basic education for foreign employees (core values, basic Korean language skills, etc.) training of and investment in employees (G-School) •Operation of nursery facilities in company facilities •Activities that encourage organizational Presentations by invited outstanding foreign employees •Support baby bonus •Establishing healthy local community culture by GSE Education culture innovation Training course for new employees and managers in overseas corporation •Maternity leave and child-care leave policies for helping employees maintain the balance between •Establishment of family-friendly corporate culture work and life through fair rewards, various International engineering introduction program mothers and spouses •Employee communication enhancement benefits, etc. Online Essential Enterprise Management policy, practice process, sexual harassment prevention program, Housing | Stable Living Support Course ethical management, etc. •Funding support to buy a home Safety Innovation School Safety innovation program for construction managers, safety innovation program for •Transportation and travel allowances for field workers Others suppliers, etc. •Regular leave assistance for employees abroad New Employee Training Introductory course for new employees, introductory course for experienced Medical Services | Health Support Enhancement of Employee Work Competency Program employees, mentoring camp, etc. •Medical examinations Selection of Talented Employees | GS E&C contributes to individual career development through a •Medical indemnity insurance / group insurance assistance The Number of Training Unit : people performance management system that fosters employee growth and offers opportunities from education Fair Performance Evaluation and Rewards •Insurance assistance for employees abroad Participants (2012) and coaching to office experiments. We provide in-house learning opportunities and promote selfPerformance Evaluation and Rewards | GS E&C conducts performance evaluations that are focused Education Support 62,154 improvement by using diverse methods, including online education, video education, and smartphone on achievement and work competency. Various evaluation methods, including MBO evaluation, •Assistance with children’s school expenses applications. In 2012, 136 hours of individual education were offered and the total cost of employee multidimensional evaluation, and relative evaluation by group, are applied to complete a comprehensive Legal Welfare Benefits education was KRW 550 million. performance evaluation. Employees receive feedback on the results of performance evaluations through an •Health insurance/National pension/Unemployment insurance/ Occupational health and safety insurance individual interview with their boss. Meanwhile, each organizational and individual achievement is related Training Cost (2012) Unit : KRW hundred million Selective Welfare Benefits GS E&C Leading Executive Development to fair performance rewards. There is no gender discrimination for wage. Executives are evaluated by •Self-improvement / leisure activity support First School Best School G-School comprehensive achievements on finance, awareness, environment, social affairs, and other areas. 55 Congratulations and Condolences Support •Education for executives •Expert development program in 16 •Global languages professional fields Benefits for Employees | GS E&C operates diverse welfare programs which support employees’ health, •Congratulations / condolences leave and expenses •Core talent development program •GSE (foreign worker) development •Other supports (cars, goods, etc.) •Basic common task training •Talent development program for program leisure life, family events, etc., to establish a work environment that supports the balance between overseas business •Educational program for overseas work and life. We also encourage retirees’ reemployment in connection with the General Employment •Construction competency improvement branches and corporations The Amount of Time for Unit : hour program Support Center for Middle-Grade Experts to support employees’ working and post-retirement periods. Training (2012) Furthermore, we have implemented retirement pension plans to ensure retirees’ stability later in life. Division-Centered Education | Learning Organization Education | Business Common Education | External Education etc 136 New Employees | Experienced Employee Introduction Education Education System Education Management Input. What kinds of activities does GS E&C perform to enhance employees’ global work competency? Global Work Competency Enhancement Program Position Profile (Job Profile & Key Position Profile) GSE (Foreign Employees) Program | GS E&C is running many programs to help Global Language Course | GS E&C is running diverse language programs by foreign employees improve their sense of belonging, loyalty, and work and management occupation, period, and level to improve employees’ language skills, including the Value Created Activity. Local Economy Promotion through Employment competency, including an introduction program for foreign engineers, a GS Insight online Construction English Program for Globally Dispatched Workers (SCS), the Short-Term course, Korean and English video learning courses, programs for overseas corporations’ Skill Up Program for Overseas Division Employees (ABS), and the Long-Term Camp Local Economy Promotion | There is a close relationship between construction Employment Effect | GS E&C contributes to national economy promotion through 지역경제 new 활성화 employees and| managers, 건설과 지역경제는 밀접한 관련을 and an outstanding 갖고 있습니다. foreign employee invitation지역 건설 program. Training for Future Overseas Employees (GBC). Online and video English courses and local economy. The presence of construction companies leads to job creation employment effects such as direct and indirect employment. We create demand for Foreign 업체와 employees 인력들이 also 공사에 an online management take참여함으로써 일자리가 course 창출되고 in English. 지역경제 활성화에 are also provided for employees who cannot join group education in domestic and and local economy promotion; GS E&C’s local suppliers account for 32.7% on related businesses and suppliers throughout the entire business process, including 도움이 됩니다. 국내에서 GS건설의 지역기반 협력회사는 기성금액 기준으로 international sites. On average, 1,300 employees are learning a total of 11 languages the basis of the completed amount in Korea. As for overseas business, we follow material purchasing, designing, and construction. According to the annual interTalent Development Program for Overseas Business | The Talent Development through online and video courses monthly. 전체의 32.7%를 차지하고 있습니다. 해외사업장의 경우에는 채용에 관한 해외 local policies and employ local residents of the country. We also support the industry relations table released by the Bank of Korea, the employment inducement Program for Overseas Business consists of CM and global work competency 현지 규정을 준수하고 현지인 채용을 확대하는 한편 현지 고용인에게 선진 기 development of local communities in foreign countries by transferring advanced coefficient in the construction industry in 2012 was 12.1 people / KRW 100 million. improvement courses. It is a program which enhances global business work 술 및 전문성을 전수하여 해당 국가의 지역사회 발전에 도움을 주고 있습니 technology and professional skills to local employees. GS E&C’s direct and indirect employment effect was 49,416 people in 2012. competency in relevant fields through practical education and sharing of the lessons *Employment inducement coefficient: 12.1 people / KRW 100 million. (Inter-industry relations table, Bank of Korea, 2012) learned by previous overseas employees before overseas dispatch, foreign site OJT, etc. GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 66•67 GREAT PARTNERSHIP Customer | Suppliers | Employees | Local Community Activities for Organizational Culture Innovation Employee Communication Enhancement G-SPIRIT-Based Activities for Organizational Culture Innovation | Organizational culture acts as a Open Management Program | GS E&C is enhancing a communication channel between the CEO and Percentage of employees foundation for corporate survival, sustainable management, and excellent employee retention in the employees to make an exciting organization by preventing inter-division egoism, individualism, and registered in labor union unit : % fast-paced management environment. Based on this philosophy, GS E&C established G-SPIRIT, which indifference, which can occur easily in large-scale organizations. We select employee representatives 2010 2011 2012 focuses on improving organizational culture and supporting core values such as change, excellence, by division to form the Global Young Board (GYB), listen to young employees’ opinions through quarterly and trust. We are also performing multidirectional activities to achieve the innovation of organizational meetings, and run a walk & talk program to promote communication between the CEO and employees to 19.7 % 19.2 % 19.2 % culture in which G-SPIRIT is internalized in individual employees to create optimal performance. increase their closeness. Promotion of Information Exchange with Management | GS E&C maintains a communication system, Family Love Program in which every employee can exchange online and offline information with each other swiftly, to promote Participation Figures for 2012 information exchange with management. We upload commonly necessary corporate information, such University Admission Information Session Establishment of Family-Friendly Corporate Culture as a CEO message and main events announcements, to the online EIP board. We also hold a quarterly A program which provides customized admission information (Target audience : employees, spouses, children) Family Love Program | GS E&C is running a Family Love program aimed at employees who live away management issue meeting and a bimonthly site manager meeting to share the CEO’s message and other Participants: 156 from their families for their field work, to improve their enthusiasm and work engagement. The Family management issues. Children’s Dream Search Program Love program consists of university admission information sessions for children, children’s dream search A program which supports children’s potential career path Shared Cooperation of Labor-Management | GS E&C is running a labor union which consists of through positive attitude formation and clear vision creation events, a self-directed learning program, and a happy family creation program. We are planning to develop (Target audience: children of employees) diverse programs which satisfy the needs of employees’ families. 1,029 permanent employees (19.2%) below the rank of deputy manager (excluding the administration Participants: 183 position group of finance and economy, planning, personnel, and general affairs). We respect labor’s Overseas Deployed Employee’s Family Invitation Event | GS E&C invites overseas deployed employees Self-Directed Learning three primary rights, and we have made a collective agreement with the labor union. We also share and A program that teaches self-directed learning methods through our Overseas Deployed Employees’ Family Invitation Event, in which we express our gratitude discuss important issues on corporate management with the union immediately. Furthermore, we hold a (Target audience: children of employees) to employees’ families and to encourage their pride as GS E&C employees, as well as enhance the bond Participants: 280 quarterly labor-management council to discuss issues related to labor-management benefits, including between overseas deployed employees’ families. The CEO of GS E&C attends the event to encourage work environment; improving working conditions, safety, and health; employees’ health care; and settling Happy Family Creation overseas deployed employees and their families to reflect on their difficulties and hear their complaints Special lecture program on communication employees’ complaints. techniques, child-rearing and education, health care, in an effort to improve management. etc., for family management (Target audience: spouses of employees) Professional Counseling Program | Since April 2012, GS E&C has been running the Employee Assistance Employee Satisfaction | GS E&C conducts an employee satisfaction survey, composed of 9 categories, Results of the employee Participants: 119 satisfaction survey Program (EAP), aimed at employees and their families, to encourage happy families and workplaces. In every year. According to the survey in 2012, the average total score was 69, an increase of 7 points from this program, outside professional counselors provide advice not only on work-related issues such as work the previous year. The task process and reward and recognition categories showed an increase of over unit : points 100 Work Return and Retention stress and career development, but also on personal matters such as marriage life, child-bearing, and 20%, which indicates that employees are highly satisfied with these parts of the corporate culture. We will 69 Rates after Maternity Leave continue to improve employee satisfaction by increasing the efficiency of task processes through wasteful 62 financial consulting. This program has become quite popular, providing counseling for over 1,000 cases. 60 Work return: the rate of employees returning to unit : % Since 2012, we also have been running children’s speech and language therapy courses in which experts factor removal, clarifying roles and responsibilities through organizational structure improvement, and work after maternity leave 50 Retention: the rate of employees remaining with provide face-to-face treatment for children who experience language delays or speech disorders. developing leadership for appropriate organizational management. the company over 12 months after work return 2010 2011 2012 94% Family-Friendly Welfare Benefits Policy | GS E&C is running a family-friendly welfare benefits policy to 2010 100% establish a family-friendly corporate culture, including medical indemnity insurance support, in-house nursery facility operation, and parental leave. An infertility leave policy will be implemented in 2013 for 87% Case Study. Holiday Program for Foreign Employees: GS Mid-Autumn Festival 2011 female employees who have difficulty getting pregnant. 100% GS E&C is running a holiday program for foreign employees, which provides an opportunity for them to visit tourist attractions, cultural villages, and other places of importance in Korea, to introduce them to Korean culture and help 100% 2012 them become familiar with it. The fact that foreign employees and their families can participate in it together makes 100% this program very popular. In 2009, a total of 99 foreign employees from Southeast Asia, Europe, the United States, the Middle East, and other areas participated in the GS Mid-Autumn Festival holiday program, in which closeness was promoted through nonsense quizzes, traditional games, and other fun activities, and employees gained a meaningful understanding of Korean culture. Work Smart Activity WS Project Promotion by Group | A total of 21 projects promoted (management impact: KRW 268–316 million). Festival Participation Review 01 Main task | establishment of Occupational Health and Safety Management System (GS 18001) and Technical Data Management System (GS IES). We prepared this event to promote harmony and a sense of belonging and provide special experiences for foreign employees. As we prepared it with passion and ideals, I felt proud to see them enjoying every program passionately. I also had a fulfilling time becoming friends with everyone by participating in the event. 02 GS E&C aims to establish a smart work ERRC (Eliminate, Reduce, Raise, Create) Activities | Core work enhancement through removing Suryeon Gwak Staff / Global HR Team unnecessary, inefficient, and wasteful tasks. environment, remove unnecessary work, Previously, there were not enough opportunities to become familiar with other employees from different races and 03 and increase work efficiency by promoting Internal Customer Satisfaction Index Management | Corporate cooperation system enhancement divisions. But this time, I was so pleased to become friends with them in this exciting and wonderful program. I activities as follows. through employee task support evaluation. believe this kind of event will help foreign employees not only have meaningful experiences and memories, but also become devoted to the company. 04 04 Meeting and Reporting Culture Innovation | Establishment of efficient meeting and reporting Peter Phillips / Cliacap RFCC Project (Indonesia) culture through meeting system and report improvements. GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 68•69 GREAT PARTNERSHIP Customer | Suppliers | Employees | Local Community Local Community Social Responsibility Activities for Excellent Employee Retention | GS E&C is trying to achieve excellent future employee retention through social responsibility activities in the education field. We are building Our Approach How to Create Our Value fellowship and a positive image to attract excellent potential employees through social responsibility activities in connection with universities. GS E&C has carried out corporate social roles and responsibilities as an GS E&C’s sustainable management activities can only be achieved through enterprise citizen under its management philosophy, “Dream for tomorrow the cooperation of local communities. We are growing in partnership with Social Responsibility Activities for Employee Emotion Management | GS E&C promotes social and create new life values with customers.” Corporate social responsibility local communities by holding up corporate social responsibilities and responsibility activities on emotion management to establish a culture of sharing and encourage activities, which are not temporary charity activities, are performed as sharing values through social responsibility activities. employees’ pride. Executives support employees at volunteering sites to help them better understand strategic activities to contribute to business performance and excellent and trust others and become proud of themselves through volunteering activities. We also support the employee retention in connection with corporate business strategies. In labor union and headquarters in enthusiastically promoting social responsibility activities. In addition, we addition, we have accomplished activities which contribute to operating conduct a moneybox fundraising activity by team / location, and the Salvation Army fundraising activity at a main social responsibility program, reflecting on characteristics of the the end of the year to increase employees’ participation in donation and establish a culture of sharing. construction industry and promoting local community. We encourage employees’ voluntary participation in social responsibility activities to •Corporate value improvement through strategic social responsibility activities in connection Sincere Performance of Social Responsibility Activities support the same values as the wider corporation. with corporate business House Repair of Hope | The House Repair of Hope project, in connection with Ministry of Public •Contribution to creating social values through Administration and Security, is a program which is not only connected to corporate business, but also •Strategic social responsibility activities support activities for youth, who are future to job creation for the low-income population. Specifically, it is a project to replace a slate roof, which •Sincere performance of social responsibility activities society’s most important resource consists of asbestos, for 24 families of the socially disadvantaged class (the single elderly, families of •Management of social contribution achievement •Corporate brand value improvement through and evaluation continuous social responsibility activities physically challenging people, etc.) around the entire country every year. Additionally, we attempt to improve the environment and quality of life for low-income families by providing additional house repairs, including sink and window frame repair, papering, and floor change. Strategic Social Responsibility Activities GS E&C’s University Volunteer Corps | We are running a university volunteer corps to promote a We have been performing strategic activities based on major fields (social welfare, education and culture, volunteering culture in university students, who will take the leading role in GS E&C in the future, and environment and safety). Particularly, we participate in strategic social responsibility activities, which help them become talented people with respectable personalities and work competencies. We support include not only systematic and continuous activities, but also those specialized for the construction activity allowances for 8 volunteers selected from a yearly contest and provide education, and information industry, to build trust between employees and achieve corporate social responsibilities. related to volunteering activities. We also run volunteer activities for employees and university students in order to encourage sharing and communication. Core Value Great partnership : we are united as one and grow with the world we live in Green Sharing Project | GS E&C is advancing a Green Sharing project with GS subsidiaries and affiliates to cure and prevent children of low-income families from being affected by environment-related diseases Core Field Social welfare Education & Culture Environment & Safety such as atopic dermatitis, asthma, and rhinitis. This project uses profits, generated by selling so-called “sharing products,” to support residential environment improvement and medical treatment for children Volunteering activities in Study Room of Dreams and Hopes Playground of Dreams and Hopes of low-income families who have environment-related diseases. headquarters and domestic / (education support for families) (safe playground) foreign sites Aid Program for Developing Countries Support for the single elderly Scholarship assistance (school life support) House Repair of Hope Management of Social Contribution Achievement and Evaluation Food Support Social Responsibility In 2012, GS E&C spent a total of KRW 95 million in social contributions, and a total of 4,068 employees We support not only basic food Activities Exciting after-school classes needs, but also increase an in Sharing of Kimchi of Love (after-school education support) participated in social responsibility activities. Regarding its efforts for social contribution, GS E&C was income, by encouraging residents chosen as the No. 1 company of the construction field by Good Business Index in Korea in January 2013. to raise or grow assisted Employee fundraising activity GS E&C’s University We are managing selected indexes of social contribution achievement, including a number of press chickens, pigs, goats, corn, etc. (Pot / Money Box of Love) Volunteer Corps reports, disputes and complaints of local communities, and program beneficiaries. Drinking-Water-Related Goods Support Common activities of labormanagement (Blood Donation of We support drinking-waterLove , support for the single elderly) related goods, such as water The Amount of Money for Social The Number of Employee Participants in Social Responsibility filters and diesel pumps, to Contribution and Its Contents Activities and Their Performance Achievements by Field provide drinking water and help in 38.71% Social Responsibility Activities in Connection with Corporate Strategies | GS E&C’s social responsibility Unit: KRW million 17.40% unit : person 4% 2% growing crops Commercial Education and Environment and safety 100 Voluntary donation activities are performed to build trust with shareholders of domestic and international local communities initiative 4000 culture Education Support Program for 100 4,068 in connection with corporate strategies. We also promote international social responsibility activities 95 Children in Developing Countries 2000 to achieve corporate strategies which aim to increase a global market share and enter into emerging 80 KRW 95billions 2,363 4,068people 79 1,572 markets. Considering social responsibility activities which satisfy the needs of local communities, we 43.90% 94% 2010 2011 2012 Investment in local 2010 2011 2012 Social welfare improve the relationship with shareholders in a project-performed region for the smooth construction 75 community 0 process. Furthermore, we attempt to discover new business fields. GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 70•71 We Support Children’s We Share the Importance Dreams and Hopes and Value of Water Study Room of Dreams and Hopes Clean Water Health Program GS E&C is running a Study Room of Dreams and Hopes project which provides a proper educational environment and opportunities for GS Inima* is a worldwide water treatment company. Through this company, we promote the importance and value of water to children of low-income families in which they can study and dream about the future as much as they want. GS E&C selects 40 students society to increase awareness and conduct educational activities on its proper use and management. As part of these efforts, GS every year and visits their houses to decorate their study rooms. After decorating their study rooms, we also conduct mentoring Inima is running a clean water health program. activities twice a year which provide not only cultural experiences but also lectures and counseling on the future and encouragement to In 2005, we began the Clean Water Health Program in the Ribeirão Preto Wastewater Treatment Station in Brazil. Students help them pursue their dream. By the end of 2012, 80 rooms had been created. Practical and continuous activities are underway which of public and private schools visit the institution to learn about the advantages and quality of water treatment processes and provide admission fees, registration fees, and early settlement fees for excellent students who will attend a university to help them discover the importance and value of water. graduate from the university independently and achieve their dreams. We are also running a weekly education program on water-related technology aimed at university students in various regions. Factory managers not only provide technology education for them directly, but also provide an opportunity to experience the Total Number of Assisted Study practical processes of a wastewater treatment facility. Students who complete the education receive a certification on the 80 Rooms of Dreams and Hopes Main Activities final day. A total of 58,000 students have participated in the Clean Water Health Program so far. We will manage the program Decoration of Study Room | After a pre-investigation, we work on papering, flooring rooms continuously in the future. changes, improvement of the electricity system, and other improvements. We also * GS Inima is a GS E&C subsidiary; we acquired Inima, a worldwide water treatment company in Spain, provide necessary goods for the study room, such as a desk, lamp, and computer. to promote the water treatment business globally. Career Search Program | We provide counseling on studying and other issues, Total Participants in the Clean Water Total Number of Participants in Health Program 80 58,000 as well as mentoring programs, such as site-tours at universities students are One-to-One Mentoring Program interested in attending. We also provide first-time admission and registration fees people people and a total of KRW 1 million for early settlement, including textbook fees, to help students graduate from the university independently. Playground of Dreams and Hopes GS E&C provides playgrounds, in which children can play with each other actively and safely, through its Playground of Dreams and Hopes project. We also help ensure the safety of children through customized playground equipment and ecological study Interview I Hope GS E&C Will Be a Company Which Shares the Awareness and Culture areas in local welfare facilities, which are used by children of low-income families who are often neglected after school. With on Social Responsibility Activities. this, we encourage healthy physical and mental growth. At the end of 2012, GS E&C had provided 8 playgrounds. We will build Playgrounds of Dreams and Hopes in 4 welfare facilities every year. GS E&C has offered diverse activities, such as Study Room of Dreams and Hopes, Playground of Dreams and Hopes, exciting after-school classes, and employee volunteering activities, through continuous partnership with the Korea Children’s Main Activities Foundation. The Study Room of Dreams and Hopes and Playground of Dreams and Hopes, which are its main social responsibility activities, are enormously meaningful in that they reflect on characteristics of the construction industry, use Playground Equipment Assistance | After discovering the desires of children corporate business at maximum, and establish social infrastructure. Recently, some social responsibility activities failed who use welfare facilities, we build customized playground equipment which to achieve their purpose as many companies cancelled well-managed projects or implemented new programs to follow satisfies the needs of each facility. promotional timely business (social issue). In this sense, GS E&C’s achievement in social responsibility activities, which are Encouragement of Ecological Study | We support basic ecological study by conducted continuously in the long term, should be highly appreciated. establishing a “kitchen garden” in each playground where children can grow It’s been said that GS E&C will carry on international social responsibility activities in accordance with its international diverse plants. business expansion beyond Korea. For successful achievement of international social responsibility activities, GS E&C Employee Participation | Employees can volunteer to help with growing the should support regional development or the establishment of high-quality environments as it did with the Study Room of plants in a kitchen garden to support ecological study for children. Dreams and Hopes project. It should also promote life and emotional support in local communities. Furthermore, adequate communication around sharing and social responsibility activities should be exchanged between the company and its employees to support the organizational culture. Finally, I hope it will build an environment in which GS E&C’s customers can participate in the establishment of social responsibility by sharing in the activities of GS E&C and its employees. Heeyeong Moon Team Leader, fund-raising division, Korea Children’s Foundation Participation of the Stakeholders In order to effectively deal with stakeholders main interests and OUR expectations, GS E&C has define the key stakeholders into ten different categories which we can establish a communication channel to form a mutual understand of their influences and roles. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE Transparency Shareholders and investors Media IR roadshow, general News, newspaper, meeting of shareholders, advertisements, press IR website, financial releases, etc. statements, etc Next generation Clients Website, volunteer Provision of Overseas GS E&C website, Xi app, work, promotional Capital Communication Xi gallery, model house, videos, etc. Support Internet portal for Profit sharing Information buyers, etc. Future sharing Generating Engagement Clientele More Sales Communication Create jobs Offering products and services GS E&C Trusting and Information and Meetings with local Institutional activities, Proposing Ideas Technology Sharing communities, website conferences and Society for civil complaints, Contributing to Communication seminars, etc. Academia, volunteer work, etc society institutions, organizations Stabilizing Business Free Environment Competition Payment of taxes Mutual growth and compliance Value Provision of 75 Participation of Stakeholders and Materiality Test with business Production Resources regulations Involvement with Compensations Involvement in activities 77 Governance and nurturing Win-Win among associations for government committee business activities, participation in professionals construction and contractors, 78 Ethic management & Compliance industry conferences and policy studies, etc. seminars, etc. Companies in 80 Risk management the same line Government of business 82 Operational Data In-house intranet, Internet portal for business e-newsletter, laborpartners, GS Partner 85 Report of Independent Auditors management conferences, website, CEO forums, workshops, etc Subcon Board, etc. 86 Financial Performance 87 Report of Independent Accountants’ Review of Internal Accounting Control System Partnership 88 Report on the Operations of the Internal Accounting Control System (IACS) Accountability Business 89 3rd Party Assurance Statement on Integrated Report Employees partners 90 3rd Party Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Inventory 91 GRI Index 92 UNGC / ISO26000 93 Establishment of Green Management System 94 Associations/Awards GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 74•75 Materiality Test | In order to incorporate the sustainable business management issues that the parties concerned want to know, GS E&C has conducted a Materiality Test and the results of the test were Governance prioritized in a written report based on their importance and enforceability. External Concerns Developing green technology and applying it Equity | As of December 31, 2012, Chairman Chang-Soo Huh and other members of the Huh family were the Pages Issues Green technology Sustainable business management of supply chain major shareholders, with 30.42% of the total shares. An additional 2.82% are in the form of treasury stock or Fair trade and ban on price-fixing 26-28 Discovering new leading businesses part of the employee stock sharing program. In addition, foreign investors owned 30.53% of the total shares. 30.5% 30.4% Foreigner Huh Family Safety management activities Strengthening the capacity of employees 29-31 Expanding overseas supply chain World-class business Business management and evaluating/rewarding them Establishment of Sustainable Governance | GS E&C has the Corporate Governance Charter and Operation management system activities dealing with accordingly Developing green technology and climate change 38-41 applying it Regulations for the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, and the Outside Director Recommendation Shareholders Win-win Committee. We disclose the corporate governance policy on the company website. Our board of directors Breakdown collaboration Expanding green business 40 Expanding green businesses Activities to promote overseas safety Activities that Procuring global talents has a unitary board structure composed of four inside directors and five outside directors. The GS E&C contribute to society Business management geared toward management Innovating 50-51 climate change Board of Directors has a unitary board structure that consists of two standing members and five outside Safety management organizational culture 54-57 Safety management activities members. The Board is chaired by the Chairman of GS E&C in order to ensure responsible management. 36.3% 2.8% Domestic Treasury Sustainable business management of Eradicating unreasonable demands to business partners Strengthening the original 52-53, 65 supply chain BOD committees | GS E&C runs the Audit Committee, Outside Director Recommendation Committee, and competitiveness of existing businesses Accomplishing revenue62-63 Fair trade and ban on price-fixing Sustainable Management Committee within the Board of Directors. To ensure rational decision making oriented businesses BOD Committees Status Engaging in activities to cut greenhouse gas emissions and secure expertise in such fields as economy, society, and environment, we appoint experts who have Efforts to protect human rights Enhancing risk 66-67 Procuring global talents Audit Committee management expertise and abundant experience in those fields as independent outside directors. To assure fairness and Activities to promote Management of •Members: Byung-Hwa Jin, Young-Ho Hur, Strengthening the capacity of employees reducing water usage enterprise risks 67 and evaluating/rewarding them accordingly objectivity in the appointment procedure, <Outside Director Recommendation Committee> composed of two Kyung-Suh Park Fairness and transparency in selecting •Duties: To oversee corporate accounting business partners outside directors and one closely screens outstanding director candidates and recommend final candidates 68 Innovating organizational culture and business at a company level Efficient utilization of natural Protection of whistle-blowers resources to a general meeting of shareholders through the assurance process. Outstanding directors are appointed Outside Director Recommendation 78-79 Ethical business management during the meeting. Committee Reducing production costs Internal Priorities 70-73 Activities that contribute to society Currently, our outside directors consist of an economic expert, a CEO of a company, a legal expert, a financial Board of •Members: Chang-Soo Huh, Chong-Kun Pyun Directors •Duties: To recommend candidates for expert, and a professional engineer. We receive their thoughts and opinions on corporate strategies, financial outside directors to a general meeting of shareholders status, and domestic and overseas projects discussed in BOD to improve the process of policy making. Materiality Test Process Sustainable Management Committee Step 1. Developing the Index for the Step 2. Materiality Test Step 3. Selecting the Key Issues BOD Operation | The Board of Directors makes and oversees key business decisions. The Board has •Members: Chong-Kun Pyun, Byung-Hwa Jin, Materiality Test Young-Ho Hur, Seong-Woo Moon, authority over mid and long-term business strategy and policy, important financial issues and management Kyung-Suh Park Analyzing the domestic and foreign trends Conducting a four-stage materiality test Determining the content of the report of the construction industry, reviewing the after analyzing the internal and external of directors, as well as calling a general meeting of shareholders in conformity with the commercial law, •Duties: To share company-wide sustainable global standards including GRI and ISO Extent of the relations Key common issues perspectives of the key issues vision and strategy, and review and advise and forming an issue pool Direct, with the company with companies in the Survey on parties nominating a representative director and approving financial statements. The Board convened 11 times in on sustainable management policy short-term, including GS E&C’s same line of business, Selecting 39 issues that correspond with financial effects business management international standard recommendation, concerned 2012 and deliberated on 21 agenda items with four business reports (with a 94.5% average attendance rate strategies the interests of GS E&C media issues for outside directors). The BOD Operation Regulations indicate that the Board's minimum attendance rate is See more information about operation Conducting an assessment among internal/external parties concerned on the issues 70% and outside directors' holdings of issued shares shall not exceed 1% to ensure fairness in operating the of the board of directors raised through the analysis of the sustainability of the current state (internal employees: 3.504, external parties concerned: 53) Board of Directors. BOD Performance Assessment & Compensation | GS E&C carries out a self-assessment of BOD 2012 BOD Self-Assessment Results (Out of 5) operation and committee activities every year. Assessment criteria include roles, responsibilities and duties, Unit: point CASE STUDY. Results of a Survey on Employees’ Awareness of Sustainable Business Management composition, independence, operation procedures, agenda of the Board, and operation of its committees, Composition and independence 4.9 and evaluation of the Audit Committee. Salaries and compensations for BOD and top management are made Committees' Structure & Operation 4.8 According to a survey conducted on the employee’s awareness of sustainable business management, 92.8% of those surveyed responded that GS E&C was above the average of domestic companies, showing their awareness on the level of sustainable business management has increased. By category, the level of ethical business open each year through a business report. The average employee compensation equals 5% of executive Roles, responsibilities and duties 4.7 management, health and safety as well as business environment management were rated high whereas economy and business management and employee-related Agenda, Audit Committee's evaluation 4.6 management team compensation. activities were rated low. Operation procedures 4.5 How would you rate GS E&C’s sustainable business management? How would you rate GS E&C’s sustainable business management of the following categories? (above the average of domestic companies) 0.9% On the relatively high side among Above the average of domestic On the relatively domestic companies companies 4.1% Above the average of low side among domestic companies 95.8% 94.1% 93.5% Standing Directors (In-house, 2) Non-Standing Directors (Outside, 5) Global domestic 93.2% 92.8% 91.2% 88.8% leader companies 54.7% 53.9% Chang-Soo Huh Chairman and CEO of GS E&C Byung-Hwa Jin Outside Director, Audit Committee member, Former director of the Korea Technology Finance Corporation 2010 86.7% 41.1% 44.4% 48.2% 48.5% 6.4% 41.6% Byeong-Yong Lim President and CEO Young-Ho Hur Outside Director, Audit Committee member, Outside Director Recommendation Committee member, Below the Former adviser at LG Innotek average of 92.8% 43.4% domestic Seong-Woo Moon Outside Director, Attorney at Law Firm Barun 2011 91.2% 41.1% 40.2% 52.4% 48.8% On the companies 44.6% 42.7% 47.2% relatively Above the Hyuk Choe Outside Director, Audit Committee member, Professor at Seoul National University Business School high side average of 45.3% Ho-Seon Yu Outside Director, Outside Director Recommendation Committee member, domestic Above the among companies Professor at Department of Mechanical Engineering, Soongsil University domestic average of Level Ethical Economy domestic 2012 92.8% of each business Health and Environment Contribution Mutual and business Employees companies safety to society growth companies category management management GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 76•77 Ethic Management & Compliance Operation of Ethics Management Training Ethics Management Training > We conduct online/offline ethical management training to enhance Ethical Management Training awareness and understanding of ethical management among employees. Attendance Establishment of Ethics Management System Online Unit: person Ethics Committee Operation > Recognizing ethics management is essential for sustainable management, Offline Education : GS E&C includes educational sessions on ethics management in the training program BOD Committees Offline GS E&C has run the Ethics Committee to inspect ethics management activities and support ethical decision for newly hired employees. We regularly conduct education programs focusing on actual cases occurred Committee 6,442 making of chief executives. The committee consists of a chairman (CFO), and its members composed of Chair for employees in significant fields. Employees are able to strengthen the basis of ethics management 5,955 5,139 directors from different departments. In principle, the committee convenes semi-annually; however, it holds CFO through the education program by learning countermeasures to ethical dilemma situations and ruminating additional meetings to make quick decisions when urgent matters arise. It conducts such activities as Assistant their role and accountability in practice of ethics management. assisting CEO’s ethical decision making, deliberation/resolution on policies and standards related to ethics business Online Education : GS E&C runs online courses focusing on the ethics management policy and dilemma diagnosis management, inspection and monitoring of ethics management activities. cases for employees to internalize ethics mindset. The online courses are composed of four modules: 685 756 684 Committee members Understanding of Ethics Management, GS E&C’s Ethics Management, Case study, Roles and Pledges. business diagnosis, personnel affairs, Three Key Factors of Ethics Management Ethics Management labor and administrative affairs, procurement Employees electronically sign a Pledge of Ethics to practice ethics management after completing the 2010 2011 2012 in civil engineering, finance and economy, business planning, domestic legal affairs, courses. Q-HSE, planning for operational HQ Four Modules in Ethics Management Online Courses Working-level support Ethics management business diagnosis team monitoring Definition and need of ethics Progress in ethics management Regulations management Ethics management scheme and Understanding GS E&C’s organization of Ethics Ethics Ethics Management Management Promotional Management education Systems Internalization of Evaluation and ethical mindset compensation Roles and Case Study Pledges Roles as an organization manager Cases of ethics management and and a member suggestion of solutions Roles as a member of society Ethical Management Guidebook Code of Ethics > Our Code of Ethics is the standard of all employees' actions and decisions in key issues such as responsibilities to customers, employees and the nation and society as a whole, employees' basic ethics and fair competition and transactions. In addition, we have established practice guidelines for Code of Ethics that offer standards on decision-making and behaviors in ethical conflicts for employees to properly Activities to Practice Ethics Management understand and practice our Code of Ethics. Ethical Pledge > GS E&C requires its employees to take a written oath for them to voluntarily participate in Scope of Code of Ethics > The Code of Ethics governs the actions of all employees, affiliates and suppliers ethics management activities. The oath declares that employees of GS E&C reaffirm their will to practice at home and abroad. When signing a contract with suppliers, we include ethical conditions, under which a ethics management and endeavor to establish an ethical corporate culture. violation results in disadvantages such as contract cancellation to reinforce penalties. Violations of Ethical Management Ethics Management Guidebook Handout > GS E&C has published the Ethical Management Guidebook and 27cases External Assurance on Ethics Management> We conducted external assurance on ethics management to assure suitability of the ethics management system, scheme, and program as well as prevent ethical risks. False charges 22 Violations distributed it to all employees to encourage them to establish their own ethical standards and raise the cases 5 cases GS E&C continues improvement activities to globalize ethics management. awareness of ethical management. The Guidebook helps review the direction of ethical practices and come up with reasonable solutions by introducing possible cases of ethical disputes with diverse stakeholders Report and Reward Scheme> GS E&C implements a system to give rewards to those who report unethical including customers, shareholders, employees and suppliers. Disciplinary Actions business practices of employees including bribery and embezzlement of public funds. Rewards are up to against Violations Unit: case KRW 100 million and determined by the Reward Deliberation Committee. Reporting System on Unethical Business Practices > GS E&C has established the system that prevents Details 2010 2011 2012 corruption and irregularities the role. We receive reports on violence on ethical management through Discipline/Dismissal Joint Liability for Unethical Practices > In order to root out unethical business practices, GS E&C has various channels such as phone calls, websites, emails, and mails. After inspecting such cases, we get back Suspension 3 been running a joint liability system in which not only the one who violated ethical terms but also his/her to informers results through phone calls or emails while protecting their identity by our privacy protection Wage Cut 4 8 supervisor and team are also punished by cut in compensations. Reprimand 1 3 policy. If corruption or irregularities are found, we impose heavy and tough penalties. Through internal and Others 1 3 4 external reports and regular inspection activities, we took a total of four disciplinary measures in 2012. GS Total 6 17 4 E&C seeks to continue such activities to root out unethical business practices. GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 78•79 Risk Management Business Environment Risk Management Cash Flow Estimation Process Management System > For the continuous survival of the company, it is necessary to analyze the effects of the changing business environment and take relevant preemptive action. The RM Team is taking charge of defining ten areas and 51 clauses as financial and non-financial risks that affect the company’s business environment and evaluating the importance, probability of occurrence and impact. Such risks are included in Notification of the Input and analysis of the Integrate Risk Management System (IRMS), established in 2011, and are managed in real time and are Establishment of a previous month’s the projects of the Collection and Reporting to the free cash flow plan for project and cash flow remaining period and analysis of cash flow efficiently dealt with through an early warning system. In addition, probable risks are identified and evaluated Management the entire company performance of each cash flow of each at company level through field-specific risk management conferences (macroeconomic indicators, ethics, regulations, department department finances, HR) and high-level risks are comprehensively reported and dealt with by the management board. Risk management system for the business environment *Cash flow performance is calculated monthly via the cash flow system by each project and the project manager checks it through the system Business Promotion Risk Management Management System > In order to efficiently deal with all the risks that may be detected in advance or occur Report unexpectedly throughout projects from the initial stages of the business to completion, GS E&C is establishing Business Promotion CEO an organic risk management system within the business headquarters, domestic and overseas branches/ Risk Management System personnel and among the employees in their entirety. The ultimate risk inspection on project bids introduced Board of Directors through the screening process of business headquarters as well as domestic and overseas branches/ Management Report Board personnel and the review of significant risks that occur through business management take place at the Business Deliberation Committee Report Business Deliberation Committee level. In addition to the financial evaluations conducted for the review of Chairman: CEO business feasibility, risk management of non-financial risk evaluations are conducted by categorizing them into Enterprise-wide decision-making specialized groups based on the different stages of a project (before construction/mid-construction/completion). Business headquarters HQ deliberation, sales, bid, obtaining orders, construction, completion Field-specific Sharing & Consultation consultation Pre-Project Launch Mid-Project Project Completion RM conferences RM team Analysis team Risk Management Risk Management Risk Management Monitoring & Support Safety evaluation of buyers, feasibility of the Performance of business partners, Postponement of construction completion, business, contractual form (establishment cost rate, compliance with air managing maintenance and repair, decline Inspection of a consortium), procurement of regulations, safety/quality/environmental of management quality, etc. resources, air suitability, analysis of management, compliance with drawings 1st Line 2nd Line 3rd Line environmental/social impact, application of and specifications, mobilizing appropriate new technology/new construction methods, resources, management of civil complaints duration of planning and assessments, and overseas media, etc. success or failure to follow bidding regulations, etc. INPUT. What are some of the activities GS E&C is undertaking in order to strengthen Financial Risks > Landing contracts, sales, profits and losses, cash flow, bonds, foreign exchange, interest its risk management performance? rates, foreign exchange rates, etc. are categorized as financial risks and are managed accordingly. In In 2012, GS E&C managed to strengthen its prior risk management capacity through heightened availability of its risk management system by improving the performance in addition, the company is intensifying its risk-preventative measures through regular domestic and foreign the areas of business process, profits and losses and business characteristics and determining the cost trends. Particularly in the case of plant businesses, GS E&C succeeded economic forecasts. in upgrading the system to a Total Project Management System (TPMS), optimized for business support. Non-Financial Risks > Safety management, business partner and member company management, Process Profits and Losses Business Characteristics litigation management are categorized as non-financial risks. Monitoring through in-depth analysis and situation-specific response capabilities are being reinforced. Improvement of the Total Project Management System Reinforcing the management of working budgets, existing Improving an appropriate TPMS such as plant EPC, etc., with a focus on usability and autonomy to increase the and input cost flow and unexecuted future cost rate to including planning and sales utilization value of each project’s process control function improve the monitoring and risk management of profits and losses Cash Flow-Oriented Business Management | In an effort to accurately analyze the present state of · Expansion of free management at the sites, provision · Improving the monitoring and risk management of · Improving planning, sales and spacio-temporal management by not only determining the company’s financial profits and losses but also additional of on-line manuals profits and losses information distribution infrastructure cash flow information, GS E&C is operating a cash flow system. The cash flow system provides future · Buyer outsourced planning and real-time management. · Reinforcing risk management through the analyses of · Establishing a TPMS ideal for a comprehensive process CRV and CRI indices support cash-generating ability to individual management enterprises, thereby contributes to minimizing the · Strengthening the management of the status of monthly uncertainties of future cash flow. In particular, the cash flow system enables the forecast of investment deadlines for profits and losses · Reinforcing the future cost rate management of risks of new leading businesses, helping decide on the ideal timeframe to make investments. unexecuted portions GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 80•81 Operational data Social Performances | To jump up to be a global company, GS E&C pursues its ideal employees as ‘those who lead changes, aspire to be the best, and trusted through communication and win-win development.’ We comply with the principles of UN Global Compact, ILO, and the Labor Standard Act, Economic Value Creation | The year of 2012 had tough business environments due to the global financial crisis from the European financial crisis and the and prohibit child and forced labor. In addition, we offer fair opportunities to everyone regardless of their region, gender, religion, or disability, and foster economic recession. The total amount of orders receive declined to 9.1069trillion won, a decrease of 31% compared to the previous year due to the reduced employees as talents who have creative entrepreneurship under our talent fostering system. As of December 2012, the number of employees of GS E&C was amount of public orders in Korea, reduced amount of plant orders resulted from the drop of oil price in the world market, and postponed bidding of ordering 6,727 including newly hired employees of 137. organization. However, our sales on a consolidated basis increased to 9.2896 trillion won, an increase of 3% compared to the previous year exceeding the goal at the beginning of the year of 9.5172 trillion won. (Based on K-IFRS unit: billion won) Indicator 2010 2011 2012 Items unit 2010 2011 2012 Sales Total 8,420 9,052 9,290 Number of employees Total number of employees person 5,481 6,223 6,727 Plant 2,671 3,434 3,953 Number of male employees person 5,225 5,844 6,295 Power & Environment 542 921 1,113 Number of female employees person 256 379 432 Civil Engineering 1,048 1,097 1,239 Rate of permanent employees % 82.9 80.3 81 Housing & Architecture 3,851 3,302 2,705 Rate of contract employees % 17.1 19.7 18.6 Gross Sales 1,029 1,036 716 Less than 30 years old person 650 948 1,054 Operating Profit 598 555 160 More than 30 years old and less than 50 years old person 4,173 4,546 4,801 Earnings before Tax 564 553 170 More than 50 years old person 658 729 872 Net Income 406 427 108 Rate of employees with disabilities % 0.7 0.7 0.7 Total Assets 11,046 11,099 11,470 Rate of female managers % 1.28 1.47 1.2 Total Loans 1,323 1,775 2,460 Number of local residents employed person 642 600 685 Amount of Orders Total 14,105 13,253 9,107 Number of retired and resigned employees Number of male employees retired/resigned person 188 251 330 Plant Orders 5,789 4,180 3,195 Number of female employees retired/resigned person 13 29 33 Power and Environment Orders 2,008 1,799 1,697 Training hours per employee hour 124 158 136 Civil Engineering Orders 1,107 1,685 577 Training costs for employees million won 53 64 55 Housing and Architecture Orders 5,201 5,589 3,639 Number of disciplinary violations of ethical management case 6 17 4 Ethical management training attendance (offline) person 685 756 684 Ethical management training attendance (online) person 5,139 5,955 6,442 Employee satisfaction survey results (rate of positive responses) % 60 62 69 Unionized employees person 871 951 1,029 Complaints from housing customers case 1,749 1,138 662 Sharing of Economic Value | We share value created in our operations with our internal and external stakeholders in a fair manner. In 2012, we disbursed a Xi brand GCSI Customer Satisfaction Survey results point 71.4 71.4 71.9 total of KRW 1.88 trillion, 3% increase from the previous year, to our suppliers, academies, employees, government, local communities, etc. Social contribution expenditures million won 79 100 95 Number of employees that participated in social contribution activities point 1,572 2,363 4,068 This includes local residents in Thailand, India, Cambodia, Vietnam, and China. Local residents refer to citizens in applicable countries working for our overseas sites, corporate bodies, and offices. Unit: billion won Entities Content Items 2010 2011 2012 Material suppliers Payments to material suppliers Materials expenses 2,213 2,623 2,865 Outsourcing suppliers Payments to outsourcing suppliers Outsourcing expenses 3,128 3,466 3,384 Academies R&D expenditures to academies Academic-industrial joint R&D expenditures 0.7 0.6 0.7 Employees Amounts paid employees Labor costs, benefit expenses 584 685 798 Government Taxes paid to the government Corporate tax, other taxes and bills 150 136 61 Local communities Voluntary contributions and Donations, 9 10 10 investments in local communities operational costs for community services Capital expenses Dividends to all shareholders Dividends 49 49 12 Interest expenses Interest expenses 62 37 57 GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 82•83 Environmental Performance | GS E&C has established ‘Securing a Global Top Tier-Level Environmental System’ as its vision for environmental management and is actively dealing with relevant environmental issues. The company has also established a green management system and is exerting efforts to reinforce its green technology infrastructure as well as actively expanding communication not only within the company but also its business partners. Report of Independent Auditors Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 3 Amount of Construction Materials Used Amount of ready-mixed concrete used m 2,236,448 2,617,233 2,063,610 (Domestic Sites) Amount of cement used ton 1,296,412 112,842 1,236,241 Amount of aggregates used m 3 1,012,474 606,450 341,262 To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Amount of asphalt used ton 676,232 592,687 362,964 GS Engineering & Construction Corporation Amount of sand used m3 1,517,745 95,469 88,694 Amount of steel used ton 395,044 399,108 218,300 Amount of plaster boards used m2 3,324,068 3,031,365 2,230,998 We have audited the accompanying statements of financial position of GS Engineering & Construction Corporation as of December 31, Improvement Rate of Raw Materials Consumption by Unit % 57 2011, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for both fiscal years of 2011 and Amount of Recycled Aggregates Used (Domestic Sites) m3 60,371 168,382 83,508 2012. The groups’ management is responsible for generating these financial statements. Our responsibility is to audit these statements Amount of Water Used (Domestic Sites + Buildings) m3 1,023,569 1,892,825 2,040,096 and express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. Amount of service water used m3 590,157 797,725 1,124,730 Amount of groundwater used m3 293,073 640,362 564,210 We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. Those standards require Amount of river water used m3 140,339 454,738 351,156 that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material Intensity of Building Water m3/m2 3.23 3.71 4.21 misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial Amount of Energy Used TJ 2,836 3,861 3,774 (Domestic Sites + Overseas Sites + Buildings) statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as LNG TJ 28 52 192 Prophane TJ 24 32 34 evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit and the report of other auditors provide a reasonable Kerosene TJ 63 117 53 basis for our opinion. Diesel TJ 2,117 2,800 1,962 In our opinion, based on our audit and the report of other auditors, the financial statements, referred to above, present fairly, in all Electricity TJ 43 167 147 Others TJ 561 693 1,387 material respects, the financial position of GS Engineering & Construction Corporation as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, TJ 0.27 2012 and their financial performance and cash flows for those years then ended in accordance with Korean IFRS. 2 Intensity of Building Water MWh/m 0.17 0.16 0.16 Amount of Generated Waste (Domestic Sites) ton 163,610 347,277 299,835 Ahn Kyung-Tae Amount of concrete waste ton 89,825 160,240 152,307 Chairman and CEO Amount of asphalt waste ton 13,742 102,781 27,195 Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers Amount of sand and stone waste ton 4,900 5,557 27,854 191, Hangangno-2ga, Yongsan-gu, Seoul Amount of construction waste ton 46,554 58,416 84,155 Amount of synthetic resin waste ton 3,959 9,903 4,923 March 14, 2013 Amount of timber waste ton 4,400 661.84 3,382 Amount of construction sludge ton 230 9,718 18 Reuse Rate of Waste % 95 94 97 Amount of Debris Emission (Domestic Sites) ton 200.8 46.2 226 Amount of Wastewater Discharge (Domestic Sites) ton 753,380 908,282 935,980 2 Amount of Greenhouse Gas Emissions tCO -e 237,535 304,781 287,189 (Domestic Sites + Buildings + Overseas Sites) Scope 1 (direct emission) tCO2-e 18,496 52,862 51,499 Scope 2 (indirect emission) tCO2-e 73,094 83,257 70,890 Scope 3 (other forms of indirect emissions) tCO2-e 145,945 168,662 164,801 Intensity of Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Buildings tCO2-e/m2 0.16 0.12 0.12 Amount of greenhouse gas emissions by Korean won tCO2-e/ 4.25 3.88 3.39 100 million won 230.23 Green procurement costs 100 million won 568 477.3 12 Number of environmental disputes Case 7 5 7 Number of environmental accidents Case 10 9 12.8 Environmental dispute adjustment costs 100 million won 15 8.6 0.14 Hazard rate % 0.12 0.17 3,476 This report is effective as of March 14, 2012, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of Eco environment course completion status People(total) 5,785 3,343 reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should 1) Building water intensity = sum of annual water consumption / sum of floor area (11 buildings owned including the headquarters) understand that there is a possibility that the above audit report may have to be revised to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. 2) Building Energy Intensity = sum of annual electricity use / sum of floor area (11 buildings owned including the headquarters) 4) Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings = sum of annual tons CO2 equivalent / sum of floor area (11 buildings owned including the headquarters) GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 84•85 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Consolidated Statements of Financial Position | end of the 44th: December 31, 2012, end of the 43rd: December 31, 2011 Consolidated Statements of Income | 44th: from January1 2012 to December 31 2012, 43rd: from January 1 2011 to December 31 2011 unit: won Unit: won Items Note The end of 44th The end of 43rd Items Note The end of 44th The end of 43rd Assets Ⅰ. Sales 4 8,530,989,162,786 8,524,883,692,768 Ⅰ. Current assets 7,032,214,478,820 7,422,082,776,825 1. Construction operations 7 8,330,281,380,737 8,350,692,555,596 1. Cash and cashable assets 9 1,276,340,123,460 1,400,839,383,380 2. Housing construction and sales operations 135,943,263,739 106,892,388,253 2. Trade and other receivables 6, 7, 9 4,537,721,326,110 4,667,296,917,298 3. Other operations 64,764,518,310 67,298,748,919 3. Inventories 8 261,491,959,413 265,912,364,589 Ⅱ. Cost of sales 28 7,900,955,006,240 7,578,780,671,971 4. Short-term financial instrument assets 5, 9, 11 264,916,259,507 287,780,444,261 1. Construction operations 7,659,613,385,011 7,330,486,384,910 5. Other current assets 8 691,744,810,330 800,253,667,297 2. Housing construction and sales operations 163,721,098,315 173,349,062,270 Ⅱ. Non-current assets 3,184,154,036,300 2,882,622,948,217 3. Other operations 77,620,522,914 74,945,224,791 1. Property, plant, and equipment 13 1,036,560,695,964 1,051,186,921,068 Ⅲ. Gross profit 630,034,156,546 946,103,020,797 2. Intangible assets 14 51,392,281,732 48,760,677,072 Ⅳ. Selling and administrative expense 24, 28 496,818,027,505 568,081,225,178 3. Investment property 15 293,169,593,067 337,629,034,592 Ⅴ. Operating income 4 133,216,129,041 378,021,795,619 4. Investment in associates 12 915,883,861,550 623,843,244,536 Ⅵ. Other income 25 388,888,264,801 527,778,594,477 5. Long-term receivables and other receivables 6, 9 490,534,718,421 442,289,876,648 Ⅶ. Other expenses 25 430,876,371,917 360,694,432,935 6. Long-term financial instrument assets 5, 9, 10 207,466,449,045 206,403,803,890 Ⅷ. Financial income 4, 26 216,132,610,092 205,401,754,092 7. Deferred income tax assets 27 189,146,436,521 172,509,390,411 Ⅸ. Financial expenses 4, 26 133,591,399,052 237,388,545,246 Total assets 10,216,368,515,120 10,304,705,725,042 Ⅹ. Profit before income tax 4 173,769,232,965 513,119,166,007 Liabilities ⅩI. Income tax expenses 27 54,635,056,399 100,548,386,491 Ⅰ. Current liabilities 4,662,080,517,917 4,971,774,138,208 ⅩII. Net profit 119,134,176,566 412,570,779,516 1. Trade and other payables 9, 16 1,279,210,199,886 1,651,761,565,606 ⅩIII. Earnings per share 2. Short-term financial instrument liabilities 9, 11, 17 1,105,394,621,540 875,391,365,515 Basic (diluted) earnings per share 23 2,407 8,338 3. Income tax payables 27 7,065,375,748 137,972,589,010 4. Other current liabilities 9, 16 2,270,410,320,743 2,306,648,618,077 Ⅱ. Non-current liabilities 1,703,800,898,580 1,552,961,659,484 1. Long-term financial instrument liabilities 9, 11, 17 1,118,163,839,865 870,141,425,372 2. Defined benefit liabilities 18 74,891,182,755 81,060,714,972 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 44th: from January1 2012 to December 31 2012, 43rd: from January 1 2011 to December 31 2011 3. Long-term provisions 9, 19 316,200,205,466 371,404,984,755 4. Other non-current liabilities 16 194,545,670,494 230,354,534,385 Unit: won Total Liabilities 6,365,881,416,497 6,524,735,797,692 Items Note 44th 43rd Equity 1. Capital stock 1, 21 255,000,000,000 255,000,000,000 Ⅰ. Net profit 119,134,176,566 412,570,779,516 2. Capital surplus 21 134,460,795,711 135,396,404,975 Ⅱ. Other comprehensive income (loss) (4,529,674,029) (189,561,575,869) 3. Other components of equity 21 (75,732,747,119) (82,059,874,119) 1. Gain on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 21 (19,404,514,494) (161,229,609,121) 4. Accumulated other 21 (30,947,184,199) (22,555,078,255) 2. Loss on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 21 1,675,037,624 (391,462,381) comprehensive income 3. Loss on overseas operations translation 21 (2,730,723,788) (900,670,927) 5. Retained earnings 22 3,567,706,234,230 3,494,188,474,749 4. Gain on valuation of derivate instruments 11, 21 2,587,612,913 2,166,708,479 Total equity 3,850,487,098,623 3,779,969,927,350 5. Loss on valuation of derivate instruments 11, 21 9,480,481,801 (122,768,500) Total 10,216,368,515,120 10,304,705,725,042 6. Actuarial loss on defined benefit liability 18 3,862,431,915 (29,083,773,419) liabilities and equity Ⅲ. Total comprehensive income for the year 114,604,502,537 223,009,203,647 GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 86•87 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity | 44th: from January1 2012 to December 31 2012, 43rd: from January 1 2011 to December 31 2011 Statements of Cash Flows | 44th: from January1 2012 to December 31 2012, 43rd: from January 1 2011 to December 31 2011 unit: won unit: won Other components Accumulated other Item Note 44th 43rd Items Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Total of equity comprehensive income I. Cash flows from operating activities (309,622,514,540) (514,244,781,094) I. Jan 1, 2011 255,000,000,000 136,595,608,523 (83,502,547,119) 137,922,724,195 3,160,180,317,652 3,606,196,103,251 1. Cash generated from operations 30 (137,832,133,848) (327,747,125,667) II. Comprehensive income 2. Interest received 62,235,986,885 45,684,880,538 1. Net profit 412,570,779,516 412,570,779,516 3. Interest paid (53,160,598,330) (33,714,039,145) 2. Gain on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (161,229,609,121) (161,229,609,121) 4. Dividends received 8,798,001,896 9,602,298,728 3. Loss on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (391,462,381) 5. Income tax paid (189,663,771,143) (208,070,795,548) 4. Currency translation differences (900,670,927) (391,462,381) II. Cash flows from investing activities (307,353,139,012) 76,533,077,977 5. Gain on valuation of derivative instruments 2,166,708,479 (900,670,927) 1. Cash inflows from investing activities 766,558,901,753 625,043,826,954 6. Loss on valuation of derivative instruments (122,768,500) 2,166,708,479 (1) Decrease in other receivables 448,175,728,900 191,116,509,135 7. Actuarial loss on defined benefit liability (29,083,773,419) (122,768,500) (2) Decrease in short-term financial instrument assets 84,636,560,200 10,582,000,000 Total comprehensive income (160,477,802,450) 383,487,006,097 (29,083,773,419) (3) Decrease in long-term other receivables 165,177,006,107 200,536,765,168 III.Transactions with equity holders of the Group 223,009,203,647 (4) Decrease in long-term financial instrument assets 46,368,754,246 20,599,824,754 1. Treasury stock (1,199,203,548) 1,442,673,000 243,469,452 (5) Disposal of investments in associates 57,010,000 11,757,821,222 2. Dividends to equity holders of the Group (49,478,849,000) (49,478,849,000) (6) Disposal of property, plant and equipment 305,269,833 10,331,204,642 Total transactions with equity holders of the Group (1,199,203,548) 1,442,673,000 (49,478,849,000) (49,478,849,000) (7) Disposal of intangible assets 104,648,035 328,884,364 IV. Dec 31, 2011 255,000,000,000 135,396,404,975 (82,059,874,119) (22,555,078,255) 3,494,188,474,749 3,779,969,927,350 (8) Disposal of investment property 21,733,924,432 15,846,817,669 I. Jan 1, 2012 255,000,000,000 135,396,404,975 (82,059,874,119) (22,555,078,255) 3,494,188,474,749 3,779,969,927,350 (9) Disposal of assets held for sale 163,944,000,000 II. Comprehensive income 2. Cash outflows from investing activities (1,073,912,040,765) (548,510,748,977) 1. Net profit 119,134,176,566 119,134,176,566 (1) Increase in other receivables 439,037,367,506 224,035,959,074 2. Gain on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (19,404,514,494) (19,404,514,494) (2) Increase in short-term financial instrument assets 68,631,176,866 41,235,287,000 3. Loss on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 1,675,037,624 1,675,037,624 (3) Increase in long-term other receivables 239,396,249,981 230,727,140,602 4. Currency translation differences (2,730,723,788) (2,730,723,788) (4) Increase in long-term financial instrument assets 54,975,629,629 15,469,474,198 5. Gain on valuation of derivative instruments 2,587,612,913 2,587,612,913 (5) Acquisition of investments in associates 236,426,168,886 1,326,346,794 6. Loss on valuation of derivative instruments 9,480,481,801 9,480,481,801 (6) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 32,311,078,897 34,089,567,251 7. Actuarial loss on defined benefit liability 3,862,431,915 3,862,431,915 (7) Acquisition of intangible assets 3,134,369,000 750,017,344 Total comprehensive income (8,392,105,944) 122,996,608,481 114,604,502,537 (8) Acquisition of investment property 876,956,714 III. Transactions with equity holders of the Group III. Cash flows from financing activities 491,818,867,901 460,092,590,829 1. Treasury stock (935,609,264) 6,327,127,000 5,391,517,736 1. Cash inflows from financial activities 1,790,647,092,011 1,677,955,562,080 2. Dividends to equity holders of the Group (49,478,849,000) (49,478,849,000) (1) Increase in short-term financial instrument liabilities 1,020,414,971,892 941,250,760,075 Total transactions with equity holders of the Group (935,609,264) 6,327,127,000 (49,478,849,000) (44,087,331,264) (2) Increase in long-term financial instrument liabilities 759,186,082,132 707,578,175,273 IV. Dec 31, 2012 255,000,000,000 134,460,795,711 (75,732,747,119) (30,947,184,199) 3,567,706,234,230 3,850,487,098,623 (3) Increase in other non-current liabilities 5,953,224,000 29,126,626,732 (4) Disposal of own shares 5,092,813,987 2. Cash outflows from financial activities (1,298,828,224,110) (1,217,862,971,251) (1) Decrease in short-term financial instrument liabilities 1,229,489,464,410 1,111,761,408,831 (2) Decrease in other current liabilities 16,426,800,000 (3) Decrease in long-term financial instrument liabilities 3,433,110,700 (4) Decrease in other non-current liabilities 56,625,255,000 (5) Dividends 49,478,849,000 49,476,307,420 IV. Exchange gains (losses) on cash and cash equivalents 657,525,731 1,411,530,574 Ⅴ.Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (Ⅰ＋Ⅱ＋Ⅲ+Ⅳ) 22 (124,499,259,920) 23,792,418,286 Ⅵ.Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,400,839,383,380 1,377,046,965,094 Ⅶ.Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (Ⅴ + Ⅵ) 1,276,340,123,460 1,400,839,383,380 GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 88•89 Report of Independent Accountants’ Review of Report on the Operations of the Internal Internal Accounting Control System Accounting Control System To the President of To the Board of Directors and Audit Committee of GS Engineering & Construction Corporation GS Engineering & Construction Corporation We have reviewed the accompanying management’s report on the operations of the Internal Accounting Control System (“IACS”) of GS I, as the Internal Accounting Control Officer (“IACO”) of GS Engineering & Construction Corporation (the “Company”), assessed the status Engineering & Construction Corporation (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2012. The Company’s management is responsible for of the design and operations of the Company’s internal accounting control system (“IACS”) for the year ended December 31, 2012. designing and operating IACS and for its assessment of the effectiveness of IACS. Our responsibility is to review the management’s The Company’s management including IACO is responsible for designing and operating IACS. I, as the IACO, assessed whether the IACS report on the operations of the IACS and issue a report based on our review. The management’s report on the operations of the IACS has been effectively designed and is operating to prevent and detect any error or fraud which may cause any misstatement of the financial of the Company states that “based on its assessment of the operations of the IACS as of December 31, 2012, the Company’s IACS has statements, for the purpose of establishing the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external been designed and is operating effectively as of December 31, 2012, in all material respects, in accordance with the IACS standards purposes. I, as the IACO, applied the IACS standards for the assessment of design and operations of the IACS. established by the Internal Accounting Control System Operations Committee (IACSOC) of the Korea Listed Companies Association.” Based on the assessment on the operations of the IACS, the Company’s IACS has been effectively designed and is operating as of Our review was conducted in accordance with the IACS review standards established by the Korean Institute of Certified Public December 31, 2012, in all material respects, in accordance with the IACS standards. Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform, in all material respects, the review of management’s report on the operations of the IACS to obtain a lower level of assurance than an audit. A review is to obtain an understanding of a company’s IACS and consists principally of inquiries of management and, when deemed necessary, a limited inspection of underlying documents, which is substantially less in scope than an audit. A company’s IACS is a system to monitor and operate those policies and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Republic of Korea (“KoreanIFRS”). Because of its inherent limitations, February 19, 2013 IACS may not prevent or detect a material misstatement of the financial statements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of Myung-Soo Huh, Chief Executive Officer compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that management’s report on the operations of the Tae-Jin Kim, Internal Accounting Manager IACS, referred to above, is not presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the IACS standards established by IACSOC. Our review is based on the Company’s IACS as of December 31, 2012, and we did not review management’s assessment of its IACS subsequent to December 31, 2012. This report has been prepared pursuant to the Acts on External Audit for Stock Companies in Korea and may not be appropriate for other purposes or for other users. Ahn Kyung-Tae Chairman and CEO Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers March 14, 2013 GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 90•91 3rd Party Assurance Statement on Integrated Report Introduction | Det Norske Veritas Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘DNV’) has been commissioned to carry out assurance engagement on Conclusion | In DNV’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, the Report provides a reliable and fair representation of GS E&C’ GS Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘GS E&C’) Integrated Report 2012 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Report’). This sustainability strategy, policy, practices and performance in 2012. engagement focused on the information provided in the Report and the underlying management and reporting processes. Based on the work undertaken as part of this Assurance Engagement, DNV believes that the Report generally meets the principles, content and quality This Assurance Statement is intended for the readers of the GS E&C’s Integrated Report. GS E&C is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation requirements of GRI G3.1 and AA1000 AS (2008) for a Type 1 Moderate level of assurance. Further conclusions and observations on the adoption of and presentation of all information within the Report. DNV’s responsibility regarding this Assurance engagement is to the management of GS E&C only, reporting principles and specific performance information are made below; in accordance with terms of reference and scope of work agreed. DNV disclaims any liability or responsibility to a third-party for any decisions, whether Regarding the level of adherence to reporting principles, we conclude the following: investment or otherwise, based upon this Assurance Statement. [AA1000 Principles] Scope of Assurance | This Assurance Engagement covered data from calendar year 2012. The scope of DNV’s Assurance Engagement, as agreed with GS Stakeholder Inclusivity > GS E&C has engaged with a wide range of stakeholders regarding sustainability issues via survey. 10 main stakeholder groups (Media, Customer, E&C included the verification of: Academia/Association/Institutions, Peer, Partners, Employees, Government, Community, Future generation, Shareholders/Investors) are identified with the reason of being selected • Sustainability policy, goals, initiatives, parties and performance for calendar year 2012, as described in the Report. These were verified at company level. and the communication processes for respective groups in the Report. Stakeholders’ views, interests and expectations sought from the survey are considered in the preparation of • Health & Safety, Social and Environmental data management systems, and associated processes and tools for collecting, analysing, aggregating and the Report and in the formulation of GS E&C’s sustainability management approach. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Inclusivity is ‘Good’. reporting quantitative and qualitative information provided in the Report. Responsiveness > Stakeholders’ views, interests and expectations sought from stakeholder communications are considered in the preparation of the Report and in the formulation • Processes for defining the boundaries, focus and content of the Report. (Limited to Head office and project sites) of GS E&C’s sustainability management approach. GS E&C has established targets corresponding to respective material issues and measured the performances so that progress of • Review of the extent to which the principles and requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting (GRI G3.1) and sustainability management can be presented to the stakeholders. The Report communicates the response on material issues with clarity. In our view, the level at which the Report Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement are reflected in the Report. adheres to the principle of Responsiveness is ‘Good’. • Evaluation of Accountability Principles and Performance Information (Type 1) and evaluation of specific data and information with regard to water, waste and Materiality > The Report generally provides an account of performance on the issues that are most significant to GS E&C’s activities and which are most relevant to its stakeholders. Accident rate (Type 2) with a moderate level of assurance, according to AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard 2008 and AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008. The material issues were identified and prioritised based upon the stakeholders’ opinion sought by survey. However GS E&C needs to make full use of identified engagement measures with the stakeholders in order to reflect their concerns and expectations into the sustainable management. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Materiality is ‘Good’. GS E&C’s reporting boundaries include all operations over which GS E&C’s management exercises significant control. Completeness > Within the reporting boundary and scope defined by GS E&C, we conclude that the Report does not omit information that would significantly influence stakeholders’ Limitations | TThe engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of GS E&C’ suppliers, contractors and decisions. More efforts to improve reporting on the performance from overseas project need to be made. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performances Completeness is ‘Acceptable’. Principle of report quality > No material errors have been detected for data and information verified. Information in the Report is presented so as to allow comparison of year-onincluding financial data were cross-checked at head-office with internal documents and the financial statements audited by another 3rd party. The year performance. In general the Report provides a fair and balanced representation of GS E&C’s approach and performance in 2012. In our view, the level at which the Report assurance statement on the financial statements issued by another 3rd Party is also provided in the Report. adheres to the principle of Neutrality and Reliability are ‘Acceptable’. Statement of Competence and Independence | DNV provides sustainability risk management services through specialists worldwide. This engagement Findings in relation to specific sustainability performance information > DNV has evaluated the nature and extent of GS E&C’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles as was undertaken by a multi-disciplinary team of suitably qualified and experienced sustainability professionals. DNV was not involved in the preparation for Type 1 as described above. In addition, the reliability of the environmental performance (especially water consumption and waste generation) as well as accident rate is evaluated. DNV has interviewed the personnel responsible for the data of water consumption and waste generation, and accident rate in order to figure out the generation, aggregation and of any information presented in the Report. DNV did not provide any services to GS E&C in 2011 and 2012 that could compromise the independence or processing of data and information. The verification team has reviewed the relevant documents and records based on which the statements in the Report are addressed. GS E&C has impartiality of our work. developed an effective methodology for gathering the specific information and data to use in the Report. The specific data and information were found to be identifiable and traceable. The personnel responsible for the data were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data in a reliable manner. From our analysis of the data and information, and GS Verification Methodology | This Assurance Engagement was carried out from February until April 2012, and in accordance with the DNV Protocol for E&C’s processes that generate them, we conclude that the data and information included in the Report are the results of stable and repeatable activities. Verification of Sustainability Reporting and AA1000 AS (2008). In reaching our conclusion, we have undertaken the following work; OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT | The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to GS E&C management. However, • Interviewed GS E&C’s executives and management representatives from different divisions and functions; these do not affect our conclusions on the Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement. • Visited GS E&C’s Head office in Seoul and 1 project sites in Republic of Korea; • Sustainability performance of international projects needs to be disclosed considering the revenue contribution. • Examined relevant documents, data and other information requested by DNV and made available by GS E&C; • Complement the explanation of technical terms for raising of awareness of stakeholder who lacks knowledge in construction sector. • Reviewed the mechanisms implemented by GS E&C to promote and oversee its sustainability-related policies as described in the Report; • Disclosure at least 3 year performance for time series analysis. • Reviewed a selection of internal communication and external media reports relating to GS E&C’ sustainability management approach, performance • Manage systematically key process for producing the sustainability Report, from data gathering, analysis and reporting (for example documented and adherence to its policies; procedures) • Analysed sustainability data management systems, assessing specific data and information reported. The assessment of reliability of data and information was based on explicit assertions regarding sustainability performance on material issues and included a review of their completeness and Seoul, Korea accuracy. It included a review of the methods, practices and tools used in the collection, aggregation, analysis, internal quality control and reporting of May 2013 the data and information. DNV’s assessment also included; high-level trend analysis; the identification and significant changes in performance from the previous reporting; a review of data traceability; and record checks at different stages in the data flows. • Checked the Report fulfils the requirement of GRI Application Level A+. Cheol-Soo Kim In-Kyoon Ahn Seung-Hyun Kwak Lead Verifier Lead Verifier Assurance Engagement Reviewer GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 92•93 3rd Party Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Inventory Introduction | DNV Certification Ltd. (“DNV”) was commissioned by GS E&C Corporation (“GS E&C”) to verify the GS E&C's Greenhouse Gas Inventory Conclusion | As a result of the work described above, in our opinion nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the GHG Report for the calendar year 2012 (“the report ) based upon a limited level of assurance. GS E&C is responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions emissions data set out in GS E&C’s report are not fairly stated. The GHG Emissions of GS E&C for the year 2012 were confirmed as below; data on the basis set out within the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol:2004 and the principles set out in ISO14064-1:2006. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of GS E&C only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement. Greenhouse Gas Emissions of GS E&C Corporation in 2012 Unit: ICO2-e Organizational Boundary Direct Emissions (Scope 1) Indirect Energy Emissions (Scope 2) Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3) Total Emissions Scope of Assurance | The emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions (Scope 1), Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2) and GS E&C Corporation 51,449 70,890 164,801 287,189 Other indirect emissions (Scope 3): The above greenhouse gas emissions may have a difference of 土1 tCO2 from the actual value in the system due to round-off error. * Total emissions = direct emissions + indirect energy emissions + other indirect emissions • Reporting period under verification: Calendar Year 2012 • Organizational boundary for reporting: Organizational Boundaries Address/Remark Verification Activities Headquarters GS Yeokjeon Tower, 537, Namdaemun-Ro, 5-Ga, Joong-Gu, Seoul-si Desk review, site visit, data verification Buildings 10 Buildings: buildings owned or leased including R&D center and Resort Desk review, site visit, data verification May 24, 2013 Domestic construction sites 250 sites (Departments of Plant, Power & Environment, Civil Engineering, Housing, Architecture) Desk review, site visit, data verification Overseas construction sites 36 sites (Departments of Plant, Power & Environment, Civil Engineering, Housing, Architecture) Desk review, data verification Tae-Ho Kim Lead Verifier DNV Certification Ltd. Verification Approach | The verification has been conducted from March 25 through May 24, 2013 and performed in accordance with the verification In-Kyoon Ahn Country Manager DNV Certification Ltd. principles and tasks outlined in ISO14064-3.We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all the information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a limited verification opinion concerning the completeness of the emission inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part of the verification process, we have reviewed and verified the followings: • GS E&C's Green Information System • GS E&C's GHG inventory Report • GS E&C's process to generate, aggregate and report the GHG emissions data (linked with ERP system) This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (24 May 2012). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of GS E&C Corporation is subsequently brought to our attention. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 94•95 GRI Index ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Not reported ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Not reported Level of Level of GRI Index No. Description Page Disclosure GRI Index No. Description Items in Our Report Page Disclosure Strategy and Analysis Economic Indicators 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 2, 3 ● Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic performance, distribution of value by stakeholder 82 ● 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2, 3 ● Performances EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Correspondence to climate change 50~53 ● Organizational Profile organization’s activities due to climate change 2.1 Name of the organization 4,5 ● EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Benefit packages and retirement pension plans for employees 67 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 12~19 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Not significantly important to our operation or not applicable n/a ● 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 4,5,77 ● Market Status EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local Entry level wage compared to legal minimum wage: 396 ● 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4,5 ● minimum wage at significant locations of operation 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 4,5 ● EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based Choosing suppliers and registration of local companies 62 ◐ major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report suppliers at significant locations of operation 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4,5,77 ● EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management Recruitment of various talents and local residents 66,83 ● 2.7 Markets served 4,5 ● hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 4,5 ● Indirect EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services SOC business and social contribution activities 25, 70-73 ● 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 4,5,77 ● Economic Effects provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 9,104 ● pro bono engagement (by type of investments and services) Report Profile EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts Creation of social an environmental value 25, 31,44~47,66 ● 3.1 Reporting period 105 ● (including the extent of impacts) 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 105 ● Environmental Indicators 3.3 Reporting cycle 105 ● Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Resource consumption 48,49 ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 105 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Recycled aggregate consumption 48,49 ● Report Profile 3.5 Process for defining report conten 76 ● Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary source Direct energy use 48,49 ● 3.6 Boundary of the report 105 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Indirect energy use 48,49 ● 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 105 ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Energy Management Committee, green management promotion 51~53 ● 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 105 ● EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based Green construction, new and renewable energy, 37-39 ● entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations products and services, and reduction in energy requirements as a and smart grid projects 3.9 Date measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 105 ● result of these initiatives 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 105 ● EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Fuel savings from transitioning 41 ● 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, 105 ● achieved to video conferencing system or measurement methods applied in the report Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water use at domestic sites 48-49,84 ● 3.12 GRI Content Index 96-99 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water No significantly affected water source ● GRI Index 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 92-93 ● EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Groundwater and rainwater reuse at sites, water saving toilets 46 ● Verification Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, The double-tracking site at Gyeong-Jeon Line (Jinju-Gwangyang) 42 ● Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 77 ● protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 77 ● EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Concerns on ecosystem destruction due to construction projects 42 ◐ 4.3 Composition of the highest governance body 77 ● biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 68-69, 78-79 ◐ protected areas provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body EN13 Habitats protected or restored The double-tracking site at Gyeong-Jeon Line (Jinju-Gwangyang) 42 ◐ 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 77 ● EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on Monthly monitoring, measures to minimize impact on the habitat, 42 ◐ senior managers, and executives biodiversity provide passages and shelte 4.6 Process in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 77, homepage ◐ EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Six legally protected species including otter, wildcat, 42 ◐ 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance 77 ● habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk whooper swan, and eagle body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics Air Emissions, EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Direct and indirect GHG emissions 48,49 ● 4.8 Management principles 6~9 ● Waste Water, EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Other indirect GHG emissions 48,49 ● 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification 77 ◐ Waste EN18 Initiatives to reduce gas emissions and reductions achie Eco-friendly construction materials and technology, low-carbon projects 37-39 ● and management of economic, environmental, and social performance EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Low emissions of ozone-depleting substances such as 42 ◐ 4.10 Process for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 77 ◐ HFC, CFC, and halon from refrigeration facilities ● particularly with repect to economic, environmental, and social performance are managed with other indirect GHG emissions ● 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 80,81 ◐ EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight Efforts to reduce air pollutants such as fugitive dust 42,homepage ● External Participation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 9,104 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Manage wastewater and water qualit 42,48-49,84 ● or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Volume of wastewater discharged 48,49,84 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international 104 ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills No spill occurred Stakeholders advocacy organizations 75 ● EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous waste exported ● Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 75 ● hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage IV, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 75 ● EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water Preserve waters around construction sites 42,homepage ◐ stakeholder group bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting through water quality management 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 75,76 ● organization’s discharges of water and runoff organization has responded to those key topics and concerns Products and EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, Eco-friendly construction materials and technology, low-carbon projects, 37-39 ● Services and extent of impact mitigation development of water resources, and use waste resources EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Not significant to our operations or not applicable ● reclaimed by category Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Status of environmental accidents or disputes 42 ● with Laws and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Regulations Transportation EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other Creation of economic and environmental value through installing a 41,46 ● goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and temporary bridge (Local Road #610) transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Green procurement expenses, environmental R&D investment 36,41 ● GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 96•97 ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Not reported ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Not reported Level of Level of GRI Index No. Description Items in Our Report Page Disclosure GRI Index No. Description Items in Our Report Page Disclosure Labor Indicators Human Rights Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region Status of employment 83 ● Right to Exercise HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Operate internal communication channels and labor-management 83 ● LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Number of newly hired employees, and employees retired and resigned 83 ● Freedom of collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support cooperative activities Employment Association and these rights LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary Settlement of family-friendly corporate culture 68,69 ● Collective Bargaining or part-time employees, by major operations after parental HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Apply and follow the principles of UN Global Compact, ILO, and the 69,83 ● ManagementLA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Strengthening of employee communication 69 Child Labor ● measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Labor Standard Act Worker LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, Immediate notification when significant operational changes occur ● Compulsory HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Apply and follow the principles of UN Global Compact, ILO, and the 83 ● Relations including whether it is specified in collective agreements Labor compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or Labor Standard Act LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementThe matter is discussed through Labor-management Council that compulsory labor 55, 69 ◑ worker health and safety committees represents 100% of the employees quarterly, and also discussed HR8 Percentage of security employee trained in the organization's policies or Not significant to our operations or not applicable ● Security through meetings with the Occupational Safety Health Committee procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Practice Occupational operations LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Accidents status and cases data 55, 56 ◑ Health and number of work-related fatalities by region HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people No violations occurred 70-73 ● Safety LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs Run employee health management programs, prepare handling 55~57 ● and actions taken Rights of in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members guidelines to prevent health-related risks for employees when dismissing HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human Consider social risks when managing non-financial risks and carrying 80,81 ◑ Indigenous regarding serious diseases or removing asbestos, manage risks through operating safety accident rights reviews and/or impact assessments forward projects People prevention activities, safety education, and safety innovation school, and HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved Communicate with local communities through communication 70-73 ● equipment development to prevent safety accidents through formal grievance mechanisms activities, no complaints received LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Discussions on work condition and safety and health enhancement 69 ● through Labor-Management Council (quarterly) Product Accountability LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Talent fostering activities /per employee: 136 hours in 2012 66,67 ● PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services Conduct environmental impact reduction activities before, during, and 40-47 ● are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and after construction LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Benefit packages / retiree support and employee education programs 67 ● Customer Education and services categories subject to such procedures employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Health and Training Safety PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary PR2 Once (National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art) 56 ● LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Performance evaluation and compensation for all employees 67 ◑ codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during development reviews their life cycle, by type of outcomes LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category Recruitment of various talents /status of BOD and employees 77,83 ● according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Green Building Certification 43 ● Diversity indicators of diversity percentage of significant products and services subject to such information and Equal requirements Opportunities LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category No gender discrimination in wage 83 ● Product and PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary No such incidents occurred ● LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender return rate after parental leave: 100%/ retention rate 68 ● Service codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of (working over 12 months) after parental leave: 100% Labeling outcomes Social Indicators PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Customer satisfaction management, customer emotion management, 61 ● SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess Risk management when carrying forward projects /risk management 80,81 ● measuring customer satisfaction customer satisfaction activities Community and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, considering risks on local communities and environmental disputes, prevention PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Customer emotion management and cultural activities 61, ◐ operating, and exiting of local disputes and complaints through running the forecasting program marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and home page SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Execution of ethical standard practice programs and education programs 78,79 ◑ Marketing sponsorship corruption on ethical management Communications PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary No such incidents occurred ● Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies Number of employees who completed on/offline ethics education 78,79 ● codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, and procedures sessions promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Actions taken in response to violation of ethical management 78 ● Customer PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Customer privacy protection, no such complaints received 61 ● Privacy privacy and losses of customer data SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Green management promotion 52,53 ● lobbying Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and No such violations occurred ● Public Policy with Laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Not applicable n/a ● politicians, and related institutions by country Regulations SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and No such incidents during reporting period ● Supplement Indicators monopoly practices and their outcomes CRE1 Building energy intensity Building energy intensity of a head office and buildings owned 84 ● SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary No such cases during reporting period ● CRE2 Building water intensity Building water intensity of a head office and buildings owned 84 ● sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Anti-Competition CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings GHG emissions intensity of a head office and buildings owned 84 ● Behavior SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local Environmental impact prevention activities /sustainable construction 41-43 ● CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and GHG emissions intensity from construction sites ○ communities redevelopment activity SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with Environmental impact prevention activities /sustainable construction 41-43 ● CRE5 Land remediated and in need of remediation for the existing or intended land No plan for the land remediation according to applicable legal ● significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities use, according to applicable legal designations designations Human Rights Indicators CRE6 Percentage of the organization operating in verified compliance with an KOSHA18001, OHSAS18001 certification 54-55, ● internationally recognized health and safety management system home page HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that Currently, there is no significant investment agreements that undergo ○ include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening human rights screening but we are planning to include human rights CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled Internal management system development in process ○ clauses in agreements by development, broken down by project Investment and Procurement HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone There is no direct evaluation items on human rights in the evaluation 62,63,65 ◑ CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes Green Building Certification 43 ● screening on human rights and actions taken sheet for selecting suppliers. However, we block suppliers from bidding for new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment if their violation on human rights (ethical management) is found HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning Hold sexual harassment prevention session for all employees 67 ● aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Anti-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken No such incidents occurred 83 ● GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 98•99 UNGC / ISO26000 UN Global Compact Core Subjects Related Activities Activities Page Organizational Governance structure centered on the Board of Directors; operation of the Audit Committee and Outside Director 77 Participation and Compliance with the Principles | On August 4, 2010, GS E&C joined UNGC, a voluntary corporate Governance Recommendation Committee initiative that promotes and encourages corporate social responsibility. By supporting the 10 Principles on human Human Rights Due diligence Operation of the Audit Committee 77 Human rights risk situations Not applicable rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, GS E&C is taking its part in the global standard on corporate social Avoidance of complicity GS E&C does not support any organization that violates human rights responsibility and is reassuring its will to pursue sustainability management both nationally and internationally. Resolving grievances Operate company-wide communication channels, Trade Union, and Labor-Management Council 69, 83 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Provide equal opportunities in salary, education and training, placement, and dismissal regardless of gender or disability 83 GS E&C will continue to support and comply with the 10 Principles in order to respect the basic human and labor Civil and political rights Provide and respect the freedom to exchange information and ideas through company-wide communication channels such 69 rights and respond to the global environmental crisis, by focusing on developing eco-friendly technologies and as an online community Economic, social and cultural rights Run such programs as customized vacation systems and family-friendly programs; supports for cultural activities, medical 68, 69 products as well as on managing and monitoring of corruption-prone activities. Please find our activities and and health, labor, children education, and retirees policies related to the Principles in the table and the corresponding pages below. Fundamental principles and rights at work Comply with International Labor Organization standards; respect freedom of association through operation of Labor Union 83 and Labor-Management Council; prohibit child and forced labor; prohibit all forms of discrimination Labor Practices Employment and employment relationships Respect for employees; comply with international labor standards 83 Conditions of work and social protection Run such programs as customized vacation systems and family-friendly programs; supports for cultural activities, medical 68, 69 and health, labor, children education, and retirees UNGC Principles and Related Activities Social dialogue Continuous dialogue through various employee communication channels, operation of Trade Union and Labor-Management 69 Council Area Related Activities Principle GRI Page Health and safety at work Pursue a number of safety management activities under the safety management guidelines and the goal of ‘zero serious 54-57 Human Comply with ILO and UNGC 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, accidents’ 83 Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8, HR9 Human development and training in the Operate education and training program fitted with talent development system 66, 67 Hold sexual harassment prevention session and cross-cultural management session 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR1, HR2, HR8 67 workplace Environment Prevention of pollution Prevent water pollution by installing water quality control facilities; activities to prevent dust scattering and soil erosion; 42, 43, 45 Labor Operate the TRADE Union and Labor-Management Council 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective HR5, LA4, LA5 69, 83 appropriate treatment of waste by type following waste management guidelines; improvement of construction capabilities recognition of the right to collective bargaining; and reduction of waste by using eco-friendly casts Comply with ILO and the ten principles of UNGC 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; HR7 83 Sustainable resource use Efficient use of resources and reuse technologies; carry out energy savings campaign, recycle water resources 42, 43, 46 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and HR6 83 Climate change mitigation and adaption Greenhouse gas inventory; carry out greenhouse gas reduction activities; activate video conferencing system; develop 37, 41, Set internal policy against any form of gender discrimination, no 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and HR4, LA2, LA10, LA13, LA14 67, 83 smart grid technology and new and renewable energy technology; run the Energy Management Committee; promote green 50-53 gender-based discrimination in compensation occupation. management Protection of the environment, biodiversity and Carry out biodiversity protection activities around construction sites, preserve ecosystem through projects for restoring 42, 44 Environment Comply with the regulation regarding emissions on site, build 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to EC2, SO5, EN18, EN26, 42, 50-53 environmental management system at worksites, conduct environmental challenges; restoration of natural habits contaminated soil EN30 environmental impact evaluation, build GHG inventory, conduct GHG Fair Operating Anti-corruption Establish ethics management system; implement a number of anti-corruption activities such as taking joint liability for 78, 79 and energy consumption reduction activities, develop eco-friendly Practices unethical behavior technologies, promote green management Responsible political involvement Participate in development of public environmental policies; support a number of industry-based initiatives 100, 104 Set an objective to reduce 30% GHG emissions against BAU by 2020, 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; EN5, EN6, EN7, EN10, 40-47 Fair competition Take an oath to engage in fair competition (as part of Code of Ethics) 78, 79 Sign the Voluntary Agreement on the Industry’s Green Procurement and EN14, EN18, EN26, EN27 Promoting social responsibility in the value Implement win-win management activities in four areas of finances, education and training, technology development, and 70-73 and construct a guideline on green procurement, eco-friendly construction and demolition chain other forms of management Respect of property rights Not applicable Expand new and renewable energy business, systemize GHG 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly EN2, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN10, 35-39 inventory, R&D of green technologies, develop '3 Zero House', and technologies. Consumer Fair marketing Not applicable EN18, EN26, EN27 eco-friendly housing model, develop ‘Green Concrete, an ecoIssues Protecting consumer’s health and safety Develop an indoor air quality sensor that detects chemical pollutants harmful to human body; provide cleaning service to 39, 47, 60 friendly construction material, participate in the Green Business housing customers Dissemination Supporting Project Sustainable consumption Develop many Green Smart technologies that save consumers’ energy and water use 39, 47 AntiOperate the Ethics Committee, promote employees’ ethics-centered 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including SO2, SO3, SO4 78, 97 Consumer service, support, and complaint and Make customer complaint-receiving channels simple and efficient; implement customer-oriented complaint handling 60 corruption mindset through education and training on business ethics, extortion and bribery. dispute resolution policies; operate Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Committee establish and implement ethics management policy, run whistleblowing program to eliminate anti-corruption Consumer data protection and privacy Comply with laws and regulations related to consumer protection 61 Access to essential services Not applicable Education and awareness Active exchange of information through smart phone applications 61 Community involvement Carry out a number of social contribution activities to realize joint value as a corporate citizen 70-73 Community Education and culture Hopes and Dreams Study Rooms, scholarships, and a number of cultural events 70-73 Involvement and Employment creation and skills development Provide indirect job opportunities in the local community by giving suppliers from the community more points when choosing 65, 66 ISO26000 Development a supplier Technology development and access Skill development classes specifically for the locals are not available Compliance with ISO26000 | ISO26000 comprises of seven core subjects of organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the Wealth and income creation Give more points to the local suppliers when choosing a supplier 62 environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. ISO26000 is not a management Health Operate employee benefit programs related to health such as checkups and support for medical expenses 54-57, 68 Social investment Social contribution activities such as House Repair of Hope Project; construct social infrastructures such as railway and 70-73 system standard and it is not intended or appropriate for certification purposes, regulatory or contractual use; nonetheless, GS E&C seeks water treatment facilities to treat it as guidance for strengthening the company’s sustainability management. GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 100•101 Green Management System Certification Scheme Establishment of Green Management System | As laws and regulations aimed at improving corporations’ management of environmental impact and sustainability and economic development policies that considers environmental protection are being introduced across the globe, Korean government is preparing to announce Green Management System Certification Scheme (hereinafter GMS) in accordance with the Framework Act on Low Carbon, Green Growth. The GMS has a number of objectives such as saving costs and improving efficiency for green growth, establishing an effective and efficient system for green management, encouraging employees to better understand and participate, managing key performance indicators, and realistically achieving green management performance as a result. It is categorized into Requirements and Performance Indicators. GS E&C was selected to participate in the pilot certification and acquired the GMS certification in November 2011. GS E&C aims to become the leader in green management through continuous improvement. Contents Requirements Related Activities Page 5.1 Mandatory management performance indicators (MPI) Contents Requirements Related Activities Page 5.1.1 Establishment and achievement of green objectives Establish short-term and mid-/long-term objectives for green management by setting green management KPIs 51 4.1 General requirements Establish green management systems and corresponding vision, objectives, and strategies 51 5.1.2 Green Procurement of MRO products Manage procurement records of green products for MRO products annually 4.2 Green management policy Commit to continuous improvement through CEO Message and Disclosure on Management Approach 34 5.1.3 Green Procurement of raw materials Manage records through the Green Procurement System, publish/distribute green procurement guidelines, and offer 41, 84 4.3 Planning incentives to suppliers 4.3.1 Green management aspects Conduct environmental impact assessment, consider environmental values when obtaining project orders and 40-41, 44-45 5.1.4 Green product development Continue to invest in technology development of green construction and materials 37-39 designing, create database of failure cases to prevent risks in advance 5.1.5 Green products production and sales Apply them to eco-friendly projects such as low-carbon transportation, waste-to-energy, etc. or green technology 37-39, 48-49 4.3.2 Regulations and other requirements Build operational systems for environmental management at construction sites (management of environmental 40 applied sites documents and facilities in accordance with regulations and our standards) 5.1.6 Hours spent on education and training Provide environmental education sessions to all employees and suppliers 51 4.3.3 Objectives, detailed objectives and action plan Establish green management systems and corresponding objectives, detailed objectives and action plans; disclose the 51 5.1.7 Opinions and complains Communicate with sites through SMS, design buildings with a sound proof floor, and use the environmental dispute 42, 45, 84 above matters through our integrated report forecasting program 4.4 Implementation 5.1.8 Compliance with legal requirements related to Create database of failure cases to prevent environmental risks at sites 41, 84 4.4.1 Resources, roles, responsibility, and authority Report the performance by green management organizations to the top executives and define R&R related to 40, 50-51 managing construction sites environmental work at construction sites 5.1.9 Compliance with legal requirements related to 4.4.2 Conformity, education and training, perception Conduct environmental education sessions for employees and suppliers at both Head Offices and sites 42-43 supplying products 4.4.3 Communication Communicate with stakeholders through sustainability report, project site website, and information session for local 46, 60-61 5.1.10 Green management performance disclosures Publish integrated reports (Sustainability Report +Annual Report) 34-57 residents, etc. 5.1.11 Investment in green process Not applicable 4.4.4 Documentation Document environmental data and information through Green Information System 51 5.2 Mandatory operation performance indicators (OPI) 4.4.5 Document management Manage documents such as environmental guidelines for each process and construction site guidelines 42 5.2.1 Energy use Conduct energy reduction activities by managing energy consumption, and establishing the Energy Management 48-49, 50-51 4.4.6 Operational management Indicate operational standards within the green management procedures and systemize division of works in regard to 40 Committee environmental management at sites 5.2.2 Direct GHG emissions Manage direct GHG emissions and conduct GHG emission reduction activities 48-49, 50-51 4.4.6.1 Planning and developmental activities Consider and apply environmental performance improvement factors during planning and development 37, 45 5.2.3 Indirect GHG emissions Manage indirect GHG emissions and conduct GHG emission reduction activities 48-49, 50-51 4.4.6.2 Procurement activities Plan to expand green procurement; consider environmental aspects when evaluating suppliers 41 5.2.4 Water use Manage water consumption, reuse ground water 46, 48-49 4.4.7 Preparation for and response to emergency situations Establish a contingency plan and system and build a system to prevent environmental pollution at sites 56-57 5.2.5 Resource consumption Resource consumption management 48-49 4.5 Inspection 5.2.5 Improvement rate of resource consumption by sale Improvement rate of resource consumption by sale 84 4.5.1 Monitoring and evaluation Monitor and evaluate environmental impact through the environmental inspection system by process and period 43 5.2.6 Waste generated Manage the amount of waste generated, recycling rate, and reduce waste by using paper casts 48-49, 84 4.5.2 Evaluation of compliance Evaluate the degree of compliance with environmental regulations and other requirements through the environmental 43 5.2.7 Waste recycling rate inspection system by process and period 5.2.8 Air pollutant emissions Reduce dust scattering through activities and installment of a temporary bridge 42, 46 4.5.3 Nonconformity, corrective actions, Correct any actual and potential nonconformity and conduct preventive measures by running the environmental dispute 42 preventive measures forecasting system and through regular communication 5.2.9 Wastewater discharged Manage waste water emissions and conduct water pollution prevention activities 42, 48-49 4.5.4 Record management Manage records on green management performances by utilizing TPMS and Green Information System 51, 84 5.2.10 Hazardous chemical substance use Manage asbestos waste emissions and use asbestos treatment manual 43, 48-49 4.5.5 Internal examination Regularly examine whether it is complying with environmental management certification such as ISO140001 9 4.6 Management review Review the achievement status of green management organizations’ performance indicators 51 GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 102•103 Associations/Awards about this report Division Association Plant Construction Industry Institute, Korea Plant Industries Association, Korea-Qatar Friendship Association, The Korea International Trade Association, International Contractors Overview of the Report Association of Korea, Korea-Egypt Economic Cooperation Committee, Korea-Oman Friendship Association, Korea Price Data System, AACE International, The Gasification Technologies Council, International Register of Certified Auditors, Korea Gas Union Report Period and Scope | This Integrated Report covers GS E&C’s major activities and attainments from January 1st Power Plant and Korean Society of Water and Wastewater, Korean Society of Environmental Engineers, The Membrane Society of Korea, Korean Society on Water Quality, Korean Society of Water Environment Science and Technology, The Korean Society of Combustion, Korean Society of Thermal Environmental Engineers, Korean Organic Resource Recycling Association, Korean Society through December 31st, 2012. As for quantitative results, data for the most recent three years, from January 1st 2010 to of Waste Management, Korean Fluid Machinery Association, Society of Odor Research and Engineering, Korea Associate Council of Incineration Technology, The Korean Institute December 31 2012, are included to evaluate annual trends. Moreover, achievements after the end of 2012 are presented of Electrical and Electronic Material Engineers, Korea Association of Waste to Energy Technology, Korea Water and Wastewater Works Association, Korean Institute of Chemical Engineers, Korean Society of Atmospheric Environment, Korean Society of Soil and Groundwater Environment, YU Environmental Research Institute, Automated Waste Collection in this Integrated Report if they are deemed relevant. This Report covers the business activities carried out at the Head Technology Association, The Korean Institute of Power Electronics, Korea Electric Association, Korea Institute of Project Management Technology, Korea and Energy Industry Association, Korea Atomic Industrial Forum, Korean Nuclear Society, Korea Institute of Nuclear Safety Office and ten other directly-owned offices of GS E&C as well as at 300 construction sites where GS E&C is active (251 Civil Engineering Korean Society of Transportation, Korean Society of Civil Engineers, Korean Society for Rock Mechanics, Korean Geotechnical Society, Korean Railway Construction Engineering in Korea and 49 outside Korea). The business activities of subsidiaries and invested companies are not included herein. Association, The Korean Society for Railway, The Korea Railway Association, Korea Port & Harbour Association, Korean Society of Coastal and Ocean Engineers, Korean Society Meanwhile, the statement of financial position, income, and cash flow chart and other statements representing financial of Hazard Mitigation, Korean Tunneling and Underground Space Association, Intelligent Transport Society of Korea, Korean National Committee on Large Dams, Korea Water Resources Association, Korean National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage, Chuncheon Global Water Forum, The Korean Society of Agricultural Engineers, Korea Road & achievements encompass the performance of both the Head Offices and subsidiaries because the Korean International Transportation Association, Korean Society of Road Engineers, Korea Disaster Prevention Association, Korean Society for Advanced Composite Structures, Korean Wetlands Society, Computational Structural Engineering Institute of Korea, Korea New Transit Association, Korean Society of Steel Construction Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) were adopted, starting from this Report. Housing Korea Housing Association, The Korea Home Network Industry Association, Korea Ubiquitous Association, American Society of Landscape Architects, Korea Remodeling Association, Korea Marketing Association, Korean Society of Consumer Studies, The Organization of Consumer Affairs Professionals in Business Reporting Standards | This Integrated Report was written in accordance with the Global Reporting Construction The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers, Architectural Institute of Korea, The Korean Institute of Electrical and Electronic Material Engineers, Korea Information and Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines and the GRI Construction & Real Estate Sector Supplement Indicators. Communications Society, The Korean Institute of Illuminating and Electrical Installation Engineers, Korea Railway Electrification Technical Association, Association of Korea Railway Signal Engineering, Korea Institute of Construction Engineering and Management, The Korea Institute of Building Construction, K-Housing Association, The Society of Detailed information on this reporting framework will be found in the GRI Index (p.96-99) of this Report. Air-Conditioning and Refrigerating Engineers of Korea, Korea Green Building Council, Korean Association of Air Conditioning Refrigerating and Sanitary Engineers, Korea Society of Geothermal Energy Engineers, Korea Solar Energy Society, Korea Council of Tall Building and Urban Habitat, Korea Air Cleaning Association, Korea Institute of Architectural Verification of the Report | To ensure the trustworthiness of the content, we commissioned a third party to audit and Sustainable Environment and Building Systems, Korean Association for Energy Service Companies (ESCOs), Korea Construction Value Engineering Research Institute, Korea Association for Eco-environmental Greenspace on Artificial Ground, Korea Institute of Rural Architecture, The Society of Living Environment System, Korea, The Korean Society of verify the accounts herein, and the results are contained in the Assurance Statement (p.92-93) and the Audit Report (p.90). Disaster Information, Korea Institute for Structural Maintenance Inspection Technology Korea Engineering & Consulting Association, Korea Industrial Technology Association, The Korea Construction New-Technology Association, buildingSMART Korea, Korea Green Business Association, Korean Geo-environmental Society, Korean Society of Hazard Mitigation, Architectural Institute of Korea, The Korean Society for Noise and Vibration Engineering, Korea Concrete Institute, Korean Society of Road Engineers, Earthquake Engineering Society of Korea, DEMS Features of the Report Management Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development, Korea Federation of Construction Contractors, The Korea Employers Federation, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, The Federation of Korean Industries, Korea IR Service, American Bar Association, Fair Competition Federation, KOSHA 18001 Society, Construction Safety Manager Committee, Formation of the Report Framework | The contents of the Report are organized into three categories for stakeholders Construction Safety Manager Association, Korea Society for Construction Quality, Korea Construction Quality Association, The Society for Environmental Construction, Construction Association of Korea, Korea Construction Engineers Association, Korea Specialty Contractors Association, Korea New & Renewable Energy Association, Korea Fire Construction to understand GS E&C's sustainable management better and easily approach to the value created by the company: Our Association, Korea Facilities Maintenance Association, Korea Mechanical Construction Contractors Association, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, Korea Information Approach, Our Effort, and How to Create Our Value. Communication Contractors Association, Korea Organization Management Development Association Expanded Scope of Information Disclosure | This Integrated Report reveals the levels of GHG emissions at key overseas project sites, where greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory systems were newly installed, expanding the geographical scope of Years Area Description Award date. disclosed information. 2012 Economic Grand Prize at Overseas Construction Awards by Money Today Mar. 20 Grand Prize for the Construction Sector at World Class Brand by Fortune Korea Jun. 01 Best Prize for the Customer Satisfaction Section at Hankyung Housing Culture Awards Jul. 04 Best Prize for the Leisure Section at the 8th Korea Civil Engineering & Construction Technology Nov. 26 GRI G3.1 Application Level Environmental Grand Prize for the Commercial Architecture Section at the 4th Environmentally Friendly Construction Industry Awards Jul. 24 Green Housing Award hosted by Hanguk Ilbo Nov. 07 The GS E&C Integrated Report 2012 was written to meet all requirements for a GRI G3.1 Application Level of A+, and the Grand Prize for the Design Sector at the 3rd Korea Green Architecture Awards Nov. 16 GRI confirmed the application level. Social Korea Excellent Co-Existence Award at the Korea Co-Existence Conference Sep. 11 Listed on the DJSI World Index for 3 consecutive years, selected as Super Sector Leader Company Sep. 14 “Most Trusted Company” Designation at 2010 Korea’s Most Admired Business People & Most Respected Companies for 4 consecutive years Sep. 17 Grand Prize for the Social Contribution Sector at Asia Construction Awards Sep. 25
