ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 INDEX 01. 3 . 1 S TA K EH OL DE R A N A L Y S I S AN D RE P O R T C ON T E N T M E SSAG E FROM OUR CEO 04 3 . 2 S C OP E A N D L I M I T AT I ON S O F R E P ORT 02. 04. CO MPA N Y PRO FILE 06 14 CO RP O RAT E G OV E RNA NCE 4 . 1 S HARE H OL DE RS ’ RI G H T S A N D D U T I E S OF T H E 2.1 BUSINESS A CT IVI TI E S B O ARD O F DI RE C T ORS 2.2 COMP A NY HIST ORY 4 . 2 DU T I E S OF T H E C ORP OR A T E G OVE RN AN C E 2.3 S HAREHOLD ER STR UCTUR E COM M I T T E E S 2.4 ORGANIS A TIONA L STR UCTUR E 4 . 2 . 1 A U DI T C OM M I T T E E 2.5 OPERA T ING A ND FI NA NCI A L D AT A 4 . 2 . 2 N OM I NA T I ON S AN D C OM P E N S A T I O NS 2.6 SIGNIFIC A NT CHANGE S I N O PE RA T I O N S COM M I T T E E DU R ING 2 0 1 2 4 . 2 . 3 O P E RA T I ON S C OM M I T T E E 2.7 SOCI AL R ESPONS IB I LI TY A WA R D S A N D 4 . 2 . 4 A C QU I S I T I ON S A N D C ON T R A C T S E X TERNA L P ROGRA MME S COM M I T T E E 4 . 3 COM P OS I T I ON OF CORP OR A T E G OV E RN A N CE 03. BODI E S A N D R E M U N E RAT I ON RE PO RT PAR AMETERS 12 4 . 4 F RE QU E N C Y OF S E S S I ON S A N D A T T E N DA N CE RA T E AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 2 05. 07. E NVI RONME NTAL RES P ON S IBILITY 19 CO M MU NI T Y I NVO LV EM E N T A N D 33 S U P P O RT 5.1 SIGNI FICA NT I SSUE S A ND MA NA G E M E N T S TR A T EGY 7 . 1 DI RE C T E C ON OM I C BE N E F I T S 5.2 OVERVIEW O F PR I NCI PA L M I TI GA TI O N 7 . 2 C OM M U N I T Y I N VOL V E M E N T M EA SURES 7 . 3 AN T I C ORRU P T I ON M E A S U RE S 5 . 2 . 1 MIT IGA TIO N OF I NFR A S T R U C T U R E EXP A NSION 08. 5 . 2 . 2 ENERGY EF FI CI E NCY COM M I TME N T TO 37 5 . 2 . 3 WAT ER MA N AGE ME NT HUM A N RI G HT S 5 . 2 . 4 WAST E MA NA GE ME NT 09. 5 . 2 . 5 FUEL CONSUMPTI O N U NI T E D NAT I O NS G LO B A L CO M PAC T 39 5.3 ENVIRONMENT AL MA NA GE ME NT S Y S TE M 10. 5.4 ENVIRONMENT AL CE R TI FI CA T I O N 41 G RI S TA NDA RD D I S CLO S U RE S A N D P E RFO RM A NCE I ND I C ATORS 06. Q UALI TY OF LI F E FOR E MP LOY EES 28 A P P E ND I X A A1 6.1 DESCRIPT ION O F W O R K FO R CE AS U R E N V I RON M E N T A L O BJ E C T I VE S A N D 6.2 S AFET Y IN THE W O R K PLA CE P E RFOR M A N C E , 2 0 1 2 A P P E ND I X B B1 EN V I RON M E N T A L P E R FORM AN C E I N DI CA T ORS , 2 0 1 2 AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 3 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R 01. M E SSAG E FROM OUR CEO « Welcome to ASUR’s 2012 Annual Sustainability Report. ASUR is a company that wants to be around for the long run. Over the years we have achieved many successes in improving different aspects of our business, but we recognise that going forward we have a duty to all our stakeholders, from our shareholders to the local communities in the places where we operate, to ensure that the environmental and social results of our operations are positive, as well as the financial results. This will create the conditions for our company to be successful in the long term – in other words, for it to be sustainable. Currently, the key risks for our operations that we have identified of our business partners. in terms of the environment include climate change and the Probably the most significant potential impacts that our company degradation of natural habitats. Many of the predicted effects of has on the environment are the modification or destruction of global warming, from rising sea levels to more frequent extremenatural habitats involved in any major infrastructure expansion weather events, have the potential to seriously affect our business, project, and the potential for contamination of water sources. The as an airport company that depends to a great extent on beach various measures taken to mitigate these risks are described in tourism for its passengers. In order to keep our destinations more detail in the relevant sections of this report. We believe that attractive for the people who visit them, it is also in our best the company’s most significant social impacts are mostly positive: interest to preserve the natural beauty of the areas where we we strive to provide stable employment to our workers in decent, operate. In terms of the social risks that our company is exposed safe working conditions, we are involved in efforts on several fronts to, we recognise the potential for both human-rights abuses and to promote respect for human rights, and we adhere to a strict set instances of violations of business ethics in our operations or those of regulations with regard to business ethics. 4 01. M E S S A G E F R O M O U R CEO The year 2012 produced several positive results in ASUR’s operations. Overall, from 2011 to 2012 passenger figures increased by almost 10%, our net income increased by 12% and the company’s profits rose by 30%. During 2012, our programmes to reduce the amount of non-hazardous waste produced in our airports continued to make progress: following a reduction of 7.4% in waste generated on a per-passenger basis in 2011, we achieved another reduction, of 7.9% in 2012. We also maintained the successes in energy efficiency achieved in previous years, with per-passenger electricity consumption increasing in 2012 by just 0.4%. Per-passenger water consumption at our airports increased by 7.4% during the year, mainly due to dry climatic conditions at several locations around the region. Our key challenges in the short term continue to be to reduce our consumption of water, to reduce and recycle more of the refuse generated in our airports, to keep our electricity consumption within appropriate levels, and to achieve closer, more cooperative relations with our stakeholders in local communities. In the medium-to-long term, we will need to look for new ways to take further steps toward carbon neutrality in our operations, to promote the protection of natural habitats and biodiversity, and to reduce or mitigate other environmental impacts. At ASUR, it is our belief that with actions such as those described in this report, and with the support and feedback of our stakeholders, we will achieve mutual benefit for the company, our local communities and future generations. Adolfo Castro Rivas, Chief Executive Officer of ASUR AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 5 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R 02. CO M PA N Y PRO FILE « Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. operates a group of airports in the southeast region of Mexico under the brand name ASUR. These airports are located in the cities of Cancún, Cozumel, Huatulco, Mérida, Minatitlán, Oaxaca, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa. The company’s headquarters are located in Mexico City. As of the 31st of December 2012, it had no operations outside of Mexico. 2.1 BUSINESS ACTIVITIES In addition to the above, the company enters into agreements The company’s core activity is to administer and maintain the with external providers for a range of additional services, including infrastructure of its airports to ensure sufficient capacity for complementary services for aircraft (such as baggage handling and safe, efficient operations and a high standard of service. Basic ramp services) and commercial services for passengers (such as infrastructure includes that required for aircraft takeoff and landing restaurants, shops and car rental, among other business lines). The operations and for arriving and departing passenger flows, as well company’s aeronautical, complementary and commercial activities as facilities for the authorities involved in airport operations (air represent its three revenue streams. traffic controllers, customs, immigration, etc.). 6 02. CO M PA N Y P R O F I L E 2.2 COMPANY HISTORY ASUR’s nine airports are operated under 50-year concessions that were granted to the company in 1998, as part of the Mexican government’s plan to open up the country’s state-owned airport sector to private investment. Under the privatisation scheme, an initial stake of 15% in the As of the 31st of December company’s capital stock (the BB series shares) was sold to a 2012, ITA is owned by strategic partner, Inversiones y Técnicas Aeroportuarias, S.A. de Fernando Chico Pardo, a C.V. (ITA), with expertise in Mexican business operations and in the international airport industry. The remaining 85% of the company’s Mexican investor, who has a shares (the B series) began trading on the stock exchanges of 51% stake in the company; Mexico City and New York in two public offers in September 2000 and March 2005. and by Corporativo Galajafe, 2.3 SHAREHOLDER S TRUCTURE S.A. de C.V., a subsidiary of In June 2007, the strategic partner ITA reduced its shareholding in the Mexican bus transport the company from 15% to 7.65%. As of the 31st of December 2012, company Grupo ADO, S.A. de ITA is owned by Fernando Chico Pardo, a Mexican investor, who has a 51% stake in the company; and by Corporativo Galajafe, S.A. de C.V. C.V., a subsidiary of the Mexican bus transport company Grupo ADO, S.A. de C.V., which has a stake of 49%. The 92.35% of ASUR’s shares that are not held by ITA are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: ASR) and the Mexico City Bolsa (BMV: ASUR). On the 4th of January 2012, Fernando Chico Pardo completed the sale to Corporativo Galajafe of 37,746,290 shares in ASUR. As of the 31st of December 2012, Fernando Chico Pardo directly or indirectly owns a stake of 16.48% in ASUR (including the stake held via ITA); and Corporativo Galajafe, S.A. de C.V. directly or indirectly owns a stake of 16.33% in ASUR (including the stake held via ITA). AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 7 02. CO M PA N Y P R O F I L E 2.4 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE As of the 31st of December 2012, ASUR employs a total of 886 people. Our organisational structure may be summarised as follows: each of the nine airports of ASUR is a subsidiary of the holding company, Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. In addition, there are two subsidiary service companies, one that directly employs the Group’s unionised staff (RH ASUR, S.A. de C.V.) and another that directly employs all the Group’s non-unionised staff (Servicios Aeroportuarios del Sureste, S.A. de C.V.). FIGURE 01. STRUCTURE, HOLDING COMP ANY AND SUBSIDIARIES O NE HOLDING COMPA NY G RUPO AE ROPORTUARIO D EL S URESTE S . A . B DE C.V. 11 SU BSIDIARIES Í AEROPUERTO DE CANCÚN, S .A. DE C. V. Í AEROPUERTO DE COZUMEL, S.A. DE C. V. Í AEROPUERTO DE HUATULCO, S.A. DE C.V. Í AEROPUERTO DE MÉRIDA, S.A. DE C.V. Í AEROPUERTO DE MINATITLÁN, S.A. DE C.V. Í AEROPUERTO DE OAXA CA , S.A. DE C.V. Í AEROPUERTO DE TAPACH ULA, S .A. DE C.V. Í AEROPUERTO DE VERACRUZ, S.A. DE C.V. Í AEROPUERTO DE VILLAHERMOS A, S.A. DE C.V. Í RH ASUR, S.A. DE C.V. Í SERVICIOS AE ROPORTU ARIOS DEL SURESTE, S .A., DE C.V. AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 8 02. CO M PA N Y P R O F I L E 2.5 OPERATING AND FIN ANCIAL DA T A In 2012, a total of 19,246,644 passengers passed through ASUR’s terminals (not including private aviation or transit passengers), of which 10,609,418 (55%) were international and 8,637,226 (45%) were domestic passengers. The total passenger figure for 2012 increased by 1,706,803 (9.7%) compared to the year 2011. The company’s largest airport is the one located at Cancún, which accounted for 75% of total passenger traffic in 2012 (up from 74% in 2011). FIGURE 02. BREAKDOWN O F INTERNATIONAL AND DOMESTIC PASSENGER TRAFF IC, 2011 VS. 2012 PASSENGERS MILLIONS 2010 2011 2012 D OMESTIC INTERNATIONAL (Not including general aviation and transit passengers) AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 9 02. CO M PA N Y P R O F I L E Together, the nine airports of ASUR serve passengers arriving from every continent, although a considerable majority of passengers arrive from North American destinations: in 2012, passengers from the United States of America and Canada accounted for 75% of international passengers. In 2012, the net income of the company was 2.1 billion Mexican pesos (equivalent to approximately 158 million US dollars). The company ended the year with total assets worth 19.1 billion pesos (approximately 1.5 billion US dollars), total liabilities of 2.6 billion pesos (approximately 200 million US dollars) and total equity of 16.5 billion pesos (approximately 1.3 billion US dollars).* * Figures in US dollars calculated at an exchange rate of 13.17 Mexican pesos per dollar (2012 average). FIGURE 03. SUMMARY OF P&L AND BALANCE SHEET F I NANC I AL S UMMARY FINANCIAL SUMMA RY 2012 2011 ASSETS 19,109 18,598 LIABILITIES 2,638 3,122 EQUITY 16,471 15,477 REVENUES 5,120 4,573 OPER ATING COSTS 2,590 2,480 NET INCOME 2,075 1,591 (Figures stated in millions of Mexican pesos) AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 10 02. CO M PA N Y P R O F I L E 2.6 SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN O PERATIONS corresponding activities. The assessments monitor performance DURING 2012 in four key areas: quality of life for company employees; business During 2012, there were no significant changes regarding the size ethics and anti-corruption practices; community support and or structure of the company, including the location of its airports relations; and environmental protection. and the opening, closing or expansion of the facilities it operates. In the reporting period, ASUR received Environmental Quality Although several infrastructure expansion projects were Assurance certificates for five of its airports from the Mexican undertaken in the year 2012, mostly these did not involve major Environmental Protection Agency, Profepa. The certification extensions to the built-up surface areas or “footprints” of the in question represents official confirmation by the Mexican airports. The necessary capacity increases were mostly achieved by environmental authorities that the recipient has complied in full remodelling and optimising existing buildings and facilities, notably with all observations resulting from the audits conducted by the in the airports of Cancún, Huatulco, Mérida, Oaxaca, Veracruz authorities to enforce Mexican environmental legislation. The and Villahermosa. For a more detailed discussions of mitigations airports certified were Cozumel, Huatulco, Oaxaca, Tapachula and measures for infrastructure expansion, please refer to section 5.2.1 Villahermosa. Certificates are valid for a period of two years; the of this report. remaining airports in the Group – Cancún, Mérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz – are due for recertification in 2013. 2.7 SOCIAL RESPONSIB ILITY AWARDS A ND As of the 31st of December 2012, the environmental management EXTERNAL PROGRA MMES systems in place in all of ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 During 2012, ASUR maintained its status as an active signatory of certification. The airports at Cancún, Huatulco and Oaxaca were the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) by complying with the recertified in 2012, and those at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlán, UNGC’s reporting requirements. The Global Compact is an initiative Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa are due for recertification in established by the United Nations to promote the values of social 2013. responsibility and respect for human rights in businesses around Finally, with regard to ASUR’s passenger service standards, in the world. 2012 for the fourth year running Cancún Airport was ranked “Best Additionally, for the fifth year running, we were awarded Airport” in the Latin America and Caribbean region in the Airport recognition as a Socially Responsible Company by the Mexican Service Quality (ASQ) survey programme organised by Airports Centre for Philanthropy, known by its Spanish initials CEMEFI. Council International. In ASQ surveys, passengers are asked to rate CEMEFI bases its awards on self-assessments of internal practices their degree of overall satisfaction with airports’ service levels, as and programmes carried out by the companies themselves, well as performance in a wide range of specific areas, from efficiency which are required to submit adequate documentation of the and the standard of facilities to cleanliness and staff courtesy. AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 11 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R 03. RE PO RT PAR A METERS « This Annual Sustainability Report relates to the company’s operations in the period between the 1st of January and the 31st of December 2012, and follows on from ASUR’s 2011 Annual Sustainability Report which can be consulted at www.asur.com.mx. 3.1 STAKEHOLDER ANA LYSIS AND REPORT This report is conceived primarily as a tool for the stakeholders of CONTENT ASUR; it has the aim of creating a greater degree of transparency Based on internal analysis and management assessments, we concerning the company’s operations and providing information have determined the main stakeholders of the company and the of interest on the company’s response to stakeholders’ specific aspects of our business that are of particular interest to them. In concerns. Priority has been given to those topics considered of general terms, ASUR’s stakeholders can be divided into internal greatest interest to our stakeholders and in which our operations and external stakeholders. The former include the company’s are assessed to have the most material impacts. employees, shareholders and the members of the company’s We believe that the working conditions we provide for our Board of Directors and corporate governance committees. ASUR’s employees, the benefits we bring to local communities and wider external stakeholders can be further subdivided into two main issues such as ASUR’s record with regard to respect for human rights categories: those that have a relation with the region where the and the measures we have implemented to prevent corruption, are company’s airports are located, including local residents, local of particular interest to our most important stakeholders. However, authorities and the local business communities; and those that are it is our firm belief that the environment, and specifically what involved in the company’s aeronautical activities, including airlines, ASUR is doing to reduce its environmental impacts, is one of the passengers and national and international aviation authorities. primary concerns of all our internal and external stakeholders. 12 03. RE PO R T P A R A M ET ERS Consequently, in addition to social and economic considerations, The environmental performance indicators mentioned in Section we place particular emphasis in this report on the most important 5 include data from the nine airports in the Group only, as these environmental issues that affect and are affected by the company’s are considered to be the most relevant due to the nature of the activities. company’s activities. All other indicators refer to the nine airports, the company’s head offices in Mexico City and other company In selecting the information to be included in this report, ASUR has subsidiaries, as described in Section 2.4. applied the four principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness established by the Global The report covers operations performed directly by the Reporting Initiative for defining report content. companies that form part of the ASUR business group. At this time, mechanisms are not in place to include the activities of clients, The data that serve as input for the key performance indicators suppliers or subcontractors within the parameters of this report, mentioned in this report were collected and calculated based on the unless otherwise stated. various methodologies described in the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This report has been prepared on a consistent basis with ASUR’s Annual Sustainability Report for 2011 in terms of scope, boundary 3.2 SCOPE AND LIMIT ATIONS O F REPORT and measurement methods, and contains no restatements or This report is intended to complement ASUR’s Annual Financial reinterpretations of data contained in that report. At this time, it Statements for 2012, which contain in-depth information on the is not company policy to seek external assurance of our Annual financial performance of ASUR during the period in question. It will Sustainability Report. therefore focus in particular on social and environmental matters Any queries relating to this report may be addressed to: Alistair without including detailed financial data, except insofar as they McCreadie, tel. +52 55 5284 0488, e-mail: amccreadie@asur.com. relate to the standard disclosures contained in the company profile mx. (Section 2) and to economic performance indicators (Section 7). AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 13 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R 04. CO RPOR ATE G OV ERN ANC E « As a company that is publicly traded on the stock markets of both Mexico City and New York, ASUR adheres to a strict set of regulations in its corporate governance practices. Our Board of Directors is made up of a majority of independent members, our Audit Committee is made up entirely of independent members and our other corporate governance bodies all have varying degrees of independent oversight. The term “independent” is defined in accordance with the Mexican Securities Market Law, and excludes any persons who are executive or non-executive employees of the company or its subsidiaries; shareholders that own a controlling share in the company; the company’s clients, service providers, suppliers, debtors, creditors and business partners, and their board members or employees; in general, any individuals who exert influence or authority over the company; and the relations by blood or marriage of any of the above. 14 04. CO R P O R A T E G O V ER NANCE FIGURE 04. O VERVIEW OF CORPORATE GOVERNA NCE S TRUCTURE OF ASUR CO R POR AT E GOV ERN AN CE STRUC TURE COMPANY SHAREH OLDERS Í ULTIMA T E AUTH O R I TY A T TH E CO MPA NY Í RESPONSI BLE FOR : D E CI S I O N-MAK I NG A T T H E H I G HE S T L E VE L Í DUE REPRESENT A TI O N OF MI NO R I TY SH A R EHOL DE RS BOARD O F D IRECTORS Í RESPONSI BLE FOR : S TR A TE GI C D E CI S I O N-MA K IN G Í NUMBER OF MEM B E R S : 9 Í INDEPEND ENT ME M B E R S : 5 NOM I N AT I ON S A N D C OM P E N SA T I O N S A UD IT C O MMI TTE E COM M I T T E E Í RESPONSI BLE F O R : O V E R S I GH T OF Í  R E S P ON S I B L E F OR: P ROP OSA L S F O R O PERA T IONS TO EN S UR E A PPR O PR IA T E A P P OI N T M E N T OF B OA RD M E MB E R S ; S T AND ARD OF BUS I NE S S E TH I CS A P P ROV A L OF E XE C U T I V E PA Y Í NUMBER OF ME MB E R S : 3 Í  N U M B E R OF M E MBE RS : 3 Í INDEPEND ENT ME M BE R S : 3 Í  I N DE P E N DE N T M E MB E RS : 1 OPER AT IONS CO MMI TTE E A C QU I S I T I ON S A N D C ON T R A C T S C OM M I T T E E Í RESPONSI BLE F O R : CO MPLIANCE W I TH Í  R E S P ON S I B L E F OR: OV E RS I G H T O F I N V EST MENT COMM I TME NTS ; PR O PO S A L S A C QU I S I T I ON S T O E N S U RE AP P ROP RI A T E TO BOA RD FOR D IVI D E ND S , B U D G E T , E T HI C A L S T A N DA RDS BU SINESS PL AN, ETC. Í NUMBER OF ME MB E R S : 4 Í  N U M B E R OF M E MBE RS : 3 Í INDEPEND ENT ME M BE R S : 2 Í  I N DE P E N DE N T M E MB E RS : 1 AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 15 04. CO R P O R A T E G O V ER NANCE 4.1 SHAREHOLDERS’ RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF T HE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In accordance with Mexican law, ASUR’s shareholders represent the highest authority in the company. Shareholders’ meetings The Board of Directors is are held on at least an annual basis, in order to vote on the most responsible for making important issues such as dividend payments and other matters that require shareholder approval by law. In addition, according to strategic decisions regarding the company’s bylaws, any shareholder or group of shareholders the company’s business representing at least 10% of the company’s capital stock has the right to convene a shareholders’ meeting at any time. operations. The Board of Directors reports to the company’s shareholders, and is in turn reported to by four different committees: the Audit Committee, the Nominations and Compensations Committee, the Operations Committee and the Acquisitions and Contracts Committee. The Board of Directors is responsible for making strategic decisions regarding the company’s business operations. To do so, it receives reports from the company’s top management and corporate governance committees regarding such matters as the company’s financial performance, passenger figures, operations, compliance with investment commitments, and other important matters. On a yearly basis, the Board submits a report regarding its own activities and performance for the evaluation of the company shareholders. AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 16 04. CO R P O R A T E G O V ER NANCE 4.2 DUTIES OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.2.2 NOMINATIONS AND COMMITTEES COMPENS ATIONS COMMITTEE 4.2.1 AUDIT COMMITTEE The Nominations and Compensations Committee is mainly responsible for issuing proposals for the appointment of new Board Among the most important duties of the company’s Audit and Committee members, as well as new executive officers in the Committee is the approval of ASUR’s Code of Ethics, which is top level of management in the company. It also determines the level developed internally, is applicable to all activities in all areas of all of compensation to be paid at these levels, based on performance of the company’s subsidiaries, and is communicated to all staff assessments and market rates, and approves the performance members on a regular basis. Pursuant to the Code of Ethics, ASUR parameters that will be used as the basis for assessment in the has an internal reporting system that may be used by anyone subsequent twelve-month period. within the company to flag instances of abuse or corruption, or to report grievances relating to workplace matters. The system’s 4.2.3 OPERATIONS COMMITTEE users have the option to submit reports anonymously or to confirm The Operations Committee oversees key aspects of ASUR’s day-totheir identity. All such reports are completely confidential and are day business activities, including compliance with the investments received directly by the Internal Auditing Department, which has that the company is required to make by the Mexican federal the duty to investigate them and to report to the Audit Committee. government. It also issues proposals and recommendations to the The Audit Committee ultimately reports to the Board of Directors Board of Directors in relation to such matters as the company’s and the company shareholders regarding the reports received and budget, business plan, and dividends, among others. how the matters raised were resolved. 4.2.4 ACQUISITIONS AND CONTRACTS The Audit Committee is also responsible for oversight of the company’s financial reporting and for supervising its risk COMMITTEE management activities. On a regular basis risk mapping activities The Acquisitions and Contracts Committee is responsible for are carried out, covering aspects such as risks relating to financial ensuring that appropriate standards are adhered to in the process information, areas of the company that may be vulnerable to of acquiring the goods and services that the company needs fraud or other acts of corruption, information technology, and to carry out its operations successfully. Specifically, approval is environmental and social issues. Once the company’s risks have required from the Committee for any acquisition or contract with been mapped in detail, courses of action are determined for them a total value in excess of 400,000 US dollars, in one or more years; to be managed and the information is presented to the Audit for extensions to existing contracts that represent an increase of Committee for discussion. Specifically in relation to infrastructure more than 25% of the originally agreed timeframe or value; when a expansion projects in the company’s airports, environmental impact contract is put up for tender and a single bid is received, or when a assessments are carried out in accordance with the requirements contract is assigned directly and without tender to a given supplier, of the Mexican environmental protection authorities, and the regardless of the contract value; and in cases when a contract is appropriate mitigation measures are determined when necessary. renewed with the same supplier on expiry. AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 17 04. CO R P O R A T E G O V ER NANCE 4.3 COMPOSITION OF CORPOR ATE G OVERN ANCE BODIES AND REMUNERATION Board and Committee members are appointed in accordance with proposals presented by the Nominations and Compensations Once a possible candidate Committee, whose job it is to identify potential candidates, analyse has been identified for their qualifications and expertise in the relevant strategic areas, and verify that they do not have any conflicts of interest with the each vacant position, and company. Once a possible candidate has been identified for each this person has expressed vacant position, and this person has expressed his or her agreement to be appointed, the proposal is submitted for approval by either the his or her agreement to be company shareholders or the Board of Directors, as applicable. appointed, the proposal All Board and Committee members are paid a fixed fee for is submitted for approval each session they attend, which is proposed each year by the by either the company Nominations and Compensations Committee in line with market standards and is submitted for the approval of the company shareholders or the Board of shareholders. Compensation payable to the company’s executive Directors, as applicable. officers is also analysed and approved by the Nominations and Compensations Committee, subject to ratification by the independent Audit Committee. This includes both base salary and the annual performance bonus, which is linked to a series of performance indicators, also determined annually by the Nominations and Compensations Committee in accordance with the process described in section 4.2.2 above. At this time, there are no female members on either the company’s Board of Directors or any of the corporate governance committees that report to it. 4.4 FREQUENCY O F S ESSIONS AND ATTEND ANCE RATE During 2012, ASUR’s Board of Directors held a total of five sessions; the Audit Committee also held five sessions; the Operations Committee held four sessions; the Acquisitions and Contracts Committee held four sessions; and the Nominations and Compensations Committee held two sessions. The overall attendance rate at these meetings was 94%. AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 18 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R 05. ENVI RONME NTAL RE SPO NSI BI LI TY « 5.1 Significant Issues and Management Strategy Among the most significant environmental issues identified by the company with the potential to impact our operations negatively are climate change, and the loss of natural habitats and biodiversity. ASUR is a company whose business depends largely on the tourism industry: our airports at Cancún, Cozumel and Huatulco serve primarily tourist markets, and significant numbers of tourists also travel through our airports at Mérida, Oaxaca, Veracruz and Villahermosa. Together, these airports accounted for over 98% of our passenger traffic in 2012. Therefore, it is clearly in the interests of the company to contribute as much as it can to the preservation of the natural beauty of these areas, in order for them to continue to be attractive to visitors. 19 05. E N V I R O N M E N T A L R E SP O NSIB ILIT Y Any combination of the predicted effects of climate change, such as those cited by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,1 including rises in sea levels with the corresponding loss of beaches, an increased risk of extreme weather events such as hurricanes and flooding, and the disappearance of land and marine habitats such as mangroves and coral reefs, has the potential to significantly impact the airports in ASUR’s group located in beach destinations (Cancún, Cozumel and Huatulco), as well as those serving low-lying or flood-prone areas (Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa). In the interests of lowering its carbon footprint and reducing its operations’ other environmental impacts, the company has instituted programmes with the following general aims: to decrease Any combination of the the amount of electricity consumed in the airports, thereby reducing predicted effects of climate indirect emissions of greenhouse gases; to ensure that the airports’ change, such as those cited water consumption does not put excessive pressure on the water supplies for local habitats and populations; to protect and promote by the Intergovernmental plant and animal biodiversity in the undeveloped areas surrounding Panel on Climate Change... the airports; and to ensure that the waste water discharged and storm water runoff do not constitute a source of pollution for local has the potential to bodies of water. significantly impact the airports in ASUR’s group Sources 1: Nicholls, R.J., P.P. Wong, V.R. Burkett, J.O. Codignotto, J.E. Hay, located in beach destinations R.F. McLean, S. Ragoonaden and C.D. Woodroffe, 2007: Coastal systems and low-lying areas. Climate Change 2007: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, M.L. Parry, O.F. Canziani, J.P. Palutikof, P.J. van der Linden and C.E. Hanson, Eds., Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 315-356; and Magrin, G., C. Gay García, D. Cruz Choque, J.C. Giménez, A.R. Moreno, G.J. Nagy, C. Nobre and A. Villamizar, 2007: Latin America. Climate Change 2007: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, M.L. Parry, O.F. Canziani, J.P. Palutikof, P.J. van der Linden and C.E. Hanson, Eds., Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 581-615. AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 20 05. E N V I R O N M E N T A L R E SP O NSIB ILIT Y Since ASUR’s business activities do not involve the manufacture as well as all matters relating to the company’s compliance with or creation of any kind of physical product, the company’s the various regulations it is subject to. ASUR’s Operational and consumption of materials is relatively insignificant. The principal Safety Compliance Manager works below the Chief Infrastructure consumable required on a consistent basis for our airports’ dayand Compliance Officer and coordinates a team of environmental to-day operations is fuel, which is discussed in greater detail in coordinators, with members based in each of the airports in the section 5.2.5 of this report. Similarly, due to the nature of ASUR’s Group. operations, the environmental aspects relating to products, All of ASUR’s airports have Environmental Management services and transport are considered immaterial for the purposes Systems that establish detailed guidelines and procedures for of this report. aspects such as training, monitoring, emergency response, and Within the company’s overall strategic approach to environmental the environmental requirements for projects and contractors. matters, each of the nine airports in the Group establishes its own Each airport’s Environmental Management System is currently specific goals in accordance with local conditions. certified under the ISO 14001 programme. In addition to ISO 14001 ASUR has a written policy that expressly and formally sets forth certification, ASUR’s airports have consistently been awarded the commitment of the company and its subsidiaries to take Environmental Quality Assurance certification, which represents positive action in relation to the environment. This policy contains official confirmation by the Mexican environmental authorities that the stated goals of reducing the negative environmental effects of the recipient has complied in full with all observations resulting the company’s operations and promoting environmental protection from the audits conducted by the authorities to enforce Mexican and the economical use of natural resources. environmental legislation. Responsibility for environmental issues within the organisation For additional information relating to key environmental issues, ultimately lies with our Chief Infrastructure and Compliance Officer, such as performance against environmental objectives, specific one of the six executive officers at the top level of management risks and systems, and targeted strategies and procedures, please in the company. This position has responsibility for the oversight see the information contained in section 5.2 of this report. of infrastructure management (including infrastructure expansion), AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 21 05. E N V I R O N M E N T A L R E SP O NSIB ILIT Y 5.2 OVERVIEW OF P RINCIPAL MITIGA TION footprint is to moderate the amount of electricity we consume. MEASURES Beginning in 2008, the company has achieved notable success in its energy efficiency programme: from 2008 to 2009, total electricity 5.2.1 M ITIGATION OF INFR ASTRUCTURE consumption in the nine airports of the Group was reduced by EXPANSION 28.9%, and from 2009 to 2010 another reduction of 3.7% in overall consumption was achieved. Large-scale infrastructure expansion at any of ASUR’s airports, which tend to be surrounded by undeveloped land, often Our focus in 2011 and 2012 has been to maintain the progress necessitates the modification or destruction of natural habitats. made on reducing electricity consumption in previous years. Due to For this reason, projects of this type are only undertaken following increases in traffic at our airports, and therefore a more intensive careful consideration and analysis of the mitigation measures use of our facilities, total annual electricity consumption across all that can be applied, and when it is determined that there is ample the airports in the group increased in both years, by 2.6% in 2011 and justification, usually to eliminate operational hazards or serious by 10.0% in 2012. However, when measured on a per-passenger capacity constraints, which in turn may have negative consequences basis to provide a more comparable parameter from year to year, for both local economies and the environment. there was a reduction in electricity consumption of 1.6% in 2011 (despite a 4.3% increase in passengers) and a small increase of 0.4% In 2012, expansion projects were ongoing in six of ASUR’s in 2012 (despite a 9.6% increase in passengers). 2 airports. At Cancún Airport, Terminal 2 is currently being expanded by 4,890 square metres; at Huatulco International Airport, the These figures state only the intermediate energy produced by terminal building is being expanded by 4,468 square metres; at Mexico’s Federal Electricity Commission and purchased by ASUR. Mérida International Airport, various areas of the airport are being At this time, data are not available that allow a calculation of the expanded by 4,330 square metres; at Oaxaca International Airport, amount of direct energy from primary sources consumed in order to the terminal building and other facilities are being expanded by produce this electricity. ASUR does not produce any of the electricity 4,530 square metres; at Veracruz International Airport, the it consumes; one hundred percent of the company’s electricity terminal building is being expanded by 9,518 square metres; and in requirements are covered by purchasing from the Federal Electricity Villahermosa International Airport, the terminal building and other Commission. According to figures published by the International facilities are being expanded by 1,800 square metres. Energy Agency, in 2009 (the most recent data available), 86% of the electricity generated in Mexico was produced from non-renewable In all cases, the required environmental impact assessments sources (natural gas, oil, coal and nuclear energy) and 14% was have been carried out. Where possible, the expansion projects produced from renewable sources (hydroelectric, geothermal, are being carried out in such a way that they do not expand the biomass and wind power). 3 footprint of the airports’ infrastructure, for example by repurposing areas that had previously been built on; where this is not possible, the environmental impact mitigation measures established by the Source 2: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Mexican authorities will be adhered to. Management System. 5.2.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY Source 3: International Energy Agency website, at: http://www.iea.org/ For the last several years, the most important front that we have stats/electricitydata.asp?COUNTRY_CODE=MX been working on in our airports to reduce the company’s carbon AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 22 05. E N V I R O N M E N T A L R E SP O NSIB ILIT Y 5.2.3 WATER MANAGEMENT of metered discharge decreased by 34.1% in absolute terms (from In addition to reducing the company’s carbon footprint through 318,093 to 209,486 m3), and by 39.9% in litres per passenger. 5 energy efficiency, ASUR has also been working hard to improve its systems for managing both our water consumption and waste water and other effluents produced in the airports. Source 4: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. A major issue in many airports is the potential for pollution of local Source 5: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental water sources caused by the de-icing and anti-icing fluids sprayed Management System. onto aircraft to make them safe to fly. Average temperatures year-round in all nine locations where ASUR has airports are approximately 25° C (77° F), so anti-icing and de-icing measures are not used by the company. However, we do have equipment in 5.2.4 WASTE MANAGEMENT place in all of our airports to ensure that any spills of liquids such as An important aspect in ensuring that our operations do not fuels or oil are appropriately eliminated before they can be flushed represent a risk for local environments and ecosystems is to make into local water sources by storm water runoff. sure that all the waste materials generated in our airports are Eight of ASUR’s nine airports are equipped with treatment plants appropriately disposed of. Consequently, each airport has waste that receive all waste water from terminals and administrative management facilities for hazardous and non-hazardous waste. buildings. In the case of Cozumel Airport, waste water is sent to The waste materials that are classified as hazardous under the municipal drainage system and is treated at the municipal Mexican legislation include a series of toxic, inflammable and plant. The airports’ plants use biological, mechanical and chemical corrosive substances, as well as items of equipment that have treatment processes to purify waste water to a standard where it is come into contact and are contaminated with these materials. In clean enough to be either reused or discharged without presenting our airports, all substances and articles of this kind are safely stored, a risk to other water sources. The water that is recycled is mainly appropriately labelled and eventually handed over to specialist used for watering green areas, which helps to reduce the demands waste disposal companies, in strict adherence to the applicable placed by the airports on local resources. Any water that cannot be regulations. The waste disposal companies, which are required to stored and used for this purpose is released into either the subsoil be licenced by the Mexican authorities, eliminate the hazardous or into local wetlands, in accordance with the permits issued by waste using methods that avoid pollution and provide ASUR with Mexico’s National Water Commission (CONAGUA). waste disposal certificates stating the methods used. Overall, in 2012 ASUR’s total water consumption in the nine Non-hazardous waste is handled in separate facilities at ASUR’s airports increased by 17.7% from 596,197 to 701,660 cubic metres airports. It is sorted into organic waste (used for compost) and (m3). This was largely due to unusually dry weather in much of the non-organic waste (materials such as glass, paper, cardboard and southeast of Mexico, where the company’s airports are located, aluminium) before being collected by the local municipal refuse which made it necessary to extract more water for the maintenance disposal service. As well as attempting to reduce the amount of of green areas. Water consumption on a per-passenger basis waste produced, at several of our airports we have set ourselves (measured in litres per passenger) increased by 7.4%.4 The amount the goal of reusing or recycling some or all of the non-hazardous, AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 23 05. E N V I R O N M E N T A L R E SP O NSIB ILIT Y non-organic waste produced, to keep it from being disposed of in local landfills (see Appendices A and B for more information). In 2012 the total amount of non-hazardous waste produced increased by 0.9% from 4,312 to 4,352 tonnes (a drop of 7.9% measured on a per-passenger basis), while the total amount of hazardous waste rose by 16.5% from 17.8 to 20.8 tonnes (an increase of 6.3% measured on a per-passenger basis).6 Source 6: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. 5.2.5 FUEL CONSUMPTION Petrol (gasoline) and diesel fuels are consumed to operate a wide range of support vehicles, including shuttle buses for transporting passengers to various parts of the airports, utility vehicles, and so on. Natural gas (liquefied petroleum gas) is used mainly in the airport’s kitchens, which supply staff restaurants and food and beverage outlets for passengers. The total amount of fuel consumed by ASUR’s airports decreased slightly from 2011 to 2012 by 1.8%, from 459,837 to 451,429 litres. However, due to the rise in passenger numbers over the same period, on a per-passenger basis this represented a decrease of 10.4%.7 The measurements of fuel consumption in ASUR’s airports include only the fuel used in the facilities and the vehicles that are the property of the airport company. They do not take into account fuel consumed by the airports’ subcontractors, or that consumed by aircraft for takeoff and landing procedures. While ASUR recognises that this information may be of interest to our stakeholders, at this time no systems are in place for us to obtain these data. Source 7: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 24 05. E N V I R O N M E N T A L R E SP O NSIB ILIT Y 5.3 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Environmental objectives are determined by each airport on an ad hoc basis, in order to ensure that local conditions are taken into ASUR has an Environmental Management System that is applied in consideration in ASUR’s environmental protection programme. The all nine of the airports the company operates. The purpose of the full details of the environmental objectives established in 2012 for system is to establish environmental objectives for each airport, the nine airports in the Group, as well as performance against those as well as a framework for the achievement of those objectives. objectives, can be consulted in Appendix A. The system creates a series of parameters that can be used to monitor and assess each airport’s performance in relation to the The Environmental Management Systems in each of ASUR’s environmental objectives established, providing the company airports are certified according to ISO 14001. The following tables management with valuable information for the decision-making provide an overview of the performance in all nine of ASUR’s process. airports with regard to some of the most relevant environmental parameters established by the System: FIGURE 05. SUMMA RY OF ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORM ANCE INDICATORS F OR ALL AIRPORTS EN V IRONMEN TAL SUM M A RY TOT AL FIGURES % C HA N GE PA R A ME TE R UNIT MMT 201O 2011 2012 12 VS 11 T O TAL W AT E R M3 55,5939 596,197 701,660 17.7% CO NS UMPTI O N T O TA L WA T E R M3 403,864 318,093 209,486 34.1% D I S CH A R GE D TO T A L E LE CTR I CI TY KWH 60,584,421 62,167,261 68,402,388 10.0% CO NS UMPTI O N GJ 218,104 223,802 246,249 10.0% T O TA L H AZ AR D O U S KG 20,274 17,788 20,730 16.5% W A S TE PR O D UCE D TO TA L NO NH AZ A R D O US WA S T E T 4,465 4,311.5 4,351.5 0.9% PR O D UCE D TO TA L FUE L L 455,712 459,837 451,429 1.8% CO NS UMPTI O N AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 25 05. E N V I R O N M E N T A L R E SP O NSIB ILIT Y PER-PASSENGER BASIS % C HA N GE PA R A ME TE R UNIT MMT 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 WATER CONSUMPTION PER L/PAX 32.7 33.6 36.1 7.4% P AS S E NGE R W A TE R D I S CH A R G E D P E R L / PA X 23.7 17.9 10.8 39.9% P AS S E NGE R EL E C T R I C I T Y C O N S U M P T I O N K W H/ 3.6 3.5 3.5 0.4% PE R PA S S E NGE R PA X M J / PA X 12.8 12.6 12.7 0.4% H A Z AR D O US W AS T E PRODUCED PER G/PAX 1.2 1.0 1.1 6.3% P AS S E NGE R NO NH AZ A R D O U S W A S TE PR O D UCE D P E R K G / P AX 0.26 0.24 0.22 7.9% PA S S E NGE R FUEL CONSUMPTION PER M L / PA X 26.8 25.9 23.2 10.4% P AS S E NGE R For a breakdown of these performance indicators for each of the nine airports operated by ASUR, please refer to Appendix B. The parameters measured are described in more detail below: 1. Water Consumption: This parameter refers to the total amount of water consumed by the airports during the year, whether taken from the municipal water supply or extracted from underground aquifers. Water recycled from treatment plants is not included in this figure. Data are provided on total consumption (stated in cubic metres), as well as consumption on a per-passenger basis (litres per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. 2. Water Discharged: This parameter refers to the total amount of waste water discharged by the airports during the year, in accordance with the permits obtained from the local authorities, following the required treatment processes. Data are provided on total discharge (stated in cubic metres), as well as discharge AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 26 05. E N V I R O N M E N T A L R E SP O NSIB ILIT Y on a per-passenger basis (litres per passenger) to provide a more passengers for boarding. Data are provided on total consumption comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one (stated in litres), as well as consumption on a per-passenger basis year to another. (millilitres per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. 3. Electricity Consumption: This parameter refers to the total amount of electricity consumed by the airports from the national 5.4 ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION grid during the year. Data are provided on total consumption As of the 31st of December 2012, the environmental management (stated in kilowatt hours and the equivalent in gigajoules), as well systems in place in all of ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 as consumption on a per-passenger basis (kilowatt hours and certification. The airports at Cancún, Huatulco and Oaxaca were megajoules per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter recertified in 2012, and those at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlán, from one airport to another and from one year to another. These Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa are due for recertification in figures state only the intermediate energy produced by Mexico’s 2013. Federal Electricity Commission and purchased by ASUR. At this time, data are not available that allow a calculation of the amount Additionally, in 2012 ASUR’s airport at Huatulco was awarded of direct energy consumed in order to produce the electricity. environmental certification by the internationally recognised organisation EarthCheck in the “Silver” category. Huatulco Airport 4. Hazardous Waste Produced: This parameter refers to the total is the first airport in the Americas and only the third in the world to amount of waste classified as hazardous under Mexican law, which achieve this certification. is produced by the airports and appropriately disposed of during the year. Data are provided on total production (stated in kilograms), Mexico’s Environmental Protection Agency (Profepa) also as well as production on a per-passenger basis (milligrams per performs audits once every two years to ensure that ASUR’s passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from on airports are in full compliance with the country’s environmental airport to another and from one year to another. legislation. Following the inspection procedure, provided that no violations of environmental legislation are identified, the individual 5. Non-hazardous Waste Produced: This parameter refers to the airports are issued certificates confirming their compliance with the total amount of waste classified as non-hazardous under Mexican law. All nine of ASUR’s airports currently have valid environmental law, which is produced by the airports and disposed of in municipal compliance certification: the airports at Cozumel, Huatulco, Oaxaca, landfills during the year. Recycled waste is not included in this figure. Tapachula and Villahermosa were recertified during 2012, and Data are provided on total production (stated in tonnes), as well as those at Cancún, Mérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz are due to be production on a per-passenger basis (kilograms per passenger) to audited during 2013. provide a more comparable parameter from on airport to another and from one year to another. To date, no administrative or judicial sanctions, including fines or non-monetary penalties, have been imposed on the company for 6. Fuel Consumption: This parameter refers to the total amount failure to comply with national, international or local environmental of petrol (gasoline) and diesel consumed by the airports during the laws or regulations. year, for example in utility vehicles and shuttle buses to transport AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 27 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R 06. Q UA LI TY O F LIFE FOR E MPLOYEES « A company’s human resources are among its most valuable assets. At ASUR, we are firmly convinced that a happy workforce is a more productive one. In the same way that we invest in our airports to upgrade our infrastructure and facilities over time, we also invest in our employees to develop and diversify the skills that they can bring to bear in their professional activities. As a fundamental part of ASUR’s duty of care toward its employees, we aim to provide decent working conditions in all the subsidiaries that form part of the Group. The company’s most fundamental goal in relation to human resources is to ensure that our airports constitute a reliable source of safe employment for local populations, and we have had a degree of success in this regard: there have been no redundancies in our workforce in recent years, and we have achieved both a low level of staff turnover and an excellent 28 06. QUA L I T Y O F L I F E F O R EM P LO YEES occupational health and safety record. Further information on these well as celebrations of Children’s Day, Mothers’ Day, Father’s Day, aspects is available in sections 6.1 and 6.2 of this report. Christmas and the traditional Mexican festivities of the Epiphany (Día de Reyes) and the Day of the Dead (Día de Muertos). In Oaxaca, Positive relations between the company’s employees and a local celebration was held for the Day of the Samaritan (Día de la management are also a priority for ASUR. Four in ten of the Samaritana). company’s employees are unionised, and the company enjoys a good working relationship with the union. The company has a The company has a series of written policies covering different written “open-doors” communication policy, according to which all aspects that relate to its human resources, such as recruitment staff members are free to approach any member of management practices, holiday entitlements, work-life balance and occupational with consultations or complaints at any time. Employees are also health and safety. Additionally, company policy mandates the given the option of submitting any grievances they have via the protection of employees’ human rights, such as the right to equal company’s internal reporting system; these reports are investigated opportunity and non-discrimination, the right to personal and confidentially by the Internal Auditing Department to identify any physical integrity and the right to exercise fundamental liberties, instances of inappropriate behaviour on the part of those involved including freedom of association. Regular internal campaigns are and to reach amicable solutions whenever possible. carried out to ensure that all company employees are aware of these policies, as well as the provisions of ASUR’s Code of Ethics, The company has a permanent training programme for employees which include information on the internal reporting system for in all ten locations where we have operations (the head offices grievances. in Mexico City and the nine airports). During 2012, training was provided to staff members in a wide range of areas, covering topics On a day-to-day basis, labour issues within the organisation are such as technical systems training, aviation security, fire safety the responsibility of the company’s Human Resources Manager, and first aid. A total of 111,321 hours of training was provided for who is based at the company’s headquarters in Mexico City and the company’s 886 employees during the year. We also provide 1 oversees the human resources team in each of the airports. Certain support to employees and their families for the completion of their labour relations issues, such as the renegotiation of the collective basic education: for the 2011-2012 academic year the company bargaining agreement with the union, are handled directly by the distributed a total of 102 scholarships among its staff of 886 Chief Executive Officer. workers, with a value of $699,655 pesos. In addition to the professional development of staff members, 1: Calculated on the basis of the total duration of training courses, multiplied the company plans a series of activities, to provide an opportunity by the number of trainees. for employees to socialise and to support local cultural traditions. Among the events organised in 2012 were sporting events, as AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 29 06. QUA L I T Y O F L I F E F O R EM P LO YEES 6.1 DESCRIPTION OF WORKFORCE As of the 31st of December 2012, the majority of ASUR’s workforce was employed on a permanent, full-time basis; of a total workforce of 1,017 people, 886 (87%) had indefinite, written labour contracts for full-time employment. Among full-time employees, a staff rotation rate of 10.7% was achieved during the year; this is calculated on the basis of the number of people who left the company for whatever reason, including retirements, resignations and dismissals, as a percentage of total employees. The following table shows a breakdown of the 886 permanent employees of the company according to the location where they work: FIGURE 06. BREAKDOWN OF ASUR WORKFORCE (PERMANENT E MPLOYEES) ON GEOGRAPHIC BASIS N O. O F N ON C IT Y ST A TE U N I ON I S E D % % E M P L OY E E S U N I ON I S E D C ANCÚ N Q UI NTA N A R O O 405 120 30% 285 70% MÉ RID A Y UC A TÁ N 93 45 48% 48 52% COZUMEL Q UI NTA NA R O O 60 36 60% 24 40% VER ACRUZ V E RA CR UZ 59 27 46% 32 54% VILL A HERMOSA TA B A S CO 58 29 50% 29 50% T A PA CHUL A C HI AP A S 48 24 50% 24 50% CIUDA D D E MÉXICO D .F. 43 0 0% 43 100% OAX AC A OA X A CA 45 22 49% 23 51% HUA T ULCO OA XA CA 40 10 50% 20 50% MINA T IT LÁ N V E RA CR UZ 35 16 46% 19 54% TOTA L 886 339 38% 547 62% AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 30 06. QUA L I T Y O F L I F E F O R EM P LO YEES The remaining 131 workers (13% of total workforce) were employed entitlements, Christmas bonuses, matching-funds savings on a temporary basis via an employment agency, to cover nonaccounts and, in some cases, performance bonuses, that are in permanent absences such as maternity leave or for interim excess of the minimum benefits required under Mexican labour positions. These temporary workers are distributed among the legislation. airports on an ad hoc basis, as needed. As of the 31st of December In addition to those employees mentioned above, there are 2012, the geographic distribution of ASUR’s 131 temporary significant numbers of workers based at each of the company’s workers was as follows: 99 at Cancún Airport; 7 at Veracruz Airport; airports who are not directly employed by the company. They may 7 at Villahermosa Airport; 6 at Mérida Airport; 4 at Cozumel Airport; be broken down into a number of different categories, including: 2 at Huatulco Airport; 2 at Minatitlán Airport; 2 at Oaxaca Airport; government employees, such as those working for the air-trafficand 2 at Tapachula Airport. control, immigration and customs services; the employees of ASUR’s unionised workers all belong to the National Airport ASUR’s commercial concession holders, such as food and beverage Industry Workers Union (Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de or retail outlets and car rental offices; the employees of other la Industria Aeroportuaria y de Servicios Similares y Conexos businesses with a permanent base at the airport, such as ramp de la Republica Mexicana). Once every two years, the company service providers and the airlines; and the employees of those management and the union undertake a collective bargaining companies subcontracted by ASUR to provide specific services procedure to determine employment conditions for unionised in the airports. In the latter case, the most significant services employees and the benefits that they are entitled to. The subcontracted by ASUR in all nine of its airports are cleaning agreements reached in this negotiation are formalised in a written services for terminal buildings, administrative offices, and so on; collective labour agreement that is signed by the representatives and security services, including general surveillance staff and the of the company and the union. The renegotiation process was personnel manning security filters and passenger inspection points. undertaken during 2012, and the current collective bargaining At this time, data are not available in relation to employment agreement will be valid until 2014. types, contract types or collective bargaining agreements for the The company’s non-unionised workers are offered a series of aforementioned workers. employment benefits, such as health and life insurance, holiday AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 31 06. QUA L I T Y O F L I F E F O R EM P LO YEES 6.2 SAFETY IN THE WORKPL ACE The right to physical integrity, and therefore a safe workplace that does not expose employees to unnecessary risks, is included in the company’s written policies. During 2012, the 886 permanent employees of ASUR worked a total of 2,543,232 hours, equivalent to 317,904 days (eight-hour shifts). In the period in question, there were in total twenty-one cases of accidents in the workplace, affecting 2.40% of staff members, with no cases of occupational disease and no fatalities. During the year, the total number of lost days resulting from these accidents was 337, equivalent to 0.11% During 2012, the 886 of total days worked. permanent employees of In accordance with the system used by the Mexican Social Security Institute, accidents in the workplace are defined as ASUR worked a total of incidents leading to an injury that requires the staff member in 2,543,232 hours, equivalent question to miss one or more days of work. The total number of lost days includes all calendar days between the initial accident and to 317,904 days (eight-hour the date on which the employee returns to work, even when these shifts). days are not working days. The date on which the accident occurs is counted as day one for this purpose. Minor accidents requiring first-aid treatment only are not included in the number of accidents in the workplace. In the same period, the absentee rate (defined as the total number of days that employees were absent from work due to general, non-work-related illness or when no justification was presented for the absence) corresponded to a total of 2,347 days, or 0.74% of total days worked. These data refer exclusively to the 886 direct, full-time employees of ASUR as of the 31st of December 2012. At this time, there are no systems in place that require subcontractors, service providers or other parties with employees working at the airport to provide ASUR with accident, injury and absenteeism data. AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 32 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R 07. CO M MU NI T Y I N VOLV EMENT AND SU PPORT « The contribution that ASUR makes towards creating decent living standards for its employees and their families is undoubtedly one of the most important ways in which the company provides support for local communities. The basis for this is the financial success of our business, and we are therefore constantly seeking ways in which we can increase value for both our shareholders and other stakeholders. We are also aware that the airports we operate play a significant increased revenues for local businesses as well as our airports. We role in facilitating business for other companies and individuals in also participate in networking conventions and congresses around the regions where they are located; our airports form a key part the world relating to the airport and tourism industries, often in of local transport networks, and are therefore important for the coordination with the Mexican federal and state tourism authorities promotion of regional economic development. and local business groups. As a matter of policy, ASUR undertakes a series of activities In addition to any direct or indirect economic impacts created intended to raise the profile of the destinations where we operate. by our operations, however, we recognise that the success of our We have a dedicated Route Development team, whose job it is to business also depends on establishing good relations with our local promote our destinations with the world’s airlines. The goal of this is communities, and on ensuring that our operations are of mutual to bring in more flights to our destinations, and more visitors mean benefit to both the company and all its stakeholders. To this end, 33 07. CO M M UN I T Y I N V O L V EM ENT AND SU P P O R T each of our airports provides support at the local level for a wide on ASUR’s community involvement and anti-corruption measures. range of community projects. Our corporate policies also include 7.1 DIRECT E CONOMIC BENEF ITS stated commitments to run our business ethically and to avoid practices that promote corruption or are harmful to fair trade. The table below provides a breakdown of the economic value Sections 7.2 and 7.3 of this report contain more detailed information generated, distributed and retained by ASUR in 2012. FIGURE 07. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED, DISTRIBUTED AND R ETAINED ECONOMIC VALUE GENER ATED T OT AL ECONOMIC VALUE GENER ATED 5,119.9 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED O PERATING COSTS 2,376.1 E MPLOYEE W AGES & BENE FITS 209.1 PAYMENTS TO PROVIDERS O F CAPITAL 1,111.1 PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS 1,108.7 COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS 5.0 T OT AL ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 4,810.0 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED TOT AL ECONOMIC VALUE RET AINED 309.9 * Figures stated in millions of Mexican pesos AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 34 07. CO M M UN I T Y I N V O L V EM ENT AND SU P P O R T As per the methodology established in the Global Reporting In the field of assistance for people with disabilities, a programme Initiative’s sustainability reporting guidelines, the figures in this remains in place at Veracruz Airport whereby lost objects or articles table are based on ASUR’s audited financial statements for the confiscated at the airport’s security filters (i.e., items that are year 2012, which are prepared in accordance with Mexican financial prohibited in hand luggage) are donated to an organisation that reporting standards. The item “Total economic value generated” provides support for the blind, provided the items remain unclaimed corresponds to the company’s revenues. Under “Economic value by their owners for a certain period. Additionally, Cancún Airport distributed”, the item of “Payments to providers of capital” includes placed an order for 700 baggage carts with an organisation that interests on loans and dividends paid to shareholders. “Payments provides employment for people with disabilities. to governments” correspond to taxes, and the figure for community In relation to education and culture, the proceeds of a recycling investments includes all cash donations, as well as the estimated programme at Villahermosa Airport were donated to a local values of donations in kind and man hours used for volunteer school and several airports organised art exhibitions in terminal projects. buildings during the course of the year. The various airports in the During the year 2012, ASUR did not receive any financial group continued to organise guided tours of their facilities for local assistance from the Mexican government. educational establishments. 7.2 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Finally, several of ASUR’s airports participated in different ways to support environmental initiatives in their local communities. The nine airports of ASUR are involved in various community projects Among the projects were donations and volunteering for local at the local level. These projects are selected and administered by beach-cleaning initiatives; the donation of 2,000 trees for a local each airport individually, to respond to local needs and to promote reforestation project; and the donation of various items that a sense of ownership and greater commitment. Support is provided were no longer required by the company, including an aircraft and monetarily and in the form of donations of goods and services, as bathroom fixtures, for an eco-tourism development and a butterfly well as volunteering. The total value of cash donations, donations sanctuary. in kind and man hours in 2012 is estimated at approximately $5 million pesos. During the period, the projects supported fell under 7.3 ANTICORRUPTION MEASURES four main categories: public health services, care for people with ASUR has a written Code of Ethics that sets forth the ethical disabilities, education and culture, and the environment. standards the company expects its employees, executives and The organisations that received support from ASUR in the corporate governance officials to adhere to. This Code of Ethics is healthcare sector included the Mexican Red Cross. For the fourth provided to each new employee as part of the company’s induction year running, a fundraising marathon was organised at Cancún procedures. On an annual basis, awareness campaigns are carried Airport, and the proceeds were donated to a local charity that raises out for all employees and the members of the company’s Board awareness and provides support for sufferers of breast cancer. of Directors and corporate governance committees are required to Support was also provided for a similar sporting event in Huatulco. certify that they have not incurred any violations of the Code. AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 35 07. CO M M UN I T Y I N V O L V EM ENT AND SU P P O R T The company also has an internal reporting system through which reports or complaints may be submitted directly to the Internal The company also has an Auditing Department for investigation, by email or voicemail. internal reporting system Employees are encouraged to use this system to report instances of corruption or abuse, and they may choose to submit reports through which reports or anonymously or not. In the event that they do confirm their identity, complaints may be submitted it is guaranteed that they will not be penalised in any way, even if the reports submitted prove to be baseless. directly to the Internal The Internal Auditing Department reports directly to the Audit Auditing Department for Committee, which is composed entirely of independent members investigation, by email or (that is, people who are not shareholders or executive officers in the company, or their related parties). As well as investigating all voicemail. reports received via the company’s internal system, the Internal Auditing Department establishes a quarterly programme of audits to be carried out in different business units. The Audit Committee approves the work programme of the Internal Auditing Department and is informed of the results of the audits performed. During 2012, 100% of the company’s employees were provided with training relating to the Code of Ethics. ASUR’s Internal Auditing Department carried out audits in all nine airports in the Group, as well as several of the commercial concession holders operating at the airports. These audits resulted in a total of 12 relevant observations. A total of 22 reports were submitted via the internal reporting system during the year, of which 4 were considered to be of critical importance, 3 were of medium importance and 15 were of minor importance. Of the critical matters that came to the attention of the Internal Auditing Department during the year, most were related to internal procedural concerns and no disciplinary action was taken. In those cases where the investigations carried out by the Internal Auditors detected unethical behaviour by company employees, disciplinary or dismissal proceedings were initiated. AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 36 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R 08. COMMI TMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS « The goal of ASUR’s management in relation to human rights is to ensure that the company and its employees do not incur any human rights violations, and that in those cases where possible abuses are detected, the corresponding steps should be taken to resolve them quickly, efficiently and transparently. The Internal Auditing Department is entrusted with investigating any potential human rights abuses. The head of this Department reports directly to the Audit Committee, which is ultimately responsible for enforcement of the company’s policies on human rights. Internal campaigns are carried out on at least an annual basis, in which employees are encouraged to use the company’s reporting system to notify the Internal Auditing Department of any rights abuses. 37 08. CO M M I T M E N T T O H U M AN R IGH T S ASUR has a written policy in which the company formally sets forth its commitment to upholding and promoting human rights. This policy expressly states that the company will guarantee its employees the right to personal integrity, which means that workers may not be subjected to corporal punishment or verbal abuse of any nature, and that sexual harassment of any kind is strictly forbidden. The policy also contains a non-discrimination clause that prohibits discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, nationality, gender, marital status, physical ability, religion, sexual orientation, social circumstances or political affiliation. There were no complaints filed during 2012 in relation to human-rights abuses. The company has also assumed the obligation to protect its employees’ right to freedom of association. As mentioned in section 6.1 of this report, the company management and the airport workers’ union adhere to a regular collective bargaining procedure to establish employment conditions and benefits for unionised employees. During 2012, no threats were identified to the freedom of association or collective bargaining rights of the company’s employees. According to the company’s policy on human rights, ASUR does not use or benefit from forced labour or child labour of any kind. All working agreements are governed by consensual, written employment contracts, and the company’s policy is not to employ anyone who is under 15 years of age. Currently, no one under the age of 18 is employed by ASUR and no situations involving forced labour have been identified. The company has the Finally, the company has the obligation to avoid any situations obligation to avoid any in which it might be complicit in human rights abuses; in practical situations in which it might terms this means that no investments should be made in, or products and services procured from, other companies that incur be complicit in human rights human-rights violations. During the period, no instances of human abuses. rights violations have been identified in the company’s supply chain. AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 38 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R 09. U NI TED N ATI ONS GLO B AL CO MPACT « At ASUR, we will continue to support the United Nations Global Compact and are committed to finding new ways to improve our implementation of the 10 Principles. We believe that the Global Compact is a tool that helps us to improve our standards of ethical business practice, in the long run contributing to the success and sustainability of our company. Fernando Chico Pardo, Chairman of the Board of Directors The Global Compact is a voluntary initiative established by the ASUR currently is a partner of the Regional Support Centre for Latin United Nations to promote the values of social responsibility and America and the Caribbean of the UNGC, which is based in Bogotá, respect for human rights in businesses around the world. ASUR Colombia, and has a representative on the Steering Committee of became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) the local network of the UNGC in Mexico. The company provides in 2005, and the Chairman of ASUR’s Board of Directors, Fernando funding for the activities of the UNGC at both national and regional Chico Pardo, was appointed as a member of the UNGC’s Board of levels. Directors on the 11th of March 2009. 39 09. U N I T ED N A T I O N S G L O B AL CO M P ACT The UNGC asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption; these core values are the Ten Principles. Below is a table that states what the Ten Principles are and where they are addressed in the text of this report. FIGURE 08. UNITED NATIONS GLO BAL COMP ACT PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE REF ER TO I . BUSINESSES SHO ULD S UPPO R T AND R E S PE CT T H E P ROT E C T I ON OF S E C T I ON 8 . 0 : C OM M I T M E N T T O HUM A N I NT ERN A TIONA LL Y PR O CLA I ME D H UM A N R I GH T S R I G HT S I I. BUSINESSES SHO ULD MA K E S UR E TH A T TH E Y A R E N O T C O M P L I C I T I N S E C T I ON 8 . 0 : C OM M I T M E N T T O HUM A N H UMA N RIGHT S AB US E S R I G HT S I II. BUSINESSES SH O ULD UPH O LD TH E FR E E D O M OF AS S OC I AT I O N S E C T I ON 6 . 1 : DE S C RI P T I ON OF AND THE E FFECTI V E R E CO GNI TI O N OF TH E R I GH T T O C OL L E C T I VE W ORK F ORC E B A RGA INING S E C T I ON 8 . 0 : C OM M I T M E N T T O HUM A N R I G HT S I V . BUSINESSES SH O ULD UP H O LD TH E E LI MI NA T I ON O F A L L F ORM S O F S E C T I ON 8 . 0 : C OM M I T M E N T T O HUM A N F ORCED AND COM PULS O R Y LA B O UR R I G HT S V. BUSINESSES SHO ULD UPH O LD THE E FF E CTI VE A B OL I T I ON OF CH I L D S E C T I ON 8 . 0 : C OM M I T M E N T T O HUM A N L A BOUR R I G HT S VI . BUSINESSES SH O ULD UPH O LD TH E E LI MI NA T I ON O F DI S C RI M I N AT I O N S E C T I ON 8 . 0 : C OM M I T M E N T T O HUM A N I N RESPECT OF E MPLO Y ME NT A ND O CCUPATI O N R I G HT S VII. BUSINESSES SH O ULD S UPPO R T A PR E CA UTION A RY AP P ROA C H T O S E C T I ON 5 . 0 : E N V I RON M E N T AL ENVIRONMENT A L CH A LLE NGE S R E S P ON S IB I L I T Y VIII . BUSINESSES SH O ULD UND E R TA K E I NI TIA T I V E S T O P R O M O T E S E C T I ON 5 . 0 : E N V I RON M E N T AL GRE A TER ENVIRONME NTA L R E S PO NS IB I LI TY R E S P ON S IB I L I T Y I X . BUSINESSES SH O ULD E NCO UR A GE TH E D E V E L OP M E N T A N D S E C T I ON 5 . 0 : E N V I RON M E N T AL DI FFUSION O F EN V I R O NME NTALLY FR I E ND LY TE C HN OL OG I E S R E S P ON S IB I L I T Y X . BUSINESSES SH O ULD W O R K AG A I NS T CO R R U P T I ON I N A L L I T S SE C T I O N 7 . 3 : A N T I C O R R U P T I O N F ORMS, INCLUD I NG E X TO R TI O N AND B R I B E R Y ME A S U RE S AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 40 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R 10. G R I STANDAR D D ISCLOSURES AND PER FO RM A NCE IN DICATORS « This report has been prepared in accordance with the sustainability reporting guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and is intended as a Level B report under that system. The Global Reporting Initiative is a network based organisation that promotes the use of a standardised framework for sustainability reporting. Below is an index of the GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators that are addressed in this report, and where the relevant information can be found in this document. 41 10. GR I S T A N D A R D D I S CLO SU R ES AND P ER FO R M ANCE INDICATORS FIGURE 09. INDEX OF GRI STANDA RD DISCLOSURES AND PERF ORMANCE INDICATORS GRI REPORTING DESCRIPTION REFER TO PAR AMETER S TA ND A R D DI S CLO S UR E S S TA TE ME NT F R O M TH E MO S T S E N I OR DE C I S I ON MA K E R OF TH E O R GA NI ZAT I ON A BOU T T H E RE L E VA N C E SE C T I ON 1 . 0 : ME S S A G E F ROM OUR 1. 1 OF S US TA I NA B I LI TY TO TH E ORG A N I Z A T I ON A N D I T S C.E . O. S TR A TE GY D E S CR I PTI O N OF K E Y I MPAC T S , RI S K S , A N D SE C T I ON 1 . 0 : ME S S A G E F ROM OUR 1. 2 O PPO R TUNI TI E S C.E . O. 2. 1 NA ME OF TH E O R GA NI ZA TI ON SE C T I ON 2 . 0 : COM P A N Y P R O FILE 2. 2 PR I M AR Y B R A ND S , PR O D UC T S , AN D/ OR S E RVI C E S SE C T I ON 2 . 1 : B U S I N E S S ACTIVITIES SE C T I ON 2 . 4 : ORG AN I S A TIO N AL 2. 3 OPE R A TI O NAL S TR UCTUR E O F T H E ORG A N I ZA T I ON ST RU C T U RE 2. 4 LO CA TI O N OF O R GA NI ZA TI ON ’ S HE A DQUA RT E RS SE C T I ON 2 . 0 : COM P A N Y P R O FILE NUM BE R AND NA ME S OF C OU N T RI E S WH E RE T HE 2. 5 SE C T I ON 2 . 0 : COM P A N Y P R O FILE O R GA NI ZATI O N O PE R ATE S SE C T I ON 2 . 3 : S HA REHO LDER 2. 6 NA TUR E O F O W NE R S HI P A N D L E GA L F ORM ST RU C T U RE SE C T I ON 2 . 5 : OP E RA T I N G AND 2. 7 MA R K E TS S E R V E D F I NA N C IA L DA T A S E C T I ON 2 . 4 : ORG A N I S ATIO N A L S T RU C T U RE 2. 8 SC ALE OF TH E R E PO R TI NG ORG A N I ZAT I ON S E C T I ON 2 . 5 : OP E RA T I NG A ND F I N A N C IA L DA TA S E C T I ON 2 . 6 : S I G N I F I C ANT SI GNI FI CA NT C H ANGE S D URI N G T H E R E P O R T I N G P E R I O D 2. 9 C HA N G E S I N OP E RA T I O NS R E GA R D I NG S I Z E , S TR UCTU RE , OR OW N E RS H I P DU RI N G 2 0 1 2 AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 42 10. GR I S T A N D A R D D I S CLO SU R ES AND P ER FO R M ANCE INDICATORS GRI REPORTING DESCRIPTION REFER TO PAR AMETER S E C T I ON 2 . 7 : S OC I A L 2.10 A WA R D S R E CE I V E D I N THE RE P ORT I N G P E RI OD RE S P ON S I BI L I T Y A W A R D S AND E XT E RN AL PROG R AM ME S S E C T I ON 3 . 0 : R E P O R T 3.1 RE PO R TI NG PE R I O D P AR A M E T E RS S E C T I ON 3 . 0 : R E P O R T 3.2 D ATE OF M O S T R E C E N T P R E V I O U S R E P O R T P AR A M E T E RS S E C T I ON 3 . 0 : R E P O R T 3.3 RE P O R T I N G C Y C L E P AR A M E T E RS CO NTACT PO I NT FO R Q UE S T I ON S RE G ARDI N G T H E S E C T I ON 3 . 2 : S C OP E AND 3.4 R E PO R T O R I TS CO NTE NTS L I M I TA T I ON S OF RE P OR T S E C T I ON 3 . 1 : S T AK E H O LDER 3.5 PR O CE S S F O R D EFI NI NG RE P ORT C ON T E N T A N AL Y S I S A N D RE P ORT CO N TEN T S E C T I ON 3 . 2 : S C OP E AND 3.6 B O UND A R Y OF T HE R E PO RT L I M I TA T I ON S OF RE P OR T SPE CI F I C LI MI TATI O NS O N T H E S C OP E OR B OU N DA RY O F S E C T I ON 3 . 2 : S C OP E AND 3.7 TH E R E PO R T L I M I TA T I ON S OF RE P OR T BA S I S FO R R E P O R T I N G O N J O I N T V E N T U R E S , S E C T I ON 3 . 2 : S C OP E AND 3.8 S UB S I D IA R I E S , LEAS E D FA C I L I T I E S , O U T S O U R C E D L I M I TA T I ON S OF RE P OR T O PE RATI O NS D ATA MEA S UR E ME NT TE CHN I QU E S AN D T HE BA S E S OF S E C T I ON 3 . 1 S T A K E H O LDER 3.9 CA LCUL ATI O NS A N AL Y S I S A N D RE P ORT CO N TEN T RE -S TA TE ME NTS O F I NFO RM A T I O N P R O V I D E D I N S E C T I ON 3 . 2 : S C OP E AND 3.10 EA R LI E R R E PO R TS L I M I TA T I ON S OF RE P OR T SI GNI F I CANT C H ANGE S FR O M P R E V I O U S R E P O R T I N G S E C T I ON 3 . 2 : S C OP E AND 3.11 PE R I O D S I N S CO PE , B O UND ARY OR M E A S U R E M E N T L I M I TA T I ON S OF RE P OR T ME TH O D S AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 43 10. GR I S T A N D A R D D I S CLO SU R ES AND P ER FO R M ANCE INDICATORS GRI REPORTING DESCRIPTION REF ER TO PAR AMETER S E C T I ON 1 0 . 0 : G RI S T A N DA RD TA BLE I D E NTIFY I NG T HE LOC A T I ON OF TH E S T AN D A R D 3.12 DI S C L OS U RE S A N D D I S CLO S UR E S I N TH E R E PORT PE R F ORM A N C E IN DI C A TO R S PO LI CY A ND CUR R E NT PR A C T I C E W I TH RE G A R D T O S E C T I ON 3 . 2 : S C OP E AND 3.13 S E E K I NG E X TE R NA L AS S UR A N C E F OR T H E RE P ORT L I M I TA T I ON S OF RE P OR T S E C T I ON 4 . 0 : C ORP OR ATE 4.1 GO V E R NA NCE S TR UCTUR E O F T HE ORG AN I Z AT I ON G OVE RN AN C E IND I C ATE W H E TH E R TH E C HA I R OF TH E HI G H E S T S E C T I ON 4 . 0 : C ORP OR ATE 4.2 GO V E R NA NCE B O D Y I S A LSO A N E XE C U T I VE OF F I C E R G OVE RN AN C E NUM B E R O F ME MB E R S OF TH E H I G HE S T G OV E RN A N C E S E C T I ON 4 . 0 : C ORP OR ATE 4.3 BO D Y TH AT A R E I ND E PE ND E N T AN D / O R N O N E X E C U T I V E G OVE RN AN C E ME MB E R S ME CH ANI S MS FO R SH A R E HOL DE RS AN D E M P L O Y E E S S E C T I ON 4 . 0 : C ORP OR ATE 4.4 TO PR O V I D E R E CO MME NDA T I ON S OR DI RE C T I ON T O T HE G OVE RN AN C E H I GH E S T GO V E R NA NCE BODY LI NK AGE B E TW E E N E X E CUT I V E C OM P E N SA T I ON A N D T H E S E C T I ON 4 . 0 : C ORP OR ATE 4.5 O R GA NI ZATI O N’S PE R F O R MA N C E G OVE RN AN C E PR O CE S S E S I N PLA CE FO R T H E H I G HE S T G OVE RN A N C E S E C T I ON 4 . 0 : C ORP OR ATE 4.6 BO D Y TO E NS UR E CO NFLI C T S OF I N T E RE S T A RE AV OI DE D G OVE RN AN C E PR O CE S S F O R D E TE R MI NI N G TH E QUA L IF I CA T I O N S S E C T I ON 4 . 0 : C ORP OR ATE 4.7 AND E X PE R TI S E OF TH E M E MBE RS O F T H E H I G HE S T G OVE RN AN C E GO V E R NA NCE B O D Y INTE R NA LLY D E V E LO PE D STA T E M E N T S OF M I S S I O N O R S E C T I ON 4 . 0 : C ORP OR ATE 4.8 VA LUE S , CO D E S OF CO ND U C T , AN D P RI N C I P L E S G OVE RN AN C E PR O CE D UR E S OF TH E HI GH E S T G OVE RN AN C E B ODY F O R O V E R S E E I NG THE I D E NTIF IC AT I ON A N D M A NA G E M E N T S E C T I ON 4 . 0 : C ORP OR ATE 4.9 OF E CO NO MI C, E NV I R O NM E N TA L , AN D S OC I A L G OVE RN AN C E PE RF O R MA NCE AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 44 10. GR I S T A N D A R D D I S CLO SU R ES AND P ER FO R M ANCE INDICATORS GRI REPORTING DESCRIPTION REF ER TO PAR AMETER PR O CE S S E S FO R E VA LUA TI N G T HE HI G H E S T S E C T I ON 4 . 0 : C ORP OR ATE 4.10 GO V E R NA NCE B O D Y ’S O W N P E RF ORM AN C E G OVE RN AN C E EX PLA NA TI O N OF WH E TH E R A N D H OW TH E S E C T I ON 4 . 0 : C ORP OR ATE 4.11 PR E CA UTI O N AR Y APPR O A CH O R P R I N C I P L E I S G OVE RN AN C E AD D R E S S E D B Y THE O R GA N I ZAT I ON EX TE R N A LLY D E V E LO PE D E C ON OM I C , E N V I RON M E N TA L , AND S O CI AL CH A R TE R S , PRI N C I P L E S , OR OT HE R S E C T I ON 9 . 0 : U N I T E D N ATIONS 4.12 I NI TIA TI V E S TO WHI CH T HE ORG A N I Z AT I ON S U BS C RI BE S G L OBA L C OM PA C T O R E ND O R S E S ME MB E R SHI PS I N A S S O CIA T I ON S ( S U CH A S I N D U S T R Y S E C T I ON 9 . 0 : U N I T E D N ATIONS 4.13 AS S O CI A TI O NS ) A ND /O R N AT I ON A L / I N T E RN A T I ON A L G L OBA L C OM PA C T AD V O CA CY O R GA NI ZATI O N S LI S T OF S TA K EH O LD E R GROU P S E N G A G E D BY T H E S E C T I ON 3 . 1 : S T AK E H O LDER 4.14 O R GA NI ZATI O N A N AL Y S I S A N D RE P ORT CO N TEN T BA S I S FO R I D E NTIFI CA TI O N A N D S E L E C T I ON OF S E C T I ON 3 . 1 : S T AK E H O LDER 4.15 S TA K EH O LD E R S W I TH WH O M T O E N GA G E A N AL Y S I S A N D RE P ORT CO N TEN T A PPR OA C HE S TO S TA K EHOL DE R E N G AG E M E N T , S E C T I ON 3 . 1 : S T AK E H O LDER 4.16 I NCLUD I NG F R E Q UE NCY OF E N G A G E M E N T BY T Y P E A N D A N AL Y S I S A N D RE P ORT CO N TEN T BY S T A K EHO LD E R GR O UP K E Y TO PI CS A ND CO NCE R N S RA I S E D T H ROU G H S E C T I ON 3 . 1 : S T AK E H O LDER 4.17 S TA K EH O LD E R E NGA GE ME N T , A N D H OW T HE A N AL Y S I S A N D RE P ORT CO N TEN T O R GA NI ZATI O N H A S R E S PO N DE D T O T HE M D I S CLO S UR E S O N MA NAGEM E N T A P P RO AC H S E C T I ON 5 . 1 : S I G N I F I CANT D I S CLO S UR E O N MA NA GE M E N T A P P ROA CH ; D MA IS S U E S AN D M AN A G E MENT ENV I R O NME NT S T RA T E G Y S E C T I ON 6 . 0 : Q U AL I T Y OF LIF E D MA D I S CLO S UR E O N MA NA GE M E N T A P P ROA CH ; L A BOU R F OR EM P L OY E E S AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 45 10. GR I S T A N D A R D D I S CLO SU R ES AND P ER FO R M ANCE INDICATORS GRI REPORTING DESCRIPTION RE FER TO PAR AMETER SE C T I ON 7 . 0 : CO M M U N I TY D MA D I S CLO S UR E O N MA NA GE M E N T A P P ROA CH ; EC ON OM I C IN VOL V E M E N T A N D S U PP O R T SE C T I ON 7 . 0 : CO M M U N I TY D MA D I S CLO S UR E O N MA NA GE M E N T A P P ROA CH ; SOC I E T Y IN VOL V E M E N T A N D S U PP O R T D I S CLO S UR E O N MA NA GE M E N T A P P ROA CH ; HU M A N SE C T I ON 8 . 0 : CO M M I T MENT TO D MA RI GH TS HU MA N R I G H T S PE RF O R MA NCE IND I CA TO R S SE C T I ON 5 . 2 . 5 : F U E L EN 1 MATE R I A LS US E D BY W E I G HT OR V OL U M E CON S U M P T I ON PE R CE NTA GE O F MA TE R I A L S U S E D THA T AR E R E C Y C L E D SE C T I ON 5 . 2 . 5 : F U E L EN 2 I NPUT MA TE R I A LS CON S U M P T I ON D I R E CT E NE R GY CO NS UMP T I ON B Y P RI MA R Y E N E R G Y SE C T I ON 5 . 2 . 5 : F U E L EN 3 S O UR CE CON S U M P T I ON SE C T I ON 5 . 2 . 2 : E N E R G Y EN 4 IND I R E CT E NE R GY CO NS UM P T I ON B Y P RI M ARY S OU RC E EFFICIENCY SE C T I ON 5 . 2 . 3 : W A T E R EN 8 TO T AL W ATE R W I TH D RA W AL B Y S OU RC E EFFICIENCY TO T AL W E I G HT O F W AS TE B Y T Y P E A N D DI S P OSA L SE C T I ON 5 . 2 . 4 : W A S T E EN 2 2 ME TH O D M AN A G E M E N T INI TI A TI V E S TO MI TI GATE EN V I RON M E N T A L I M PA C T S SE C T I ON 2 . 6 SI G N I F I CA NT EN 2 6 OF PR O D UCTS A ND S E R V I C E S , AN D E XT E N T O F I M P A C T C HA N G E S I N O P E RA T I O NS MI TI GA TI O N DU RI N G 2 0 1 2 AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 46 10. GR I S T A N D A R D D I S CLO SU R ES AND P ER FO R M ANCE INDICATORS GRI REPORTING DESCRIPTION RE FER TO PAR AMETER MO NE TAR Y VA LUE OF S I GN IF I C AN T F I N E S AN D TO T AL NUM BE R O F NO N-M ON E TA RY S A N C T I ON S F OR SE C T I ON 5 . 2 . 1 : M I T I GA T IO N O F EN 2 8 NO NCO MPLI ANCE W I TH E N V I RON M E N T A L L A W S A N D IN FR A S T RU C T U RE E XP AN SIO N R E GULA TI O NS TO T AL W O R K FO R CE B Y E M P L O Y M E N T T Y P E , SE C T I ON 5 . 4 : E N VI RON M EN TA L LA1 E MPLO Y ME NT CO NTRA CT, A N D RE G I ON CE RT I F I CA T I ON PE R CE NTA GE O F E MPLO Y EE S C OV E RE D B Y C O L L E C T I V E SE C T I ON 6 . 1 : D E S C RI P T IO N OF LA4 B AR GA I NI NG A GR E E ME NTS W ORK F ORC E R A TE S OF I NJ UR Y , O CCUPA T I ONA L DI S E A S E S , L OS T DA Y S , SE C T I ON 6 . 1 : D E S C RI P T IO N OF LA7 AND A B S E NTE E I S M, A ND N U MBE R OF W ORK RE L A T E D W ORK F ORC E FA TA LI TI E S BY R E GI O N SE C T I ON 6 . 2 : S A F E T Y I N TH E EC 1 D I R E CT E CO NO MI C VA LUE G E N E R A T E D A N D DI S T RI B U T E D W ORK P L A C E SI GNI F I CANT F I N ANCI A L A S S I S T AN C E RE C E I V E D F R O M SE C T I ON 7 . 1 : D I RE C T A ND EC 4 GO V E R NME NT IN DI RE C T EC ON OM I C B EN EFITS PE R CE NTA GE AND TO TA L N U MBE R O F BU S I N E S S U N I T S SE C T I O N 7 . 3 : A N T I C O R RUPTION SO 2 AN ALY Z E D FO R R I S K S R E LA T E D T O C ORRU P T I ON ME A S U RE S PE R CE NTA GE O F E MPLO Y EE S T RA I N E D I N SE C T I O N 7 . 3 : A N T I C O R RUPTION SO 3 O R GA NI ZATI O N’S ANTI -CO R RU P T I ON P OL I C I E S A N D ME A S U RE S PR O CE D UR E S A CTI O NS TA K E N I N R E S PO N S E T O I N C I DE N T S OF SE C T I O N 7 . 3 : A N T I C O R RUPTION SO 4 CORRUPTION ME A S U RE S TO T AL NUM BE R O F I NCI D E N T S OF DI S C RI M I NA T I ON A N D SE C T I ON 8 . 0 : CO M M I T M ENT TO HR 4 ACTI O NS TA K E N HU MA N R I G H T S AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 47 10. GR I S T A N D A R D D I S CLO SU R ES AND P ER FO R M ANCE INDICATORS GRI REPORTING DESCRIPTION RE FER TO PAR AMETER OPE R ATI O NS I D E NTIFI E D I N WHI C H T HE RI G H T T O E X E R CI S E F R E E D O M OF A SS OC I A T I ON AN D C O L L E C T I V E SE C T I ON 8 . 0 : CO M M I T MENT TO HR 5 B AR GA I NI NG MA Y B E A T S IG N I F I C A N T RI S K , A N D HU MA N R I G H T S ACTI O NS TA K E N TO S UPPORT T HE S E RI G HT S OPE R ATI O NS I D E NTIFI E D A S HA V I N G S I G N I FI C A N T R I S K FO R I NCI D E NTS OF CH I LD L A BOU R, A N D M E A S U R E S SE C T I ON 8 . 0 : CO M M I T MENT TO HR 6 TAK E N TO CO NTR I B UTE TO T H E E L I M I NA T I ON O F C HI L D HU MA N R I G H T S LA B O UR OPE R ATI O NS I D E NTIFI E D A S HA V I N G S I G N I FI C A N T R I S K FO R I NCI D E NTS OF FO R CE D OR C OM P U L S ORY L A BO U R , SE C T I ON 8 . 0 : CO M M I T MENT TO HR 7 AND ME A S UR E S TO CO NTR I BU T E T O T HE E L I M I NA T I ON HU MA N R I G H T S OF F O R CE D O R CO MPULS O RY L A BOU R AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 · ASU R 48 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R APPENDIX A. AS U R EN V IRO NM E NTAL O BJ ECT I V E S AN D P E RFO R MA N CE, 2012 M EA S U REM E N T P ROGRESS A IRPORT OB J E CTI V E A C T I VI T I E S P AR A ME T E R / R E SULT R E D UCE A MO U N T O F RE U S E O R R E C Y C L I N G O F C OMP L I A N C E NO N-H AZ A R D O US WA S T E M AT E RI A L S , I N C L U D I N G CA NCÚN WITH REDUCTION 50% D I S PO S E D O F I N LA N D F I L L P LAS T I C S , PA P E R, G LA S S , P E RC E N T AG E G O A L S I TE S B Y 20% A L UM I N I U M, E T C . PR O MO T E P R O T E C T I O N P ROG R A M ME F O R P E RC E N TA G E O F O F S I TE S O F S PE CIAL CA NCÚN RE F ORE S T A T I O N O F 1 0 T A RG E T A RE A 100% NA TUR A L VA LUE I N S TA T E O F HE C T A RE S OF M A N G ROVE RE F ORE S T E D Q UI NT AN A R O O R E P L AC EM E N T O F INCANDESCENT LIGHTING NU M B E R O F R E D UCE CO NS UMP T I O N O F F I XT U RE S W I T H E N E RG Y INCANDESCENT COZUM EL 33 E LE CTR I CI TY S AVI N G L I G HT I N G S Y S T E M S LIGHTING FIXTURES ( F L U ORE S C E N T A N D L E DS ) I N RE P L AC E D RU N W AY L I G HT I N G S Y S T E M I MP L E M E N T A T I ON OF S M A RT A U T OM AT I ON S Y S T E M F O R RE D UCE CO NS U MP T I O N O F PERCENT PROGRESS IN COZUM EL E L E C T RO ME C HA N I C AL 100% E LE CTR I CI TY I N S T A L L A T I ON I N S T AL L AT I ON S T O OP T I MI S E E L E C T RI C I T Y C ON S UM P T I ON RE P L A C EM E N T O F INCANDESCENT LIGHTING NU M B E R O F R E D UCE CO NS U MP T I O N O F F I XT U RE S W I T H E N E RG Y INCANDESCENT COZU M EL 42 E LE CTR I CI TY S AV I N G L I G HT I N G S Y S T E M S LIGHTING FIXTURES ( F L U ORE S C E N T A N D L E DS ) I N RE P L AC E D C A R P A RK L A M P P OS T S A1 AP P E ND I X A · A S UR E N VIR O NM ENT AL O B JECT IVES AND PE RF OR MANCE , 2 0 1 2 M EA S U REM E N T P ROGRESS A IRPORT OB J E CTI V E A C T I VI T I E S P AR A ME T E R / R E SULT R E P LA C EM E N T O F T O X I C RE F RI G E RA T I N G G A S E S N U MB E R OF I T E MS R E D UCE AI R P O L L U T I O N HUA TULCO W I T H H AR ML E S S G A S E S I N OF E QU I PM E N T 11 HAZARDS VARI OU S AI RP ORT C OOL I N G U P G R ADE D UNITS RE D UCE A MO UNT O F P A P E R S E PA RA T I ON OF PA P E R / / CA R D B OA R D W A S T E CA RDBO A RD W A S T E ; PE RC E N T A G E OF T OT A L HUA T ULCO 50% D I S PO S E D O F I N LAN D F I L L DI S P OS A L W I T H R E C Y C L I N G W A S T E RE C Y C L E D S I TE S FA C I L I T Y R E D UCE A MO UNT O F PE T S E PA RA T I ON OF P E T P L A S T I C PE RC E N T A G E OF T OT A L HUA T ULCO PL AS TI C W A S TE D I S PO S E D O F W A S T E ; DI S P OSA L W I T H 50% W A S T E RE C Y C L E D I N L AND FI LL S I TE S RE C Y C L I N G F AC I L I T Y R E D UCE A M O U N T O F RECYCLING OF TONER P E RC E N T OF T OT A L HUA TULCO H A Z AR D O US W A S T E CARTRIDGES USED IN T ON E R C A R T R I D G E S 80% PR O D UCE D AD M I N I S T RA T I V E OF F I C E S RE C Y C L E D MA I NT AI N TO TA L I MP L E M E N T A T I ON OF CHA N G E I N CO NS U MP T I O N O F S E RI E S OF E N E RG Y S AV I N G MÉRIDA C ON S UM P T I ON 13.2% E LE CTR I CI TY W I TH I N RAN G E M E AS U RE S I N DI F F E RE N T C OMP A RE D T O 2 0 1 1 O F ± 35% CO MPA R E D TO 2011 ARE A S OF T HE A I RP ORT MA I NT AI N TO TA L I MP L E M E N T AT I O N O F S E R I E S CHA N G E I N CO NS UM PTI O N O F WA T E R OF W A T E R SA V I N G M E A S U R E S MÉRIDA C ON S UM P T I ON 11.8% W I TH I N R AN G E O F ± 3 5 % I N DI F F E RE N T A RE A S O F T H E C OMP A RE D T O 2 0 1 1 CO MP AR E D TO 2011 A I RP ORT I N S T A L L AT I O N O F RE D UCE W AT E R NU MB E R O F F I X T U R E S MÉRIDA W A T E RL E S S U RI N AL 4 CO NS UM PTI O N RE P LA C E D F I XT U RE S I N A I RP ORT T OI L E T AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 A2 AP P E ND I X A · A S UR E N VIR O NM ENT AL O B JECT IVES AND PE RF OR MANCE , 2 0 1 2 M EA S U REM E N T P ROGRESS A IRPORT OB J E CTI V E A C T I VI T I E S P AR A ME T E R / R E SULT MAI NT A I N TO TAL I MP L E ME N T A T I ON OF S E RI E S CH A N G E I N P R O D UCTI O N O F HAZ A R D O U S MÉ RIDA OF M E A S U R E S I N D I F F E R E N T PRODUCTION 21.0% W A S TE W I TH I N RA N G E O F ± A RE A S OF T HE A I RP ORT C OM P ARE D T O 2 0 1 0 15% CO MP A R E D TO 2010 CONSTRUCTION OF IM PR O V E HA Z AR D O US W AS T E E XT E N S I ON T O L O ADI N G B A Y MÉ RID A P E RC E N T C OM P L E T I ON 100% H A ND LI NG PR O CE D UR E S F OR HA ZA RDOU S W A S T E DI S P OS A L T RU C K S R E L OC A T I ON A N D RECONSTRUCTION OF H A Z ARDOU S W A S T E S T OR AG E IMPR O V E HAZ A R D O US WA S T E MÉRID A F AC I L I T Y , W I T H I N D E P E N D E N T P E RC E N T C OM P L E T I ON 100% HA ND LI NG PR O CE D UR E S DR A I NA G E S Y S T EM T O RE DU C E RI S K S A S S OC IA T E D WITH SPILLAGE I MP L E ME N T A T I O N O F S E R I E S R E D UCE E X TRACTI O N FR O M C H AN G E I N OF W A T E R C ON S E RV AT I O N M IN A T IT LÁ N WATER SOURCES BY 10%, C ON S UMP T I ON 17.5% M E A S U RE S I N DI F F E RE N T COMP AR E D TO 2011 C OM P ARE D T O 2 0 1 1 A RE A S OF T HE A I RP ORT I MPR O V E A CCUR A C Y O F I N S T AL L A T I ON OF W A T E R M IN A T IT LÁ N S Y S TEMS TO ME AS U R E ME T E R I N F A C I L I T I E S PE RC E N T C OM P L E T I ON 100% W ATE R CO NS U MPTI O N A S S I G N E D T O M E XI CA N N A VY I MP L EM E N T A T I ON OF RE D UCE TO TA L E L E C T R I C I T Y CH A N G E I N S E RI E S OF E N E RG Y S A V I N G M INA TITLÁ N CO NS U MP T I O N B Y 1 % , C ON S UM P T I ON 4.9% M E AS U RE S I N DI F F E RE N T CO MPA R E D TO 2011 C OMP ARE D T O 2 0 1 1 ARE A S OF T HE A I RP ORT AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 A3 AP P E ND I X A · A S UR E N VIR O NM ENT AL O B JECT IVES AND PE RF OR MANCE , 2 0 1 2 M EA S U REM E N T P ROGRESS A IRPORT OB J E CTI V E A C T I VI T I E S P AR A ME T E R / R E SULT R E D UCE A M O U N T O F RECYCLING OF 2.5 TONNES NO N-H A Z AR D O US W AS T E C O MP L IA N C E W I T H M INA TITLÁ N OF N ON H AZ A RDOU S W A S T E 100% D I S PO S E D O F I N LAN D F I L L RE C Y C L I N G G OA L P RODU C E D AT T HE A I RP ORT S I TE S T E S T W A S T E W AT E R DI S C H A R G E D T O E N S U R E RE D UCE R I S K O F PO LLUTI O N C O M P L IA N C E W I T H PERCENT OF TESTS M INA TITLÁ N O F WA T E R S O U R C E S D U E T O E S T A BL I S HE D P A RA M E T E R S I N C OM P L I AN C E W I T H 100% W AS TE W A TE R D I S CH AR GE D ( PH , T EM P E RAT U RE , T OT A L P AR A ME T E RS C OL I F OR M S , O I L C O N T E N T , ETC.) T R A I N I N G F OR A I R P O R T A P RON W ORK E RS ON P ROC E DU RE A N D P R AC T I C E PR E V E NT S O I L PO LLUTI O N N U MB E R OF A P R O N T O P RE V E N T / MI T I G A T E S O I L M INA T IT LÁ N DUE TO SPILLS OF TOXIC WORKERS RECEIVING 100% P OL L U T I ON F RO M S P I L L S S UB S T A NCE S T R AI N I N G OF F U E L S , OI L S , HY DR AU L I C L IQU I D S , H Y P O C H L O R I T E S , ETC. V E RI F I C A T I O N O F PE RC E N T AG E O F ENS UR E A PPR O PR IA TE H A Z ARDOU S W A S T E S T OR AG E C HE C K S C ON F I RM I N G M INA TITLÁ N H A Z AR D O US W AS T E 100% P ROC E DU RE S A T HA N D L I N G C O MP L I A N C E W I T H H A ND LI NG PR O CE D UR E S FACILITY PA RA ME T E RS R E P L AC EM E N T O F T O X I C RE F RI G E R A T I N G GA S E S R E D UCE AI R P O L L U T I O N P E RC E N T AG E O F T O X I C OA XA C A W I T H H A R ML E S S G A S E S I N 50% H A Z AR D S G A S E S RE P LA C E D V ARI OU S A I RP ORT C OOL I N G UNITS AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 A4 AP P E ND I X A · A S UR E N VIR O NM ENT AL O B JECT IVES AND PE RF OR MANCE , 2 0 1 2 M EA S U REM E N T P ROGRESS A IRPORT OB J E CTI V E A C T I VI T I E S P AR A ME T E R / R E SULT FE A S I B I L I T Y S T U D Y F O R U S E IMPR O V E HA Z A R D O US WA S T E OAX AC A OF MOBI L E F U E L T A N K AT PE RC E N T C OM P L E T I ON 100% HA ND LI NG PR O CE D UR E S A I RP ORT E N S U RE T H A T A L L ON AIRPORT SERVICE PROVIDERS P E RC E N T A G E OF ON IM PR O V E HA Z AR D O US W AS T E OA XA CA DI S P OS E OF HA ZA R D O U S AI RP ORT C O MP A N I E S 100% H A ND LI NG PR O CE D UR E S W A S T E U S I N G C ORRE C T I N C OM P L I AN C E F AC I L I T I E S ENSURE VEHICLES USED B Y A I RP ORT C O M MU N I T Y H A VE C OMP L I E D W I T H RE D UCE / CO NTA I N V E H I C L E M AN D A T ORY E M I S S I O N S P E RC E N T AG E O F OA XAC A 100% E MI S S I O NS T E S T I N G ; RE QU I RE E MI S S I O N S V E HI C L E S C HE C K E D T E S T I N G C E RT I F I CA T E F O R F RE E AC C E S S T O A I R P O R T C A R PA RK I M P L EM E N T A T I O N O F S E R I E S P R O TE CT A ND PR OMO T E C OMP L E T I O N O F TAPA CHULA OF M E AS U R E S T O P R O T E C T 100% LO CAL B I O D I V E R S I TY P ROJ E C T L OC A L BI RD S P E C I E S R E D UCE TO TA L E L E C T R I C I T Y I M P L EM E N T A T I ON OF CH A N G E I N CO NS U MP T I O N B Y 2 % , S E RI E S OF E N E RG Y S A V I N G C ON S U M P T I ON TAPA CHULA 4.0% CO MP A R E D T O P R E V I O U S M E A S U RE S I N DI F F E RE N T C OM PA RE D T O Y EA R A RE AS OF T HE AI RP ORT P RE VI OU S Y EA R R E D UCE TO TA L F U E L CH A N G E I N I MP L E M E N TA T I O N O F S E R I E S CO NS U MP T I O N B Y 5 % , C ON S U M P T I ON TAPA CHULA OF F U E L S AV I N G ME A S U R E S 31.9% CO MP A R E D T O P R E V I O U S C OM PA RE D T O I N A I RP ORT VE HI C L E F L E E T Y EA R P RE VI OU S Y EA R AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 A5 AP P E ND I X A · A S UR E N VIR O NM ENT AL O B JECT IVES AND PE RF OR MANCE , 2 0 1 2 M E A S U REM E N T P ROGRESS AIRPORT OB J E CTI V E A C T I VI T I E S P ARA M E T E R / RE SULT RE U S E O R R E C Y C L I N G O F RE CY CLE 22% O F NO NM AT E RI A L S , I N C L U D I N G P E RC E N TA G E OF T OT AL VER ACRUZ H A Z AR D O US W AS T E 25% P LA S T I C S , PAP E R, G L AS S , W A S T E RE C Y C L E D PR O D UCE D I N TH E A I R PO R T A L U MI N I UM , E T C . LI MI T TO TA L A NNUA L I MP L E M E N TA T I ON OF A C T UA L C ON S U M P T I ON E LE CTR I CI TY CO NS UMP T I O N S E RI E S OF E N E RG Y S A V I N G VER ACRUZ DU RI N G T HE Y E A R 2,065,800 TO MAX I M UM A MO U N T O F ME A S U RE S I N DI F F E RE N T ( K W H) 2,081,529 K W H A RE A S OF T HE AI RP ORT I MP L EM E N T A T I O N O F S E R I E S LI MI T TO TA L A NNUA L W A T E R OF W A T E R SA VI N G M EA S U R E S A C T UA L C ON S U M P T I ON VER ACRUZ C O NS UMPTI O N TO MAX IM UM 22,455 I N DI F F E RE N T A RE AS O F T H E DU RI N G T HE Y E AR ( M3 ) A MO UNT O F 25,093 M3 A I RP ORT R E S TO R A T I O N O F G R E E N P L AN T 5 0 T RE E S I N A RE A S VI LLA HERMOSA P E RC E N T P ROG RE S S 98% A R E AS S U RROU N DI N G AI RP ORT R E D UCE A MO UNT O F PA P E R SE P A R AT I ON OF P A P E R / / CA R D B OA R D W AS T E CA RDBO A RD W A S T E ; P E RC E N TA G E OF T OT A L V I LLA HERM OSA 100% D I S PO S E D O F I N LA N D F I L L DI S P OS A L W I T H R E C Y C L I N G W A S T E RE C Y C L E D S I TE S FACILITY RE D UCE A MO UNT O F PL AS TI C S E P ARA T I ON OF P E T P LA S T I C P E RC E N T A G E OF T OT A L V I LLA HERM OSA WASTE DISPOSED OF IN W AS T E ; DI S P OS AL W I T H 100% W A S T E RE C Y C L E D LA ND FI LL S I TE S RE C Y C L I N G FA C I L I T Y C OL L E C T A N D S E P A R AT E PE RC E N T AG E BA T T E RI E S C ON TA I N I N G IM PR O V E HA ZA R D O US WA S T E OF B A T T E R I E S VILLA HERM OSA ME R C U R Y , Z I N C , S I L V E R 100% H A ND LI NG PR O CE D UR E S A P P ROP RI AT E L Y OXI DE , N I C K E L , CA DMI U M, DI S P OS E D OF F OR A P P ROP RI A T E DI S P OS A L AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 A6 ANNUA L S US T A I N A BIL IT Y R E P O R T 2012 · A SU R APPENDIX B. EN V I RON ME NTA L PER FO R MA N CE IN DI CATO R S , 2012 A S UR AL L A I RP O RT S TOTAL FIG URES % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 TOT A L WA TER CO NS UMPTI O N M3 555,939 596,197 701,660 17.7% TOTA L WA T ER D I S CH A R GE D M3 403,864 318,093 209,486 34.1% TOTA L ELECT RICITY CO NS U MPTI O N KWH 60,584,421 62,167,261 68,402,388 10.0% GJ 218,104 223,802 246,249 1 0.0% TOT A L HA ZA RD O US W A S T E KG 20,274 17,788 20,730 16.5% PROD UCE D TOTA L NON-HA Z A R D OUS W A S T E T 4,465.0 4,311.5 4,351.5 0.9% PROD U CE D TOT A L FUEL CO NS U MPTI O N L 455,712 459,837 451,429 1.8% B1 AP P E ND I X A · E N V I R O N MENT AL O B JECT IVES AND P ER FO R MANCE , 2 0 1 2 PER-PASSENGER BASIS % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 WA TER CONSU M P T I O N P E R L/PAX 32.7 33.6 36.1 7 .4% PA SSE NGE R WATER DISCH A R G E D P E R L/PAX 23.7 17.9 10.8 39.9% PA SSE NGE R ELECT RICITY CON S U M P T I O N P E R K W H /P A X 3.6 3.5 3.5 0.4% PA SSENGE R MJ /PA X 12.8 12.6 12.7 0 .4% H AZA RD OUS WA ST E PR O DU C E D P E R G/PAX 1.2 1.0 1.1 6.3% PA SSE NGE R N O N-HA ZA RDOUS W A S TE PR O DUC E D K G/PA X 0.26 0.24 0.22 -7.9% PER PA SS E NGE R FUEL CONSU M P T I O N P E R ML/P A X 26.8 25.9 23.2 10.4% PA SSE NGE R CAN CÚN A I RP O RT TOTAL FIGURES % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 TOT A L WA TER CO NSU MPTI O N M3 306,231 330,336 423,600 2 8.2% TOTA L WA T ER D I S CH A R GE D M3 281,178 185,000 144,356 -22.0% TOT A L ELECTRICIT Y CO NS UMPTI O N KWH 41,794,777 43,036,277 47,884,758 11.3% GJ 150,461 154,931 172,386 1 1.3% TOTA L HA ZA R D OU S W A S T E KG 7,576 4,456 7,191 61.4% PROD U CE D T OT A L NONHA Z A R D OUS W A S T E T 4,034.5 3,794.4 3,828.3 0.9% PRODUCE D TOT A L FUEL C O NSU MPTI O N L 224,728 208,650 232,303 11.3% AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 B 2 AP P E ND I X A · E N V I R O N MENT AL O B JECT IVES AND P ER FO R MANCE , 2 0 1 2 PER-PASSENGER BASIS % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 WA TER CONSU M P T I O N P E R L/PAX 24.4 25.2 29.1 1 5.5% PA SSE NGE R WATER DISCH A R G E D P E R L/PAX 22.4 14.1 9.9 29.7% PA SSE NGE R ELECT RICITY CON S U M P T I O N P E R K W H /P A X 3.3 3.3 3.3 0.2% PA SSENGE R MJ /PA X 12.0 11.8 11.8 0 .2% H AZA RD OUS WA ST E PR O DU C E D P E R G/PAX 0.6 0.3 0.5 45.4% PA SSE NGE R N O N-HA ZA RDOUS W A S TE PR O DUC E D K G/PA X 0.32 0.29 0.26 -9.1% PER PA SS E NGE R FUEL CONSU M P T I O N P E R ML/P A X 17.9 15.9 16.0 0.3% PA SSE NGE R COZ UMEL A I RP O RT TOTAL FIGURES % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 TOT A L WA TER CO NSU MPTI O N M3 25,722 19,738 22,915 1 6.1% TOTA L WA T ER D I S CH A R GE D M3 25,579 11,850 17,197 4 5.1% TOT A L ELECTRICIT Y CO NS UMPTI O N KWH 2,250,689 2,340,202 2,444,582 4.5% GJ 8,102 8,425 8,800 4 .5% TOTA L HA ZA R D OU S W A S T E KG 3,532 3,814 2,497 34.5% PROD U CE D T OT A L NONHA Z A R D OUS W A S T E T 37.4 34.1 35.5 4.1% PRODUCE D TOT A L FUEL C O NSU MPTI O N L 41,289 48,407 30,294 37.4% AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 B 3 AP P E ND I X A · E N V I R O N MENT AL O B JECT IVES AND P ER FO R MANCE , 2 0 1 2 PER-PASSENGER BASIS % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 WA TER CONSU M P T I O N P E R L/PAX 57.1 43.6 49.2 1 2.8% PA SSE NGE R WATER DISCH A R G E D P E R L/PAX 56.8 26.2 36.9 41.0% PA SSE NGE R ELECT RICITY CON S U M P T I O N P E R K W H /P A X 5.0 5.2 5.3 1.5% PA SSENGE R MJ /PA X 18.0 18.6 18.9 1 .5% H AZA RD OUS WA ST E PR O DU C E D P E R G/PAX 7.8 8.4 5.4 36.4% PA SSE NGE R N O N-HA ZA RDOUS W A S TE PR O DUC E D K G/PA X 0.08 0.08 0.08 1 .1% PER PA SS E NGE R FUEL CONSU M P T I O N P E R ML/P A X 91.6 107.0 65.1 39.2% PA SSE NGE R H UAT ULCO A I RP O RT TOTAL FIGURES % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 TOT A L WA TER CO NSU MPTI O N M3 12,108 15,997 14,329 -10.4% TOTA L WA T ER D I S CH A R GE D M3 6,288 6,114 8,240 3 4.8% TOT A L ELECTRICIT Y CO NS UMPTI O N KWH 847,896 821,857 845,900 2.9% GJ 3,052 2,959 3,045 2 .9% TOTA L HA ZA R D OU S W A S T E KG 1,532 1,876 1,996 6.4% PROD U CE D T OT A L NONHA Z A R D OUS W A S T E T 23.6 54.5 45.8 16.0% PRODUCE D TOT A L FUEL C O NSU MPTI O N L 15,377 15,025 19,129 27.3% AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 B 4 AP P E ND I X A · E N V I R O N MENT AL O B JECT IVES AND P ER FO R MANCE , 2 0 1 2 PER-PASSENGER BASIS % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 WA TER CONSU M P T I O N P E R L/PAX 31.2 34.6 30.2 -12.9% PA SSE NGE R WATER DISCH A R G E D P E R L/PAX 16.2 13.2 17.3 31.1% PA SSE NGE R ELECT RICITY CON S U M P T I O N P E R K W H /P A X 2.2 1.8 1.8 0.1% PA SSENGE R MJ /PA X 7.9 6.4 6.4 0 .1% H AZA RD OUS WA ST E PR O DU C E D P E R G/PAX 4.0 4.1 4.2 3.5% PA SSE NGE R N O N-HA ZA RDOUS W A S TE PR O DUC E D K G/PA X 0.06 0.12 0.10 -18.3% PER PA SS E NGE R FUEL CONSU M P T I O N P E R ML/P A X 39.7 32.5 40.3 23.8% PA SSE NGE R M É RIDA A I RP O RT TOTAL FIGURES % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 TOT A L WA TER CO NSU MPTI O N M3 97,812 123,285 137,771 1 1.8% TOTA L WA T ER D I S CH A R GE D M3 53,985 87,502 7,503 -91.4% TOT A L ELECTRICIT Y CO NS UMPTI O N KWH 7,074,957 7,307,080 8,269,539 13.2% GJ 25,470 26,305 29,770 1 3.2% TOTA L HA ZA R D OU S W A S T E KG 3,040 2,190 2,403 9.7% PROD U CE D T OT A L NONHA Z A R D OUS W A S T E T 91.9 92.7 91.5 1.3% PRODUCE D TOT A L FUEL C O NSU MPTI O N L 34,767 49,734 35,590 28.4% AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 B 5 AP P E ND I X A · E N V I R O N MENT AL O B JECT IVES AND P ER FO R MANCE , 2 0 1 2 PER-PASSENGER BASIS % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 WA TER CONSU M P T I O N P E R L/PAX 83.9 98.3 109.6 1 1.5% PA SSE NGE R WATER DISCH A R G E D P E R L/PAX 46.3 69.8 6.0 91.4% PA SSE NGE R ELECT RICITY CON S U M P T I O N P E R K W H /P A X 6.1 5.8 6.6 12.9% PA SSENGE R MJ /PA X 21.8 21.0 23.7 1 2.9% H AZA RD OUS WA ST E PR O DU C E D P E R G/PAX 2.6 1.7 1.9 9.5% PA SSE NGE R N O N-HA ZA RDOUS W A S TE PR O DUC E D K G/PA X 0.08 0.07 0.07 -1.6% PER PA SS E NGE R FUEL CONSU M P T I O N P E R ML/P A X 29.8 39.7 28.3 28.6% PA SSE NGE R M I N AT ITLÁ N A I RP O RT TOTAL FIGURES % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 TOT A L WA TER CO NSU MPTI O N M3 14,184 16,444 13,562 -17.5% TOTA L WA T ER D I S CH A R GE D M3 5,788 4,906 6,888 4 0.4% TOT A L ELECTRICIT Y CO NS UMPTI O N KWH 753,339 760,698 797,593 4.9% GJ 2,712 2,739 2,871 4 .9% TOTA L HA ZA R D OU S W A S T E KG 989 1,785 1,475 17.4% PROD U CE D T OT A L NONHA Z A R D OUS W A S T E T 4.5 3.6 3.2 11.5% PRODUCE D TOT A L FUEL C O NSU MPTI O N L 18,928 14,100 15,778 11.9% AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 B 6 AP P E ND I X A · E N V I R O N MENT AL O B JECT IVES AND P ER FO R MANCE , 2 0 1 2 PER-PASSENGER BASIS % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 WA TER CONSU M P T I O N P E R L/PAX 112.8 145.8 98.8 -32.2% PA SSE NGE R WATER DISCH A R G E D P E R L/PAX 46.0 43.5 50.2 15.3% PA SSE NGE R ELECT RICITY CON S U M P T I O N P E R K W H /P A X 6.0 6.7 5.8 13.9% PA SSENGE R MJ /PA X 21.6 24.3 20.9 -13.9% H AZA RD OUS WA ST E PR O DU C E D P E R G/PAX 7.9 15.8 10.7 32.1% PA SSE NGE R N O N-HA ZA RDOUS W A S TE PR O DUC E D K G/PA X 0.04 0.03 0.02 -27.3% PER PA SS E NGE R FUEL CONSU M P T I O N P E R ML/P A X 150.5 125.0 114.9 8.1% PA SSE NGE R OAXACA A I RP O RT TOTAL FIGURES % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 TOT A L WA TER CO NSU MPTI O N M3 17,823 15,270 17,704 1 5.9% TOTA L WA T ER D I S CH A R GE D M3 7,802 5,590 8,492 5 1.9% TOT A L ELECTRICIT Y CO NS UMPTI O N KWH 903,576 933,268 974,540 4.4% GJ 3,253 3,360 3,508 4 .4% TOTA L HA ZA R D OU S W A S T E KG 1,800 1,605 1,235 23.1% PROD U CE D T OT A L NONHA Z A R D OUS W A S T E T 93.8 94.9 104.1 9.7% PRODUCE D TOT A L FUEL C O NSU MPTI O N L 27,360 26,262 29,924 13.9% AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 B 7 AP P E ND I X A · E N V I R O N MENT AL O B JECT IVES AND P ER FO R MANCE , 2 0 1 2 PER-PASSENGER BASIS % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 WA TER CONSU M P T I O N P E R L/PAX 38.6 37.1 36.6 -1.4% PA SSE NGE R WATER DISCH A R G E D P E R L/PAX 16.9 13.6 17.6 29.3% PA SSE NGE R ELECT RICITY CON S U M P T I O N P E R K W H /P A X 2.0 2.3 2.0 11.2% PA SSENGE R MJ /PA X 7.0 8.2 7.3 -11.2% H AZA RD OUS WA ST E PR O DU C E D P E R G/PAX 3.9 3.9 2.6 34.5% PA SSE NGE R N O N-HA ZA RDOUS W A S TE PR O DUC E D K G/PA X 0.20 0.23 0.22 -6.7% PER PA SS E NGE R FUEL CONSU M P T I O N P E R ML/P A X 59.3 63.8 61.9 3.0% PA SSE NGE R TA PACHUL A A I RP O RT TOTAL FIGURES % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 TOT A L WA TER CO NSU MPTI O N M3 22,595 22,570 20,887 -7.5% TOTA L WA T ER D I S CH A R GE D M3 10,959 9,590 5,952 -37.9% TOT A L ELECTRICIT Y CO NS UMPTI O N KWH 1,546,300 1,518,370 1,579,830 4.0% GJ 5,567 5,466 5,687 4 .0% TOTA L HA ZA R D OU S W A S T E KG 810 794 2,840 257.7% PROD U CE D T OT A L NONHA Z A R D OUS W A S T E T 33.6 31.8 28.8 9.3% PRODUCE D TOT A L FUEL C O NSU MPTI O N L 43,181 43,530 29,641 31.9% AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 B 8 AP P E ND I X A · E N V I R O N MENT AL O B JECT IVES AND P ER FO R MANCE , 2 0 1 2 PER-PASSENGER BASIS % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 WA TER CONSU M P T I O N P E R L/PAX 119.0 133.6 127.4 -4.6% PA SSE NGE R WATER DISCH A R G E D P E R L/PAX 57.7 56.8 36.3 36.0% PA SSE NGE R ELECT RICITY CON S U M P T I O N P E R K W H /P A X 8.1 9.0 9.6 7.3% PA SSENGE R MJ /PA X 29.3 32.4 34.7 7 .3% H AZA RD OUS WA ST E PR O DU C E D P E R G/PAX 4.3 4.7 17.3 268.7% PA SSE NGE R N O N-HA ZA RDOUS W A S TE PR O DUC E D K G/PA X 0.18 0.19 0.18 -6.5% PER PA SS E NGE R FUEL CONSU M P T I O N P E R ML/P A X 227.4 257.6 180.8 29.8% PA SSE NGE R VE RACRUZ A I RP O RT TOTAL FIGURES % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 TOT A L WA TER CO NSU MPTI O N M3 24,077 25,093 22,455 -10.5% TOTA L WA T ER D I S CH A R GE D M3 7,058 2,308 4,268 8 4.9% TOT A L ELECTRICIT Y CO NS UMPTI O N KWH 2,150,460 2,030,760 2,065,800 1.7% GJ 7,742 7,311 7,437 1 .7% TOTA L HA ZA R D OU S W A S T E KG 642 834 685 17.9% PROD U CE D T OT A L NONHA Z A R D OUS W A S T E T 83.2 91.9 88.9 3.2% PRODUCE D TOT A L FUEL C O NSU MPTI O N L 20,545 24,739 29,804 20.5% AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 B 9 AP P E ND I X A · E N V I R O N MENT AL O B JECT IVES AND P ER FO R MANCE , 2 0 1 2 PER-PASSENGER BASIS % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 WA TER CONSU M P T I O N P E R L/PAX 27.0 28.1 24.4 -13.2% PA SSE NGE R WATER DISCH A R G E D P E R L/PAX 7.9 2.6 4.6 79.3% PA SSE NGE R ELECT RICITY CON S U M P T I O N P E R K W H /P A X 2.4 2.3 2.2 1.4% PA SSENGE R MJ /PA X 8.7 8.2 8.1 -1.4% H AZA RD OUS WA ST E PR O DU C E D P E R G/PAX 0.7 0.9 0.7 20.4% PA SSE NGE R N O N-HA ZA RDOUS W A S TE PR O DUC E D K G/PA X 0.09 0.10 0.10 -6.2% PER PA SS E NGE R FUEL CONSU M P T I O N P E R ML/P A X 23.0 27.8 32.4 16.8% PA SSE NGE R VILL AHER MO SA A I RP O RT TOTAL FIGURES % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 TOT A L WA TER CO NSU MPTI O N M3 35,386 27,464 28,537 3 .9% TOTA L WA T ER D I S CH A R GE D M3 5,228 5,233 6,590 2 5.9% TOT A L ELECTRICIT Y CO NS UMPTI O N KWH 3,262,427 3,418,749 3,539,846 3.5% GJ 11,745 12,307 12,743 3 .5% TOTA L HA ZA R D OU S W A S T E KG 354 434 408 6.0% PROD U CE D T OT A L NONHA Z A R D OUS W A S T E T 62.5 113.7 125.4 10.3% PRODUCE D TOT A L FUEL C O NSU MPTI O N L 29,537 29,390 28,966 0.5% AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 B10 AP P E ND I X A · E N V I R O N MENT AL O B JECT IVES AND P ER FO R MANCE , 2 0 1 2 PER-PASSENGER BASIS % CHANGE PA RA ME TE R UNI T M M T 2010 2011 2012 12 VS 11 WA TER CONSU M P T I O N P E R L/PAX 45.9 31.3 28.9 -7.7% PA SSE NGE R WATER DISCH A R G E D P E R L/PAX 6.8 6.0 6.7 11.9% PA SSE NGE R ELECT RICITY CON S U M P T I O N P E R K W H /P A X 4.2 3.9 3.6 8.0% PA SSENGE R MJ /PA X 15.2 14.0 12.9 -8.0% H AZA RD OUS WA ST E PR O DU C E D P E R G/PAX 0.5 0.5 0.4 16.5% PA SSE NGE R N O N-HA ZA RDOUS W A S TE PR O DUC E D K G/PA X 0.08 0.13 0.13 -2.0% PER PA SS E NGE R FUEL CONSU M P T I O N P E R ML/P A X 38.3 33.5 29.4 12.4% PA SSE NGE R AN N U A L S US T A I N A B I L I TY R EP O R T 2012 B11
