Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact June 2012 to June 2013 Statement of continued support by our General Manager: To our stakeholders: Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) hereby reaffirms its support for the United Nations Global Compact and commitment to its principles. Our operations and strategies will continue to be aligned with the initiative mission and objectives. We believe that being socially responsible is the right thing to do. Our company therefore is moving from a state of harm minimization to value creation with the purpose of achieving sustainable development and long term growth. Our engagement with the Global Compact initiative is our first step towards making a difference in our community. We have already started, and we plan to continue. Sincerely yours, Eng. Jalal Bitar General Manager Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact June 2012 to June 2013 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals  Non-Harassment Policy We are committed to provide a work environment free of unlawful harassment. This includes sexual harassment, as well as harassment based on such factors as race, color, creed, religion, national origin or ancestry, age, gender identity, medical condition, marital status, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation, or any other basis protected by federal, state or local law. All such harassment is unlawful. This includes harassment based on the perception that a person possesses any of these characteristics, or is associated with a person who possesses, or is perceived as possessing, any of these characteristics. EBCO (BITAR) will not tolerate harassment of our employees by anyone, including any supervisor, co-worker, vendor, associate, or customer of ours. Harassment Defined: Harassment refers to behavior that is unwelcome, is personally offensive, debilitates morale, and interferes with the work performance and effectiveness of an employee. It includes inappropriate and disrespectful conduct and communication. No employee should feel they must tolerate an inappropriate or uncomfortable situation. We will take your concerns seriously. Every complaint of harassment that is reported will be investigated thoroughly, promptly, and in as confidential a manner as possible. If a harassment investigation determines that inappropriate and/or unlawful harassment has occurred, EBCO (BITAR) will take specific action that is in line with the severity of the offense. Any employee determined to be responsible for harassment will be subject to appropriate corrective action, up to and including termination of employment. In addition, appropriate action will be taken to prevent any future harassment. EBCO (BITAR) encourages all employees to report any incidents of harassment immediately.  Suggestion/generating ideas: All EBCO (BITAR) employees are continuously asked to give suggestions or improvement ideas. These ideas are consolidated in the Human Resources department and taken very seriously. Implementation The only policy tackling Human Rights is the Non-Harassment policy, written in the Employee Manual. The next step is to have human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights. Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact June 2012 to June 2013 Measurement of outcomes Measurement of outcomes is handled informally. The management communicates regularly and discusses any case pertaining to human rights when applicable. No reviews of results or audits are being conducted. Labour Assessment, policy and goals  EBCO(BITAR) abides by the Lebanese Labor Law, first promulgated on September 1946.  The law clearly states employee right and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits such as annual leaves, maternity leaves, overtime hours paid, and more.  EBCO(BITAR)believes in equal opportunities and applies it in its everyday activities though it is still not communicated to its employees. In the Employee Handbook, currently being written and expected to be released by September 2012, states that: EBCO(BITAR) is committed to encouraging diversity and eliminating discrimination inits role as an employer. Our aim is that our staff is truly representative of all sections of society and work in an environment whereeveryone is respected and able to perform to the best of their ability. Our policy is to provide equality and fairness for all in our employment and not todiscriminate on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, color, nationality,national origin, disability, sexual orientation, religion or age.  According to the Lebanese Labor Law, stating that labor of children is not allowed, children do not work in our company. Implementation  Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) does not discriminate among job seekers or employees. The company believes in equal opportunities whereby individuals are evaluated based on their qualifications rather than on irrelevant reasons such as religion, sex, race, age etc. A fair selection process is being implemented for the job seekers and an equal chance of advancement is open to all employees with a just assessment process. Employees are evaluated every 6 months based on their performance and objectives. A Code of Ethics will be distributed to all employees by September 2012, it is currently being finalized.  Engineering & Building Co. EBCO(BITAR) understands the importance of healthy and safe working conditions especially on sites. The company is ISO 9001:2008 certified since 2007. On June 2011, the company was recertified and many Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact June 2012 to June 2013 improvements have been recorded in terms of quality and safety. In December 2011, the company implemented safety signs on all sites as a preventive measure. Project Managers attended as well a training on “Health & Safety” emphasizing the importance of having health and safety measures to protect employees. All employees have medical coverage from the National Social Security Fund and/or private insurance. Measurement of outcomes  There were not any Labor incidents reported at the company.  There were 73 full time employees in the end of year 2011. Men 58, women – 15. In Lebanon, still the majority of engineers graduating are men therefore the possibility of recruiting a male engineer is much higher. There is no discrimination in terms of nationality or country of origin; we currently employ Lebanese, Palestinians, Canadians, Tunisians, Iraqis, and Syrians. The youngest employee at the company is 22 years old and the eldest is 65. 21 employees joined the company in 2011 and 5 employees left. Environment Nothing has been done in terms of Environment yet. Our objectives for the coming year comprise the following: 1Issue an Environmental Policy – the basic policy and basic guidelines. 2Reduce waste by implementing waste recycling process and reducing volume of waster per person 3Promote energy and resource conservation by reducing paper usage and power usage 4Hold seminars on environmental conservation and other programs. Anti-Corruption The only policy that has been put in place regarding anti-corruption and bribery is the Gifts Policy. It states, “every customer is entitled to courteous and outstanding service. Since such service is given impartially to all, gratuities are not expected. Therefore, employees are not allowed to accept gifts of any kind from customers or suppliers. Any offers to EBCO (BITAR) personnel, which appear to be attempts at commercial bribery, shall be reported immediately to HR department.”
