Our Commitment to UN Global Compact “Communication on Progress” March 2013 TATA ELXSI LIMITED ITPB Road Whitefield Bengaluru 560 048 India Tel 91 80 2297 9123 / 2297 9145 Fax 91 80 2841 1474 E-mail loki@tataelxsi.co.in www.tataelxsi.com Communication on Progress Introduction Tata Elxsi Limited has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2006. We are committed to the ten principles of the Compact which foster better corporate responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Communication on Progress provides an insight into our recent activities in support of the Global Compact’s objectives. Statement of Continued Support As a member of the Tata group we follow the principles of corporate governance and a code of ethics (called the Tata Code of Conduct) very similar to the Global Compact. This code of conduct is signed by all our officers and has been shared with our suppliers and customers too. For further information of the Company, please visit www.tataelxsi.com B.S Lokeshwaran Authorised Signatory UN Global Compact – “Communication on Progress” Principles Company’s Policy & Specific actions taken during the current financial Data Collected from the (GRI indicators Direction (Approach / year (Outcomes with Key Results & Measurements) internal departments / correlated with) Process / Deployment) functions (Champions) Human Rights Principle 1 We follow the 1. Employee concerns are aired and addressed HR/IR Businesses should International Declaration regularly through one –on-one dialogues with support and respect of Human Rights. Our Employee Connect Executives. the protection of HR policies and internationally procedures reflect, 2. Sessions at all Company locations conducted at proclaimed human pursue and review these regular intervals by Employee Connect rights on an annual basis. Executives. (HR 1,2,3,4) 3. Company also has a system called “Employee Touch Base” wherein an employee can raise concerns w.r.t HR issues. Action plan based on employee feedback is developed to address employee concerns. 4. Company’s facilities all over India & abroad follow standard working hours as per standard local laws. 5. We ensure that all our facilities employing contract labour through contractor does not engages child labour. 6. To reinforce the ‘Tata Code of Conduct’ a printed version is shared in English and uploaded in Tata Elxsi website. During induction stage, new hires are appraised and made to sign on “Tata Code of Conduct”. 7. Company is an equal opportunity employer wherein Employment is offered on skills and talent acquisition plays major role. 8. Emphasis is given to work life balance. Company operates on 5 days week mode. 9. As part of contribution to society in general, the company engages in several CSR activities. Principle 2 Our HR processes by 1. Care is taken by the Company to ensure that it does HR/IR Make sure they are way of consultative business with suppliers, contractors and service not complicit in committees are at all providers who comply with the relevant standards human rights times constantly and under the local laws mandated by the respective abuses proactively addressing federal or central govt. TEL endeavours to meet all issues in possible areas social security and statutory requirements mandated (HR 2, 3) of conflict with the by Federal & Central laws. Few prominent Social employees. security laws which is ensured by Tel are Provident Fund, Employee State Insurance, Maternity Benefits, Minimum/ fair wages and prohibition of child labour directly or indirectly engaged by TEL. 2. Company has a comprehensive “Whistle Blower Policy” that safeguards the interests of the employee who make protected disclosures regarding any violations w.r.t Tata Code of Conduct. 3. Company is committed to maintain a productive work environment free of sexual harassment, whether physical, verbal or psychological. The “Sexual Harassment Redressal” Policy protects the dignity of every single employee of the company and safeguards their interests. For this financial year we had zero cases registered under this point. Principles Company’s Policy & Specific actions taken during the current financial Data Collected from the (GRI indicators Direction (Approach / year (Outcomes with Key Results & Measurements) internal departments / correlated with) Process / Deployment) functions (Champions) Labour Standards Principle 3 1. Tata Elxsi 1. Annual Salary reviews are held to bench with HR/IR Businesses should benchmarks its industry standard every year in the month of April uphold the freedom process as per the and May. of association and Industry standards. the effective 2. There is no forced and compulsory labour deployed recognition of the in Tata Elxsi Limited. right to collective bargaining &4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 2. Forced and compulsory labour compulsory labour is banned by the (HR 5, 7 LA 3, 4) Government of India. Principle 5 All suppliers are told that 1. The Company’s Recruitment Policy ensures that Materials/ Admin Division. The effective the Company shall take the Company employs only adults over 18 years of abolition of child serious note if the age. labour contactor in any way employs child labour, 2. The Company has a written policy with its (HR 6) directly or indirectly. suppliers, service providers and contractors to employ adults over 18 years of age only and does not resort to employment of child labour. The vendors are made to sign with the declaration with the vendor creation itself as “we hereby declare that we do not employ the child labour either directly or indirectly in contradiction with the terms & conditions of the Child Labour (Prohibition & Regulation) Act, 1986”. 3. The monitoring is by way of periodic review of suppliers/ contractors; all the contracts /agreements are reviewed annually. Entry of labour (to Prevent entry of Minor Labour) is regulated at entry point of site itself. 4. For civil constructions or any labour oriented job the contractors are strictly warned not to employ child labour below 18 years of age. Monitoring is done by way of Security checks and reviewing with Contractors/Consultants. 5. Entry to premises is governed by WORK PERMIT ORDER which mandates employing of labour above 18 years only. Principle 6 The company’s policy on 1. The Company has a systematic recruitment HR/IR Eliminate selection, recruitment process, which ensures that there is no discrimination in and confirmation of discrimination on account of age, sex, nationality or respect of employment includes an religion (Equal Opportunity Employer). employment and explicit understanding occupation that we are equal 2. The Company gives employment or contract work opportunity employers opportunities to physically challenged people (HR 4, LA 10,11) as per the Tata Code of wherever possible.. Conduct (Clause 4). With respect to disability, the incumbent shall get the job if she or he fulfils the basic requirements. Principles Company’s Policy & Specific actions taken during the current financial year Data Collected from the Direction internal departments / (GRI indicators (Approach / Process / (Outcomes with Key Results & Measurements) functions (Champions) correlated with) Deployment) Environmental Protection Principle 7 The company is Precautionary approaches to environmental challenges Admin/Facility Division Businesses should traditionally proTowards Sustainable Development support a precautionary environment and approach to specific policies and 1. Rain Water Harvesting environmental guidelines exist to set challenges direction that 2. Stop use of banned items addresses these (HR 3.13) Principles and beyond. 3. Have norms for treated effluent water. The company has an Principle 8 Environmental Policy. 4. Dishwasher for reducing consumption of water at Undertake initiatives to Kitchen/café. promote greater environmental 5. Scientifically recycles the solid and liquid waste. responsibility 6. 15% of administrative budget is allocated for Green & (EN. 1 to 16) Safety initiatives for facilities across the country. &9 7. Last Financial year, more than 400 plants were planted Encourage the inside the facility. development and diffusion of Initiatives to promote greater environmental environmentally friendly responsibility technologies 1. Have set up 100KLD Sewerage Treatment Plant, (EN-17 for Principle 9) for Recycling waste water. 2. Ground and Roof water harvesting. 3. Greenery by design. Have planted about 100 trees and have created green lawn in about 70,000 sq.ft area in the campus. 4. Mass Transportation is being provided and Car pooling initiated there by discouraging employees to use their own conveyance. 5. 60% of employees use company transport facility while about 25 Senior Executives make use of the car pooling Facility. 6. Adapted effective energy saving methods (reduced energy consumption by margin of 15%). 7. About 1800 incandescent bulbs are replaced with Compact Florescent Lamp (CFL). 8. Solar water heater for café 9. About 25KLD treated water being used for garden. 10. Optimum use of captive power equipments with maximum load. 11. Funded for commissioning of a Biogas Plant for Mahila Mandiram at Trivandrum, South India. 12. Bio gas converter is in place. Principles Company’s Policy & Specific actions taken during the current financial year Data Collected from the Direction internal departments / (GRI indicators (Approach / Process (Outcomes with Key Results & Measurements) functions (Champions) correlated with) / Deployment) Anti-Corruption and prevention of Bribery Principle 10 As a Tata company 1. During induction programme all employees are trained Chief Ethics Officer Businesses should there is an elaborate on Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC). All our employees work against corruption system and process formally sign the TCOC, thus expressing their in all its forms, for the ‘management agreement to abide by its tenets. including extortion and of business ethics’. bribery The company has the 2. Hotline: an e-mail id has been in use since 2005 to head of the Company ease the reportage of ethical concerns by employees as the Principal Ethics and suppliers and partners. In this financial year we Officer, a Senior have no cases registered in this email id. Manager as the Chief Ethics Counsellor and 3. The Tata Code of Conduct is included in all the each Location has an Purchase Orders) Ethics Counsellor responsible. There is a Lady Ethics Counsellor to cater to the sensitivities of women employees. All employees sign the Tata Code of Conduct. The Tata Code of Conduct is sent to all suppliers with the contract, for their perusal in respect of relevant clauses. Clauses 5, 6 and 7 address these issues.
