Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future Progress in Community and Global Citizenship 2013 Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future Progress in Community and Global Citizenship 2013 CONTENTS Letter from our CEO 2 About This Report 3 We Are Listening 5 Putting Patients First 9 Caring for Caregivers 13 Commitment to Community 17 Focus on the Environment: Energy 23 Human Rights and Labor Standards 27 Environmental Stewardship 31 Anti-Corruption and Transparency 37 Organizational Profile 43 Who We Are 44 Our Stakeholders 45 Awards and Honors 45 We are all caregivers, providing compassionate care in Memberships 46 the treatment and prevention of chronic diseases for this generation and beyond. Global Reporting Initiative Index 48 letter from our CEO Dear Friends, We are pleased to present our fourth Communication on Progress (COP) to the community as part of the United Nations Global Compact. This report uses guidelines developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to record our support for economic, environmental and social improvement. Our nation faces two grave challenges — the federal deficit and the rising cost of healthcare. Cleveland Clinic believes the best approach to solving these problems begins with healthier lifestyles and healthier environments. America can’t continue to support the consequences of obesity, smoking, non-compliance and self-neglect at the current rate. We just can’t. Preventable conditions like diabetes, heart disease, and some cancers are responsible for an estimated 70 percent of our healthcare costs. Cleveland Clinic has joined with local governments and community groups on weight-loss and smoking cessation initiatives. Our Minority Men’s Health Center provides thousands of free screenings and other programs to address disease and outcome disparities in underserved populations. But it will take more than this. Leaders at all levels of society need to promote the cultural principle that unhealthy habits and lifestyles are no longer acceptable, and that healthy eating, exercise and greater responsibility for our own health are the new norm for the future. We are fortunate enough to have a group practice model that puts all of our doctors, nurses and support personnel on the same team, with the same incentives to measure, analyze and improve clinical and purchasing practices, and the patient experience where necessary. On a macro-scale, hospitals and health systems need to explore partnerships, mergers and acquisitions that support each other’s strengths, improve access for communities, and optimize utilization of resources. Sustainability is an essential part of our strategy to assure that health, environmental and social resources will be here for our patients and communities not only in this generation, but for our children and grandchildren and beyond. In 2012, Cleveland Clinic provided access to world-class care to more patients from more places than ever before. Our same-day appointment initiative booked almost a million patient appointments. We committed to increase the diversity of our supplier base, and we were recognized in 2013 for our work in the prior year by the Ethisphere Institute as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies, by DiversityInc as a top five hospital system, and by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for Sustained Excellence in energy management. We share the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Our strategy is to continue sustainable growth and the integration of human rights, environmental responsibility and corporate integrity across the full range of our activities. Thank you for your reading of this year’s Communication on Progress. I hope it will inspire you to improve our world. Sincerely, Delos M. Cosgrove, MD CEO and President Cleveland Clinic Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 2 About this Report This report is intended for our community and all of our stakeholders. It summarizes Cleveland Clinic’s progress in advancing the 10 universal principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. It also includes information on the governance, management structures and programs that support our commitment to responsible business practices. About the United Nations Global Compact In 2008, Cleveland Clinic became the first healthcare provider in the United States, and the second in the world, to commit to the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative with more than 10,000 corporate participants and other stakeholders from more than 130 countries. The UN Global Compact seeks to mainstream 10 universally accepted principles in business activities around the world, to ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. It is a practical framework for the development, implementation, and disclosure of sustainability policies and practices. For more information, please visit: www.unglobalcompact.org. The 10 Principles ■ Human Rights ■ Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. approach to environmental challenges. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to complicit in human rights abuses. promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development ■ Labor Standards and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to ■ Anti-Corruption collective bargaining. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all its forms, including extortion and bribery. all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Commitment Cleveland Clinic is committed to aligning our operations and strategies with these 10 principles, and to publishing an annual Communication on Progress (COP) to report on our continuing efforts to uphold our commitment to the UN Global Compact. 3 Cleveland Clinic About this Report About the Global Reporting Initiative The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a nonprofit organization that promotes economic, environmental and social sustainability by providing the most widely used framework for comprehensive sustainability reporting by companies and organizations world-wide. The GRI Guidelines are recommended for use by the UN Global Compact. The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact correspond to the GRI G3.1 performance indicators (found in the report index). In 2012, Cleveland Clinic became only the second U.S. healthcare provider to adopt this international gold-standard reporting process. By following the GRI framework, we enhance the rigor and quality of our COP, and facilitate continuous improvement through an incremental approach to reporting. About this Report This, our fourth consecutive COP, reflects our work in the Our reporting process annually identifies significant changes calendar year 2012. The GRI G3.1 guidelines were applied in in reporting scope and re-evaluates inclusion of components the compilation of this report. The scope of this report was of our operations. As in prior years, this report is limited to defined following both the UN Global Compact Communication our North American operations that are wholly owned and on Progress and the Global Reporting Initiative content operated. Affiliated, divested, partially leased and international guidance along with our own internal reporting processes. An operations are excluded from this report based on availability executive steering committee meets annually to review the of information and our shared control over these operations. proposed content, and a work group of leaders convenes to Data was compiled following GRI Indicator Protocols whenever discuss the availability, completeness and accuracy of informapossible or applicable, including measurement techniques, and tion, further refining this report’s scope and guiding continuous bases of calculations (including assumptions and estimations). improvement for future reporting cycles. We also perform Cleveland Clinic will not pursue external assurance for this materiality testing with community stakeholders, which report. Internal assurance is performed on certain measureprovides directional guidance as we compile and present ments by the above mentioned departments. the information contained herein (See We Are Listening). For more information regarding the content of this report, This report was compiled with the participation of the contact Cleveland Clinic’s Corporate Communications following internal departments. Each one supports the Department at 216.444.0141. application of these principles of the UN Global Compact in the work of Cleveland Clinic: • Buildings and Properties • Office for a Healthy • Clinical Affairs Environment • Community Outreach • Office of Civic Education Initiatives • Corporate Communications • Office of Diversity • Corporate Compliance Office and Inclusion • Executive Administration • Office of Patient Experience • Finance • Protective Services • Government Relations • Public Health and Research • Human Resources • Supply Chain Management • Law Department • Quality & Patient • Marketing & Safety Institute Communications • Wellness Institute • Nursing Institute Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 4 Cleveland Clinic listens to the needs and concerns of our patients as well as our community. 5 Cleveland Clinic We are Listening we are Listening Why listen? Effective leadership is effective listening. The act of listening cultivates our enterprise values: Quality, Innovation, Teamwork, Service, Integrity and Compassion. As caregivers, we must listen to the needs of our patients. As a community anchor, we must listen to the needs of our community. Every day, we are listening and striving to respond to the needs of our stakeholders. Understanding Our Patient’s Experience Patients and families also provide direct feedback on their We strive to provide outstanding and compassionate care and experiences through our Ombudsman Office, which helps to service in everything we do. To best serve our patients we investigate and resolve patient concerns. The information our must better understand their experience at Cleveland Clinic. patients provide through this office is tracked and shared To identify opportunities for improvement we rely on a regularly with our institute and hospital leaders. We also number of measures to gather patient feedback. proactively engage patients and families through our Voice of the Patient Advisory Councils so that they can work together For acute care hospitals nationwide, the primary measure of with caregivers to improve the service and quality of care at patient experience is a patient survey designed and required by Cleveland Clinic. the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). This survey, the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Cleveland Clinic is also taking a role in the development of Providers and Systems (HCAHPS) survey, measures patients’ new tools and national measures for patient feedback. For perspectives of their care following a hospital stay. Results instance, Cleveland Clinic Children’s is participating in a from this survey are publicly reported at medicare.gov/ national survey field test with approximately 50 pediatric hospitalcompare. This survey is meant to help patients make hospitals, led by Boston Children’s Hospital Center of decisions about where they go to receive inpatient care and to Excellence for Pediatric Quality Measurement, to work toward encourage hospitals to improve the quality of care they provide. the development of a standardized national survey for Beginning in 2013, based on requirements set by the 2010 pediatric inpatients. Affordable Care Act, a portion of all Medicare reimbursement Beyond standard surveys, the leadership of Cleveland Clinic for acute care is being determined by HCAHPS survey scores proactively seeks patient and caregiver feedback through a compared to national benchmarks. Cleveland Clinic also formal monthly rounding program on inpatient units and surveys outpatients with questions related to appointment outpatient clinics throughout the enterprise. Leadership scheduling, waiting time, communications, courtesy, care, and rounds are conducted to give patients and caregivers the overall assessment and willingness to recommend. opportunity to talk with leaders about what is going well and We value this important feedback and use it to improve our what could be improved upon. All insights are tabulated, services and delivery of patient-centered care. Patient thematically coded and shared with appropriate caregivers, feedback gathered from these surveys are made available to managers and leaders for follow-up. leaders and caregivers throughout the organization through a continuously updated on-line dashboard. This on-line tool Listening to Our Community of Stakeholders allows everyone on the care team to monitor survey scores We are guided in our reporting by the Global Reporting and feedback in order to identify and act on areas of opportuInitiative, which sets a framework by which we can judge the nity to improve their patients’ experience. In addition, survey merits of reporting on a range of issues. The GRI advises that feedback and performance are formally reviewed by executive we report on those topics that are of most importance to the leadership and each clinical institute on a quarterly basis. reporting organization and its stakeholders, or that have the Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 6 CCHS Patient Satisfaction Outpatient Provider 80 Recommendation and Access 70 Rate Hospital 60 Recommend Hospital 100 National Percentile 50 80 Mean Score 40 60 30 40 20 20 10 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The percentage of patients who rate Cleveland Clinic health Provider Recommendation and Access Appt when Wanted system hospitals in the top-performing categories, and those Outpatient Services for main campus Recommend Provider who would be likely to recommend our system hospitals through and the family health centers. the HCAHPS survey process, continue to rise, but we have not yet achieved our goal of the 90th percentile. potential to significantly impact an organization’s ability to Ongoing conversations with our create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social community of stakeholders value. These topics are deemed “material” and reportable. In inform our ability to serve. preparation for this year’s report we participated in a broad, ongoing conversation with our neighbors, communities, patients, colleagues, leaders, and voluntary and regulatory agencies. As a result, we know more, understand more, and can do more to address the issues that are most important, or “material,” to those we serve. We convened a series of focus groups with patients and with caregivers to better understand what information is most salient, and we used our findings here to shape the content and emphasis of this report. Our participation in the annual Sustainable Cleveland Summit, where a cross-section of the Northeast Ohio community convenes to discuss and take action on social, environmental and economic issues of local importance, shapes our strategy. So too does our ongoing participation in the Greater University Circle Community Wealth Building Initiative, which seeks to create economic opportunity, individual wealth, and strong communities for residents in our surrounding urban communities. We listen year-round via community advisory boards at our hospitals, patient experience focus groups, ombudsman processes, and caregiver engagement surveys, among other engagements. All of these efforts ensure more effective year-round service to our communities and shape our routine and annual communications. 7 Cleveland Clinic We are LISTENING Complaints Top 10 Patient and Caregiver Priorities and Grievances Community Benefit (Economic) 3.0 Employee Training and Education Programs (Social) Rate per 1,000 encounters 2.5 Patient Health and Safety (Social) Community Interaction (Social) 2.0 Business Ethics (Social) 1.5 Waste, Recycling and Pollution (Environmental) 1.0 Patient Privacy Measures (Social) Diversity and Equal Opportunity Employment (Social) 0.5 Employee Health & Safety (Social) Patient vote Economic Impact (Economic) Caregiver vote 0 2010 2011 2012 0 5 10 15 20 Complaints and Grievances per Results from 2012 Patient and Caregiver materiality testing focus groups. 1,000 encounters at main campus Participant responses selected from among the GRI G3.1 Aspects. and the family health centers. Every quarter, CEO and President Delos M. Cosgrove, MD, addresses the entire Cleveland Clinic enterprise, providing an update of the organization and a dialogue on the future direction of healthcare. Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 8 Practicing a patient-centered approach to care 9 Cleveland Clinic putting patients first putting patients first “Patients First” is the guiding principle of Cleveland Clinic. We place our patients’ health and well-being above every other consideration. Cleveland Clinic aspires to no less than providing the best care We measure success by meeting the National Patient Safety in the world. Our model of care is based on a group practice Goals as defined by The Joint Commission, the primary model in which physicians are paid a salary. They have no national healthcare accreditation organization. Patient safety financial incentive to provide unnecessary tests or treatments. measures include patient safety indicators, hospital-acquired We are organized into patient-centered institutes that combine conditions, infections and nursing quality indicators. the medical, surgical and support functions to care for single Lowering risk to patients and improving outcomes are goals disorders or organ systems under the same leadership to shared by all healthcare providers. However, Cleveland Clinic improve coordination and delivery of world-class care. leadership felt we could do this better by standardizing Our model of care is supported by our commitment to hold the approaches, reducing variability and embedding safety and highest standards for patient safety, quality outcomes and a quality principles in the culture of our organization. As a positive patient experience, and to strive to achieve them by result, the Quality & Patient Safety Institute (QPSI) was continuous measurement and improvement. We also strive to established to provide an infrastructure to fulfill this mission. address preventable conditions through education and treatment of lifestyle-related chronic diseases such as diabetes Ensuring Quality of Care and obesity. We do this by combining world-class medical Cleveland Clinic’s Department of Quality within the QPSI care with quality wellness programs designed to change oversees a comprehensive program to monitor, assess and unhealthy behaviors and encourage healthy life choices. improve the quality of patient care. QPSI content experts bring knowledge of regulations, safety, investigation and prevention Protecting Patient Safety strategies, and performance improvement tools to our front-line Cleveland Clinic’s patient safety program relies fundamentally caregivers and are partners in improving clinical practices for on creating a just culture of safety that encourages caregivers enhanced quality outcomes. to report, through our Safety Event Reporting System, any In addition, Cleveland Clinic supports transparent public event that caused, or had the potential to cause a medical reporting of healthcare quality data and participates in the error or injury. Reporting on “near misses” allows us the following public reporting initiatives. opportunity to improve our practices and prevent future errors. • Joint Commission Performance Measurement Initiative We support a safe healing environment by enforcing national • Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) Hospital Compare safety requirements for hospitals designed to provide safety from fire, smoke and panic, as well as by reducing patient • Ohio Department of Health Service Reporting exposure to harmful cleaning chemicals or potential allergens • National specialty society databases such as latex. Cleveland Clinic’s Department of Infection Our leadership has also recognized the importance of providPrevention establishes and educates on policies such as ing transparency beyond the public metrics. Each clinical equipment cleaning guidelines, influenza vaccination policies institute is required to measure and improve quality, establish and hand washing protocols for caregivers, and applies benchmarks and publish annual outcomes guides. These epidemiologic strategies and conducts research to reduce outcomes books summarize our surgical and medical trends incidence of hospital-acquired infections. Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 10 CCHS Heart Failure Readmission Rates CCHS Patient Safety Indicators 30 250 25 200 20 Occurrences 2013 Goal = 20% 150 15 % 100 10 2013 Goal = 83 50 5 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 Heart failure readmission remains a focus in 2013. We saw The combined number of patient safety indicators continues to decrease. continued improvement in 2012. Our goal for 2013 is to have 83 or fewer per month across the health system. and approaches, present data on patient volume, mortality and Skill Building through Simulation complications and provide reviews of new technologies and In 2012, Cleveland Clinic opened an expanded, state-ofinnovations. All of this data helps us identify opportunities to the-art multidisciplinary medical simulation center to allow standardize our practices in order to reduce variability and teams of healthcare providers to stage clinical scenarios to improve outcomes. It also holds us accountable to our help strengthen how they communicate and work together performance and helps referring physicians make informed in critical situations. The more opportunities healthcare choices when they consider sending their patients to Cleveland providers have to practice scenarios, the better prepared Clinic for specialized care. Transparency is an essential part of they are for difficult cases with real patients. One of the our culture. most effective features of simulation is the chance for hands-on practice with human mannequin simulators, Improving the Patient Experience which not only advances knowledge, skill and communicaCleveland Clinic was the first major academic medical center to tion, but also protects real patients from unnecessary risks. make improving the patient experience a strategic goal. It did so by being one of the first academic medical centers to appoint a chief experience officer and establish an Office of Patient Experience. This office collaborates with physician and nursing leadership to establish best practices and implement standardized protocols that ensure our caregivers deliver the best possible patient-centered care. Regardless of whether a person provides direct or indirect patient care, all Cleveland Clinic employees are caregivers and contribute to the patient experience. Our Cleveland Clinic Experience initiative includes an interactive learning session that brings together all caregivers — employees, managers, nurses and physicians — to discuss the organization’s mission, vision and values, as well as service behaviors expected of all caregivers. We also conduct a training program, Communicate with HEARTSM, that empowers caregivers to attentively listen and address patients’ and colleagues’ concerns with care. With the establishment of the Center for Excellence in Healthcare Communication, we work directly with our physicians to help them become more empathetic and effective communicators. This is an enterprise-wide resource hub for physicians and advanced clinical care providers focused on building capacity for relationship-centered 11 Cleveland Clinic putting patients first Striving for Wellness At Cleveland Clinic, we see firsthand the consequences of certain preventable conditions and their effect on the healthcare system. Cleveland Clinic’s Wellness Institute is dedicated to helping our patients, caregivers and community members achieve optimal well-being and a high quality of life. The Center for Lifestyle Medicine combines a multidisciplinary team of wellness experts with a broad range of evidence-based nutrition, exercise, stress management and behavioral health interventions to support our patients on their path to vibrant and healthy living. The Center for Integrative Medicine is dedicated to addressing the increasing demand for integrative healthcare by researching and providing access to practices that address the physical as well as lifestyle, emotional and spiritual needs of patients. Integrative Medicine uses modalities such as acupuncture, chiropractic manipulation and relaxation techniques to reduce pain; dietary and herbal approaches to manage diseases such as diabetes and fibromyalgia; and group support to change habits associated with obesity, diabetes and heart disease. These techniques support the body’s natural ability to heal, and empower our patients to make important lifestyle changes to encourage healing. communication. We work with nurses to improve patient interaction at the bedside, and we encourage patients and families to take an active role in their care. For patients, we offer a series of tools and counseling prior to admission, along with expectation-setting during every patient encounter, which has tremendously aided patient engagement. Patient experience has emerged as a dynamic issue for healthcare CEOs, physicians and industry leaders nationwide. Annually, Cleveland Clinic hosts “The Patient Experience: Empathy and Innovation Summit,” a three-day, multidisciplinary conference that features expert discussions about the national patient experience movement. In 2012, the summit was attended by more than 850 attendees from 34 states and 28 countries, making it the largest conference of its kind in the world. In 2012, Cleveland Clinic’s patient experience programs were nationally recognized for their innovation and effectiveness. Press Ganey, a national survey vendor, awarded Cleveland Clinic with its 2012 Patient Voice Award, which recognizes Tools to Communicate and Coordinate Care academic medical centers that have achieved superior patient satisfaction as demonstrated by HCAHPS performance Cleveland Clinic is a leader in the healthcare industry’s compared to academic medical centers in the Press Ganey conversion to the electronic medical record (EMR), a database. University HealthSystem Consortium (UHC), an computer-based version of the patient chart. With the EMR, alliance of nonprofit U.S. medical centers, named Cleveland the risk of lost information is virtually eliminated, and Clinic as one of four “Rising Stars” for significant improvements communication and coordination of care is enhanced as the in patient safety, mortality, clinical effectiveness and equity of healthcare team can access patient records simultaneously care. In 2012, Cleveland Clinic jumped more than 20 positions in a seamless process for healthcare providers. in rank from the previous year and moved into the top 20 of Cleveland Clinic patients now have the ability to access a participating member organizations in UHC’s annual Quality portion of their own medical record on the Internet at any and Accountability Study. time through a web-based service called MyChart®. Fast, easy and completely secure, MyChart is a breakthrough in physician-patient communication, and yet another example of how information technology is improving healthcare and benefiting patients. Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 12 A caregiver modeling healthy behaviors. 13 Cleveland Clinic Photo Credit: Reen Nemeth, Center for Medical Art and Photography caring for caregivers caring for caregivers Our most important resource is our caregivers. Cleveland Clinic is committed to the health, growth, safety and engagement of our team of more than 43,000 caregivers. Exercising Workplace Wellness they qualify, participate in an appropriate chronic disease Over the past eight years, we have created a comprehensive management program. Caregivers in good health who proacculture of wellness, enabling caregivers to take an active role tively participate in prescribed exercise programs to increase in support of their own health. Our policies and programs are physical fitness, and those who participate in a chronic disease designed to make healthy choices easier for our caregivers, management program may be eligible for a rebate on health as well as offer recovery resources for those whose wellinsurance premiums. Caregivers, their families and the being is compromised. Cleveland Clinic was one of the first community at large can also take advantage of the comprehenhealthcare organizations to ban smoking on its campuses, as sive wellness-focused programs offered by Cleveland Clinic. well as implement a policy to hire no individuals who use tobacco products. Free tobacco cessation programs are made Developing Our Talent available to current caregivers who smoke and desire to quit Cleveland Clinic’s mission is the same today as it was in and improve their health. To encourage a healthy diet, foods 1921: “provide better care of the sick, investigation into their with trans-fats and sugared drinks are no longer offered in problems and further education of those who serve.” The Cleveland Clinic cafeterias or vending machines. In addition, success of Cleveland Clinic as a world class organization calories are listed for all prepared food items in our cafeterias relies heavily on the engagement, performance and developand, to the extent possible, by our retail vendors. ment of our caregivers. Our goal is to create opportunities where caregivers can experience long and fulfilling careers at In support of healthier caregivers, Cleveland Clinic also offers: Cleveland Clinic. Our career path and development programs • Free use of onsite fitness centers, free memberships at ensure that caregivers have the support needed to nurture Curves, and discounts at area fitness clubs. Free group their individual development, and that we build and retain a exercise classes, including yoga, are held throughout the strong talent pipeline at all levels of the organization. This health system. investment has a measurable impact on the patient experi• Free access to Shape Up & Go!™, an online, teamence, caregiver experience and financial performance. To oriented program to engage caregivers and assist in help achieve our shared goals and to develop each caregiver tracking healthy behaviors. to his or her highest potential, we offer: • Free nutrition counseling and Weight Watchers • Development course tracks for each level of leadership memberships. through the Center for Leadership and Learning • Access to spiritual care resources, caregiver assistance • Cleveland Clinic Academy curriculum for executive counselors, and confidential assistance programs. and medical management training • Access to free programs such as time management, conflict • A robust career planning website for caregivers resolution and other skill-building strategies to reduce stress. • Mentoring programs Caregivers enrolled in the Employee Health Plan are encour• School at Work to support the career development aged to know their primary health indicators, including blood of entry-level caregivers pressure, cholesterol, glucose and body mass index, and, if Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 14 Employee Health Plan Care Management Enrollment in Programs for: Employee Engagement Asthma, Diabetes, Hypertension, Hyperlipidemia or Weight Management 70 2013 Goal = 65 10,000 60 8,000 Unique Employees 50 6,000 40 Percent 30 4,000 20 2,000 10 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 2010 2011 2012 The Care Management program is offered to members with complex needs, high-risk As measured by the Gallup Q12® survey method. status and/or high resource utilization patterns to develop self-care abilities, facilitate Results shown are percentile score within the access to and appropriate use of resources, and to coordinate transition of service Gallup workgroup database. among care providers. Data shows Employee Health Plan members only. • Accelerated development programs for high Healthy Choice Hits Home potential caregivers Cleveland Clinic offers incentives for wellness and prevention. • Technical training in all clinical and technical fields Caregivers are encouraged to take responsibility for their own • Tuition reimbursement for undergraduate degrees health, resulting in improved health and less expensive and above healthcare premiums. Proactive healthcare is promoted, Participants may self-select into many of these programs. including identifying individual wellness obstacles, making Participants in accelerated development programs are identihealthy choices and using Cleveland Clinic resources to fied through Cleveland Clinic’s Succession Planning and resolve concerns. Through medical management programs, Individual Development Planning processes. the Cleveland Clinic Employee Health Plan strives to ensure that quality-oriented, culturally sensitive healthcare services Engaging Our Talent are provided to the employee at the appropriate level, in the Employee engagement means that an employee is involved proper setting, and in a timely manner. in, enthusiastic about and committed to his or her work. Research shows employees who are engaged are more productive, have higher patient satisfaction ratings, better patient safety records and less turnover and absenteeism than those who have low engagement. In 2008, Cleveland Clinic began measuring employee engagement through the Gallup Q12® survey method. Since 2008, overall employee engagement has risen significantly, from the 38th to the 57th percentile of the Gallup workgroup database. We rely on our action planning process as well as the commitment of all managers and each caregiver to continue to make Cleveland Clinic a great place to work and grow.. We ask our caregivers to make a commitment to putting patients first and we understand that recognizing that commitment is critical to the engagement of our caregivers and the continued success of Cleveland Clinic. We also Caregiver Carol Reid, together understand that our caregivers give of themselves in a with her family, lost a combined significant and meaningful way to patients, coworkers and 250 pounds through exercise, diet the organization every day. Through our personalized online modification and a commitment recognition program, called Caregiver Celebrations, caregivers to improved health. are recognized for their positive contributions by their patients, peers and managers, yielding increased engagement and recognition of our caregivers’ commitment to Cleveland Clinic. 15 Cleveland Clinic caring for caregivers Absenteeism Employee Injury Rates Employee Injuries (as measured by unscheduled by Gender 2012 paid time off) U.S. Hospital Female Average 2011* Male Caregiver Gender 2012 Ratio 2012 OSHArecordable 2011 Injuries 2011 Lost Time Injury Rate Total OSHA-recordable Rate Reported 2010 Injuries 2010 Occupational Disease Rate 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 0.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 7.00 0 20 40 60 80 100 Percent of Total Employee Injuries Per 100 Full-Time Employees Percent Hours that are Unscheduled *Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics for NAICS code Paid Time Off 622 (hospitals), 2011. Protecting Caregivers at Work The personal safety and health of each caregiver, patient and visitor is of the utmost importance to Cleveland Clinic. It is our policy to maintain an environmental health and safety program that conforms with and/or exceeds all applicable local, state and federal environmental, health and safety standards and regulations. At the main campus and family health centers, a formal Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) team is charged with the implementation and monitoring of EHS management activities. At each community hospital, an “Environment of Care” management plan is maintained to provide a safe place to work and heal. Enterprise safety leadership regularly reviews safety policies, procedures, training and equipment to ensure they meet or exceed the latest regulations and standards. Cleveland Clinic’s Center for Corporate Health further promotes occupational health and safety through new hire pre-placement Hero Experience Program health assessments, annual tuberculosis screenings, flu In January 2012, the Talent Acquisition department at vaccinations, and by administering a blood borne pathogen Cleveland Clinic launched its Hero Experience program post-exposure program. to assist military veterans in finding rewarding careers as Ultimately, the responsibility for environmental health and safety caregivers. Cleveland Clinic shares core values with the extends to each and every caregiver. Only through a cooperative U.S. Armed Forces, and many of the skills veterans develop effort by supervisors and caregivers can an effective accident during their service are readily transferable to our industry. prevention program be established and preserved. Working with the internal Military Employee Resource Group Cleveland Clinic’s recording and reporting of accident statistics and the Military Support Group, along with our external is in accordance with the requirements of the Occupational partners, including the U.S. Armed Forces, the Cuyahoga Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Bureau of County Workforce Investment Board, the Cuyahoga County Labor Statistics (BLS). An injury or illness is considered to be Veteran Commission and the Northeast Ohio Health Science work-related if an event or exposure in the work environment and Innovation Coalition, we created a job matching tool that either caused or contributed to the resulting condition or veterans can use to find relevant Cleveland Clinic positions significantly aggravated a pre-existing condition. Our injury and that require the same fundamental skills honed in their absenteeism data presented above represents our Northeast specific military roles. Nearly one year after program launch, Ohio enterprise and reflects the majority of our caregivers. more than 300 veterans have been hired. To learn more: There were no work-related fatalities in 2012. http://my.clevelandclinic.org/careers/hero-experience.aspx Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 16 Volunteers take to the Cleveland streets to raise money for tomorrow’s cures. 17 Cleveland Clinic Photo Credit: Matt Kohlmann, Center for Art and Medical Photography commitment to community commitment to community Cleveland Clinic is committed to playing a strong role in our communities. Each of our hospitals and family health centers is dedicated to providing compassionate, high-quality healthcare and supports efforts to improve the health and vitality of our neighbors and neighborhoods. Understanding Our Community’s Health Needs Meeting the Needs of Our Communities In 2011, Cleveland Clinic initiated a comprehensive commuThe Cleveland Clinic Office of External Affairs assists in nity health needs assessment to understand and plan for the ensuring that Cleveland Clinic is a dynamic partner with the current and future health needs of the communities served communities we serve. External Affairs includes four by our hospitals. In accordance with Internal Revenue Code departments — the Office of Civic Education Initiatives, Section 501(r), each hospital conducted its own community Community Outreach, Government Relations, and Public health needs assessment. Health and Research — that provide critical leadership and resources to improve community health and well-being. Cleveland Clinic used widely accepted criteria in the assessment process to determine and measure the health needs of Every day, Cleveland Clinic is finding new ways to serve the each community. We evaluated secondary data; interviewed community. The efforts of Cleveland Clinic Community key community stakeholders, including those knowledgeable Outreach are guided by the belief that the entire community about public health issues; and received focus group input benefits when the people within it are physically, mentally from community residents. The top health needs were those and spiritually healthy. We promote education and managesupported by both secondary data and raised by key stakement of chronic diseases through the development of holders and focus groups. We anticipate releasing the final programs based on identified community needs. Programs health needs assessment reports to the public by the end of include health fairs, health talks and clinical health screen2013. We have begun to evaluate the identified health needs ings at churches, schools, senior centers, neighborhood and to develop implementation strategies for each of our groups and other nonprofit organizations. Community hospitals to ensure our programs are tailored to the needs residents can learn about these programs through identified. Implementation strategies will be reviewed annually Community Connections, a comprehensive calendar mailed to determine ways to improve our commitment to the healtheach month to residents throughout Northeast Ohio, and care needs of communities served by Cleveland Clinic. This made available at our locations and on hospital websites. annual process will be incorporated as a part of existing Cleveland Clinic has also deployed a variety of programs strategic and operating plans. and publications to help our community make healthier Through financial assistance and as a leading Medicaid lifestyle choices. We led a five-year smoking cessation provider, we provide healthcare access to those who otherwise campaign in Cuyahoga County, publish health and wellness could not afford it, as well as clinical and wellness services for information and schedules through our Center for Consumer the treatment and prevention of chronic diseases. Cleveland Health Information, and we offer free daily wellness tips and Clinic also is engaged in a broad array of community outreach content from our physicians at our wellness-focused programs, including free health screenings and nutrition website, clevelandclinicwellness.com. Cleveland Clinic also programs that serve vulnerable and at-risk populations. sponsors a highly visible “Let’s Move It” campaign in the Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 18 2012 Cleveland Clinic Community Benefit $754.2 Million Research** $206.4 M Financial Assistance $154.6 M Medicaid Shortfall* $105.5 M Subsidized Health Services $13.7 M Outreach Programs $50.0 M Education** $224.0 M Includes all health system operations in Ohio, Florida and Nevada *Net of HCAP benefit of $16.6 million **Research and Education are supported by externally sponsored funding of $143.6 million region that encourages healthy living and provides informaThe Langston Hughes Community Health tion at letsmoveit.org. We also developed the Go! Foods® and Education Center brand to identify healthy foods that meet specific nutritional Residents of Cleveland’s Fairfax neighborhood have been criteria. We work with local food retailers to deploy the Go! served by the Cleveland Clinic Community Health and Foods labels on shelves to help consumers make healthier Education Center at Langston Hughes for the past five food choices. years. Housed in a central location, the center shares Cleveland Clinic is committed to adapting our services to space with other community agencies that provide nutrition meet changing community needs. In October 2011, we assistance and in-home senior services. With a 34 percent opened the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Health Center to serve poverty rate and a median annual household income of the East Cleveland community following the closing of $16,000, the community of Fairfax is offered free medical Huron Hospital. This center reaches beyond traditional assessments, screenings, healthcare navigation, tobacco healthcare services and also links patients with financial cessation counseling and treatment, nutrition classes and and social services all in one location. For local residents exercise programs by Cleveland Clinic. requiring services beyond the scope of the center, courtesy Weekly offerings at Langston Hughes include drop-in transportation is provided to and from their neighborhoods medical clinic hours, health talks, nutrition classes and to appointments at our main campus, as well as at Euclid, individualized exercise programs. An on-site fitness instructor Hillcrest and South Pointe hospitals. is available for one-on-one consultation, and ongoing education programs provide a holistic framework for Focusing on the Next Generation behavior change and health promotion. More than 2,500 The success of Cleveland Clinic and the community it individuals participated in the center’s programming in 2012. serves depends on healthy, educated and informed indiIn addition, more than 700 encounters were provided for viduals. Therefore, we are committed to strengthening the social work, counseling and navigation to vital services. physical, cultural and educational health of Northeast Ohio’s most precious resource — our next generation. The emerging childhood obesity epidemic threatens the health and well-being of all generations. In response, Cleveland Clinic collaborates with local school districts to address this important issue. The Department of Public Health and Research (PHR) leads 5 to Go!™, an obesity prevention program that includes age-specific curricula, data collection and analysis, and provides recommendations for policy change. The Eat Right at School program utilizes guidelines that meet and exceed standards set by the U.S. Photo Credit: Yu Kwan Lee, Center for Art and Medical Photography 19 Cleveland Clinic commitment to community Neuro ICU nurse Rachel Leahy, BSN, RN, former Cleveland Clinic nursing intern Summer Internship Program The Cleveland Clinic Office of Civic Education Initiatives’ Summer Internship Program was designed to increase students’ interest and literacy in science by expanding their learning experiences beyond the classroom. The nine-week, paid internship program provides top regional high school students with the opportunity to work and learn alongside nationally renowned healthcare professionals in a variety of fields. At the end of the program, students present scientific research or creative projects they produce during the internship. Since 2005, Cleveland Clinic has dedicated more than 527,760 hours mentoring 1,029 interns. Among the program’s alumni, 111 are currently pursuing undergraduate degrees in pre-medicine, 64 in medicine, 23 in pharmacy, 100 in nursing, and 78 in a scientific discipline. Photo Credit: Matt Kohlmann, Center for Art and Medical Photography Department of Agriculture under the 2010 Healthy, HungerFree Kids Act. Nine school districts have implemented this program, making high-level changes that positively impact the health of their students. During the 2011-2012 school year, the department continued its partnership with the First Ring Superintendents’ Collaborative and conducted body mass index (BMI) assessments of 15,800 kindergarten, third, fifth and ninth grade students in 16 inner-ring school districts. In addition, Food Is Knowledge®, a nutrition curriculum for pre-kindergarten through first grade, was taught to 1,240 children across 22 Greater Cleveland Photo Credit: Lon Horwedel, Kresge Foundation schools. Healthy Futures, a curriculum encouraging The East Cleveland Teen Collaborative (ECTC) healthier behaviors and positive attitudes toward nutrition and exercise, was piloted in five schools and organizations. Funded by a grant from the Kresge Foundation, and in PHR also partnered with Cleveland Clinic’s Center for partnership with a broad coalition of community-based Human Nutrition to assist schools in providing healthier agencies, the ECTC was launched by the Department of food options for school meals. Public Health and Research to address issues impacting the health of adolescents in East Cleveland. Through the efforts of the Office of Civic Education Initiatives and our community partners, Cleveland Clinic With 40 percent of the population below the poverty line, works to pique students’ interest in science, math, health adolescents in this community face many challenges. In and wellness, the arts and innovation. These innovative 2012, 14 students were selected from East Cleveland’s programs create an elementary and secondary education Shaw High School to serve as “Teen Ambassadors.” The healthcare workforce “pipeline” designed to stem regional ECTC seeks to strengthen the protective factors that and national healthcare workforce shortages and ensure contribute to improved outcomes for the ambassadors by we develop the talent to keep our organization and connecting them to their community and empowering them community competitive in the global economy of the to impact their peers. They implemented a teen version of 21st Century. the national Neighbor Circles program to facilitate discussions about improving the community, produced health-related public service announcements, and coordinated a well-attended “poetry slam” featuring original poetry and songs addressing violence in the community. The students also participated in structured activities to encourage healthy behaviors, such as nurturing a local community garden plot and attending cooking demonstrations. Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 20 Supplier Diversity Cleveland Clinic has a long-standing commitment to serving local needs by attracting, supporting and partnering with women and minority business enterprises (W/MBEs) to positively spur the local economy. In 2012, 25 percent of addressable supply chain spend (up from 22 percent in 2010) and 22 percent of addressable construction spend (up from 21 percent in 2010) went to W/MBEs. Our supplier diversity program and procurement process supports this commitment through a quarterly dialogue with local diverse supplier organizations. We also work to identify and partner with minority business enterprises (MBEs) through mentor programs to grow our vendor list and increase the number of healthcare-qualified MBEs in the region, creating economic vitality that goes beyond the awarding of a contract. Recognizing a relatively weaker representation of MBEs in the marketplace, Cleveland Clinic’s Buildings and Properties office began laying the foundation for its healthcare construction mentorship program in summer 2012. In partnership with five established construction management companies and two architectural design firms to date, these companies will work to include MBE partners in all aspects of an awarded Cleveland Clinic project and, if appropriate, with other projects outside of Cleveland Clinic. The goal of this program is to advance the skillsets needed to conduct business with a large healthcare organization to prepare those MBEs to compete independently in about three years. Driving a Major Economic Engine In 2012, Cleveland Clinic employed 43,394 caregivers and generated $6.2 billion in operating revenues. Every three years we conduct an economic impact study. According to the most recent study, Cleveland Clinic directly or indirectly supported more than 81,000 Ohio jobs in 2010, representing approximately $3.9 billion in wages and earnings, and spurred nearly $10.5 billion of total economic activity in the state. Through the direct and indirect earnings it created, Cleveland Clinic supported more than 58,000 Northeast Ohio households that paid enough school-related property taxes to cover the cost of educating nearly 18,000 kindergarten through 12th-grade students. Indirectly, we supported $2.28 billion in household-level spending on Ohio goods and services (an increase of $580 million since 2006). We take our responsibilities as a nonprofit, tax-exempt, charitable organization seriously and believe our activities incorporate our institution’s mission and core values. In 2012, our community benefit contribution totaled $754.2 Partners for Safer Communities million, including clinical services, health professions The presence of high rates of crime and violence is a education, outreach programs and research. Clinical recognized social determinant of health. The Cleveland services include financial assistance, Medicaid shortfall, Clinic Police Department supports healthier communities subsidized services and outreach programs. Our outreach through security awareness briefings, concentrated programs focus on community health and wellness with an policing and by maintaining close working relationships emphasis on prevention, wellness and chronic disease with the police departments whose jurisdictions includes management, especially to the most vulnerable and at-risk a Cleveland Clinic facility. Memos of Understanding are populations. Cleveland Clinic’s Community Benefit is also written and agreed upon outlining the responsibilities of each department in order to ensure a collaborative effort reported annually on our Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to keep facilities and the surrounding communities safe Form 990. and secure. In addition, Cleveland Clinic’s Emergency Management Department performs outreach to local school systems to train teachers and students on the new “ALICE” model designed to educate individuals on options available to them in an Active Shooter event. 21 Cleveland Clinic commitment to community Supplier Diversity Supplier Diversity Supply Chain Spend (W/MBE) Construction Spend W/MBE 30 25 2013 Goal = 28% 2013 Goal = 24% 23 25 Percent 21 Percent 19 20 17 15 15 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Supplier Diversity charts show portion of Cleveland Clinic addressable spend that went to minority-owned businesses for each year shown. Addressable spend is that amount for each year that was open for bid and where there are known minority-owned businesses providing such products or services. A minority-owned business is one that is at least 51 percent owned and controlled/managed by a minority individual or minority group. This includes but is not limited to the following minority groups: African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Native Americans, Asian Pacific Americans, women, and veteran/ service-disabled veteran owned businesses. Supporting United Way By addressing the most pressing health and human Cleveland Clinic also hosts an annual “Day of Caring” in service needs, United Way of Greater Cleveland finds itself which our caregivers participate in a day-long volunteer event on the front lines of responding to the economic downto assist a United Way agency with service activities ranging turn. It is promoting wellness, assisting the elderly, from paperwork, painting and yard work, to structural educating children and helping families out of poverty and engineering. As part of this one-day event, Cleveland Clinic homelessness through counseling and job skills training. provides the designated agency with more than $50,000 worth of work at no cost. Cleveland Clinic supports United Way and its nearly 130 agencies through an annual campaign. The campaign’s United Way Campaign Results leadership team includes more than 40 volunteer caregiv2,050 2,000 Goal ers from across enterprise who work together to increase 1,950 Campaign Total $ Thousands awareness and raise funds. In 2012, Cleveland Clinic’s 1,900 1,850 campaign raised more than $2.08 million, representing 1,800 the third largest campaign donation in Greater Cleveland. 1,750 1,700 1,650 1,600 1,550 1,500 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 In 2012, more than 100 caregivers participated in a Day of Caring at Rose-Mary Center in Euclid, Ohio. The center serves children and adults with physical and intellectual disabilities. Photo Credit: Willie McAllister, Center for Art and Medical Photography Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 22 Managing our infrastructure is key to energy conservation. 23 Cleveland Clinic Photo Credit: Stephen Travarca, Center for Art and Medical Photography focus on the environment: energy focus on the environment: energy Healthcare is an energy-intensive industry, consuming more energy per square foot on average than any other commercial building type aside from food service. Cleveland Clinic consumes a significant amount of energy in the delivery of patient care. Areas of Northeast Ohio are designated by the U.S. EPA as nonattainment areas for ozone and fine Caregiver Melvin “Mel” Ray, particles, airborne pollutants linked to long-term health effects, ensuring the main campus including chronic respiratory disease, heart disease and other central plant runs safely adverse conditions. Our region’s reliance on coal-generated and efficiently. electricity is a primary contributor to those pollutants. Emissions from fossil fuels used to generate electricity represent roughly 26 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions from human activity, contributing significantly to climate change, another widely recognized public health threat. Cleveland Clinic’s consumption of electricity constitutes about 80 percent of our annual scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, we can impact the health of our community by proactively reducing the intensity with which we use energy. As a leader in healthcare, we consider it our responsibility to lead in this area, too. Cleveland Clinic is proud to be recognized with a 2013 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence Award by the U.S. EPA for our long-term commitment to energy efficiency. In December 2011, Cleveland Clinic CEO and President Delos “Toby” Cosgrove, MD, accepted President Obama’s Better Buildings Challenge, committing to reduce energy intensity by 20 percent by 2020, while transparently showcasing the solutions used to reach that goal. This public promise further reinforces our long-term commitment to energy conservation. We continue to improve Photo Credit: Stephen Travarca, Center for Art and Medical Photography the energy efficiency of our existing buildings by optimizing building systems, making targeted reinvestments, managing the energy consumed by electronic devices and engaging the number of desktop printers across the health system by caregivers to change energy-related behaviors. more than 800 units, an 11 percent reduction to date. We have also begun activation of software to manage power consumpIn 2012, Cleveland Clinic spent more than $18 million on tion from personal computers. In addition, we are working to infrastructure repair and replacement projects that yielded an upgrade building automation systems throughout the enterprise energy-saving benefit. We have actively worked to decrease the to improve monitoring and management of building systems to amount of energy consumed by electronic devices by reducing ensure optimal and efficient performance. Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 24 2012 Funded Energy Projects by Type Source Energy Use Intensity (EUI)* 560 HVAC 540 520 Lighting 480 Controls 460 Source EUI 440 Envelope Weather Normalized Source EUI 420 Motor/Pump 400 2009 2010 2011 2012 EUI is a measure of the energy consumed by a building or portfolio relative to its size. Here, EUI is shown as source EUI. Source energy represents the total amount of raw fuel consumed including all transmission, delivery, and production losses. In 2012, Cleveland Clinic invested $18.7 million in infrastructure projects that yielded an energy efficiency *Data shown includes the wholly owned and operated domestic enterprise. It excludes leases benefit. This chart shows investments by type. as well as Huron Hospital (historical), Fairview Moll Cancer Center, Children’s Rehab Hospital, Florida and Nevada operations, and hotels. In 2012, 475,054,541 kWh of electricity and 19,095,466 therms of natural gas were consumed. Cleveland Clinic is also committed to improving our ability to measure and report performance and progress. We use the widely accepted EPA ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager system to benchmark energy performance and track progress over time. In 2012, we undertook a comprehensive review of our dataset to ensure quality and consistency, so as to fulfill our commitments with the utmost accountability and transparency. Previously, we have reported energy performance over time in site energy intensity. In this and future reports, we will use weather normalized source energy intensity to align with standard practice as established by our partnerships with the ENERGY STAR and Better Buildings Challenge programs. In addition, we will be increasing the number of utility meters installed on our campuses to measure individual building performance. In 2013, we will adopt a utility bill management system that will provide data quality checks and enhanced analytics capabilities, which will provide greater insight into our A Green City on a Blue Lake energy-efficiency programs, supply cost reductions and other In August 2009, Cleveland Mayor Frank Jackson conutility strategies. In addition, completion of a new environmenvened the first Sustainable Cleveland 2019 Summit to tal data management system currently in implementation will bring together hundreds of people interested in applying allow us to report updated greenhouse gas emission inventothe principles of sustainability to the design of the local ries in future reporting cycles. economy. Cleveland Clinic is a proud participant in Cleveland Clinic remains committed to further reducing our Northeast Ohio’s commitment to its sustainable future by consumption of hydro-carbon generated energy and to building an economic engine to empower a green city on supporting local jobs through the use of advanced and a blue lake. By 2019, the 50th anniversary of the burning renewable energy applications. In partnership with Evergreen Cuyahoga River, we hope to realize this powerful vision Energy Solutions, we installed our first solar array in 2009 at and be part of a vibrant, healthy, successful community. our main campus with 100 kW in generating capacity from Each year, Sustainable Cleveland 2019 has a designated 480 solar panels. We have planned and designed additional focus to help our citizens and businesses rally around arrays; however, recent significant declines in renewable focused progress. Much of 2012 was spent laying the energy credits have made reasonable financing of solar groundwork for 2013’s Year of Advanced and Renewable installations difficult. We are in ongoing discussions with our Energy, in which businesses and communities are solar partners to develop a sustainable model to support focusing on growing and supporting the local advanced further expansion in our installed solar capacity. energy economy. 25 Cleveland Clinic focus on the environment: energy Regulated Air Emissions by Type and Weight Baseline Greenhouse Gas Inventory (2008) (Main Campus 2012) (Main Campus 2012) <1% 1% Emissions Parameter (Metric Tons) Electricity Usage CO2e1 62,299.1 19% NOx2 47.9 1 Inventory conducted as required Fuel Usage PM total2 4.7 by 40 CFR 98 and reported to Refrigerant Leakage the US EPA. PM-102 4.7 2 Title V annual Emissions Mobile Sources SO22 0.6 Inventory Summary per OAC rule 80% CO2 53.3 3745-15-03 submitted to Ohio VOC/OC2 4 EPA. OC2 5 The main campus is the only Cleveland Clinic facility that Hexane2 1 meets the reporting requireBaseline greenhouse gas inventory of scope 1 and 2 emissions for Ohio-based Benzene2 0 ments by number of emissions operations showed a footprint of 387,258 metric tons of carbon dioxide units for the above emissions All Haps2 1 inventories. equivalents (CO2e). Inventory conducted using The Climate Registry’s General Reporting Protocol for the Voluntary Reporting Program, Version 1.1. Showcasing Energy Efficiency In 2012, the Cleveland Clinic Tomsich Pathology Laboratories chiller, hot water boiler, cooling tower, and unitary cooling opened its doors as part of a full-service, national reference equipment, as well as demand control ventilation and lab offering state-of-the-art testing of clinical samples to help exhaust air energy recovery. The building combines a the medical community detect, diagnose and treat disease. vegetative roofing system over 27 percent of the roof area, Continuing Cleveland Clinic’s commitment to using evidencewith a solar-reflective white EPDM roof over the remainder. based design and the U.S. Green Building Council’s These strategies reduce the heat island effect and required Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating cooling loads among other benefits. system, this building was certified LEED-NC v2.2 Gold, To ensure the building was designed, constructed, and achieving 5 credits for optimizing energy performance. calibrated to operate as intended, a program of enhanced The building design maximizes day lighting and affords commissioning was undertaken, and a systems manual access to views to 92 percent of the building’s regularly was developed to aid building operating staff in the occupied space by applying extensive exterior and interior appropriate operation of the building. Further, retro-comglazing. Day lighting controls on the first two rows of missioning is planned to ensure the systems operate as lighting on the east, south and west edges of the building designed over time. help achieve an optimum lighting level, while maximizing Together, the strategies employed are expected to deliver a energy savings. To reduce solar heat gain in summer, 27 percent energy savings when compared to baseline horizontal sunshades are used. Interior LED lighting and using the ASHRAE Standard 90.1-2004, Appendix G occupancy sensors in all offices and conference rooms methodology. Visit the Cleveland Clinic Better Buildings further reduce lighting power densities. Challenge site for updates on the building’s progress over Energy efficiency was further improved with the installation time at: http://www4.eere.energy.gov/challenge/partners/ of advanced, responsive systems, including a high efficiency better-buildings/cleveland-clinic Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 26 Executive Chief Nursing Officer K. Kelly Hancock, MSN, RN, NE-BC, greets a potential nurse caregiver at Nursing Now. Hosted at Cleveland Browns’ Stadium, Cleveland Clinic caregivers helped to interview and hire more than 400 nurses in one day. 27 Cleveland Clinic Photo Credit: Stephen Travarca, Center for Art and Medical Photography human rights and labor standards human rights and labor standards Cleveland Clinic is committed to protecting human rights and labor standards, directly and indirectly, through our employment and business practices and community engagement. As one of the largest employers in Northeast Ohio, with Cleveland Clinic supports Employee Resource Groups that enterprises also in Florida, Nevada, Canada and the Middle provide a network for our diverse caregiver populations to East, we strive to foster a healthy, respectful and inclusive advance the inclusion, retention and professional developworkforce, and to bring our benefits to the communities ment of these employees. These groups also serve to raise we serve. awareness of the healthcare needs of our diverse patients. Cleveland Clinic also strives to foster a culturally sensitive Cleveland Clinic respects and upholds the labor laws of the workforce and provides cultural competency online training to United States. We protect against employment and workplace new hires and to all caregivers annually, as well as instructordiscrimination; take steps to ensure compensation is internally led trainings and individual coaching to provide ongoing equitable; maintain measures to eliminate all forms of forced or cultural competency development across the enterprise. For compulsory labor and abolish child labor; and respect freedom our work in 2012, Cleveland Clinic was recognized as a Top of association and the right of labor to organize. 10 Hospital System by DiversityInc, a benchmarking and publication organization that analyzes and recognizes Instilling Diversity and Inclusion diversity initiatives in organizations. Cleveland Clinic understands the importance of human capital and is committed to diversity and inclusion. We provide equal Cleveland Clinic administers all personnel actions without opportunity across all employment practices, including regard to disability and provides reasonable accommodations recruitment, selection, training, promotion, transfer and for otherwise qualified disabled individuals. Under Cleveland compensation, without regard to age, gender, race, national Clinic policy, employees are directed to file complaints origin, religion, creed, color, citizenship status, physical or relating to possible discriminatory treatment or other violamental disability, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity tions of policy with their managers, Human Resources and/or or expression, marital status, genetic information, ethnicity, our confidential Compliance Reporting line. Investigations ancestry, veteran status, or any other characteristic protected will ensue and corrective action is taken as necessary. by federal, state or local law (“protected categories”). Employees are also entitled, by law, to submit complaints Administered by the Office of Diversity and Inclusion, the regarding alleged discriminatory actions with the U.S. Equal Affirmative Action Program at Cleveland Clinic promotes equal Employment Opportunity Commission and/or the local Ohio opportunity and maintains affirmative action plans for all Civil Rights Commission. During the calendar year 2012, only caregivers in the U.S. The program supports the recruitment one finding of probable cause was issued. Cleveland Clinic of caregivers who meet the operational needs of the enterprise does not believe that any wrongdoing occurred in connection and who reflect our patient populations, while developing a with this matter, which is currently pending in court. workforce that is diverse in terms of race/ethnicity, gender, industry experience and skill set. Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 28 Number of Employees and Employee Movements by Region (2012) Number of Employee New Hires and Turnover by Percent of Age Group and Gender (2012) Total Head Florida Nevada Ohio Total Count Age Group Gender Head count at year-end 2,173 69 41,152 43,394 <30 30-50 >50 Female Male Full Time 35,210 81% Employee New Hires 2,922 2,958 629 4,530 1,979 Part Time 8,184 19% Employee Turnover 1,493 2,285 1,181 Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements 194 0.4% Turnover Female 1,049 1,474 939 3,462 Employee New Hires 500 20 5,989 6,509 15% Turnover Male 444 811 242 1,497 Employee Turnover 367 15 4,577 4,959 11% Ensuring Equity Medical Missions Cleveland Clinic’s compensation system is designed to provide Cleveland Clinic promotes volunteerism among its wages that are externally competitive and internally equitable; it caregiver workforce in support of international medical includes a review process for any market-driven salary offer that missions. We offer structural support by matching has the potential to disrupt internal equity. Cleveland Clinic offers interested clinicians with available opportunities, by an integrated, competitive and comprehensive benefits package extending medical liability insurance for volunteering that applies to substantially all part-time and full-time caregivers clinicians, and through appropriate donations of medical who are scheduled to work at least 40 hours per two-week pay supplies. Cleveland Clinic’s longstanding relationship period, with the exception of short-term disability and long-term with MedWish International results in the distribution of disability benefits that are only available to full-time caregivers. surplus supplies and equipment to medical missions in All caregivers, with the exception of students, residents/fellows more than 90 countries. In 2012, we donated more than and research associates, participate in a noncontributory, 67 tons of supplies and equipment to MedWish. defined contribution plan to assist with retirement planning. Cleveland Clinic’s contribution for the plan is based upon a percentage of caregiver compensation and years of service. Cleveland Clinic also sponsors a contributory, defined contribution plan, an employee-guided tax deferred annuity plan (403b), which is available to full-time, part-time or as needed (PRN) caregivers and has a participation rate of 80 percent. Cleveland Clinic matches caregiver investments in the plan at a rate of 50 percent, up to six percent of employee contribution. Our policies prohibit off-the-clock work for non-exempt caregivers, as well as supervisory behavior that permits, encourages or requires off-the-clock work. Our timekeeping systems and policies are designed to comply with applicable federal and state regulations regarding pay, including accurate calculation of overtime compensation. Human Resources policies address appropriate use of independent contractors, student interns and hospital volunteers. We adhere to state regulations regarding working hours, duties and breaks for caregivers who are minors. Prior to commencing employment, every minor under the age of 18 must possess a valid Age and Schooling Certificate (work permit) unless otherwise exempted as stated in Chapter 4109 of the Ohio Revised Code. Ohio law restricts the hours of work of minors and prohibits their employment in occupations that are considered Photo Courtesy of MedWish International hazardous to their health. 29 Cleveland Clinic human rights and labor standards Number of Employees by Contract Type Number of Employees by Gender and Gender (2012) and Age (2012) Percent of Total Percent of Total Female Male Total Head Count Female Male Head Count Regular 29,410 10,579 39,989 92% Under 30 years old 5,808 1,904 18% Temporary/PRN/Student Interns 2,576 829 3,405 8% 30 50 years old 15,669 6,043 50% Percent Receiving Regular Performance Reviews 95% 73% 89% Over 50 years old 10,509 3,461 32% A PRN work schedule is “as needed” and is common in allied health and Percent Female 73.7% medical professions. PRN differs from part-time positions in that the Percent Male 26.3% schedule radically changes and the actual number of hours worked isn’t pre-arranged or promised. 2012 Workforce Demographics Executive Management Managerial/Professional 100 89.8 100 80.5 80 80 71.4 % Workforce % Workforce 60 50.3 49.7 60 40 40 28.6 20 20 4.8 2.6 6.7 8.5 0.2 2.4 0.3 0.3 2.7 1.4 0 0 Non-Managerial Physicians 100 100 77.7 80 80 64.1 % Workforce 63.0 62.4 % Workforce 60 60 40 40 35.9 29.3 26.6 22.3 20 20 0.4 1.9 3.9 1.5 2.8 0.5 5.2 2.5 0 0 Nurses 100 86.5 87.3 80 % Workforce African American Other 60 American Indian White 40 Asian Women 20 12.7 6.6 3.5 2.0 0.2 1.1 Hispanic/Latino Men 0 Data includes: Main Campus, Regional Hospitals, Nevada and Florida. Nurses include direct and indirect patient care (excludes management) Physicians include residents/fellows Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 30 A vegetative roofing system and skylight atop Cleveland Clinic Tomsich Pathology Laboratories. 31 Cleveland Clinic Photo Credit: Stephen Travarca, Center for Art and Medical Photography environmental stewarDship environmental stewarDship Cleveland Clinic supports healthy environments for healthy communities. We understand that environmental health and human health are linked. We take a precautionary approach to environmental stewardship through our operations and community leadership. The global environmental meta-trends of climate change, strategic direction for environmental stewardship at Cleveland natural resource constraints and increased toxicity present a Clinic, provides operational support and directs caregiver series of challenges to human health and to the healthcare engagement in pursuit of improving environmental perfordelivery infrastructure. For instance, the Centers for Disease mance. The OHE is supported by caregiver-led green teams to Control and Prevention has associated the decline in environachieve a consistent approach to sustainability at all locations. mental health with respiratory disease, pulmonary disease, Our program focuses on: cancer, heatstroke, water-borne diseases, malnutrition, obesity Healthy Buildings: We are committed to designing and and diabetes. Cleveland Clinic considers climate change a risk building safe, green buildings using evidence-based design to the health of our communities as well as to our organization. and the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy Although financial implications of climate change are not and Environmental Design (LEED) system to deliver quantitatively estimated, we have identified ways in which healthier environments in which to work and heal. climate change can impact Cleveland Clinic’s operations: Healthy Operations: In connection with creating a 1. Possible population shifts could generate high demand, healthier-built environment, we strive to design and stressing healthcare delivery system capacity. implement operational processes that reduce waste and 2. Further stresses on air quality due to deforestation and ozone chemical use, and promote improved stewardship of our density could result in increased negative health impacts. natural resources. 3. Instability in climatic conditions may necessitate investment Better Buying: We are committed to selecting non-hazardin physical facilities and perhaps influence patterns of ous alternatives to conventional products, to seeking out vector-borne public health threats. ways to stop waste at its source, and to engaging caregivers 4. Reduced quantity or quality of fresh water supplies could in using products more efficiently. impact community health and impact availability of water Finding Champions and Innovators: We are committed to to meet the needs of our facilities. educating and engaging our workforce and visitors to help As a healthcare provider, we have a responsibility to safeguard our region’s communities become “Green Cities on a Blue the health of our communities by addressing the environmental Lake.” We seek to pioneer sustainable healthcare on a impact of our operations. As a recognized leader in our national scale by leveraging Cleveland Clinic’s standing industry, we are in a position to lead by example in the and expertise. adoption of environmental best practices in the delivery of exceptional patient care. Stewardship in Action Minimizing Waste Managing a Structure for Environmental Stewardship Waste management is a critical challenge in the healthcare Cleveland Clinic’s Office for a Healthy Environment (OHE) was sector, which increasingly depends on disposable supplies. created in response to a heightened awareness of our environAccording to the American Plastics Council, hospitals generate mental impact and in recognition of the link between 12 million pounds of waste every day. Cleveland Clinic creates environmental health and human health. This office sets the a significant amount of waste in its operations, and the acuity Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 32 Total Weight (tons) of Waste by Type – Northeast Ohio Hospitals (2012)* Main Campus Recycling Rate 94 637 68 35 Municipal Solid Waste 30 5,728 Recycling 25 Percent 20 Regulated Medical Waste (RMW)** 13,284 15 Universal Waste 10 Hazardous Waste 5 *2012 year-end results for the Northeast Ohio community hospitals and main campus, excluding 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Medina Hospital which operates in a flow-control county where actual data is unavailable. **General infectious waste, a prominent (by weight) type of RMW, is treated onsite at main campus and Hillcrest Hospital and leaves the facility as municipal solid waste. of the care we provide further increases our challenge. We Creating a Culture of Sustainability continue to work collaboratively with purchasers, vendors and Changing individual behaviors and mindsets remains a caregivers to reduce the amount of waste generated and critical challenge to the health system’s commitment to disposed of via landfill. We have made great strides. For sustainability. The Office for a Healthy Environment instance, we have increased our recycling rate from less than reinforced the role of the individual in a series of program 10 percent in 2007 to more than 30 percent at our main and event offerings throughout the year for our caregiver campus in 2012. All major operations have conventional and community stakeholders. Programs range from recycling programs for post-consumer materials and cardboard, popular farmers markets and homemade salsa contests, and we encourage caregivers to recycle all paper types through to themed campaigns in support of strategic initiatives our document destruction program, ensuring the protection of such as promoting alternative commuting and energy our patient’s personal information. awareness. In 2012, we implemented an EcoOpportunity Assessment program that engages institutions, departWhile there remains opportunity to improve the performance of ments, and individuals to reflect on their contribution to our existing recycling programs, the complexity of the healthsustainability at Cleveland Clinic. Offering a variety of care waste challenge demands unconventional solutions. The engagement activities, themed education events and tools most important area of opportunity is to reduce the amount of promotes responsible behaviors, recruits new enthusiasts waste we generate. A focused effort is being made to minimize and deepens commitment to supporting healthy environwaste through improved inventory management to reduce ments for healthy communities. supply expiration, to eliminate unused items in custom surgical packs, and to seek opportunities to systematically redeploy not-in-use equipment within the enterprise. For the waste we do generate, we must innovate to find ways to put our byproducts to better reuse. Cleveland Clinic is an industry leader in the pursuit of establishing value chains and markets for sterile clinical plastics. Our main campus program served as the basis for the Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council’s Design Guidelines for Optimal Hospital Plastics Recycling, issued in November 2011. We hope to expand this program to our regional surgical sites in 2013. Managing Hazardous and Regulated Materials Hazardous materials such as aggressive cleaning products, sterilization and water treatment chemicals, certain pharmaceuticals, mercury-containing devices, electronic wastes, laboratory chemicals, and radiological films and wastes are an important part of the healthcare delivery model. Proper management of these materials is critical to protecting the health of our caregivers and the community at large. In 33 Cleveland Clinic environmental stewarDship Healthy Buildings Total LEED Certified Projects: 13 Certifications Achieved in 2012: LEED Gold Twinsburg Family Health and Surgery Center (LEED-NC) Tomsich Pathology Laboratories (LEED-NC) LEED Silver Hillcrest Hospital – Jane and Lee Seidman Tower (LEED-NC) Cleveland Clinic Data Center (LEED-NC) Stephanie Tubbs Jones Health Center (LEED-NC) Richard E. Jacobs Health Center (LEED-NC) addition, many wastes, such as infectious materials (or “sharps”), are regulated to protect public health. All hazardous National Drug Take-Back Day or regulated waste generated at Cleveland Clinic is treated Cleveland Clinic’s Protective Services Team sponsored appropriately and disposed of domestically. seven community collection points for two National Drug Each Cleveland Clinic hospital is responsible for reporting any Take-Back Days in 2012. Officers collected 530 pounds hazardous material spills as part of its Hazardous Materials of unused medications from Northeast Ohio community and Waste Management Plan as required by The Joint members for safe and responsible disposal, preventing Commission. Spill reporting is triggered if there is a spill of potential contamination of local water supplies from a hazardous substance in excess of its threshold planning improper disposal. quantity and it leaves the premises or is released into the air as a gas. In 2012, one reportable spill occurred at Fairview Hospital, resulting in the estimated release of less than two gallons of fuel oil through a sewer manhole and into the nearby Rocky River. The spill was contained and cleaned, resulting in no damage to wildlife or vegetation with no impact to human health and safety. An estimated 150 to 300 gallons of fuel oil was recovered on the property. All appropriate agencies were notified, and the case has since been closed with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. We also comply with Section 608 of the Clean Air Act to minimize the emission of ozone-depleting refrigerants. No reportable leaks occurred in 2012. Conserving Water Cleveland Clinic’s Northeast Ohio enterprise mainly draws water from Lake Erie, which gains water from the upstream Great Lakes — Superior, Michigan and Huron. In 2009, the Cleveland Division of Water reported that Cleveland Clinic consumed 50,261 MCF or 376,957,500 gallons. However, ongoing concerns about the reliability of those measurements call into question the accuracy of the water consumption data available to us. We have engaged with our public water utility to improve the accuracy of our information. Inclusion of water consumption in our utility bill management system, anticipated in 2013, will provide data quality checks and enhanced analytics capabilities that will enable us to confidently report consumption data in future reports. Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 34 Main Campus Commuter Profile (2011) Full-Time Drivers Transportation Part-Time Alt Commuters Percent improvement Fleet Avg Carpool Miles per Gallon (2010 baseline): 24% Transit 85.3% Bike Walk Total gallons of fuel avoided: 148,605 8.7% 0.2% 1.6% 0.7% 3.5% Survey N = 2633, results shown are +/1.8%. Part-time alternative commuters are defined as those who travel to work by not driving alone at least three times per month. The typical alternative commuter works a regular full-time 5 day/wk schedule that is predictable, they travel less than 20 minutes to work, and they are more likely to serve in support and clerical functions. Cleveland Clinic has taken a number of measures to reduce Driving Change water consumption through the reuse of water in certain Caregiver commutes, coupled with Cleveland Clinic’s fleet of processes. At the Richard E. Jacobs Health Center in Avon, land and air vehicles, are the primary sources of our indirect the irrigation system draws all water from an on-site detention and direct mobile source emissions. Cleveland Clinic operates pond, using no potable water to irrigate the drought-resistant a fleet of 289 passenger shuttle, police, courier and other landscaping onsite. We recycle more than 910,800 gallons vehicles, a decrease of five vehicles from 2011. In an effort to of water annually when washing service carts at our main reduce direct mobile source emissions, Cleveland Clinic has campus, and our laundry processor treats and recycles over implemented an anti-idling policy for fleet and vendor delivery 66 percent of total water used, resulting in a savings of vehicles; a fuel-efficient vehicle purchasing approach that 27,212,845 gallons of water in 2012. includes electric, hybrid and clean diesel vehicles; and a sophisticated dock management system that reduces delivery Stormwater management is a critical issue in Northeast Ohio. truck idling time, as well as a no-idle policy for Parking Poised on the edge of Lake Erie, a critical natural asset, we Services valet staff. To support further emissions reduction, we have a special responsibility to consider the stormwater have invested in electric parking vehicles for parking surveilimpacts of our facilities and infrastructure on the surrounding lance, installed automated parking management systems that wetlands and watersheds. All wastewater and stormwater is reduce entry and exit idling for garages, installed two electric disposed of in public sewer systems and treated by local vehicle charging stations, and have incorporated lower impact municipalities. No unintentional discharges have occurred vehicles such as bicycles and Segways® into police patrols during this reporting period and no water or wastewater is during fair weather months. reused by another organization. We currently do not measure effluent water quality, as all water is appropriately disposed In addition to improving the way we manage our fleet, we are of via public infrastructure. taking steps to encourage low-carbon caregiver commuting behavior, which primarily involves single occupancy vehicles A recent public sector initiative to assess a user fee for today. We offer employee incentives to encourage alternative stormwater management and offer credits for effective commuting, including transit passes at a pre-tax rate, a carpool stormwater control measures makes responsible stormwater matching program, a subsidy for the purchase of a home management a business imperative as well. To minimize within walking distance to our main campus, and access to water runoff, we have begun to employ a series of stormwater bicycle storage and showers. best management practices across our portfolio. For instance, the Solon Family Health Center utilizes rain gardens and a For those who continue to drive, we incentivize lower detention basin to detain stormwater on site; at the Twinsburg emissions through rebates to our caregivers who purchase Family Health and Surgery Center, we preserved surrounding qualified low-emission vehicles and discounted parking rates wetlands and their water filtration capability; and at the to caregivers who drive hybrid or fuel-efficient vehicles or Tomsich Pathology Laboratories (main campus) and who carpool. In an effort to influence the approximately 95 Strongsville Family Health Center, we have installed green percent of the 20,000 main campus caregivers who are roofs to slow and filter stormwater runoff. single-occupancy commuters, in 2011 we conducted a multifaceted exploration of programs that could reduce the 35 Cleveland Clinic environmental stewarDship Buying Supplies and Services Responsibly Cleveland Clinic recognizes that we have significant buying power and that there is substantial opportunity to generate triple-bottom-line benefit if we use that power responsibly. In 2012, we set formal supplier diversity goals and began the process toward measuring local purchasing. We apply the precautionary principle in the care of our patients, and to protect the health of our caregivers, through purchasing policies that make “mercury-free” and “latex-free” a part of product specifications. We have further minimized hazardous chemical use by transitioning core cleaning chemicals to Green Seal® Certified products, and continue to reduce our use of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and its softener, DEHP, in both clinical and built environment product selection. We work contract by contract to embed relevant sustainability standards and considerations into product and service selection. In 2012, we executed a vendor selection and contracting process for health-system wide retail and patient food service. This contract includes targets for local food procurement, specification of ENERGY STAR qualified kitchen equipment, and food standards such as use of dairy products free of recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH). Opportunity for improvement remains, however. For instance, we do not currently screen contracts for human rights concerns, and we face challenges unique to an industry that relies heavily on specialized and disposable products. Still, we remain committed to buying supplies and services more responsibly. total number of daily commuter vehicles requiring on-site parking. Several strategies were identified that could result in fewer single-occupancy vehicles making daily commutes, including a mobile workforce project allowing certain caregivers to work from home. This project will be piloted in 2013 with 200-300 initial participants. Supporting Healthy, Local Food Only about 1 percent of the approximately $10 billion spent on food in Northeast Ohio stays within this rich agricultural region. By some estimates, food travels an average of more than 1,500 miles to the American plate, creating significant environmental impact. Further, many of the communities we serve in Cuyahoga County have limited access to fresh fruits and vegetables. Cleveland Clinic has embraced the local food movement through community farmers markets and local procurement, providing economic opportunity for our rural and urban farming communities; improving access to fresher, healthier foods for patients, caregivers and In 2008, we signed the Healthy Food in Healthcare Pledge, visitors; and mitigating the environmental impact of transdemonstrating our commitment to improving the healing porting food long distances. environment with appropriate and responsible food selection, professional preparation standards and a rigorous dedication Cleveland Clinic’s Community Farmers Market program hosts to consistency and service. To that end, a council was formed several farmers markets and farm stands around the system. in 2011 to author a Foodservice Charter to serve as a living The main campus flagship market is a popular grower-certitool to shape all foodservice contracts and services across fied market held weekly during the growing season. Market our health system. The charter clearly articulates our expectavisitors enjoy live music, food samples and additional tions for excellent service, patient-centered foodservice, offerings from Cleveland Clinic’s information booth, such as environmentally responsible food procurement and operafree health screenings, wellness education and live cooking tions, and support for caregiver and visitor wellness and demonstrations. In an effort to provide healthy local foods for nutritional excellence. The charter establishes local procurethose in need, this market accepts coupons from government ment targets for food service as well as the expectation of agencies for qualifying individuals through the USDA Senior continuous improvement each year. In 2012, we surpassed Farmers Market Nutrition Program, the Cuyahoga County our goal of purchasing at least 10 percent of food supplies Women, Infants and Children (WIC) Program, and the from within a 250-mile radius of Cleveland Clinic. Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 36 Cleveland Soul, by Jaume Plensa, located in the main lobby of the Sydell and Arnold Miller Family Pavilion. “Every second, every moment, our experiences are tattooed on our skin.” 37 Cleveland Clinic Photo Credit: Stephen Travarca, Center for Art and Medical Photography anti-corruption and transparency anti-corruption and transparency Cleveland Clinic is committed to an ethical, transparent business environment that discourages corruption in all its forms. In March 2013, the Ethisphere Institute recognized Cleveland and transparency. We are fully committed to a process that Clinic as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the ensures integrity in innovation and places the interests of our third time in five years. Ethical business practices support our patients first. To ensure professional and commercial integrity in responsibility to the health and well-being of our communities all matters, Cleveland Clinic maintains a comprehensive conflict as well as our commitment to the universal principles of the UN of interest program for staff physicians, other caregivers and Global Compact. We are leaders in industry and in our region. board members that is designed to ensure that all potential In 2010, Cleveland Clinic sponsored a Northeast Ohio business conflicts, including institutional conflicts, are transparent and ethics forum that brought together more than 200 area properly addressed. In fact, we were the first academic medical companies to focus on ethical business practices and to pledge center to openly disclose the industry ties of our physicians via to act in an ethical manner. We also annually hold on-site our public website. Our policies require regular reporting and forums with hundreds of Cleveland Clinic vendors that include updating of interests that may present a conflict. These interests a focus on ethical business practices. are then formally reviewed by one or more authorities within Cleveland Clinic, such as the Conflict of Interest committees of Organizing for Anti-Corruption the Professional Staff and/or the Board of Directors. The chief integrity officer, who reports directly to the Board The Board of Directors promotes a culture of awareness and of Directors, oversees a 23-member internal audit team sensitivity at all levels to potential conflicts of interest, recognizresponsible for: auditing expenses and invoicing every year; ing that it is ultimately responsible for maintaining and checking that Protective Services conducts background preserving a balance between innovation and transparency. checks; ensuring Foreign Corrupt Practices Act training; and The Conflict of Interest and Managing Innovations Committee performing audits directed at detecting fraud. The officer also of the Board of Directors oversees conflict of interest matters oversees a 15-member Corporate Compliance Department at Cleveland Clinic. This includes having oversight of the that ensures compliance with federal, state and local laws Professional Staff Conflict of Interest Committee. The Conflict and regulations, and operates an anonymous whistle-blowing of Interest Office and the chief governance officer, through hotline. The entire business is included in our anti-corruption the Law Department, coordinate with these committees to risk analysis. Code of Conduct policies and procedures administer the conflict of interest program. education is provided for all caregivers. Specific training is only for management and foreign travelers. Caregivers found In 2012, we also formalized a systemwide Construction to be involved in fraud are terminated and prosecuted. Management Oversight Committee (CMOC), consolidating multiple committees previously charged with oversight of Managing Conflict of Interest construction-related projects to ensure the project lifecycle was conducted in accordance with organizational protocols, budgets Since its founding in 1921, Cleveland Clinic has been a leading and delivery schedules. Through this effort we expect consismedical innovator. Discoveries made here have saved millions tent application of standard contract terms and conditions, of patients’ lives, and many innovations are standard practice in improved vendor management, increased competition, medicine today. Cleveland Clinic believes that medical innovation integration of qualified diverse suppliers, increased transparsignificantly benefits patient care. At the same time, we recognize ency, and consistent application of our Conflict of Interest that innovation must be managed with extraordinary sensitivity Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 38 Our Mission: To provide better care of the sick, investigation into their problems, and further education of those who serve. Policy, which requires each CMOC committee member to Electronic Data Stewardship complete an annual survey to report any potential conflicts to Corporate Compliance works closely with the be addressed through established channels. To date we have Information Technology Security Department in achieved 100 percent participation from the members. establishing appropriate security measures over Interacting Ethically with Government patient-protected health information and patient financial information. This includes their collaboration Cleveland Clinic’s political and legislative activities, managed by in implementing a new Electronic Data Stewardship the Office of Government Relations, are primarily focused on program focused on data loss prevention, advanced issues related to healthcare reform. Specifically, we are intermalware protection and fraud identification. ested in issues related to reimbursement, quality of care, wellness, health information technology adoption, physician education and patient outcomes. As part of the implementation of federal healthcare reform, Cleveland Clinic management assisted government officials in understanding the impact of reform on our medical practice model, which has been recognized as a best practice. These activities can take many forms including support of legislation, participating in ad hoc committees, and offering testimony in state and federal legislative committee hearings. Cleveland Clinic, as an institution, does not provide donations or other support to individual legislators or political parties. Nonprofit organizations with 501(c)(3) status are strictly prohibited from supporting specific political figures or issues. We ensure that ethical practices are maintained by completing detailed reports of contact with elected officials and government agencies and by filing federal lobbying reports for the time and money spent by individuals from the Office of Government Relations and Cleveland Clinic for advocacy efforts. Cleveland Clinic caregivers are free to donate to whatever organizations or legislators they choose, but they do so as private citizens exercising the rights afforded to all such citizens. Ensuring Regulatory Compliance Cleveland Clinic is committed to a formal Corporate Compliance program that is intended to ensure that caregivers, contractors and vendors conduct activities in full compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, policies and 39 Cleveland Clinic anti-corruption and transparency Our Vision: Striving to be the world’s leader in patient experience, clinical outcomes, research and education. ethical standards. In May 1996, the Board of Directors formally adopted the program and, in June 1998, the Office of Corporate Compliance was established under the direction of the chief integrity officer. In January 2003, the responsibilities of the Office of Corporate Compliance were expanded to include the Privacy Office, established in response to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). This mature program is now a part of routine hospital operations and integrated into the culture of the organization. Embracing a Culture of Transparency Caregivers are encouraged to hold one another and our leadership to our Code of Conduct, regulations and ethical Office of Clinical Compliance and safe workplace policies. We operate anonymous hotlines (108 calls in 2012) and email accounts (21 emails in 2012), In 2012, Cleveland Clinic established the Office of Clinical for a total of 129 compliance-related reports, from alleged Compliance, formed to ensure clinical processes are employment practice breaches to issues of privacy and aligned with the development of a value-based care model. business ethics. In addition to formal hotline calls, Corporate Responsibilities include auditing and monitoring inpatient Compliance staff directly received more than 700 compliand outpatient clinical activities through collaboration with ance-related inquiries in 2012, further evidence that our its institutes, regional medical executive committees and organization has a culture of integrity. All reports and independent practitioners. We believe this is the only such inquiries are broken down by type and location and are clinical office in the U.S. (MD Compliance). responded to in a timely manner. To assure professional and commercial integrity, our conflict of requirements for Cleveland Clinic caregivers who engage in interest program ensures that all potential conflicts, including conversations on the Internet or interact with the public or institutional conflicts, are transparent and properly addressed. fellow caregivers. These requirements include the posting of For example, Cleveland Clinic’s Marketing and Communications accurate and factual information on all web and social media Department adheres to the formal Corporate Compliance sites. In addition, Cleveland Clinic caregivers must identify that Program to ensure that its caregivers, vendors and other they work for Cleveland Clinic and disclose conflicts of interest. contractors conduct activities in full compliance with applicable Further, Cleveland Clinic’s website also includes a current federal, state and local laws, regulations, policies and ethical directory of all its physicians, listing their educational and standards. Marketing and Communications has further professional backgrounds, their medical specializations and reinforced these values with its own Social Media Code of their relationships with industry. Ethics for new or emerging media. This code provides Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 40 Our Values: Quality Innovation Teamwork Governance Cleveland Clinic. Directors are elected to four-year terms by the Each of the various corporate entities that comprise Cleveland voting Members. A majority of the Directors are required to be Clinic Health System (CCHS) has its own board of directors/ independent. When considering Director and Trustee canditrustees and officers. Cleveland Clinic governs CCHS through dates, the Governance Committee considers professional direct representation on such boards, reserved powers and expertise, independence and other factors, such as judgment, other governance controls. Cleveland Clinic is governed by its skill, diversity and civic involvement. The Governance Members, a Board of Directors and a Board of Governors. Committee also seeks recommendations from Board members of candidates that will add value to the Board of Directors and The Board of Directors is the primary governing body of Board of Trustees. The Governance Committee regularly CCHS and is charged with the fiduciary duty to act on behalf reviews the composition of the Board so as to ensure a of Cleveland Clinic. The committees of the Board of Directors balanced membership that includes ethnic and gender are: Audit, Compensation, Conflict of Interest and Managing diversity, as well as business and community expertise. Innovations, Development, Finance, Governance, Government and Community Relations, Medical Staff Cleveland Clinic’s Board of Directors includes four female and Appointment, Research and Education, Safety, Quality and two African-American Directors. Of the 23 members of the Patient Experience. Committees use existing organizational Board of Directors, there are 15 Directors (13 males and two feedback mechanisms, such as the compliance hotline, to females) who are independent under Cleveland Clinic’s Board collect feedback from stakeholders, staff and employees. Independence Policy. Under this Policy, an independent Director is one whom the Governance Committee — after The Cleveland Clinic Board of Trustees serves in an advisory considering all relevant facts and circumstances in accorrole to the Board of Directors. The Trustees serve on the dance with the policy, advice and guidance of the Chief committees of the Board of Directors. The Cleveland Clinic Governance Officer, and upon the recommendation from Board of Governors has responsibility for standards of the Board Conflict of Interest and Managing Innovations medical care and managing and administering the day-to-day Committee — has affirmatively determined that he/she has medical and surgical activities of Cleveland Clinic, subject to met the criteria defined in the policy. A Director will not be policies established by Cleveland Clinic’s Board of Directors. determined to be independent if certain conditions apply, There are 23 members of the Cleveland Clinic Board of including but not limited to if the Director is employed by Directors. The Chair of the Board of Directors holds the highest Cleveland Clinic, received compensation from Cleveland Board position but is not an executive officer, employee or Clinic or is a director or executive officer of an entity with staff member of Cleveland Clinic. Directors and Trustees are gross payments to or annual receipts from Cleveland Clinic dedicated community leaders, selected on the basis of their of more than 1 percent of the receiving entity’s gross expertise and experience in a variety of areas beneficial to revenues for the applicable year. CCHS, and they are not compensated for their service. The Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors Conflict of Interest The Governance Committee of the Board of Directors nomiand Managing Innovations Committee is charged with the nates individuals annually to serve as Directors and Trustees of task of discharging the obligations of the Board of Directors 41 Cleveland Clinic anti-corruption and transparency Service Integrity Compassion regarding possible conflicts. These obligations relate to anti-kickback laws. Additionally, Directors receive an annual (a) determining the existence of, assessing, resolving and mailing that not only includes a questionnaire for disclosure managing, any conflicts of interest arising from an individual of activities that may give rise to conflicts of interest, but also interest of a Director, Trustee or Officer of CCHS or from includes documentation relating to IRS regulations pertaining an interest held directly or indirectly by Cleveland Clinic, to intermediate sanctions provisions. in accordance with the current Board of Directors Conflict Each Board Committee is governed by a charter, which of Interest Policy; and (b) supervising the Cleveland Clinic includes specific goals and responsibilities. On an annual Professional Staff Conflict of Interest Committee in the basis, Board Committees are responsible for conducting performance of its responsibilities for professional staff annual self-assessment surveys to assess performance. conflict of interest matters. The Committee conducts its For example, in addition to other responsibilities, the Audit duties in accordance with all applicable rules and regulations, Committee is charged with the task of reviewing the adequacy including those applicable to nonprofit and tax-exempt and effectiveness of administrative, operating and internal charitable organizations. accounting controls, policies and procedures for the Cleveland On an annual basis, Cleveland Clinic distributes a questionClinic Health System. At the end of each year, the Audit naire to CCHS directors, trustees, officers and key employees Committee distributes a self-assessment survey tool to its to determine independence, as defined by the IRS and members so that Committee members document their Cleveland Clinic Conflict of Interest Policy. This questionnaire comments relating to the Committee’s performance and is also designed to ascertain information relating to business effectiveness in meeting this and other goals as stated in its affiliations and transactions that might give rise to potential Committee Charter. In addition, the Board of Directors, with conflicts of interest. assistance from the Governance Committee, routinely reviews its performance and the performance of its members, particuDirectors and Trustees who are not independent are entitled larly when a Director’s term is about to expire and the Board to participate fully in their duties as a Board member, subject has to determine whether the individual should be re-elected. to Cleveland Clinic’s Conflict of Interest policies and the requirements applicable to Board members to recuse Cleveland Clinic conducts a formal annual risk assessment themselves from any actions that involve a personal interest. to identify risks in the health system. Significant risks, such A Director or Trustee who is deemed not to be independent is as the impact of healthcare reform and the maintenance of nevertheless assumed to be always acting in the best interest a high level of clinical quality, safety and security, and the of Cleveland Clinic. mitigating efforts, are communicated to management and the Board using a risk matrix and dashboards. Members of the Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors adhere to the principles set forth in Cleveland Clinic’s Code of Conduct. Included in these principles are standards relating to environmental protection, family and work, business ethics, conflicts of interest, fraud/waste/abuse, insider trading, antitrust and Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 42 43 Cleveland Clinic organizational Profile organizational Profile Who We Are County Medical Center in Ashtabula, Ohio. In 2014, it will Located in Cleveland, Ohio, Cleveland Clinic is a nonprofit, open and manage a new leading-edge, 364-bed hospital in multispecialty academic medical center and health system that Abu Dhabi in partnership with the government of Abu Dhabi, integrates clinical and hospital care with research and educaUnited Arab Emirates. In cooperation with Abu Dhabi Health tion. Four renowned physicians founded Cleveland Clinic in Services Company, Cleveland Clinic also provides manage1921 with a mission to provide better care of the sick, ment services to the Sheikh Khalifa Medical City, a network investigation into their problems, and further education of of healthcare facilities in Abu Dhabi with approximately 760 those who serve. We continue to live and operate by this staffed beds. mission, which is supported by six fundamental values: quality, As a public charity, Cleveland Clinic operates exclusively for innovation, teamwork, service, integrity and compassion. Our charitable, educational and scientific purposes. In 2012, caregivers also are guided by a Code of Conduct in carrying Cleveland Clinic, had 5.1 million patient visits, 157,474 out daily activities within appropriate ethical and legal stanadmissions and 200,808 surgical cases. More than 90 dards. This Code of Conduct supports an environment that percent of our patients come from 21 counties in Northeast protects and promotes integrity and compliance, and enhances Ohio. Our patients are comprised of a wide range of Cleveland Clinic’s ability to achieve its mission, meet its goals age groups, with 55 percent older than 45 years old. and better serve patients. Approximately 42 percent of our total patients were male Cleveland Clinic is a physician-led organization anchored and 58 percent female. Patient care was paid by 64 percent by a 1,450-bed main campus that is one of the largest and private insurance, 29 percent government, and 7 percent most respected hospitals in the country. As an Ohio-based self-paid. In 2012, the state distributed to the Cleveland nonprofit health system, Cleveland Clinic is not owned by any Clinic Health System a net $16.6 million on HCAP payments individuals or corporate entities. Cleveland Clinic serves as for charity care. the “sole member” or “sole regular member” of each affiliate Cleveland Clinic continues to invest in its regional infrastrucwithin the Cleveland Clinic health system (CCHS). Cleveland ture through new and expanded facilities to better meet the Clinic operates eight community hospitals with more than needs of communities served. In 2012, we opened a new 4,450 total staffed beds throughout northern Ohio and building at our main campus to house the Tomsich Pathology Florida. It also operates more than 75 northern Ohio outpaand Laboratory Medicine Institute and renovated and tient locations, including 16 family health centers (eight with expanded the surgical center at Marymount Hospital. We also ambulatory surgery centers) located in a seven-county area. transitioned data center operations to a newly constructed In southeast Florida, Cleveland Clinic operates a hospital and and dedicated facility. Having moved significant operations a clinic in Weston, and a health and wellness center in West from Westlake Family Health Center to the newly built Palm Beach. Cleveland Clinic also operates a health and Richard E. Jacobs Health Center in 2011, we vacated and wellness center in Toronto, Canada, and a specialized sold the former site in 2012. Looking to expand our ambulaneurological clinical center in Las Vegas, Nevada. In addition, tory care presence in Northeast Ohio, we acquired a 47-acre Cleveland Clinic provides management services for Ashtabula site in Mentor, Ohio for future use. Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 44 Patient Care: 6.2 billion Operating Revenue 1,450 Beds on Main Campus 27 institutes 5.1 million Total Patient Visits 4,450 Beds system-wide 120 subspecialities 157,474 Admissions 11 hospitals 200,808 Surgical Cases 16 family health centers Our Stakeholders • Green City Blue Lake Institute Our stakeholders are those that are directly affected by • U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR for Healthcare Cleveland Clinic’s operational decisions, as well as those with • Practice Greenhealth a vested interest in our effort to more transparently report • U.S. Green Building Council on our environmental, social and economic performance. As Stakeholders are typically contacted on a case-by-case basis, an industry leader, a community anchor and an economic depending upon the areas affected by the issue at hand. engine, many are impacted by Cleveland Clinic’s various These interactions take many forms ranging from communioperational decisions. These stakeholders include the entire cation through various publications and media outlets to healthcare provider industry, trade associations, federal and community programming or in-person meetings for the state agencies, regional and national philanthropic foundapurpose of discussing key issues with multiple viewpoints. tions, media outlets, community groups, citizens and others. We also perform periodic proactive outreach to these groups, inviting them to attend facility openings, addresses by The stakeholder groups engaged by Cleveland Clinic include: Cleveland Clinic executives, and other Clinic-Cleveland hosted • Patients events open to the public and other officials. • Caregivers • Cleveland Clinic Executive Leadership Awards and Honors • State of Ohio Legislature • Ohio Delegation of the U.S. Congress Pathway to Excellence® Nursing • City of Cleveland Office of the Mayor Established by the American Nurses Credentialing Center, • Cleveland City Council a subsidiary of the American Nurses Association and the • City of Cleveland Department of Public Health largest and most prominent nursing credentialing organization • City of Cleveland Department of Economic Development in the United States, the Pathway to Excellence designation • City of Cleveland Office of Sustainability is awarded to hospitals or medical centers that are committed • City of Cleveland Sustainable Cleveland 2019 to a work environment where nurses excel in the practice • Stewardship Council of safe, quality patient care. The following Cleveland Clinic • Cuyahoga County Office of the County Executive Community Hospitals are Pathway to Excellence award • Cuyahoga County Council winners: Euclid Hospital, Lakewood Hospital, Marymount • Cuyahoga County Department of Health & Human Services Hospital and South Pointe Hospital. • Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District 2012 Press Ganey Patient Voice Award • Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation This award recognizes academic medical centers that have • Cuyahoga County Department of Development achieved superior patient satisfaction as demonstrated by • Offices of the Mayor of more than 20 Greater Cleveland HCAHPS performance compared to academic medical communities, as well as those in Las Vegas, Nevada, and centers in the Press Ganey database. Weston and West Palm Beach, Florida 45 Cleveland Clinic organizational Profile Research & Education: 2012 U.S. News specialties Top-ranked In ohio In The U.S. 169 million Total grant and contract revenue Cardiology & Heart Surgery ......................... No. 1 Urology...................................................... No. 1 109 million total federal revenue Nephrology................................................. No. 1 Diabetes & Endocrinology ............................ No. 2 1,785 Residents & fellows-in-training Ear, Nose & Throat...................................... No. 2 Gastroenterology ........................................ No. 2 67 Accredited training programs Rheumatology ............................................ No. 2 Gynecology................................................. No. 3 Orthopaedics ............................................. No. 3 Pediatric Neurology & Neurosurgery.............. No. 3 Pulmonology............................................... No. 3 Geriatrics.................................................... No. 4 Neurology & Neurosurgery............................ No. 5 Cancer........................................................ No. 6 Ophthalmology............................................ No. 9 2013 World’s Most Ethical Companies — fourth straight year; we received the System for Change Ethisphere Institute award for the fifth straight year for excellence in sustainability For the third time in five years, Cleveland Clinic has been across our organization; and our regional hospitals and family named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the health centers were recognized with 25 additional individual Ethisphere Institute. Cleveland Clinic has established itself as facility awards for environmental excellence, including three an industry leader through a variety of innovative initiatives Partner for Change with Distinction awards given to Euclid to manage potential conflicts of interest; provide transparency Hospital, Fairview Hospital and Marymount Hospital. on the industry relationships of physicians and researchers; Security 500 #1 Ranking Hospital/Medical Center publicly report clinical outcomes; offer free health and wellness For the second year in a row, Cleveland Clinic Protective programs to employees and their dependents; and promote Services earned Security Magazine’s No. 1 ranking for environmentally friendly building and sustainability programs. security efficiency in healthcare. 2013 DiversityInc Top 10 Hospital Systems DiversityInc, a benchmarking and publication organization Memberships that analyzes and recognizes diversity initiatives in organizaCleveland Clinic is a dues-paying member of the Center for tions, has recognized Cleveland Clinic as a top five national Health Affairs, the Ohio Hospital Association, the Association hospital system each year since 2009, demonstrating our of American Medical Colleges, the American Medical Group continued commitment to diversity and inclusion. Association, the Healthcare Leadership Council and the 2013 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year — American Hospital Association. In addition to serving on many Sustained Excellence of the boards and committees of these organizations, we Cleveland Clinic was recognized with the 2013 ENERGY STAR provide guidance to these organizations on their healthcare Partner of the Year — Sustained Excellence award, the policy positions, and by extension benefit from their lobbying program’s highest honor, by the U.S. Environmental Protection activities (as do their other member organizations). Our Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy for exhibiting individual physicians and researchers participate as individual outstanding leadership in energy management year after year. members of organizations related to their specific areas of practice or interest, such as the American College of Practice Greenhealth Environmental Excellence Awards Radiology. Cleveland Clinic’s membership associations include Cleveland Clinic continues to be recognized as an industry DiversityInc, Society for Human Resource Management, leader in environmental stewardship by Practice Greenhealth, Association for Community Health Improvement, International a nonprofit membership organization founded on the Society for Health, Society of Black Academic Surgeons, principles of positive environmental stewardship and promotNorthern Ohio Minority Supplier Development, Practice ing best practices across the healthcare community. For our Greenhealth, and the U.S. Green Building Council. work in 2012, our main campus was recognized with the highest honor, the Environmental Leadership Award, for the Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 46 Supporting and more detailed documentation is available on the web at: clevelandclinic.org/about clevelandclinic.org/wellness clevelandclinic.org/diversity clevelandclinic.org/community clevelandclinic.org/annual_reports clevelandclinic.org/sustainability EUCLID HOSPITAL CLEVEL AND CLINIC (main campus) L AKEWOOD HOSPITAL FAIRVIEW HOSPITAL MARYMOUNT HOSPITAL SOUTH POINTE HOSPITAL 47 Cleveland Clinic index Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Index The summary table below shows where Cleveland Clinic’s information and data corresponding to the Global Reporting Initiative’s Guidelines can be found. Supplemental indicators are indicated in gray text. Page numbers refer to pages in this Communications on Progress report unless otherwise noted. Information disclosed on the inside front cover is labeled ‘IFC’. Indicator Description Page Indicator Description Page 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 2 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board 41 structure the number and gender of members 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and 2 of the highest governance body that are opportunities independent or non-executive members 2.1 Name of the organization 44 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and caregivers to 6-8, 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 44 provide recommendations 41 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members 41 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 44 of the highest governance body and the 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 44 organization’s performance 2.5 Number of countries where the organization 44 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance 41, 42 operates body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 44 4.7 Process for determining the composition, 41 qualifications, and expertise of the members of 2.7 Markets served including geographic break44 the highest governance body and its down/sectors served/customers committees 2.8 Scale of organization, including: number of 29, 44 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or 38-42 employees, operations, net sales/revenues, values, codes of conduct, and principles total capitalization relevant to economic, environmental, and 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 44 social performance and the status of their implementation 2.10 Awards received 12, 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for 41, 42 45, 46 overseeing the organization’s identification and 3.1 Reporting period 4 management of economic, environmental, and 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 4 social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compli3.3 Reporting cycle 4 ance with internationally agreed-upon standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 3.4 Contact point for questions 4 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest gover42 3.5 Process for defining report content 4 nance body’s own performance, particularly 3.6 Boundary of the report 4 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or 4 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precau32, 36 boundary of the report tionary approach or principle is addressed by 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiar4 the organization ies, leased facilities, outsourced operations, 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, 3 and other entities and social charters, principles, or other 3.9 Data measurement techniques 4 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements 4, 25 of information provided in earlier 4.13 Memberships in associations such as industry 46 associations and/or national/international 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting 4 advocacy organizations periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 45 organization 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard 48, Disclosures 49, 50 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 45 stakeholders with whom to engage 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to 4 seeking external assurance 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, 45 including frequency of engagement by type and 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 41, 42 by stakeholder group 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 41 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 6, 7 governance body is also an executive officer through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 48 Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Index Indicator Description Page Indicator Description Page Environment Management Approach 24, Human Rights Management Approach 28, 29 25, HR1 Percentage and total number of significant 36 32-36 investment agreements and contracts that EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy 25 include clauses incorporating human rights source. concerns, or that have undergone human rights EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 25 screening. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and 24, 25 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 28 efficiency improvements. corrective actions taken. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or 24 Labor Management Approach 14-16, renewable energy based products and services, 28, 29 and reductions in energy requirements as a LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 29, 30 result of these initiatives. employment contract, and region, broken down EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consump24, 25 by gender. tion and reductions achieved. LA2 Total number and rate of new caregiver hires 29 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 34 and caregiver turnover by age group, gender, and region. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by 34 14, 29 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time caregivers that withdrawal of water. are not provided to temporary or part-time EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled 35 caregivers, by significant locations of operation. and reused. LA4 Percentage of caregivers covered by collective 29 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 35 bargaining agreements. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for 35 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 16 managing impacts on biodiversity. days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas 26 gender. emissions by weight. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and 12, EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 24-26 risk-control programs in place to assist 14-16, and reductions achieved. workforce members, their families, or commu18-20 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by 34 nity members regarding serious diseases. weight. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong 14, EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by 26 learning that support the continued employabil15, 29 type and weight. ity of caregivers and assist them in managing EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 35 career endings. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 33 LA12 Percentage of caregivers receiving regular 30 method. performance and career development reviews, by gender. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 34 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and 30, 41 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or 33, 34 breakdown of caregivers per caregiver category treated waste deemed hazardous under the according to gender, age group, minority group terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, membership, and other indicators of diversity. and VIII, and percentage of transported waste Society Management Approach 16, shipped internationally. 18-22, EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 24-26, 38-42 products and services, and extent of impact 32-36 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented 18 mitigation. local community engagement, impact EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total 34 assessments, and development programs. number of non-monetary sanctions for SO2 Percentage and total number of business units 38 noncompliance with environmental laws and analyzed for risks related to corruption. regulations. SO3 Percentage of caregivers trained in organiza38 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transport26, tion’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. ing products and other goods and materials 35, 36 used for the organization’s operations, and SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of 38 transporting members of the workforce. corruption. 49 Cleveland Clinic index Indicator Description Page Indicator Description Page SO5 Public policy positions and participation in 39 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distrib19, 21 public policy development and lobbying. uted, including revenues, operating costs, SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contribu39 caregiver compensation, donations and other tions to political parties, politicians, and related community investments, retained earnings, and institutions by country. payments to capital providers and governments Product Responsibility Management Approach 6, EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 32 10-12, opportunities for the organization’s activities 40 due to climate change PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety 10, 11 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit 29 impacts of products and services are assessed plan obligations for improvement, and percentage of significant EC4 Significant financial assistance received from 46 products and services categories subject to government such procedures. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending 21, PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, 6, 7, on locally-based suppliers at significant 22, 36 including results of surveys measuring 11, 12 locations of operation. customer satisfaction EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure 18-22 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, 40 investments and services provided primarily for and voluntary codes related to marketing public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or communications, including advertising, pro bono engagement. promotion, and sponsorship. EC9 Understanding and describing significant 21 Economic Management Approach 21, 44 indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Principle Indicators EC5, LA4, LA6-9; Principle 1: Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed LA13-14, HR1-9, SO5, Human Rights human rights PR1 -2, PR8 Principle 2: Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses HR1-9, SO5 Principle 3: Uphold freedom of association and right to collective bargaining LA4-5, HR1-3, HR5, SO5 Principle 4: Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor HR1-3, HR7, SO5 Labor Standards Principle 5: Support effective abolition of child labor HR1-3, HR6, SO5 EC7, LA2, LA13-14, Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation 36–39 HR1-4, SO5 EC2, EN18, EN26, Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges EN30, SO5 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility EN1-30, SO5, PR3-4 Environment EN2, EN 5-7, EN 10, Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally EN 18, EN 2627, friendly technologies EN30, SO5 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery SO2-6 Progress in Community and Global Citizenship | 2013 50 13-CCC-155
