Operating with Integrity Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 A Summary Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 A Summary Introduction Introduction 1 Chief Executive’s Message Doing a job the world needs 2 Section 1 Business Overview 4–11 Taking a long term view 4 Where we operate 6 A year for renewal 8 Focus on performance 9 Mapping our priorities 10 Priority CR topics 11 Section 2 Governance 12–15 Accountable to the core 12 Ethical business practices 14 Section 3 People 16–19 People come first 16 Attracting and nurturing top talent 18 Section 4 Environment 20–25 Minimising risks to the environment 20 Rising to the challenge 22 Managing our footprint 24 Section 5 Communities 26–29 Engaging for the long term 26 Leaving a positive legacy 28 Section 6 Supply Chain 30–31 Partners in excellence 30 Section 7 Report Parameters 32 About this Report 32 Introduction This report shows our commitment to managing and communicating about our activities in an inclusive, clear and transparent way. In all our activities we live by our core inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. values of: This means that we engage with internal hhBuilding respect and external stakeholders, identify and hhNurturing relationships assess our most important CR issues hhActing responsibly and address and respond to them in a structured way. We also measure our This report describes the integral part performance to the Global Reporting Corporate Responsibility (CR) plays in our Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. business. It covers our values, principles and policies towards our people, the Key audiences for this report include environment, local communities and shareholders, governments, business wider society and how we manage the partners and staff, but all readers’ potential impacts of our activities on them. views are important to us and we We also explain how we prioritise our encourage you to contact us with most significant issues and the important comments or questions via our website role our stakeholders play in this. Our at www.cairnenergy.com or by email performance, lessons learned, objectives to CR.Mailbox@cairnenergy.com. This and challenges are also described. Case report focuses on our operated assets studies are included to illustrate how our where we have control of CR policies and approach affects people and the environment practices. With our shareholding in Cairn in the areas where we operate. India Limited (Cairn India) now at ~10%, we have not included 2012 or historical We are signatories to the United Nations performance data on Cairn India in this Global Compact (UNGC) and this report document. Historical data can however forms part of our commitment to act on and be found on our website. Further details report our progress against the 10 UNGC about our activities, performance and principles on human rights, labour, the objectives as well as CR reports from environment and anti-corruption. It is in previous years are also available on our accordance with AccountAbility’s AA 1000 website at à www.cairnenergy.com/ Assurance Standard founding principles of responsibility. Find out more about our CR activities on our website at à www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 1 Chief Executive’s Message Simon Thomson Doing a job the world needs Our licence to operate in the world’s frontier regions demands a strong safety record and excellent corporate responsibility credentials Our aim, as one of Europe’s leading Activities during 2012 independent oil and gas exploration and During 2012 we returned US$3.5 billion development companies, is to do a job the to shareholders and built our asset world needs as safely as we can. According portfolio through the acquisition of two to the International Energy Agency, global companies, strengthening our focus on energy demand is expected to grow three geographical areas: Mediterranean, by over a third by 2035, with oil and gas Atlantic Margin and UK and Norway. making up a large proportion of the energy mix. Cairn helps meet that need Exploration activities comprised surveys by identifying, developing and realising offshore Greenland and Morocco and energy reserves for the benefit of all we are pleased to report no injuries and stakeholders. Our overriding priority is no environmental incidents relating to to do this safely, responsibly and in keeping these operations during 2012. Acting with the commitments outlined in our responsibly with a high level of care Business Principles and our continued and respect towards people and the support for the 10 principles of the environment shows our principles and United Nations Global Compact. core values in action. Sharing knowledge from successfully completed drilling Our track record of safe and efficient programmes in Greenland in 2010/11 operations and business integrity is crucial with other operators and participating in to our licence to operate and we apply industry initiatives are also evidence of our rigorous due diligence and comprehensive commitment to continuous improvement. risk management processes. To ensure continuous improvement, our corporate responsibility; health, safety and environment (HSE); contractor management; human rights; and anti-bribery and corruption systems and procedures were all updated during 2012. 2 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Plans for 2013 Wherever we work, we co-operate closely with host governments, local communities and other third parties to learn about their concerns and aspirations, assess our impacts and forge strong, open and lasting relationships based on mutual benefit. During 2012, we undertook public consultations with communities located near the Pitu area offshore North West Greenland where we are targeting to drill an exploration well in 2014. Throughout 2013 we will assess potential impacts and develop plans to manage them in preparation for a projected multi-well, multi-year offshore drilling programme commencing in Morocco in late 2013. Internally, our focus will be on integrating updated procedures and our HSE Culture Framework across all our new operations. In order to encourage strong CR leadership, we have also set 10 HSE leading performance indicators and targets for 2013. In conclusion, 2012 was a year of significant evolution for Cairn in building new growth opportunities and reinforcing our management approach. I am confident we can succeed in creating further value for shareholders while acting responsibly and respectfully towards the communities and environments where we work. Simon Thomson Chief Executive 18 March 2013 à www.cairnenergy.com/ responsibility Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 3 Business Overview We complement our technical skill with social and environmental expertise Taking a at every stage of the project lifecycle long term Cairn’s entrepreneurial culture helps us move quickly to secure opportunities and realise value, while never compromising the safety of our people and the view environment. When working with local communities, we take a long term view. The diagram below offers an overview of how we manage our potential social and environmental impacts across all stages of the oil and gas exploration and production lifecycle. 1 3 Due Diligence Exploration Before making an acquisition or investment, applying for an exploration Seismic licence or farming-in to an existing Following entry into an exploration project, we carry out an extensive risk licence, we carry out seismic surveys screening process including assessing to develop a picture of geological whether there are potential health and structures below the surface to help safety, social, human rights, political, identify whether they may contain corruption, security or environmental hydrocarbons. Each seismic survey is impacts and identifying approaches preceded by an environmental, social or to manage these risks. human rights impact assessment (EIA, SIA, HRIA) or all three, depending on the circumstances and whether the seismic survey is onshore or offshore. 2 4 Licence Award PreSite qualification Survey When the decision to apply for a Site surveys are carried out to gain licence has been made, we supply more detailed information on the the necessary documents to the area where an exploration well relevant authorities. Typically this may be drilled and to confirm that includes information about our the selected drilling location is safe legal status, financial capability, and environmentally viable. The technical competence and how we process normally involves taking plan to manage health, safety and geological samples and carrying environment risks and contribute out seismic surveys with low social to local economic development. or environmental impacts and may not require a separate EIA. 4 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 5 7 Exploration Development Drilling Once a prospect is shown to be technically and commercially viable, a development plan Exploration wells are drilled to determine is prepared and submitted to the relevant whether reservoirs with oil or gas are present. authorities for approval. This includes a This phase can also be accompanied by a rigorous assessment of all the potential risks step-change in activity and visibility to the local and a long term EIA, SIA and HRIA covering population. For example, offshore exploration a time frame of between 10-30 years. can involve a drilling rig, supply vessels and The plan will also detail benefits to local helicopters for transporting personnel. communities in terms of providing Exploration drilling is preceded by an EIA employment and supplier opportunities and SIA to understand potential impacts and will propose how to manage potentially and to identify steps to reduce these to challenging impacts such as an influx of acceptable levels. Limited community workers from outside the local community. development programmes may also be put into place at this time, such as support for educational or local community facilities. Decommissioning 6 8 Appraisal Production Drilling A variety of options are available for the production of oil and gas. If promising amounts of oil and gas are During this phase, which can last confirmed from the exploration phase, many decades, regular reviews are field appraisal is used to establish the made of social and environmental size and characteristics of the discovery performance to ensure that and to provide technical information to impacts identified in the EIAs, SIAs allow the optimum method for recovery and HRIAs are mitigated, to satisfy of the oil and gas to be determined. organisations providing finance The potential social and environmental such as the International Finance impacts associated with appraisal Corporation (IFC) or to fulfil the drilling are similar to exploration drilling requirements of community and an EIA and SIA will be carried out development programmes. in advance, if required. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 5 Business Overview Where we operate Key Projects Greenland UK and Norwegian North Sea North Sea Mediterranean Spain Atlantic Margin Malta Morocco Senegal Atlantic Margin Greenland 11 blocks with a 102,000km2 combined area Cairn has a strategic and leading early Atlantic Margin Atlantic Margin entry position in multiple frontier basins offshore Greenland. We and multiple other Morocco Senegal operators are excited about the prospects and opportunities Greenland offshore ~8,500km2 position 7,490km2 position exploration offers. built in Morocco built offshore Senegal We have been operating offshore Greenland Cairn is operator of two permits offshore Cairn has agreed a farm-in (65% interest) since 2008. During the summer of 2012 Morocco, Foum Draa (50%) and Juby as operator with Joint Venture partners FAR we undertook public consultations with the Maritime (37.5%). Cairn’s drilling programme and Petrosen, to the Sangomar, Sangomar local communities located near the Pitu is due to commence offshore Morocco Deep and the Rufisque blocks offshore area in North West Greenland to listen and in Q4 2013. We completed an EIA ahead Senegal. We carried out a due diligence understand their views on offshore drilling. of a 3D seismic survey in December process including assessing CR risks, 2012/January 2013. prior to proceeding with the farm-in. Discover more: Communities Section Discover more: Environment Section Discover more: Governance Section P26–29 P20–25 P12–13 6 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary UK and Norwegian North Sea UK and Norway 36 licences held in the UK and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea Cairn has built a material position in the UK and Norway that provides a platform for mature basin exploration and future sustainable cash flow from development projects. These acquisitions brought to Cairn teams with a wealth of experience which enhance our technical capability and additional skills to identify and evaluate new opportunities. Discover more: People Section Cairn India P16–19 South Asia South Asia Cairn India Cairn returned US$3.5bn to shareholders following the sale of its majority shareholding in Cairn India We retain an ~10% shareholding in Cairn India, worth US$1.1bn. Cairn’s lasting legacy in India includes the Enterprise Centre in Rajasthan, which made a significant difference to residents of the Barmer region and its economy. It shows how integrated community development can Mediterranean lead to inclusive economic growth. Discover more: Communities Section Spain P26–29 3,175km2 position built offshore Spain Cairn is in the early stages of carrying out frontier exploration in the western Mediterranean, with four blocks offshore Spain, in the gulf of Valencia. In 2012 we completed and implemented a Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan (PCDP) in anticipation of future activities. Discover more: Communities Section P26–29 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 7 Business Overview A year for renewal Living our core values of building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly informs and guides us as we refresh our CR approach across the business The 3Rs: our Core Values Building Respect Nurturing Relationships Acting Responsibly We act with respect We act honestly, We behave fairly, for people, their transparently and ethically and are communities, the with integrity to accountable for our environment, human develop strong, lasting actions. We believe rights and the law. relationships with in, and act on, our all our stakeholders. responsibility to care for people, society and the environment. Annual review The CR issues requiring our closest 2012 was a busy year for Cairn in terms attention are always top of our mind. of significant business transactions and They are guided by our core values and building a balanced portfolio, as detailed our Business Principles and informed in our 2012 Annual Report. by our strategy, materiality process and stakeholders. We feature a snapshot of our By contrast, our exploration activities key issues on pages 10-11, and expand on have been relatively modest – an EIA and them later in this report and our website seismic survey in Morocco and marine at www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility. survey operations in Greenland. Our website also provides full details about our performance in 2012 and objectives for In August 2012, we carried out a tour 2013, with highlights on the page opposite. of the local communities in North West Greenland to understand the potential issues, impacts and opportunities associated with our proposed activity in the region. The information gathered during these consultations will inform the SIA for the proposed drilling programme in the Pitu block, offshore Greenland, in 2014 subject to necessary approvals. During the year we took the opportunity to review our approach to CR and to consolidate and upgrade our management systems and training, particularly on human rights, health and safety and anti-bribery and corruption. We also refreshed our Business Principles. Support vessel offshore Greenland used during drilling operations 8 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Focus on performance Transparency on accomplishments and challenges supports our drive for continuous improvement Progress against Objectives for 2013 2012 CR objectives We have set ourselves objectives in the following areas for 2013. Last year we set ourselves 15 CR objectives and by December 2012 we Approach to managing health, safety and environment had fully completed all but the following, 1. Complete development of the updated Group CRMS and supporting which are in progress: procedures and provide training in its use hhCompleting two remaining actions 2. Review and update the CR Policies and Business Principles arising from the 2011 internal audit of the Group CR Management Behaving responsibly in all our business relationships System (CRMS) 3. Complete anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) refresher training and monitor hhFinalising and implementing updated its implementation induction processes for new staff 4. Enhance HSE/CR communications to external stakeholders and contractors 5. Implement new contractor management procedures hhIncorporating detailed guidance for climate change management into Behave responsibly towards society and communities the project delivery process 6. Provide training in updated human rights procedures Behave responsibly towards our people 7. Implement management and other staff training programmes 8. Roll-out the HSE Culture Framework and enhance CR communications to staff Behaving responsibly towards the environment 9. Update our approach to climate change 10. Refresh our approach to biodiversity 2012 CR-related Group Key 2013 CR-related Group KPIs and targets Performance Indicators (KPIs) The following are the CR related KPIs and targets included in the 2013 Group KPIs: and targets In addition to CR objectives, Cairn has in Successfully Complete 2013 operational activities on schedule, place both financial and non-financial KPIs complete operated under budget, to the desired quality and with no injuries which are used to monitor progress in 2013 work or environmental incidents delivering the Company’s strategy. The programmes 2012 Group KPIs included a number of Minimise injuries and environmental incidents in 2013 KPIs and targets designed to achieve operated activities: operational excellence, enhance HSE hhTotal Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) target of less and minimise environmental incidents. than 2.0 TRI/million hours Full details are available in the Strategic hhNo oil spills Review section of the 2012 Annual Report. Continue to Achieve targets for 10 HSE leading performance enhance the Group’s indicators across the areas of: A significant number of additional CR KPIs approach to HSE risk hhAwareness raising of HSE management systems are used to monitor performance and a identification and and procedures selection are presented in this report. They management hhEngagement with contractors are more fully reported on our website at hhCommunication of HSE approach and performance à www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility. hhRisk assessment and management Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 9 Business Overview Mapping our priorities A robust materiality process helps us identify topics which matter most to our stakeholders and our business Priority CR topics for 2012 1 The protection of people’s health High 2 and safety 2 The prevention of major accidents 56 3 The prevention of spills and reducing 13 the impact of effluents and waste Issues of 4 The sustainable development 4 of resources in the Arctic 5 Assuring all our relationships are importance to Cairn characterised by honesty and integrity Issues positioned within these 6 Providing a positive impact to local areas are described on the communities as a result of our activities Group website at www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility Low Low Issues of importance to stakeholders High Materiality process The outcomes from our materiality Sphere of reference Our business activities and resulting process depend on which activities The extensive range of CR issues impacts change on a regular basis, so it are under way or planned and the stage we discuss is generated from our is important to refresh our approach to they have reached in the exploration understanding of the oil and gas our CR priorities in line with our business. and production lifecycle. For example, sector and our activities and the We achieve this through our materiality following the disposal of the majority locations where we operate and is process which consists of identifying the shareholding in Cairn India, the Company informed by publications and guidance issues most important to our stakeholders has limited producing assets and emits from organisations such as the IFC. and our business. Having established key negligible volumes of greenhouse gases We pay close attention to the concerns topics, they are assessed and prioritised (GHGs), whose impact is therefore not of our stakeholders. by mapping them onto a materiality matrix considered material in 2012. – a simplified version of which is shown above – according to their significance At the end of 2012 we held a materiality Governments and licensing to the business and to our stakeholders. workshop for Cairn’s senior management authorities This helps us prioritise strategies for to scrutinise the existing and emerging Media Local communities managing them. Our key materiality issues CR topics affecting our business. The for 2012 inform updates to our policies, workshop was facilitated by a third party annual objectives, risk management and and included an external CR expert. Cairn Industry how we communicate our CR approach Employees Stakeholders bodies and performance. Contractors Business and suppliers partners and advisers Investors/ banks 10 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Priority CR topics 1. Health and safety 3. Spills, effluents and waste We respect the right of sovereign In our business, health, safety, security Preventing spills is critically important governments to award licences to explore, and wellbeing of people comes first. and a key feature of Cairn’s risk mitigation drill and develop in their territory. Our track Our main focus in 2013 will be minimising programme. Preventative measures record demonstrates that we are equipped the risks to people and environment during are included within the design of wells to deliver these activities both safely and the planning and execution of our drilling and equipment, the implementation without environmental incidents. Find out programme. In support of this objective, of operational controls and through more on pages 22-23. we will be providing refresher training on alignment with our contractors. the updated CRMS, rolling out the HSE 5. Honesty and integrity Culture Framework and implementing The chemicals used in drilling fluids on Cairn’s ability to secure licences and to a communications programme to exploration wells are selected according to deliver operations effectively depends on enhance the visibility of HSE across a stringent system to ensure safe use and transparent relationships with governments, the organisation. The HSE Leadership to limit their impact on the environment. communities, partners and suppliers Team has also introduced 10 HSE leading Our waste levels vary from year to year globally and our commitment to robust performance indicators and targets aligned depending on our level of exploration governance standards and living by them with the delivery of these objectives. activity. We identify and record all waste is critical. Behaving honestly, fairly and with Our People section on pages 16-19 gives generated by our activities, manage it integrity supports our overarching principle more details. according to detailed and approved plans of seeking to continually improve our and recycle where possible. Any hazardous business performance. Cairn always aims to 2. Preventing major accidents waste is treated and disposed of separately pay the right amount of tax, at the right time, Avoiding accidents is our top priority and through approved sites. within the right jurisdiction. The Company we implement rigorous risk management has adopted a tax policy that ensures it processes during the planning and 4. Resource development does not enter into artificial tax avoidance subsequent execution of our activities. in the Arctic schemes. Remuneration is dealt with in Should an incident arise during operations, Exploring for, and developing hydrocarbon detail in the Directors’ Remuneration Report contingency procedures are ready for resources in the Arctic is not new. section of the 2012 Annual Report. Pages deployment to protect lives and safeguard Exploration and development wells 14-15 of this report describe how we the environment. Find out more about have been drilled in this region since the manage governance and business ethics. our approach on pages 16-23. 1920s. We recognise the responsibility associated with oil and gas exploration 6. Positive impact for and development in frontier areas and local communities Staying in touch are highly informed about the risks of Strong relationships based on mutual trust exploration and drilling in any location and respect are crucial to Cairn’s ongoing Stakeholders’ views are business success and we aim to deliver where we operate. Managing risks important to our business, and applying every practicable means lasting value to all our stakeholders, a key so we interact with them to minimise danger to human life and group being communities. We actively regularly to learn directly the environment are central to our way engage and consult with local populations of working. with the aim of effectively managing the about their priorities. different interests and expectations Our activities include: associated with our activities as effectively hhMeetings with regulators such as we can. During exploration drilling or as the Bureau of Minerals and development activities, we implement Petroleum (BMP – the Greenland steps to support skills development in local regulatory authority), Health and communities including using contractors Safety inspectorate, DECC who employ local labour wherever (Department of Energy and Climate possible. Our Communities section Change) in the UK and ONHYM on pages 26-29 provides details. (Office National des Hydrocarbures et des Mines) in Morocco hhRegular contact with investors hhClose collaboration with our business partners, contractors and industry bodies such as the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) and Oil Community engagement in Greenland and Gas UK hhEngagement with communities in 2013 in Morocco Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 11 Governance Accountable to the core Strong governance forms the bedrock for trusting relationships, consistent standards globally and helps deliver lasting value for our shareholders Good governance means 1. Business principles good business and policies Cairn’s licence to operate depends Our Business Principles, which are on transparent relationships with based on our core values of building governments, communities, partners, respect, nurturing relationships and shareholders and suppliers globally. acting responsibly (the 3Rs) define Our commitment to robust governance our approach to everything we do, right standards, and living by them, is critical. across the Company. They consist of 10 principles and are regularly updated, Risk management is a guiding theme most recently in August 2012. for every decision we make and is comprehensively applied across the Behaving honestly, fairly and with integrity business. The Board sets the Group Risk supports our overarching principle of Appetite and monitors the effectiveness seeking continually to improve our business of our risk management process. performance. Together with the 3Rs, this anchors our activities. We first implemented Our Board takes ultimate responsibility our Board-endorsed policies for Health, for Cairn’s Group Business Principles Safety, Security (HSS), the Environment and CR policies, while our Management and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Team ensures that all work programmes in 2002 and we signed up to the UN Global are executed responsibly and risk Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, management is fully integrated. labour, the environment and anti-corruption in June 2012. The HSE Leadership Team, chaired by Jann Brown, the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and comprising a number of senior managers, provides oversight on our approach and performance on all health, safety and security matters. Jann Brown Managing Director and CFO and Chair of HSE Leadership Team 12 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Vision Core Values Business Principles CR Policies Industry collaboration The oil and gas sector is continuously reviewing and developing processes and technology for safer Act Plan exploration and production Performance – we keep abreast with Standards latest developments by Gated Project Delivery Process participating in, amongst Standard Operating Framework others: OGP, Oil and Gas UK and the Greenland Oil Check Do Industry Association (GOIA). Guidance and Implementation Tools (internal and external) 2. Corporate Responsibility 3. Robust risk 4. Ensuring Management System (CRMS) management operational integrity The CRMS helps to ensure that our Host governments invite us to participate Vigilant attention to risk management exploration and development work is and set the standards for our operations ensures productive work throughout undertaken in line with our Business and as well as applying our own standards, the project lifecycle, thereby preventing Principles and policies. Aligned with we commit to meeting or exceeding their accidents and associated lost time. In order international standards such as ISO 26000 expectations. Our Risk Management to ensure continuity and to protect the Guidelines for Social Responsibility and System, CRMS, performance standards health, safety and security of our staff as OGP industry guidance, the CRMS and gated PDP are designed to reduce well as safeguarding the environment, we provides the processes and tools to risks in line with the ‘As Low As Reasonably audit suppliers’ vessels, rigs and equipment characterise and manage CR requirements Practicable’ (ALARP) principle. In Greenland as part of the tender process and before and risks wherever we operate. for example, we work to global best operations begin and review their monitoring, practice level with stringent Norwegian inspection and maintenance procedures. In 2012 we updated the CRMS taking NORSOK regulations for well design and Any shortfalls are reported and remedial into account: UK Safety Case requirements for rigs. actions followed up. hhChanges to the organisation and Operating in many areas, including the responsibilities in 2012 Arctic, can set demanding challenges. 5. New ventures and partners hhLessons learned from its Our experienced teams prepare us for Our reputation for sound governance implementation over the last few years dealing with these by using only the latest rests on making wise choices, and our hhAdoption of the HSE Culture Framework processes and drawing on experiences due diligence process starts with a hhNew IFC and industry guidance gained in Greenland and historically across thorough compliance review and a country South Asia. risk assessment. We employ a decision We work to a gated Project Delivery tree system and anti-bribery and corruption Process (PDP) that requires projects screening for reviewing investment to be progressed through a number opportunities. Due diligence on all aspects of stages. At the end of each stage of CR is carried out on potential partners, we assess whether it is appropriate to with third party and peer reviews where proceed to the next. In 2012, the PDP appropriate. and supporting material were installed on the Group e-platform and rolled out 6. Remuneration to practitioners. Training throughout 2013 Our Remuneration Committee is responsible will continue to embed the CRMS and for setting salaries and bonuses for key we plan to check effectiveness by carrying senior staff. Remuneration is dealt with in out a follow-up internal audit in Q2 2013. depth in the Directors’ Remuneration Report section of the 2012 Annual Report. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 13 Governance In Greenland, Air Greenland was one of a number of contractors which supported Cairn’s operations Ethical business practices We require everyone in our Company, our partners and suppliers to respect human rights and behave honestly, fairly and with integrity at all times Open and clear We are open about our tax payments too. Taking human rights to heart means living Our shareholders expect clear insights We recognise and support the principles our core values of respect, relationships into our business and we provide them of the Extractive Industries Transparency and responsibility. Acting on them in our with an informative website, annual and Initiative and have disclosed our contributions work requires following our Human Rights half-yearly reports and hold regular to governments for eight years. Cairn always Guidelines and five-step approach to meetings with institutional investors. aims to pay the right amount of tax, at the identify and assess issues in our sphere A database of all Directors’ meetings right time within the right jurisdiction. of influence. We follow up our findings by with third-party stakeholders ensures The Company has a policy to ensure flagging essential, expected and desirable transparency around our external relations. that it does not enter into artificial tax actions. We know it’s the right thing to do avoidance schemes. and it helps safeguard business continuity by reducing security risks to our people People come first and operations. We support the principles in the Universal Cairn Group payments Declaration of Human Rights and the United Our Human Rights Guidelines were to central Governments Nations Global Compact. Our ‘rights aware updated in 2012 and training will be Payment to central governments approach’ is aligned with the Guiding delivered during 2013. (including state-owned companies) Principles on Business and Human Rights: ‘000 US Dollars Implementing the United Nations ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ Framework. 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 14 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Anti-bribery and Whistle-blowing Compliance corruption (ABC) Employees are encouraged to report any Regulatory approval for our activities Our anti-bribery and corruption procedures infringements they come across using is often granted subject to specified guide our own behaviour and clarify our our Whistle-blowing Procedure, which conditions and, in accordance with expectations of partners and suppliers. was updated in 2012. Anyone with our CRMS, we maintain compliance They have been audited by our third party concerns contacts their regional director registers to monitor our activities. internal auditor and upgraded to take or department head as the first port account of their recommendations and of call, followed by the legal department. At an operational level, regional directors lessons learned from the first year of A confidential whistle-blower line is also are accountable while HSE personnel are implementation in 2012. Gifts in business available and all cases are followed up. responsible for regulations, permits and can be a grey area, and our gifts and Last year one case was reported, which developing and implementing asset CR hospitality register addresses uncertainty following investigation was determined plans. Employees are encouraged to be and reduces the risk of conflicts of interest not to be an infringement of the Code vigilant about reporting any actual or during tendering processes. of Business Ethics. potential infringements. Safety comes first at all times. Country and Company-level anti-bribery and corruption risk screening forms an At a corporate level, assurance is provided important part of our decision making by the Group HSE, Risk and Compliance process when entering new investment Department. Peer review, benchmarking opportunities or negotiating with potential against standards, Government audits partners. We work through a process and appraisals from potential lenders of risk identification and assess whether provide valuable external corroboration. the potential issues are manageable and whether resulting risks lie within our risk appetite statement. During 2013, we will deliver refresher training on our approach to ABC and the effectiveness of our ABC management system will be regularly monitored. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 15 People People come first In our business, health, safety, security and wellbeing of people are a priority Cairn is committed to operating safely and managing potential major accident Total Recordable Injury Rate and acting properly at all times to ensure hazards. We work closely with our joint (TRIR) the wellbeing of employees, contractors venture partners and major contractors to TRI per million hours and local communities is a priority. We ensure roles and responsibilities are clearly 0.00 have in place a comprehensive CRMS defined. We have rigorous procedures 1 2012 through which we assess risks, apply in place to ensure potential risks and health and safety controls, set targets and impacts are identified, assessed and 7.34 monitor performance. Our HSE Leadership dealt with in line with the ALARP principle. 2011 1.76 Team is responsible for embedding our Before embarking on new projects, CR approach and procedures across the Cairn frequently uses hazard identification 1.81 2010 Group and applying these in our everyday (e.g. HAZIDs) assessments to highlight 1.68 work is down to every employee. potential risks. In the unlikely event of 0.64 a major accident, safety always comes 1.75 2009 Living by the 3Rs first, and we have established contingency Three core values are at the heart of plans ready to protect human life and 0.00 our business: building respect, nurturing the environment. 2008 2.68 relationships and acting responsibly. These 3Rs set out how we behave Our safety performance Cairn towards society, the environment and Our performance over the last five years, OGP benchmark1 people – inside and outside the Company. for selected safety indicators is shown on 1 OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2012 Supporting our 3Rs are the Business the left. More detailed CR performance Principles, CR Policies and new HSE information is also presented on our Culture Framework (see ‘Our new website. Over the five year period, our HSE Culture Framework’ case study main operated activity has been the drilling Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) on page 17). During 2012 the CRMS programme in Greenland in 2010 and 2011. was also updated as we describe Our safety performance over the period LTI per million hours on pages 12-13. has been good and in line with the industry, except for in 2011 when there were seven 0.00 2 2012 As part of our commitment to raise HSS lost time injuries on marine vessels and awareness, a number of new policies have at the shore base. Our procedures were 3.67 been developed during 2012. In addition, updated for the ‘lessons learned’ from 0.43 2011 a new e-learning health and safety office these accidents. induction is being rolled out which new 0.60 recruits will be required to complete in 2013. In 2012 the total hours worked by staff 2010 0.42 Growth of the business into new countries and contractors, was just over 306,000 during 2012 has meant a rise in employee – an 84% reduction from the 1.9 million 0.64 0.45 2009 travel. Our updated Travel Security Policy hours in 2011, when there were a requires health, safety and security risk significant number of contractors involved 0.00 assessments before travelling to new in the 2011 Greenland drilling programme. 0.55 2008 countries or potentially risky locations. We experienced no health and safety incidents in 2012 so the Lost Time Injury Cairn Operational integrity Frequency (LTIF) and Total Recordable OGP benchmark2 and asset management Injury Rate (TRIR) were zero. 2 OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2012 As well as keeping day-to-day activities safe, our CRMS and risk management processes play a vital role in assessing 16 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary In 2012 a single security incident was registered – a Key HSEaction p  oints in 2013 break-in to our London office. The Office Security Plan has been updated and revised Office Security Refresher Senior Rollout of the Translation of Guidelines issued to staff and contractors. training of management new Cairn HSE our behavioural CRMS for tours and Culture competencies Future plans senior engagement Framework into new Our main focus in 2013 will be on raising awareness managers with People of our new HSE Culture Framework among employees contractors to Principles and contractors working for Cairn (see ‘Key HSE action convey Cairn’s points in 2013’) and ensuring the safety of all people commitment to involved in planning and delivering exploration drilling HSE programmes. Communications will also be enhanced to raise visibility of HSE across the organisation. Case Study Cairn believes that an excellent HSE and CR culture comes from successfully building on learning and experience across the Group to drive continuous improvement. In 2012, we wanted to ensure To embed HSE further HSE awareness was translating into the business, everyone in into expected behaviours. a leadership position will have at Together with the Keil Centre, least one HSE-related objective an independent organisation among their personal 2013 specialising in safety culture performance objectives. Ten HSE assessment and human factors Leading Performance Indicators analysis, we conducted workshops (LPIs) and targets aligned with the to gauge prevailing attitudes new HSE Culture Framework have across the business on their also been introduced to support ‘Safety Culture Maturity ®’ Model. the delivery of desired leadership These workshops identified a behaviours. number of areas where awareness In recognition of the importance could be strengthened, for given to HSE performance, the example in recognising risks and Remuneration Committee has communicating our CR approach assigned a 10% weighting in the and performance. As a result, a Group 2013 KPIs to delivery of new HSE Culture Framework has the 10 HSE LPIs and a further Our new HSE been developed to keep HSE at 5% weighting to delivery of safety the forefront. The new Framework, and environmental targets. together with our updated CRMS, Culture Performance against Group 2013 will be rolled out during 2013. KPIs will be used in assessing the annual discretionary bonus. Framework Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 17 People Staff at work in Edinburgh Attracting and nurturing top talent In a fiercely competitive recruitment market, Corporate Responsibility is a factor in making Cairn an employer of choice and maintaining low levels of staff turnover Fielding a strong team is crucial to delivering organisation with the skills we need, We apply a range of methods to motivate sustained shareholder value in a safe and Cairn must stand out as an employer and reward our staff. We offer a share responsible way. Cairn’s vision is to offer of choice – and we see our CR approach incentive plan, an annual discretionary shareholders exposure to a sustainable as one way to do this. Being a responsible cash bonus scheme and a company business with material growth potential business with a strong track record in pension plan contribution. within a balanced portfolio. To do this, stakeholder engagement and effective we have to attract and retain people with CR management helps attract prospective In order to help our people reach their the right skills, expertise and industry employees who increasingly wish potential, we offer training and development experience and ensure effective to work for organisations with strong opportunities including ‘lunch and learn’ succession planning across the Group. ethical credentials. sessions. In 2012, the average number of training days per person at Cairn was 5.5 Competition for talent Nurturing our most days, with an average of £3,000 invested The oil and gas exploration and production important asset per head – well above the national figures sector labour market is extremely Cairn values its people highly. Since 2004, of 3 days and £276 respectively, according competitive and characterised by major we have been accredited as an Investor to the Chartered Institute of Personnel skill shortages. Well-qualified employees in People – a best practice standard for and Development. create tangible business benefit: our people-focused businesses – and our staff business partners want competent and turnover rate of 3.4% is low. Employee appropriately skilled people to deliver well-being and ensuring a safe and healthy our objectives. To grow and resource the environment are among our priorities. 18 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Case Study During 2012 Cairn made two corporate acquisitions of UK and Norway focused oil and gas exploration and production companies. In April 2012, Cairn acquired Agora These acquisitions brought to Oil and Gas AS, a private Norwegian Cairn some of the most skilled company based in Stavanger explorationists in the North Sea. with exploration, appraisal and The teams bring a wealth of development assets in the UK and experience in exploration that has Norwegian North Sea. In August enhanced our technical capability 2012 Cairn acquired Nautical and additional skills to help Petroleum plc, an AIM-listed oil evaluate new opportunities. and gas exploration and production The former Chief Executive of company based in London with Agora now heads the UK and development assets in the UK Norway region and the Group will North Sea and exploration assets draw on the new teams’ expertise in the UK, France and Morocco. and approaches, cascading any learnings in 2013. Our UK and Norway team now works out of Edinburgh, Stavanger and London. Learning from others Professional development We aspire to diversify the Board further Succession planning Ongoing knowledge management is and appoint women if they are the best Cairn has the right leadership and ensured via our Group e-platform. In 2013 candidate for the role. At senior management organisation in place to deliver our we plan to further develop our flexible level, we also seek to develop and increase corporate strategy. We spend considerable working policy and expand IT-facilitated the number of women in senior positions resources on developing the next remote working. across the Group through measures generation of leaders and ensuring including succession planning, training and they are appropriately diverse, skilled Equality and diversity development and flexible working policies, and equipped to continue to meet the At Cairn we value a diverse workforce and all of which support diversity. Company’s strategic objectives. encourage women and ethnic minorities to pursue careers in our industry. We actively In 2012, we ran Equality and Diversity In 2013, we aim to enhance the current seek to hire local people wherever we and Harassment training for staff and succession planning process and roll out operate – a practice host governments contractors in the Edinburgh office. a Management Development Programme value highly. In 2012, from a total of 180 full for middle managers to build leadership time Group employees, 49% were female and management capability. This will give and 2% from ethnic minorities. Women us greater flexibility to move people around counted for 33% of managerial grade the business and ensure business continuity. employees and 22% of our Board members. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 19 Environment Minimising risks to the environment Working with governments and communities, we minimise potential environmental impacts by applying international standards, living up to local requirements and managing risk rigorously Precautionary principle Minimising risk Working in non-operated We take a precautionary approach Designed to identify and assess the environments and avoid, wherever possible, negative environmental aspects of our operations, Cairn counts both operated and nonimpacts to the environment and EIAs allow us to determine the significance operated acreage in its portfolio of assets. biodiversity. We will not operate in of impacts and define actions to manage UNESCO World Heritage sites and areas and monitor these risks. With this In Greenland and Morocco, we have of similar significance not enjoying the information to hand, we can review project operational control of our exploration same level of legal protection. alternatives and make informed decisions and drilling programmes and apply our when planning our activities. We feature management systems and standards as Management systems a case study of the EIA we carried out described above. Our recent acquisition in practice in Morocco in 2012 on page 25. of interests in the North Sea has allowed Governments award exploration and us to partner in drilling opportunities development opportunities knowing EIA findings are subject to a thorough operated by other companies such as that our licence to operate and track technical review by expert stakeholders Statoil ASA, Premier Oil plc and EnQuest record depend on balancing value creation and on occasions, to wider consultations plc. As we explain in the Governance for all stakeholders with rigorous care at public hearings. Measures to mitigate any section, our due diligence process gives us for the environment of the countries risks and commitments defined in the EIA confidence in the integrity and HSE track and communities where we operate. documentation form part of the asset or record of the operators we work with. Wherever possible we avoid negative project specific Environmental Management Additionally, our non-operated ventures are impacts on the environment and will Plans. Results are monitored to confirm the in the North Sea, where they are regulated prevent or minimise emissions to air, levels of impact predicted in the EIAs and stringently. We assess the HSE standards land and water. Our CRMS stipulates the effectiveness of mitigation measures. of contractors selected by our operating that environmental impacts must be partners regularly. We influence our managed at every stage of the exploration, partners by reviewing operator criteria for drilling or development programme. the HSE ranking of contractors, making Environmental aspects are evaluated HSE evaluations of development concepts at every decision point in our five stage and commenting on project risk matrices. PDP described on page 21. 20 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Our gated project delivery process WHY? HOW? READY FINISHED learn Identify Assess Define Execute Evaluate Why are we doing How could we do Are we ready to Have we finished What do we learn this project? this project? sanction the work? all we needed to do? and achieve? Case Study Following the Greenland drilling campaign in 2011 we assessed lessons learned to review and improve our approach. Findings include: hhStart EIA/SIA planning early hhWork with a drilling mud to address concerns and contractor to develop and understand information. Our test potentially lower impact consultation in North West alternatives while assuring Greenland in the Pitu area performance and safety started in August 2012 two hhReview waste management, years before planned operations capacity and alternatives ahead in 2014, subject to necessary of future campaigns approvals hhFocus on proactive engagement hhExplore collaboration with on approach and behaviours, other operators in Greenland. drawing on the Group’s HSE To reduce the potential for Culture Framework stakeholder fatigue, we have started a process to carry out a joint social baseline study among the Baffin Bay operators in Greenland hhDevelop oil spill plans early and employ the best, most up-to-date response technologies and techniques. Collaborate with industry Sample lessons initiatives such as Joint Industry Projects (JIPs) and GOIA and learned from ensure all plans are transparent Greenland Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 21 Environment Rising to the Resource development in the Arctic Exploration in the wider Arctic region is challenge not new and began onshore in the 1920s and offshore in the 1970s, with a total of 10,000 wells drilled to date. Choosing to realise the value of its potential resources, the Government of Greenland has Protecting the environment is a high awarded Cairn and other companies such as Shell, ConocoPhillips and Maersk priority and we are vigilant about licences to explore, drill and potentially prevention and preparedness develop in its territory. We are conscious of our responsibility when operating in frontier areas such as the Arctic and are highly informed about the risks of drilling in all conditions. We recognise that our sector’s activities impact public perception about Arctic exploration. Our commitment to avoiding risks and applying every practicable means to minimise impacts on human life and the environment is unshakable and our record strong. Our track record and experience demonstrate that we are well equipped for the task of exploring for oil and gas. Between 2010 and 2011, we drilled eight wells offshore Greenland without any serious injuries or significant environmental incidents during operations and made a major contribution to the Greenland economy – see pages 16 and 29. The Stena Forth used in Cairn’s 2010 offshore Greenland drilling programme 22 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Setting standards Emergency response Greenland Oil Industry in new areas Our critical goal is to prevent any Association (GOIA) Drilling in deep water and extreme accidents, but should an incident arise environments is not new and it now during operations, contingency procedures Cairn was involved in the benefits from advanced state-of-the-art are ready for deployment to preserve formation of GOIA. We are technology and approaches. During lives and protect the environment. Our drilling operations in Greenland in 2010 Emergency Response Plans were an working with other and 2011, Cairn: integral part of our successful ‘Application companies with interests hhContracted latest generation ‘dynamic’ to Drill’ submission to the Government in the country including, deep water drilling vessels that did not of Greenland for our 2011 campaign. Shell, Chevron, ExxonMobil, require anchoring to the seabed We tested our emergency plans in detail, hhCarried out extensive ice management, including four set-piece exercises, the Statoil, ConocoPhillips, as used off the east coast of Canada most complex of which simulated a major Maersk and the Government for the past 40 years, to protect drilling well control scenario. of Greenland on a range vessels from damage of topics including the Our Crisis Response Room is on constant Learning from Macondo standby and when we are operating at a enhancement of oil spill Following the Macondo incident in the low level – as in 2012 – provides both crisis prevention and contingency Gulf of Mexico in 2010, we reviewed, and emergency cover. We update our crisis planning ahead of any future revised and confirmed that our procedures response plan and hold refresher training drilling activities. and equipment fully complied with, and on a regular basis. An additional, countryin many instances exceeded, the Bureau focused Emergency Response Group of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation (ERG) is formed for each country where and Enforcement (BOEMRE) in the US drilling is active. and industry wide recommendations. We also track developments in industry and We recognise that public interest in our Oil Spills regulation very closely. During 2012, preparedness is high, and make our Oil we increased our involvement through Spill Prevention and Contingency Plans Group Number of Total volume joining the OGP Oil Spill Response (OSR) (OSPCP) available when sovereign Operated oil spills that of oil spilled reached the in reporting Joint Industry Project (JIP), which are governments permit it. environment period undertaking a comprehensive review and subsequent evolution of oil spill Exploration and drilling activity in Number Barrels management addressing issues following Greenland is likely to increase in the near 2012 0 0 Macondo and other incidents. Our aim future, and a Government of Greenland is to verify Cairn’s existing arrangements oil spill preparedness company named 2011 0 0 and we have focused especially on Greenland Oil Spill Response A/S (GOSR) 2010 0 0 the ‘Upstream Risk Assessment and has been established. We have transferred Response Planning’ work stream that is our Oil Spill Contingency equipment, 2009 0 0 developing guidance on various aspects worth more than US$5 million, to GOSR 2008 0 0 of oil spills including: which will now take care of storage, hhProbability of spills and credibility maintenance, tests and deployment. This covers spills of crude oil only. We also of risk scenarios record spills of fuel, chemicals, waste and hhAssessment of resources at risk other. Please refer to data on our website hhResource inventory and capability at à www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility hhPlan development hhDemonstration of plan application and exercises Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 23 Environment Managing our footprint Controlling our impacts before, during and after every stage in the oil and gas lifecycle is essential to the way we operate During 2012 our operations were limited the world and we therefore manage our to an EIA and seismic survey in Morocco operations to minimise the greenhouse Greenhouse Gas Emissions and marine operations and stakeholder gases (GHGs) emitted during our activities. engagement in Greenland. There was We have reported our GHG emissions in Tonnes therefore less potential for impacts on our annual CR Reports since 2001 and to 1,589 the environment than in previous years. the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2006 280 2012 and our climate change strategy will be 657 Biodiversity reviewed again during 2013. Our GHG Oil and gas exploration can have an emissions peaked during 2010 and 2011 as 166,266 impact on nature and on the quality of life a result of fuel burnt during the Greenland 269 2011 of the communities where we operate. drilling programmes in those years. 447 We therefore carefully observe, assess and monitor biodiversity through our Noise 151,181 EIAs and SIAs in every territory where Every stage of oil and gas exploration and 479 2010 we operate. During 2012 we carried out drilling activities generates an element 602 an EIA in Morocco that included noting of noise, notably from seismic surveys, marine mammals in the vicinity. Mitigation drilling activities, support vessels and 24,891 measures we adopted to minimise noise, aircraft used in crew changes. Mitigating 421 2009 waste and nuisance to users are described noise includes using a ‘soft start’ in seismic 553 in the case study opposite. During 2013 surveys (see case study on page 25) we will update our approach to biodiversity and ensuring wherever practical, aircraft 29,399 management and raise awareness across avoid sensitive seabird colonies and 522 2008 the Group. marine mammals. 489 Climate change Waste Oil and gas production provides the energy The majority of our waste is produced by Direct needed to catalyse economic development our contractors, and since our activity has Indirect (Scope 2) around the world and provides a bridge been limited in 2012, we have produced little. Air Travel (Scope 3) until a low carbon economy is achieved. We require our contractors to segregate Climate change may affect our own waste and monitor, record and report all business and the lives of people around waste produced and its disposal destination. 24 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Chemicals Wherever possible we select green, fluids or ‘muds’ were employed to ensure Cairn manages chemicals in accordance so-called PLONOR chemicals (Pose operational integrity while minimising with the Oslo and Paris Convention for Little or No Risk) as a first choice, then environmental impact. One chemical the Protection of the Marine Environment yellow and finally red, when no other within the mud formulation was categorised (OSPAR) of the North-East Atlantic, the option exists. as ‘red’ as no ‘green’ or ‘yellow’ category internationally recognised mechanism alternative was available that could ensure developed by 15 governments of the During 2011 operations offshore Greenland the well was drilled safely. The use of the western coasts and catchments we used chemicals approved by the red chemical was approved by the regulator. of Europe, together with the European Government of Greenland for drilling, Community. Offshore chemicals are cementing and rig operations. Working During 2012 we have worked with our subject to pre-screening, substitution with our drilling contractor, lower impact drilling mud contractor to explore new mud and ranking using a colour code system. water-based rather than oil-based drilling formulations without the use of any ‘red’ chemicals. As a result a water-based option free of red chemicals is being tested to try Classification Colour Category Approach to Use and find a Best Practicable Environmental Chemicals classified for Black Do not use Option (BPEO) which can also ensure safe Priority Action or and continuous operations. Possible Concern During demobilisation of supplies from the Chemicals not meeting Red Use only where no Greenland 2011 drilling campaign, a small acceptability criteria for acceptable substitute is volume of non-toxic drilling mud chemical toxicity, biodegradation available in the yellow was released from a container at Peterhead or bioaccumulation or green categories in the UK in January 2012. It was fully recovered with no loss into the sea. Other chemicals Yellow Use only where no acceptable substitute is available in the green category Chemicals classified as Green Use wherever possible PLONOR Case Study In 2012 we completed an EIA in Morocco ahead of 3D seismic activity in December 2012 and January 2013. As part of the regulatory process, the EIA was subject to a statutory public hearing. The EIA suggested ways to mitigate of marine mammals near the impacts on marine fauna and users vessel and record of the sea to negligible levels by: their behaviour hhReducing noise – seismic hhIncinerating waste – to avoid acoustic sources that can any form of pollution or potentially impact on fish and contamination of the marine marine mammals are reduced environment, waste is using a technique called ‘soft incinerated on board. In addition, start’. This means the power of the seismic ship has a system the acoustic source is increased for sorting solid waste and another over 20 minutes to the for wastewater treatment maximum required. Starting up hhAvoiding nuisance to other at low power allows fauna to marine users to avoid possible leave the area interference with fishing and hhShutting down when necessary navigation, recommended Environmental to protect marine mammals against physical damage, the measures include issuing information notices about the seismic programme, making Impact seismic survey is interrupted if a marine mammal is observed ongoing contact with boats within a radius of 500 metres in the area and using support Assessment from the sound source hhProviding marine mammal vessels to liaise with fishing boats and other users in Morocco observers to provide a lookout to detect the possible presence Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 25 Communities Engaging for the long term Regular stakeholder engagement to understand potential environmental and social impacts is vital to the success of any project Strong relationships based on mutual trust The aim of our stakeholder engagement and respect is crucial to Cairn’s ongoing strategy is to manage effectively the business success. A wide range of different interests and expectations stakeholders has the potential to affect associated with our activities. Our – or be affected by – our operations. CSR Policy, CRMS and Stakeholder Engaging with them is an integral part Management Guidelines set out how of maintaining our licence to operate and we identify and engage with diverse ensuring positive project outcomes. groups. Our Group stakeholder matrix provides information to our regular reviews of our Business Principles and any updates to the materiality matrix. Case Study In preparation for potential drilling during 2014 in the Pitu block in the Baffin Bay area, subject to the necessary approvals, during 2012 Cairn carried out a tour of three towns and five settlements between Ilulissat and Qaanaaq on the northwest coast of Greenland. The tour’s purpose was to explain the drilling cycle and gather information to inform the formal Terms of Reference for the SIA study, while at the same time listen to the views and any concerns of the local communities. In response to concerns raised by some stakeholders about the statutory consultation and public hearing process in 2010, we began this process early to give people time to understand the issues and promote participation in the consultation process. Building of docks, use of local labour and development of English skills were identified as local priorities. Among the concerns raised were the effects of oil spills, seismic Baffin Bay: disturbance to whales and fish and education for young people. Using these insights, we aim to complete the SIA by giving people the end of 2013 and expect public hearings to be held in early 2014. time 26 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 1 First step: Consultation Engagement in Greenland Before each new programme process, strong relationships of activities, we prepare a Public are forged with communities, Scoping Consultation and Disclosure governments and business Plan (PCDP) that identifies the partners, laying the foundation 1 stakeholders involved and sets for mutual benefits. out appropriate engagement Where challenging matters SIA Terms of Reference strategies. Our Group including land acquisition, Scoping Consultation and Disclosure resettlement, water use, Plan Framework follows the security and compensation guidelines of the IFC which are are involved, Cairn consults 01 widely regarded as best practice. extensively with stakeholders. Submit Drilling Submit and Publish Submit SIAand Publish Study The PCDP process promotes To see how this process was Application EIA Report SIA Report 2 mechanisms for stakeholders central to developing what Stakeholder Consultation to voice their opinions and is now the world’s longest Submit Submit and Submit and any concerns and share their continuously heated pipeline in Drilling Publish Public Publish Hearing Process aspirations for what exploration Rajasthan, India, visit our website Application EIA Report SIA Report will bring to their community. at www.cairnenergy.com/ For Cairn, it is an opportunity responsibility or see our 2010 6 Week to explain our operations and Corporate Responsibility Report. Public Stakeholder Consultation Hearing Respond to Public Comments manage expectations while In 2012, a PCDP was completed Process exploring for oil and gas, and in anticipation of future activities ensure that our investments 02 offshore Valencia, Spain. Respond To in social and community In Morocco, Cairn began Public Comments development align with local stakeholder mapping prior to Submit Final Submit Final needs. The PCDP also includes scoping out a PCDP in 2013. EIA Report SIA Report a clear grievance procedure so The Greenland PCDP will be Submit Submit Final Final that unresolved issues can be updated in 2013 to reflect EIA Report SIA Report addressed. Through this open potential future operations. Impact Benefit 3 Agreement Impact Benefit 2 Second step: 03 Agreement Impact assessment Cairn complies fully with host Gauging socio-economic impacts government requirements, using helps us mitigate adverse effects a range of environmental and and ensure that human rights social impact assessments and are respected and protected. baseline surveys to assess the During 2012, Cairn updated its Approval to Approval toDrill Drill potential effects of operations Human Rights Guidelines and and develop Social Management training will occur in 2013. Plans (SMPs). The primary The SIA also helps to enhance focus of SIAs and social baseline the potential benefits through studies is on demographics, a social management plan. This employment and livelihoods, typically includes a programme economy, education and for local communities. training, community health and infrastructure. 3 Third step: Community development programmes As well as developing SIAs, contractors undertake to make to we work with host countries local communities as part of their to produce a community drilling exploration campaigns. development programme. For To date, Cairn has been involved example in Greenland all drilling in two IBAs (in 2010 and 2011) activities require an Impact with local municipalities and Benefit Agreement (IBA) for each the Government of Greenland. exploration phase. This outlines (See ‘Impact Benefit Agreements the social, economic and cultural in Greenland’ case study on contributions Cairn and its page 29.) Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 27 Communities Leaving a positive legacy Our aim is to develop long term partnerships with local communities to ensure our activities have positive and enduring socio-economic benefits. As well as ensuring that Cairn’s operations The lessons we learned in South Asia avoid or minimise negative impacts, our CR are now being applied in Greenland Total Social Investment policy and core business values commit us and elsewhere, through IBAs designed Expenditure (£ Sterling) to maximise benefits to local communities. to benefit local Greenlandic communities Amount donated or spent on Community We can also have a considerable positive (See ‘Impact Benefit Agreements in Development/Social Investment financial impact in the countries in which Greenland’ case study on page 29.) We we operate. For instance, cash flow from know that increasing local participation in Cairn India’s producing fields resulted in oil and gas activities is important to local 1,500,000 US$1.27 billion in taxes and other duties people, but that development of skills and paid to Indian federal and state authorities enterprise associated with the industry 1,250,000 in 2011. must be sustainable – whether or not exploration is successful. This is important 1,000,000 Building capacity to our host governments and a core part through co-operation of Cairn’s way of doing business. 750,000 During exploration, drilling or development activities, we support skills development 500,000 in local communities by employing subGiving back to the community contractors who use local labour wherever Cairn also has a charitable giving 250,000 possible. We also drive continuous skills programme largely focused on supporting improvement by sharing information with not-for-profit organisations in and around local enterprises. Edinburgh, where we are headquartered. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Our charitable giving is co-ordinated by Our aim is to develop long term a 10-member Group Charities Committee partnerships with local communities to which reports to the Executive Team. In ensure our activities have positive and 2012, our donations amounted to nearly enduring socio-economic impact, for £453,000. For more information on how example by creating new jobs, engaging this was allocated, please see our website. local suppliers, providing infrastructure à www.cairnenergy.com/responsibilty and improving access to education and healthcare. We have a strong track record in India, where we partnered with the IFC to establish the Cairn Enterprise Centre in Rajasthan. (See ‘Enterprise Centre, Rajasthan’ case study on page 29.) 28 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Case Study In January 2004, Cairn discovered the Mangala oil field in Rajasthan, India. In partnership with the IFC and the This success saw the EC Government of Rajasthan, an extended for a further five years Enterprise Centre (EC) was set and incorporated as a not-for-profit up in Barmer in July 2007, to bring organisation – the Cairn Enterprise benefits from energy development Centre (CEC). In 2011-2012, courses to the local community. Its remit in advanced welding, pumps and was to develop skills, build local valves, basic computer training and vendor networks and establish spoken English were offered. welfare initiatives such as mobile By making vocational skills and health vans and dairy development. qualifications more accessible, In its first phase, the EC focused the CEC has made a significant on imparting transferable skills difference to residents of the like computer literacy, technology, Barmer region and its economy. car maintenance, mobile phone For Cairn, it serves as a good model Enterprise support and welding services. A total of 6,617 people were trained, 80% of whom found of how integrated community development can lead to inclusive economic growth. Centre in employment. Rajasthan Case Study As part of each phase of Cairn’s exploration drilling programmes offshore Greenland, we have negotiated IBAs with local municipalities and the government of Greenland to ensure that – whether oil is found or not – local communities benefit from our presence. As part of these IBAs, Education executive negotiation and and Community Development technical English language training Funds have been set up to promote – a pre-requisite for a strong HSE Greenlandic social and cultural culture. Community projects wellbeing and human resources funded included cultural and and business development. As sport-related activities aimed at well as contributing funds, Cairn young people, such as handball, has provided training positions, football and cross-country employment and income skiing, traditional umiaaraq boat opportunities for Greenlandic championships and the 2012 enterprises such as Air Greenland NIPIAA Rock Festival. and Royal Arctic Line A/S. The IBAs have improved technical Total annual social investment skills, raised local participation expenditure amounted to £0.965 in the oil and gas industry and million in 2010, £1.024 million in ensured that our presence in the 2011 and £0.344 million in 2012. region boosts Greenland’s wider In 2011-2012, a Greenlandic socio-economic development. workforce ratio of 10% was For full details of socio-economic achieved and 12 trainee positions benefits resulting from our operations were created in areas such as in Greenland please see our website helicopter piloting, logistics and at à www.cairnenergy.com/ Impact Benefit exploration drilling. Among the responsibility. projects supported through the Education Fund were advanced Agreements offshore training and contracts, in Greenland Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 29 Supply Chain Partners in excellence High skill levels and high standards come first when choosing who to work with, along with building strong local business relationships Cairn relies on contractors, the numbers a supplier selection tool widely used by Minding our ABCs of which varies in line with operational oil and gas purchasers when awarding Cairn has a zero tolerance approach requirements. Ensuring that our suppliers contracts or purchase orders. to bribery and corruption and conducts and business partners uphold our risk-based due diligence on contractors, CR standards is essential to protect Our Invitations to Tender set out our as detailed in our 2011 Anti-Bribery our reputation and licence to operate. expectations and include copies of our and Corruption (ABC) – Selection of With up to 87% of our business activity Business Principles, Corporate Social Service Providers Procedure. This is contracted out at times of significant Responsibility, Health, Safety, Security of growing importance as we consider operational activity, our focus is on and Environmental policies, along with our moving into new potentially higher-risk selecting the right partners, communicating Code of Business Ethics to which potential regions. Where necessary, we also engage expectations, ensuring effective policies contractors must confirm their capability a specialist external consultant to carry and management processes, monitoring to comply. Specific due diligence audits out background verification checks performance and sharing lessons learned. to check contractors’ capabilities and on contractors. equipment may also be undertaken, notably Choosing our for high-risk operations such as drilling. Local content partners carefully An important aspect of Cairn’s strategy Experience, competence and responsibility Contractors are required to submit data is developing new frontiers. To ensure are some of the key considerations when around key CR performance indicators. we create value for host communities, it comes to choosing the right people to our procurement policy encourages use of supply the provisions, equipment and Where Cairn is the minority joint venture local suppliers wherever the right expertise services needed to help run our business. partner and does not have operational is available, or can be developed without Cairn applies a rigorous selection process control, we conduct due diligence and compromising the high standards and in choosing contractors, embedded in our engage constructively with partners principles required in our industry. We Contract & Procurement procedures and to ensure we are comfortable with the include local companies with the required utilising First Point Assessment Ltd (FPAL), operator’s standards before proceeding. competence in bid lists and request international contractors to consider use of local sub-contractors. 30 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Case Study In 2011 a local company, To meet Cairn’s safety and Odin Diving, was certification requirements, Odin Diving became a sub-contractor invited to bid to provide to an experienced UK-based diving stand-by diving support company, KD Marine. Key benefits for Cairn’s Greenland to Odin Diving were training and drilling campaign. seeing at close-range how an international diving company operates safely. Local company support in Greenland Cairn is committed to supporting skills Progress and outlook development in local communities and A key 2012 objective was to update our Cairn Group vs Contracted Hours using local labour. By organising seminars, CR Contractor Management Procedure sharing information with local enterprises Hours and Guidance and incorporate this into and encouraging alliances between the gated PDP. This is currently in progress. 306,178 our local contractors and international The tender process has been mapped and 39,023 2012 companies, we seek to drive continuous key areas where HSE plays a major role improvement of local workforce skills, have been identified. During 2013 new 290,392 including skills that are transferable procedures will be issued to enhance 2011 1,616,750 to other industries other than the oil consideration of HSE in the tender and gas sector. process and promote senior management engagement on HSE matters with key 365,354 2010 Although operational activities in 2012 contractors. We see this as an important 2,946,065 were minimal, we retain a local supply part of building strong relationships with presence in Greenland and in Morocco our business partners, and crucial to our 308,656 we are setting up relationships and ongoing success. 1,257,921 2009 contracts with several local entities. 223,093 1,345,073 2008 Total organisational workforce Contractor workforce Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary 31 Report Parameters This report contains key highlights of Cairn’s Corporate Responsibility activities during 2012 Scope and boundaries Content Summary This report provides a succinct overview This report covers a selection of the of Cairn’s approach to CR. We report on most significant topics of concern to Cairn’s Corporate those operated assets in which we our stakeholders and most material Responsibility approach have control in terms of CR policies and to our business, as assessed by practices. It covers significant performance internal specialists and approved by our and 2012 performance highlights from across Cairn’s global Management, Corporate and Executive is summarised in the operations during 2012 and outlines key Teams. More detailed information can ‘Strategic Review’ section objectives for 2013. For those seeking be found at à www.cairnenergy.com/ of the 2012 Annual Report more comprehensive information and responsibility performance data, an extensive GRI and covered in detail in report for 2012 is available on the web, at Our reporting the Responsibility section à www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility Cairn has reported its CR performance of the Cairn website at annually since 2001. Our last CR Report was Target audiences for this report include issued in April 2012 to the requirements of à www.cairnenergy.com/ interested stakeholders, particularly GRI Application Level B+. We are signatories responsibility governments, business partners, to the United Nations Global Compact and shareholders and contractors. prepare an annual Communication on Progress on our performance against the Data 10 principles as part of that commitment. CR performance is measured across We report in accordance with ISO 26000 the Cairn Group using a number of Key and the AA1000 Assurance Standard Performance Indicators. Health, safety (AA1000 AS – 2008). and environmental data follow the definitions set by the GRI and International Copies of all CR-related reports can Association of Oil and Gas Producers be found at à www.cairnenergy.com/ (OGP). Data used in this report refers to responsibility our operated activities, including operated joint ventures with other companies. External assurance Figures relating to our workforce refer Independent sustainability consultant to Group employees and do not include and assurance firm Environmental contractors except where indicated. Resources Management (ERM) has provided moderate assurance of selected information in Cairn’s web based Corporate Responsibility Report – see statement opposite. Find more on our CR activities on our website at à www.cairnenergy.com/ responsibility 32 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 – A Summary Independent External Based on the work undertaken as Assurance – Summary described above, we conclude that Statement in all material respects: Provided by sustainability A. Cairn’s status of alignment against the consultancy and assurance AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, firm ERM: Materiality and Responsiveness is appropriately reported; and We provided independent assurance on selected information presented in Cairn’s B. The selected 2012 KPIs assured by web-based 2012 Corporate Responsibility ERM as presented throughout the (CR) report. We performed our work in Report are appropriately reported. accordance with the AccountAbility Assurance Standard (AA1000AS 2008) For further details on the work undertaken Type 2 requirements. The level of and our findings please refer to the full assurance provided by ERM as defined by assurance statement in the Responsibility AA1000AS (2008) is moderate. We used section of the Cairn website at the following assessment criteria when à www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility undertaking our work: AccountAbility Principles Standard (AA1000 APS) 2008 and Cairn’s KPI definitions. Printed on FSC-recognised paper, produced from sustainably managed forests. This report was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an FSC-recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 accreditation. Head Office 50 Lothian Road Edinburgh EH3 9BY T +44 131 475 3000 F +44 131 475 3030 E pr@cairnenergy.com www.cairnenergy.com Greenland Floor 5 Imaneq 33 3900 Nuuk Greenland London 8th Floor 20 Berkeley Square London W1J 6EQ UK Morocco “Prestigia”Apart.10 Building 2 Cordoba 1 Hay Riad 10104 Rabat Maroc Nepal House No.66 Hitaisi Marg Ward No.4 Baluwater Kathmandu Nepal Norway PB 400 Sentrum 4007 Stavanger Norway Spain Paseo de la Castellana 42 6th Floor 28046 Madrid Spain www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility
