Socially Responsible In Good days & In Hard Ones Communication On Progress 2012 2013 Smart Social Responsibility www.rayessgroup.com www.haraier.com Tuesday, October 15, 13 1 To our stakeholders: June, 2006 was a perfect date for Rayess Kingdom Group companies to mutually join the Global Compact and to share the world leading organizations’ and corporations’ vision towards the Ten Principles and towards the real need for high standards of Corporate Social Responsibility. Our participation at the Global Compact Leaders Summit on July (2007) was our biggest delight as we could see, feel, and touch the global interest reflected in the Global Compact that would eventually result in a better future for mankind. Being the first Syrian participant in the Global Compact we take it on our shoulder to spread the word locally and to support the UNDP in developing her local network in Syria. We understand our responsibility towards our community and we are working towards spreading the word through various publications to increase corporations’ and individuals’ awareness and to help them understand their key role too. Rayess Kingdom Group, a Group for Life, heavily believe in its main competitive advantage and core of success “Humans.” We do our best to sustainably develop our strategy and performance to meet the ongoing development and changes in the world markets to ensure the best possible atmosphere in relation to the ten principles: Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and Anti Corruption. A copy of this report will be available on our website as soon as possible to help spreading the word and to help our employees, partners and customers to better understand the role we are playing for a better future so they can set theirs too. We Support The Global Compact, Khaldoun M. Rayess Managing Director Rayess Kingdom Group A Group For Life! Rayess Shipping Rayess Trading Rayess Marine Services haraier HQ: 6th floor, Rayess Building, Althawra St. Tartous, Syrian Arab Republic, Tel: +963-43-319681 (82 82 – 84) Fax: +963-43-319655, Email : info@rayesstrading-uae.org, www.rayesstrading-uae.org , www.haraier.com Tuesday, October 15, 13 2 The Companies Behind The Group Rayess Shipping Rayess Trading Rayess Marine Services haraier Tuesday, October 15, 13 3 Rayess Kingdom Group – A Group for Life – is a Syrian local family company based in Tartous city, Syria. We move, trade, and serve bulk shipments and bulk vessels, concentrating on raw materials while owning a prestigious growing brand in bed-linen and curtains. We understand our daily challenges to protect the mother nature in what we produce, in what we ship and in what we do! The Slogan “A Group for Life” stands for the importance of the services that we do and the way we do it with. It also stands for the procedures that we use to prioritize our lists. Thus, putting life, humans, and environment on the top. Tuesday, October 15, 13 4 -t ek -f The Ten Principles ih iv Sm ar t So ci al s Re po Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally ns i bi proclaimed human rights; and lit y Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Tuesday, October 15, 13 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Programs This COP demonstrates the CSR programs applied by Rayess Group companies through examples for 2012 and 2013. haraier&little&Stars& NGO&support& Education& Environment&Protection& Tuesday, October 15, 13 6 haraier Little Stars haraier, part of Rayess Kingdom Group, launched in 2011 a program named haraier little stars to support Al Sahel, a Sport Club at Tartous city. The company continued to provide the club management with the human capabilities to continue the project to ensure sustainable development of athletes talents while giving full support for next generation to have the equal opportunity right to learn basketball and football from local professionals. Tuesday, October 15, 13 7 haraier Little Stars Since 2011, Little Stars program gave more than 500 girl each year from elementary schools in Tartous the chance to be dealt as professionals, to play the game, to challenge the ring and to know what sport is all about. At the same time, haraier gave Al Sahel Club, the opportunity to see the talents, to grow them and to chose who can make a real difference in the Club future who is in the first Women Basketball League in Syria. Tuesday, October 15, 13 8 NGO Support Tuesday, October 15, 13 9 NGO Support Rayess Group believes in Specialization as a major competitive advantage to build sustainable business and for sure having and supporting specialized NGOs is a major key of success. Rayess Group started to support leading NGOs based on the cause and the difference we can make and of course we always share the idea with other partners as we successfully did by sharing the Global Compact with other Syrian companies. Tuesday, October 15, 13 10 Bashaer Al Noor http://www.bashaer-alnour.com4 As NGO, Bashaer Al Noor cares for children having autism and Down syndrome. Rayess Group sponsored an event for the NGO in Tartous but the event is still on hold due to the current instability. Tuesday, October 15, 13 11 BASMA http://www.basma,syria.org2 BASMA (BAttling to SMile Again), is a nation-wide volunteer-powered NGO that supports children with cancer and their families. haraier encouraged her employee to produce and contribute haraier products to BASMA. haraier launched special product “BASMA Pillow” donating all of the profitability to BASMA. Haraier started supporting BASMA by providing free products for her unit at Al Bayrouni hospital. Haraier is also supporting BASMA golden ribbon by offering same for free with certain products for her valuable customers, making it available at haraier shop and offering special products that all of their sales will be diverted to support BASMA. Tuesday, October 15, 13 12 Education “L.L.L” We encourages and support financially our internalpartners (employees) to follow the “LLL” Life-LongLearning programs so they can reach higher while helping the company to get better and healthier. CEO Knowledge)Sharing/Is/The/Key/ Tuesday, October 15, 13 13 Education “L.L.L” Education is the most important competitive advantage within the group. Education is about sharing knowledge, teaching, learning and giving the opportunity and time. Tuition'support' We encourage our employees to keep their educational life and we give all needed financial support. We also encourage internal business education so we can share knowledge between different Exams'Paid'holidays' departments. We encourage our employees to build their own management strategy so they can lead the future of the company by Knowledge'sharing' example to better invest in their time, talents and make better future for them, their colleagues and their company. Internal'Training' Tuesday, October 15, 13 14 Environment Protection We are committed to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly. Tuesday, October 15, 13 15 Environment Protection At haraier we believe in the mother-nature because everything we do is brought by animal and plants around the globe. To pay Mother-Nature Back, we launched two programs: Packaging: We pay more to develop and improve our product packaging so we can decrease environmental damages even if we pay more. When we started in 2009, we had 0% nylon and plastic bags, now 80% of our bags are recyclable and more environment friendly. We succeeded to attract our customers to use our bags consequently for their other daily purposes. Waste-Management: haraier production experts are known for their daily efforts to make efficient uses of wasted material from our production line, saving many kilo-grams of waste monthly and increasing efficiency and profit. Tuesday, October 15, 13 16 Group Facts We give equal attention to Human Rights and Labor Standards as any break to any would eventually break the whole. We strongly believe and follow the 10 Global Compact principles and we do our utmost to reflect this in our daily performance and to say out the word in any opportunity. We do not in any way support or work in any environment where humans’ rights are abused or misused. We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Our ethical policies are built against child labor; our community would grow on the shoulders of the coming leaders who are “the children.” We cannot expect better future unless we give better educational chances for the children of Syria and eventually the children of the world. Tuesday, October 15, 13 17 Group Facts We do not discriminate against any human, regardless of race, sex, color or religion and therefore we do our utmost to protect the equal employment opportunity that we offer at our offices. Our HR department has been doing good job in increasing job flexibility re-scheduling all of our employees’ working-time and hours so it better meets their social and family needs, reduce work pressure, and still give the needed performance to boom our company’s position in the local and international markets. Committed to being an equal opportunities organization. Rayess Group does not accept to fail or refuse to hire or to discharge any individual, or otherwise to discriminate against any individual with respect to his compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such individual's race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Our partners, agents, and customers will be expected to abide by the policy locally and internationally. We strongly believe that Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Tuesday, October 15, 13 18 Encouraging employees to take decisions, to know, to share knowledge and to do the first move is always a key role in any organization success. There are always times when you require the courage to test your powers and see where you can reach behind your limits! Tuesday, October 15, 13 19 We Support Tuesday, October 15, 13 20
