SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ‘MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO OUR WORLD THROUGH GLASS TECHNOLOGY’ Making a difference to our world through glass technology We operate in three business sectors: Architectural, supplying glass for the world’s buildings and for solar energy applications; Automotive, producing glass and glazing systems for vehicles worldwide; and Technical Glass, operating in the display, office equipment and glass fiber sectors. We are committed to Sustainability. We supply high-quality glass products that make an important contribution to improving living standards, to people’s safety and well-being and to energy conservation and generation, working safely and ethically. We have a clear commitment to sustainable development. Our Sustainability targets, are consistent with our overall strategy, but seek to move our performance forward in a number of important areas relevant to our Sustainability agenda. Our targets and progress are shown on page 7 of this Report. Glass manufacture is energy-intensive, but our products make a major contribution to energy conservation and power generation. We are working hard to reduce our waste, to minimize embodied energy and carbon in our manufacturing and to improve the energy-saving capabilities of our products during their life cycle. Cover picture The Adgar Plaza building in Warsaw, Poland, features around 3,000 sq meters of Pilkington Insulight™ Sun insulating glass units, fitted with Pilkington Suncool Optilam™ 50/25. Photo credit: Wojciech Krynski. ABOUT THIS REPORT contents During 2012, we made further progress in embedding The NSG Group The NSG Group the principles of sustainable development within our company. Business sectors 02 Global operations  04 Last year, we joined the UN Global Compact. We President and CEO’s introduction 06 consider its 10 principles to be a natural extension of Our Sustainability targets 07 our Code of Conduct, which defines our commitment to social and environmental responsibility. Corporate governance has been strengthened with Management Management the publication of a Group Anti Bribery/Anti Corruption manual and improvements in the Reporting of Our approach to Sustainability  08 Concerns procedures. Corporate governance 12 Our principal Sustainability targets and the progress we have made so far towards their attainment are covered in this Report and on our website. We report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and have self-assessed our reporting level at ‘B’ for Special features Special features the period covered by this year’s Report. Glass and climate change  14 Additional information, charts and tables covering our Glass in buildings  16 performance are shown on the Sustainability section Glass and solar energy  18 Glass in vehicles  20 of our website, www.nsg.com. Technical Glass  22 Environment Environment Environmental policies and management  24 Energy and resource usage  26 Minimizing environmental impact  28 Stakeholders Stakeholders Employees  30 Employee Safety Day 2012  32 Customers  34 Shareholders  36 Suppliers  38 Communities  40 Basis of reporting Basis of reporting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index  42 Approach to reporting  44 Further information  45 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 01 THE NSG GROUP MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 BUSINESS SECTORS Architectural WE OPERATE IN THREE A leader in float glass technology BUSINESS SECTORS: and coatings ARCHITECTURAL, SUPPLYING Main products GLASS FOR THE WORLD’S • Thermal insulation glass • Noise control glazing • Fire protection glazing • Safety and security glazing BUILDINGS AND FOR SOLAR • Solar control glass • Self-cleaning glass • Glass for Solar Energy ENERGY APPLICATIONS; AUTOMOTIVE, PRODUCING GLASS AND GLAZING SYSTEMS 10,200 FOR VEHICLES WORLDWIDE; Employees in 21 countries AND TECHNICAL GLASS, OPERATING IN THE DISPLAY, Automotive OFFICE EQUIPMENT AND Supplying every major vehicle manufacturer GLASS FIBER SECTORS. in the world Main products • Solar control glass • Security glazing • Glazing systems • Lightweight glazing • Laminated glass • Aesthetic glazings • Toughened glass 14,800 Employees in 16 countries Technical Glass World leader in thin display glass and optical devices for office machinery Main products • Thin LCD glass • Battery separators • Copier/printer lenses • Other glass fibers • Glass cord 3,800 Employees in five countries 02 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Sales by region Making windows better at saving energy Financial Year 2012 Our thermal insulation products combine unrivalled thermal Europe Europe 42% 42% insulation with high light transmittance and lower reflectance Japan Japan 34% 34% for a more neutral appearance. They help to restrict the The NSG Group North America North America 9% 9% amount of heat loss from buildings, offering designers Rest of World Rest of World 15% 15% a choice of insulation levels and aesthetic options. 43% Contribution to Group sales* Proportion of Group CO2 emissions 62% *All figures Financial Year ending 31 March 2012. Sales by region Developing value-added vehicle glazing Financial Year 2012 We play a leading role in the development of value-added Europe Europe 47% 47% vehicle glazing, delivering greater functionality to address Japan Japan 18% 18% Sustainability issues, such as CO2 reduction, solar control, North America North America 20% 20% lighter and more aerodynamic glazing, vehicle end-of-life Rest of World Rest of World 15% 15% issues and recycling. 46% Contribution to Group sales* Proportion of Group CO2 emissions 33% *All figures Financial Year ending 31 March 2012. Sales by sector Supplying ultra-thin glass for small Financial Year 2012 LCD applications Thin glass for Thin displays glass for displays37% 37% Our Ultra Fine Flat Glass products are used in the growing Glass Glass cord and finecord and fine touch panel market, particularly in mobile phones and glass products glass products 22% 22% tablets and now expanding into use in vehicles. Copiers/printer Copiers/printer lenses lenses 20% 20% Battery separators 12% Battery separators 12% Other Other 9% 9% 11% Contribution to Group sales* Proportion of Group CO2 emissions 5% *All figures Financial Year ending 31 March 2012. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 03 THE NSG GROUP CONTINUED MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Global operations OUR OPERATIONS SUPPORT A WORLDWIDE CUSTOMER BASE. WE HAVE PRINCIPAL OPERATIONS IN 29 COUNTRIES, AND MARKET OUR PRODUCTS IN OVER 130 COUNTRIES. Principal operations • Argentina • Austria • Belgium • Brazil • Canada • Chile • China • Czech Republic • Denmark • Finland • France • Germany • Hungary • India • Italy • Japan • Malaysia • Mexico • Netherlands • Norway • Philippines • Poland • Romania • Russia • Spain • Sweden • United Kingdom • United States • Vietnam 04 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Architectural Automotive Technical Glass Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Glass for architectural and Supplying the world’s Producing the world’s Solar Energy applications leading vehicle manufacturers thinnest float glass Principal operations in 21 countries. Principal fabrication facilities at 31 sites Major fabrication facilities in Japan, Overall, the Group manages, or has a in 16 countries. Major presence in China, the Philippines and Europe. stake in, 49 float lines around the world. Europe, Japan, North America, South America and China. Global spread Global spread Global spread The NSG Group Major presence in Europe and Leading share of the global Original World leader in thin display glass and Japan. Also in North America, China, Equipment (OE) and Specialized optical devices for office machinery South America and South East Asia Transport Markets. Largest player and glass fiber for battery separators globally in Automotive aftermarket (AGR) and timing belts. glazing distribution and wholesale. Europe Japan 12,500 employees 4,910 employees • 12 float lines • Four float lines • Rolled glass operations. • Architectural downstream • Automotive OE plants in network seven countries • Automotive OE plants and • Architectural downstream AGR network in 10 countries • Technical Glass operations • Extensive AGR network • Technical Glass operations in UK North America South America 3,990 employees 2,780 employees • Six float lines • Seven float lines • Automotive OE in US, • Architectural downstream Canada and Mexico operations • Extensive AGR network • Automotive OE in Brazil, in US Argentina and Chile • Technical Glass operations • AGR network in Canada S & SE Asia China 3,000 employees 2,520 employees • Two float lines and • 16 float lines Automotive operations • Two Automotive plants in Malaysia • Technical Glass operations • Automotive plant in India • Rolled glass for photovoltaics • Two float lines in Vietnam • Technical Glass operations in the Philippines All figures Financial Year ending 31 March 2012. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 05 THE NSG GROUP CONTINUED MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 PRESIDENT AND CEO’S INTRODUCTION OUR COMPANY IS COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABILITY. WORKING SAFELY AND ETHICALLY, WE SUPPLY HIGH-QUALITY GLASS PRODUCTS THAT MAKE AN IMPORTANT CONTRIBUTION TO IMPROVING LIVING STANDARDS, TO PEOPLE’S SAFETY AND WELL-BEING AND TO ENERGY CONSERVATION AND GENERATION. Our products are designed to make an important contribution “The NSG Group is committed to sustainability to improving living standards, to people’s safety and well being, and continues to support the UN Global and to the conservation of energy worldwide. Compact’s initiative and principles. Our Despite challenging market conditions and significant organizational strategy and policies underline the unique restructuring during 2012, we have continued progress on our sustainability targets. We aim to balance the needs of all our contribution our products can make to stakeholders, managing the environmental impacts of our activities, addressing climate change and the challenges developing our people, encouraging innovation in processes and we face in improving our own energy usage products, working in harmony with the communities in which we and resource management. Good management operate and encouraging our customers, contractors and suppliers of our people, our resources, our communities to do the same. and our environment also makes good business Our policies underline the contribution our products can make to sense. This Report covers our activities and addressing climate change. We are also committed to improving progress over the past year and our targets our own energy usage and resource management. We aim to for the future.” make a positive environmental contribution to the value chains in which we operate, while benefiting from the international demand for products that help save and generate energy. Glass has an important contribution to make in helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We work with stakeholders in the framing of policies and regulations to help improve energy efficiency through the use of glass. We work continuously to minimize energy input into all our processes, using as diverse a range of energy sources as practicable. The new 3,000-panel solar field at our facility at Northwood in the US, is now generating 250 kW of energy, or about 10 percent of what the facility uses, every year. A major focus with our employees is to improve Safety. Despite significant improvements in our performance over the last 10 years, we have still not made sufficient progress in this area. In July 2012 a permanent contractor at our San Salvo facility was killed while re-energizing a transformer. This tragic event Keiji Yoshikawa underscores the work we have left to do. President and CEO, NSG Group My aim is to build on and continue to move Safety to the next level. Our safety programs emphasize the importance of individuals taking personal responsibility and of appropriate safe behavior, with managers taking the lead through their commitment to our Key Safety Leadership Behaviors. NSG Group Safety Day is designed to bring special focus to this important area in all our plants around the world. A report on the 2012 event can be found on pages 32 and 33. We have further strengthened our Sustainability governance, by allocating defined responsibility to named individuals for managing and monitoring our progress. Over the coming year we will continue the process of aligning all our activities more closely to the principles of sustainable development and embedding these principles into all our activities. 06 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 OUR SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Targets Current position and Commentary Economic As at March 2012, the Group’s operating profit margin (before amortization We aim to achieve a sustainable operating arising on the acquisition of Pilkington) was 2.8 percent. profit margin in excess of 10 percent. Energy The eight key products selected are as follows: Report specific direct energy Architectural usage for eight key products, • Clear float glass across all three business lines, and • On-line CVD coated Solar TEC glass for the thin film PV market The NSG Group demonstrate improvement by 2015. • Off-line coated Low-E glass for the construction market Work in this area is the subject of Automotive a number of R&D programs in all • Solar green absorbing glass side glazing three business lines. • IR reflective glass laminated windshield • Galaxsee privacy glass rear sidelight Technical Glass • NSG Glasscord® used in engine timing belts • NSG Selfoc Lens Array for use in office machinery Data for the selected products is available in the Sustainability section of www.nsg.com. Product development The eight key products selected are as follows: Report energy payback/life cycle Architectural analysis for eight key products, • A thin film PV module across all three business lines, and • A double-glazed unit containing our off-line coated low-e product demonstrate improvement by 2015. • A double-glazed unit containing our off-line coated Solar Control product Good progress made with a number Automotive of R&D programs ongoing. A forward • Car windshield look at future/modified products • Car sidelight and their impact on improved CO2 • Car roof light payback has been initiated. Technical Glass • NSG Glasscord® for use in engine timing belts • NSG Selfoc Lens Array for use in office machinery Data for the selected products is available in the Sustainability section of www.nsg.com. Health and Safety The SIR at the end of FY2012 was 0.35 which represents an 82 percent improvement. Significant Injury Rate 80 percent reduction Our FY2013 target is 0.28 to provide a safer place of work for our employees. from 2007 base of 1.38 to 0.3 (10 SI per month, compared to baseline of 50). Supply Chain At 31 March 2011, we had directly communicated our Supplier Code of Conduct to 100 percent of suppliers to have 12,000 of our suppliers. In parallel, we have started audits of suppliers to validate accepted our Supplier Code of Conduct these declarations to meet our objective that 50 percent of key suppliers will be (SCoC), with 50 percent of key suppliers audited by 2015. Good progress is being made with supplier acceptance of our Code audited against SCoC by 2015. (approx 30 percent) and over 60 of our key suppliers now audited. Suppliers have an impact on our carbon footprint and on the communities and environments in which they operate. It is our intent that suppliers share our values and principles as set out in our Supplier Code of Conduct. Recycling and Waste Our waste to landfill figure for 2011 was 32kt. This is a 30 percent reduction Reduce the waste we send to landfill on our baseline. by 50 percent, from a 2007 base (i.e. from The achievement of further reductions will require significant changes in the approximately 46kt to 23kt by 2015). way we operate. People 67 percent of employees were covered by the annual training and development All employees to have a training and review process in 2011. development review annually, with a target In order to foster the process of cultural change across the whole organisation compliance level of 90 percent by 2015. in the area of Health and Safety, it was required that all managers were set personal safety objectives in the 2011 process. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 07 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Our approach to Sustainability GLASS HAS A MAJOR PART TO PLAY IN SOCIETY’S EFFORTS TO REDUCE CO2 EMISSIONS AND TO MITIGATE THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE. WE AIM TO BE THE GLOBAL LEADER IN INNOVATIVE HIGH-PERFORMANCE GLASS AND GLAZING SOLUTIONS, CONTRIBUTING TO ENERGY CONSERVATION AND GENERATION, WORKING SAFELY AND ETHICALLY. Our Sustainability agenda is integral to decreasing our costs and “The past year has been a challenging one for increasing our market opportunities. Over the past year, we have the NSG Group. Despite difficult markets around renewed our efforts in areas such as energy saving and waste reduction, both of which can have a significant and swift impact the world and significant internal restructuring on the business performance of the Group. Glass markets are and cost reduction programs, we have maintained extremely competitive around the world and it is imperative that our commitment to the core principles embodied we can meet the ever-increasing demands of customers in regard in our Sustainability policies and procedures and to sustainability reporting. reflected in our seven Sustainability targets. Our customers are increasingly expecting information on carbon In achieving these, we also help the business content, hazardous materials, recycled content and other life to be more successful for all stakeholders. cycle analysis information, among their many data requests, and we are aware of the competitive need to be able to provide this We aim to balance the needs of all our stakeholders data swiftly and accurately. while achieving our targets. We continue to train We work with the communities and governments in the areas we and develop our people while keeping them safe operate to ensure compliance and forward-looking thinking. We from workplace injuries and helping them stay do this directly and through our membership of trade associations, safe at home as well. We continue to reduce the standards bodies and other organizations. We also work to amount of energy we consume and the amount influence legislation, particularly in the area of energy conservation of waste we produce. and emission regulation. Glass making is an energy-intensive process. Significant energy We develop new products and processes that help is consumed in obtaining and melting the raw materials for the our customers and the world reach sustainability manufacture of glass. Despite this necessary consumption our targets. Finally, we will encourage our customers, products can and do have a tremendously positive contribution contractors and suppliers to take similar steps.” to the quality of living and working environments. We have communicated our approach to Sustainability to our employees around the world and have solicited their participation in this important work. Our management leadership team remains actively committed to our High Risk Activity reduction safety program. In 2012, we repeated the successful annual NSG Group Safety Day, covered elsewhere in this Report. We have communicated our Supplier Code of Conduct to our suppliers and have conducted audits to verify the declarations we have received. Our products require raw materials and energy that must be extracted from the earth. Therefore we take our responsibility to protect the natural habitats of these regions seriously. Shiro Kobayashi Director of Sustainability 08 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 We continue to make progress in energy-saving initiatives within our own operations. A new lighting system for our Automotive Our Code of Conduct reflects our values and principles, plants in Italy is expected to cut energy costs by nearly particularly the emphasis on safety, taking personal 60 percent. The project will replace more than 5,000 lamps ownership for actions and communicating with across the three sites with an energy-saving system which openness and involvement. reacts automatically to levels of daylight. The system not only saves a great deal of energy, it also The overriding basis of the Code is that we will carry out these provides a steady light level which makes working conditions far activities in a safe, professional, legal and ethical manner and more comfortable for our employees. The completed project is in a way that demonstrates corporate social responsibility and expected to result in a reduction in energy consumption of some promotes Sustainability. Wherever possible, the Code defines 4.4m kWh, with CO2 emissions cut by more than 2.8k tonnes. a fair and common sense approach to doing business, with some A similar system has been installed in our newly-commissioned elements dictated by strict legal requirements. coating plant at Cowley Hill in the UK. The solar field installed alongside our North American research Our Group policies and procedures and development facility at Northwood, Ohio, has generated Detail the procedures everyone in the Group must follow, nearly 330,000 kWh in its first year of operation. Energy from to achieve sound governance, tight controls, risk management the field is utilized by the plant under a net-metering agreement and adherence to legal, ethical and sustainable principles. with the local utility, which allows Northwood to purchase power from the solar field and defray power taken from the grid. In its first year, the field has supplied 7 percent of the site’s energy needs. Management Our vision Defines our determination to make a positive contribution to Sustainability, through our expertize in glass technology. As a global glass manufacturer, we are using our products and technology to play a positive role in helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigating the effects of climate change. Making a difference to our world through glass technology. Our mission Describes how we will achieve our business objective, contributing to energy conservation and generation by producing and supplying innovative products in a Our stakeholders sustainable manner. We aim to be judged as best in class by: To be the global leader in innovative high-performance glass Our customers and glazing solutions, contributing to energy conservation and To be their preferred supplier for glass products and generation, working safely and ethically. related services. Our employees Our values To be their preferred place to work. Define the behaviors we value and intend to follow in all our dealings with our stakeholders. Our shareholders To be their preferred long-term investment. People are our most important asset. We value: • Trust and mutual respect. Our suppliers • Integrity and professionalism. To build strong mutually beneficial relationships based • Teamwork and mutual support. on trust, co-operation, innovation and Sustainability. • Open communication. Our communities • Initiative and creativity. To be a good neighbor, wherever we operate. • Passion and resilience. • Individual and social responsibility. • Sustainability. Our Code of Conduct Sets out the standards we expect of everyone working in the NSG Group. Our Code of Conduct defines for all employees what is expected of them. It reflects our values and principles, particularly the emphasis on safety, taking personal ownership for actions and communicating with openness and involvement. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 09 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT CONTINUED SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Our approach to Sustainability continued Our management approach We acknowledge that our activities will inevitably have an impact, but we have taken steps to minimize the adverse nature Economic of any impact and have put in place systems to try to ensure that We are executing our strategy through a market-facing regionally we manage such impacts in a controlled manner. Principal among organized business, based on three business areas: Architectural, the tools we use is our environmental management system, Automotive and Technical Glass. A good balance between which is certified to ISO 14001 for all our glass manufacturing regional and global organizational structures will drive efficiency and automotive manufacturing sites. and allow us to react quickly to market developments. We are committed to reporting on our performance both Our immediate priority is to improve the profitability of the good and bad. Environmental data is collected under the broad Company and earn the trust of our stakeholders through our headings of energy, emissions to air, water usage, recycling achievements. Our profit improvement programs are well and waste. The data collected is based primarily on the core advanced and since our initial announcement in February 2012 environmental performance indicator set of the Global Reporting we have introduced additional measures and accelerated Initiative (GRI). In addition to the collection of environmental restructuring activities. emissions and resource usage data, the Airsweb™ system also We are examining carefully all aspects of our current asset incorporates an incident reporting system. base. Our objective is to right-size our business urgently and For glass manufacturing plants, we have defined our strategic to accomplish this within the fiscal years FY2013 and FY2014. approach to abatement in order to ensure that we hold fast We aim to improve manufacturing performance through efficiency to our principles even in parts of the world where legislative improvements and rationalization. We have been quick to take controls are less well developed. action to adjust our capacity to demand through temporary and We aim to certify our manufacturing facilities to the permanent closures of plants. internationally recognized ISO 14001 environmental standard. We operate in a good industry with positive prospects, but we We now have 81 certified sites around the world, representing must ensure we are cost competitive. We are aiming to lower 70 percent of our business by turnover. The most senior the breakeven point of our business by reducing overheads, executive with responsibility for environmental aspects is improving manufacturing efficiency and controlling our input the Group Director of Sustainability. cost through best-in-class procurement and shared services. Human rights We aim to ensure that we spend our limited resources wisely Our Code of Conduct acknowledges internationally proclaimed and generate capacity at much lower capital costs. human rights and the impact these have on employment. Employment standards have been set, derived from external Our immediate strategic priority is to improve the international human rights employment guidelines and our profitability of the Company and earn the trust of own business requirements. our stakeholders through our achievements. The Code and our overall employment policy provide employees with reassurance on how they will be treated, and guide Environmental employment policy and practice in individual businesses. We take our environmental responsibilities extremely seriously. All our operations are required to meet all legislative standards Our equal opportunity policy aims to prohibit discrimination as a minimum, and where local requirements are not considered based on race, color, creed, religion, age, gender, sexual sufficient to address an issue, our own corporate standards do. orientation, national origin, disability, union membership, political We conduct regular environmental audits designed to achieve affiliation or any other status protected by law. This policy continuous improvement, to sustain and raise standards. operates in all employment-related decisions. The most senior executive with responsibility for human rights aspects is the Our Group Environmental Policy defines our approach on Chief Human Resources Officer. environmental matters. In particular, it outlines our management of both current activity and the legacy of past and inherited liability. It reinforces our commitment to using good scientific principles to try to predict and assess our impacts on the environment, both positive and negative. 10 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Every R&D project developing new products and processes We value the health and safety of all our employees is required to have an Environmental Impact Assessment above all other considerations and aim to ensure that completed early in the project to highlight any positive or we provide a working environment that allows our potentially negative implications, so that the project can be people to reach their full potential. managed accordingly. We aim for a cradle-to-cradle life cycle management approach, incorporating environmental health and protection into every step of the life cycle of our products. Labor practice Our management philosophy values people as ‘the most important Our formal project management processes include thorough asset of our company’. Around 29,000 people work in the NSG intellectual property searches, so that our customers can be very Group, operating in 29 countries and speaking over 25 languages. confident that the new products and processes we develop can Safety and Quality underpin everything we do, with the principle be used freely without fear of infringing third-party patents. of ‘open communication’ central to our employment policies. The most senior executives accountable for product responsibility Our human resources strategy aims to ensure we have the right are the heads of the strategic business units. people where they are needed and that we maximize our talent Society management around the world. We believe we have a responsibility to be a good steward of We value the health and safety of all our employees above the environment and a responsible corporate citizen in the all other considerations and aim to ensure that we provide communities in which we operate. We monitor carefully the a working environment that allows our people to reach their impact of our operations on the local communities in which we full potential. operate. We work hard to minimize potentially negative effects, such as pollution, noise and traffic. We operate programs Our safety programs emphasize the importance of appropriate that assess and manage the impacts of our operations on safe behavior and of individuals taking personal responsibility. communities, in entry, operational and exit stages. We regard all injuries at work as unnecessary and avoidable. No Management matter how minor, each one must be reported and investigated. In addition to our business investments, helping to sustain local Details of our progress on safety performance are shown in the operations, we also invest in the communities in which we operate. Employees section of this Report. We aim to help through direct cash donations to charities and other projects or through in-kind resources to improve the health We operate as an integrated international Group, with a of the community or tackle specific social issues. multinational management and 80 percent of our employees work outside Japan. We reflect diversity in our workforce and We also encourage our people to play a part in developing our believe that the range of nationalities, skills, qualifications and community relationships. This can take the form of matching experience available in our many operations are a positive contributions raised by employees or allowing individuals time to benefit to our business. Our management style is to put the make personal contributions of time and effort in local projects. best person in each job, regardless of nationality or region. The most senior position with responsibility for society aspects is the Group Director of Sustainability. To attract, motivate, develop and retain high-performing employees, our approach on rewards and retention includes market-based competitive pay and market-based competitive benefit offerings for eligible fulland part-time employees. We have identified specific challenges in attracting and retaining talent, particularly in emerging markets, and we are already putting in place policies to address these. We work to create a culture that allows employees the opportunity to work without fear of intimidation, reprisal or harassment. We have systems in place to permit employees to raise any concerns in a confidential and timely manner. The most senior executive with responsibility for labor aspects is the Chief Human Resources Officer. Product responsibility We are committed to the safety of our products and to ensuring they can be effectively handled, fitted and used by our customers. Our product risk review procedures are designed to identify risks and to provide advice to users on safe handling. We communicate these risks through safety data sheets, labels, and Glazing and Handling Guidelines. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 11 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT CONTINUED SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IS A KEY ELEMENT IN THE SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES OF THE NSG GROUP. WE ARE COMMITTED TO EFFECTIVE AND TRANSPARENT ENGAGEMENT WITH ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS. The Audit Committee, chaired by an independent external We believe that good corporate governance director, Sumitaka Fujita, comprises six members, including contributes to sustainable development by enhancing four independent external directors. It conducts audits of the execution of duties by directors and executive officers and the performance of companies and increasing their ensures that adequate risk management processes are followed. access to outside sources of capital. It also decides the details of agenda items to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders concerning the appointment We aim to maintain high levels of accountability and removal of independent auditors. and transparency, disclosing to all our stakeholders business goals and guidelines that clearly The Compensation Committee makes decisions on compensation of individual directors and executive officers. The Committee is demonstrate a responsible management approach. chaired by an independent external director, George Olcott, and comprises five members, including three independent external directors. Our governance structure The NSG Group is governed by its Board of Directors, which is Adoption of IFRS appointed by resolution at the General Meeting of Shareholders. We adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) The Board comprises the Chairman of the NSG Group, the for our consolidated financial statements, with effect from 1 April Vice-Chairman, three directors concurrently serving as 2011. Enabling the whole Group to use the same accounting representative executive officers and four independent external language has clear benefits for the Company’s internal decisiondirectors. In the fiscal year 2012, the Board of Directors met making processes and further enhances our corporate 11 times. governance structure. The Board of Directors oversees the Group’s economic, social Beginning with the financial year to 31 March 2012, the Group’s and environmental performance and compliance with internal results are now reported in IFRS. This has increased the amount and internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct of financial information we publish, prompting our decision to and principles. divide the content of our annual reporting between the Annual Report and an Annual Financial Statements document, both can Company with Committees be downloaded in English from our website. The adoption of the ‘Company with Committees’ model has brought the NSG Group into line with a number of leading Risk management Japanese corporations and with best practice. It has introduced The scope of our operations introduces potential risks to our additional safeguards for shareholders, increased transparency business activities, requiring effective risk management. These and enhanced corporate governance, with the role of the include the effects of changes in debt market prices, foreign independent external directors strengthened. currency exchange rates, credit risks, energy prices, liquidity interest rates and business disruption. Our enterprise risk There are three Board committees (Nomination, Audit and management process enables the impact and likelihood of Compensation) and four independent external directors. key risks to be assessed in a standard format. The Nomination Committee decides the details of the agenda items to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders The information is used to assess the cumulative risk exposure concerning the appointment and removal of directors. of the Group and promote effective global risk responses, Chaired by an independent external director, Seiichi Asaka, thus strengthening our overall risk management structure. the Committee consists of seven members, including four For further discussion on our risks and opportunities associated independent external directors. with climate change, see page 15. 12 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Compliance Our Code of Conduct sets out the values on which the NSG Group Reporting of Concerns Procedures has been built and on which the Group and its member companies Over the past year, in line with best practice, we have must depend for future success. further strengthened our Reporting of Concerns procedures, which allow employees to report any concerns. It defines the conduct expected of the Group and its employees across all areas of our business and applies to relationships Our external partner, Global Compliance Inc., operate a with employees, customers, suppliers, business partners, the worldwide telephone Reporting Line and web portal system, community and all others with whom we have contact in daily which is available to all employees, 24 hours a day, every business life (our stakeholders). day of the year. Alan Graham is Group Chief Compliance Officer. His responsibilities include the development, implementation and maintenance of an integrated internal compliance management and control system as well as the creation and review of relevant Group policies and procedures. In line with best practice, we have strengthened our ‘Reporting of Concerns’ procedures, which allow employees to voice any corporate governance issues using a reporting line and web portal. Reflecting changes in legislation in some jurisdictions in which we operate, we have also reviewed and further clarified Group rules intended to address potential bribery and corruption risks, with the publication of a Group Anti Bribery/Anti Corruption Manual. Management All NSG Group directors, officers and employees must adhere Supporting posters and strictly to the standards defined in the Manual to avoid bribery handouts explaining the and corruption related risks. new arrangements have been distributed to Group The Manual also applies to the Group’s investments and employees in all languages interests in joint ventures and joint projects and other comparable used throughout the Group. business partnerships and arrangements in which the NSG Group is participating. Reflecting legislative changes, we have reviewed and clarified our rules to address potential bribery and corruption risks, with the publication of a new Group Anti Bribery/Anti Corruption Manual. Open Management System General Meeting of Shareholders Decisions on proposals on Election/Dismissal of directors Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal of directors Decisions on proposals Independent Auditors on Election/Dismissal of Independent Auditors Supervisory Audit Report Function Board of Directors Recommendations Supervision concerning Executive Officers/ Audit evaluation Corporate Officers Election/Dismissal of Committee Members Co-operation Decisions on compensation Nomination Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Election/ Dismissal Report Decisions on Supervision of Executive Audit Co-operation Report compensation Officers/ Corporate Officers Management Committee Report Risk Sustainability Management Representative Executive Officers Internal Report Committee Committee Executive Officers Audit Dept. Co-operation Internal Audit Compliance Executive Corporate Officers Officer Function Report to Chief Legal Officer NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 13 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Glass and climate change GLASS HAS A UNIQUE ROLE TO PLAY IN SOCIETY’S ATTEMPT TO REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND MITIGATE THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE. THE ENERGY USED IN MAKING HIGH-PERFORMANCE ARCHITECTURAL GLASS PRODUCTS IS QUICKLY PAID BACK. CO2 emissions and low-e double glazing Glass has a unique role to play in promoting The potential for low-e glass (double and triple glazing) to cut Sustainability, reducing greenhouse gas emissions CO2 emissions from new and existing buildings has been analyzed and mitigating the effects of climate change. by the Dutch scientific institute TNO in a study undertaken for The ‘energy balance’ between the manufacture the trade association Glass for Europe of which NSG Group is a member. of high-performance glazing products and their use means that the energy used and CO2 emitted It found that up to 90 million tonnes of CO2 emissions could be in manufacture are quickly paid back through the saved annually by 2020 if all Europe’s buildings (existing and new residential and non-residential buildings) were fitted with lifetime of most of our products. double-glazed low-e insulating glass units. An additional seven million tonnes of CO2 emissions could be cut through a greater use of triple-glazed low-e insulating glass units for new Glass in buildings buildings, where appropriate. On average, buildings account for almost 50 percent of the To maximize energy efficiency all year round, often the ideal energy consumed in developed economies. Governments are glazing solution balances both solar control and low-emissivity putting increased focus on legislation and policies to improve performance. Our products offer two ways in which this can be their energy efficiency. achieved: by applying a single product that provides both solar control and low-emissivity in an insulating glass unit, or by using Sustainable building rating system initiatives are helping to both a solar control product and a separate low-emissivity transform the market for added-value glazing in North America, product within an insulating glass unit. Europe, Malaysia and India. In China, legislation is at an earlier stage, but the government has already introduced building regulations to improve the energy efficiency of new buildings. CO2 emissions and solar control glazing In hot conditions or for buildings with high internal loads, solar We work closely with governments and authorities framing control glass is used to minimize solar heat gain by rejecting solar building standards to ensure that the energy conservation radiation and to help control glare. In more temperate conditions, properties of glass and glazing are taken into account when it can be used to balance solar control with high levels of natural standards are set. light. The issue of air-conditioning is a major concern to building Energy issues are crucial to the building glass industry, as glass designers and architects. Often, more energy is used to operate products can make an important contribution to combating air-conditioning systems during the summer months than to heat climate change. Improving the energy efficiency of buildings also the building in winter thereby increasing its carbon footprint. It is brings other benefits. Well-glazed buildings are more comfortable therefore essential to improve the energy efficiency of buildings and cheaper to run for the owner and occupier. From a social during the summer as well as in the winter. point of view, national economies and energy security will improve A study undertaken by TNO for Glass for Europe concluded that when energy-importing countries become less dependent on between 15 and 80 million tonnes of CO2 emissions annually — increasingly expensive supplies from other parts of the world. roughly between 5 percent and 25 percent of the EU’s target — could be saved by the year 2020 by optimal use of solar control glass. 14 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Low-e insulating glazing can be a net Pilkington SuncoolTM When used in building facades, Pilkington SuncoolTM offers high contributor to energy conservation in buildings light transmission, excellent solar control and thermal insulation. Platinum Business Park, Warsaw Poland. Photo: Wojciech Krynski. Low-e glass is a value-added product that has a transparent coating on one surface. This reflects heat back into the building, thereby reducing heat loss through the window. It also reduces the heat transfer from the warm (inner) pane of glass to the cooler (outer) pane, thus further lowering the amount of heat that escapes from the window. The coating also allows large amounts of free solar energy to enter the building, thereby heating it passively. Glass in vehicles As we describe later in this report, in the automotive industry, the shift to electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids marks a new era, with CO2 reduction a major focus. This ‘eco-innovation’ will drive glazing advances in solar energy control, weight reduction and energy saving. We are well placed to meet these challenges. Our technology will be critical to differentiate us from low-priced competitors and we are currently developing new products to meet the demands of the next generation of vehicles. Special features Climate change New off-line coater extends energy-saving Our challenges and opportunities glass range Challenges Commissioned in November 2012, the Group’s off-line coater, The principal risks to our business introduced by climate change at St Helens, UK is one of the most advanced facilities of are those associated with potential damage to our plants and its type in the world. It enables ultra-thin special coatings infrastructure. These include flooding and wind damage. We to be applied to glass, creating a range of high performance mitigate these effects through climate change risk assessment energy-saving Architectural glazing products. in our investment decisions. Price and availability of fossil fuels is also a risk for us, which we seek to minimize through energy conservation and the use of alternative energy sources for our processes. Our waste reduction programs seek to reduce our consumption of all resources used in the execution of our business. Off-line coater at Cowley Hill UK. Opportunities Our added-value products, such as low-e (low-emissivity) glass, solar control glass and glass for photovoltaics have the principal purpose of reducing energy consumption in buildings and generating energy from the sun. We are therefore in a strong position to help mitigate the effects of climate change by helping to conserve energy in buildings and vehicles and to assist with the generation of solar power. A significant part of our R&D effort is dedicated to finding solutions to the challenges raised by climate change, reducing energy consumption and waste. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 15 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Glass in buildings OUR PRODUCTS ARE AT THE HEART OF MODERN ARCHITECTURE, ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION. THEY PLAY A BENEFICIAL ROLE IN ADDRESSING SOME OF THE MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES OF BUILDINGS, NEW AND OLD. Sustainability in buildings Architects increasingly seek to bring natural Glass is used extensively in most buildings, in both exterior and environmental factors into the interior of buildings interior applications; as a construction material, for functionality, by maximizing natural daylight. This has been for decoration and for interior fittings. Around the world, achieved through the use of larger glazed areas policy-makers are realizing how the quality of buildings affects the quality of the environment and of people’s lives. in façades and roofs, and entirely glazed façades, where the glass is a structural component of Our products play a vital role in improving energy efficiency the building. and reducing CO2 emissions. But they also offer other advanced functionality: fire protection, noise attenuation, safety and Energy-saving is a key driver. CO2-reduction targets security, privacy, decoration and even self-cleaning properties. have driven tougher legislation for energy-saving 50% glass, making insulating glass units mandatory in much of Europe. This has now developed further into legislation requiring energy-efficient glass. In hot climates, reliance on air conditioning, which Buildings account for almost half of the energy would otherwise be increased by such larger glazed consumed in developed countries. Our products help areas, is mitigated by the use of advanced solar in addressing some of the major environmental control glass, allowing the sun’s light into buildings, challenges of buildings, new and old. while blocking much of its heat. In cold climates, low-emissivity glass reduces heat Energy efficiency in buildings loss, while allowing high levels of valuable free Buildings account for almost 50 percent of the energy consumed in developed countries. There is increased focus on legislation solar gain to heat buildings without significant loss and policies to improve their energy efficiency. in natural light. However, unless combined with solar control glass, in the summer it can become Initiatives such as the environmental building rating system (LEED®) in the US and the UK’s Building Research Establishment uncomfortably hot. Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) are helping to Fire-resistant glass also has an important role to transform the added-value glazing market. Both are increasingly play in promoting the sustainability of communities. being used to rate the environmental performance of buildings across the globe. The correct choice of glass can help to reduce the Similar opportunities are anticipated in Europe, with the recast capital outlay, running costs and associated carbon of the EU Directive on Energy Performance of Buildings and new emissions of buildings. Energy Efficiency Directive. Many other countries have indicated significant changes to national building regulations to improve the energy efficiency of new and existing buildings. We work with relevant stakeholders in framing policies and regulations that help make buildings more energy-efficient through the use of glass. 16 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Fire Protection Glass — passive and Our products play a vital role in improving energy efficiency sustainable protection and reducing CO2 emissions. But they also offer other Buildings that are vulnerable to fire are fundamentally advanced functionality; fire protection, noise attenuation, unsustainable. Fire damage can affect lives and communities, safety and security, privacy, decoration and even selfthrough destruction of jobs and public assets. Combining fire cleaning properties. safety and integrity with transparency and the ability to bring light into buildings presents significant technical challenges. Thermal insulation — keeping heat in buildings Our range of fire-resistant glass, Pilkington Pyrostop®, Pilkington Pyrodur®, Pilkington Pyroclear®, and Pilkington In cold weather, low-emissivity (low-e) products reflect heat Pyroshield™ 2 is used in a variety of building, marine and rail back into the building. Our thermal insulation products, transport applications around the world. We offer three technology Pilkington Energy Advantage™, Pilkington K Glass™ and types — wired glass, modified super-toughened glass and a Pilkington Optitherm™, combine unrivalled thermal insulation special proprietary clear intumescent interlayer technology. with high light transmittance, with lower reflectance for a The latter not only protects against flames and smoke, but more neutral appearance. They provide thermal insulation also against the heat of a fire, and heat transfer mechanisms. and passive solar heat gain, helping meet demand for more energy-efficient windows. All these products can be combined with other functional glasses to provide additional features, such as solar control, Advances in low-emissivity (low-e) glass technology thermal insulation, noise control, and impact safety. Unlike have made windows an essential contributor to energy other systems dependent on external energy sources and water availability, our fire-resistant products offer passive conservation and comfort, minimizing heat loss and and sustainable protection, with a long-lasting life cycle internal condensation. and reliability. Pilkington Spacia™ was the world’s first commercially available vacuum glazing, offering the thermal performance of conventional double glazing in the same thickness as single glass. Sales are developing worldwide, particularly for use in historic buildings, in which the original frames can be retained. Solar control — keeping heat out of buildings Globally, increasing attention is being given to air-conditioned Glass for a great night’s sleep Special features buildings, to reduce energy usage and CO2 emissions, thereby Pilkington Optiphon™ is a high quality acoustic laminated creating opportunities for solar control glass. Most of our solar glass that offers excellent noise reduction without control products have special coatings that can reflect up to compromising on light transmittance or impact performance. 75 percent of the solar heat, while transmitting the majority of the visible light. We have a wide range of products to satisfy The desired acoustic performance can be achieved through every need; Pilkington Optifloat™ Tints, Pilkington Reflite™, combining various thicknesses of glass with a special plastic Pilkington Eclipse™ and Pilkington SunShade™ Silver provide interlayer. different levels of solar control performance. The best energy-efficient glass combines solar control and low-emissivity properties. Pilkington Suncool™, Pilkington Pilkington Optiphon™ helps ensure a good night’s sleep for customers Solar-E™ and Pilkington Eclipse Advantage™ provide both in of the new, award-winning, Sleeperz Hotel in the heart of Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. a single product. The use of these types of glass allows a bright and comfortable environment to be maintained inside a building with reduced requirement for air-conditioning and lighting. Their use will increase as climate change results in increased ambient temperatures, thus imposing greater demands on air-conditioning in buildings. Self-cleaning glass — Minimizing environmental impact In the 12 years since its launch, our Pilkington Activ™ range has been installed successfully in domestic and commercial buildings throughout the world. Using the forces of nature to help keep the surface free from dirt, the world’s first advanced dual-action self-cleaning glass ensures less manual cleaning is required — therefore reducing the need for toxic chemicals and hazardous cleaning products and cutting water wastage, as well as reducing maintenance costs and health and safety risks. Minimizing the impact on the environment, Pilkington Activ™ products complement Pilkington low-emissivity and solar control glass range, and when used with other Pilkington products in an Insulating Glass Unit, it helps to reduce the environmental impact of buildings even further. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 17 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Glass and solar energy GLASS HAS AN IMPORTANT ROLE TO PLAY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GROWING SOLAR ENERGY SECTOR. WE SUPPLY PRODUCTS FOR ALL THREE OF THE LEADING TECHNOLOGIES, CONVERTING POWER FROM THE SUN INTO CLEAN RENEWABLE ENERGY. Glass is an integral and important element of solar modules, Over the past years, legislation has been introduced used to convert solar energy into electricity. In traditional PV, around the world to address the issue of renewable the solar cells may be encapsulated using toughened glass, which protects the cells from the elements. energy, spurred on by the Kyoto protocol and subsequent national targets. It is increasingly Increasingly, electrically conductive glass is used in PV modules as the front contact of the solar cell, to form a system which recognized that a move from hydrocarbons is generates a direct electrical current. essential as supplies are finite and global warming is a reality. We have been closely associated with the leading companies within the crystalline silicon and especially thin film PV industries Solar energy panels offer alternative solutions for for a long time. This collaboration has come about, in part, a range of energy requirements, from small scale as a result of the historical expertize in on-line coating of both domestic applications to large scale solar power Pilkington and NSG, which has enabled us to become the worldwide leading producer of high-quality, high-volume stations, from cloudy northern rooftops to hot Transparent Conductive Oxide (TCO) glass, with manufacturing sunny deserts. sites in all main regions. We have been a technological leader in low-iron glass compositions for 25 years. Depending on the type, a photovoltaic panel will typically During its life cycle, a solar panel can produce over produce enough power in around two years to offset the energy used in manufacture. In other words, the input energy is equivalent 15 times the amount of energy used to make it. to only 6.6 percent of the total output of the panel. During its life cycle, a solar panel can produce over 15 times the amount Besides Europe, increasing markets like Japan, China and USA of energy used to make it. are expected to take an important role in the solar segment. In particular Japan has decided to subsidize officially solar energy Global Photovoltaic (PV) continued its growth trend in 2011 and generation via Feed-In-Tariffs (FIT) this year and renewable PV markets again grew faster than anyone had expected, both energy is a vital part of the Chinese governmental 5-year in Europe and around the world. This was in the main due to the plan. US government schemes designed to encourage ‘green’ reduced cost of solar electricity, but it was also driven in part by industries also play an important part in establishing renewable our technological advances, helping our customers manufacture technologies. increasingly efficient modules. Glass is an integral and important element of photovoltaic solar Our products support the three leading solar energy panels. To increase efficiency, low-iron glass, which demands technologies. special raw materials, but provides a higher energy transmission than ordinary glass, is increasingly specified. Anti-reflective Competitive Levelized-Cost-Of-Energy (LCOE) of PV is coatings can also increase the amount of usable solar energy. increasingly playing a role in encouraging solar generation. Our high-quality products are used in the three leading solar Feed-in tariffs in countries such as Germany, Spain, Italy and technologies aimed at converting solar energy into electricity: Greece are becoming less important. However, in emerging thin film PV, crystalline silicon PV and concentrated solar economies PV is increasingly being seen as part of the solution power applications. to cover the growing energy demand. In addition to the generation of electricity, our glass products are also used in solar applications that generate hot water. 18 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Thin film photovoltaic solar modules Crystalline photovoltaic solar modules Concentrated solar power applications Produce power at low cost per watt, effective at Highly efficient, but as the cells are expensive Typically large area mirror arrays. Require a large weak light conditions, but require large surface areas to make, best used in applications where space is area and lots of sunshine. Particularly effective in for installations. at a premium. sunny deserts. Thin film photovoltaic solar modules Thin film PV modules produce power at low cost per watt. They Photovoltaic solar modules in action are ideal for large-scale solar farms, as well as Building Integrated The new façade at ALM Brand Headquarters in Copenhagen Photovoltaic applications (BIPV). They benefit from generating proudly boasts the first Pilkington Planar™ panels to consistent power, not only at elevated temperatures, but also incorporate Building Integrated PhotoVoltaics. The BIPV on cloudy, overcast days and at low sun angles. panels, which cover just 10 percent of the new façade, are expected to generate 41.5 kW of electricity, or 5 percent of Thin film PV modules consist of a stack of extremely thin the overall building energy needs. photosensitive layers sandwiched between a top TCO coating and a back contact. The PV layers are laminated between a The new façade allows the building to harvest incident solar TCO coated front glass such as NSG TEC™, and a low-cost energy, whilst protecting the building’s occupants working Special features backing material, such as standard or thermally strengthened behind it from unwanted glare, solar gain or energy loss. Pilkington Optifloat™ Clear glass. To deliver maximum environmental benefit during the With our advanced technology, the coating properties can be renovation works, the original mullion system and fixing ‘tuned’ to a wide variety of Thin Film PV technologies, including anchor points were re-used. silicon and cadmium telluride based. Crystalline photovoltaic solar modules Developed from the microelectronics technology industry, The new façade at ALM Brand Headquarters in Copenhagen. crystalline silicon (c-Si) is the most widely used solar technology. Due to their high efficiency, crystalline silicon modules are best suited to applications where space is at a premium. The glass type normally used for this technology is low-iron rolled glass such as Pilkington Sunplus™, often in toughened form, combined with an anti-reflective coating, to ensure that the maximum solar radiation reaches the PV cells. It is also possible to use low-iron float glass such as Pilkington Optiwhite™. Concentrated solar power applications Concentrated solar power (CSP) technology uses mirrors to concentrate sunlight. The high performance mirrors are manufactured using metallic reflective coatings and weather protective paints deposited onto very high-performance low-iron float glass. Further developments of CSP cells operating with high transmissible low iron float glasses like Optiwhite™ S will be seen in the CSP segment. Pilkington Optiwhite™ S is an ultra-clear float glass with very low-iron content and its high solar energy transmittance makes it ideal as a base substrate for mirrors used in concentrated solar power applications. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 19 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Glass in vehicles AS A WORLD LEADER IN AUTOMOTIVE GLAZING, WE AIM TO PROVIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR VEHICLE MANUFACTURERS TO ADDRESS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES, SUCH AS CO2 REDUCTION, SOLAR CONTROL, VEHICLE WEIGHT, AERODYNAMICS AND RECYCLING. Demand is increasing from vehicle manufacturers for glazing The global automotive industry is increasingly solutions that meet the challenge to design cars that are kinder addressing the Sustainability agenda. The to the environment. shift to higher efficiency conventional engines, Vehicle manufacturers look towards the supply base to develop electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids marks a new and deliver products that address energy reduction, energy generation and recyclability. era, with CO2 reduction a major focus. This requires glazing advances in solar energy control, weight We are supplying glass used in automotive photovoltaic roof reduction and energy saving or generation. systems that can actively supply power to the vehicle, helping reduce reliance on conventional energy sources. As a world leader in automotive glazing, we are We aim both to reduce energy used during the manufacture meeting these challenges. We are developing of products and to increase their contribution to sustainability coating technology and glass compositions to during their lifetime. Opportunities include glazing weight produce high-performance infra-red reflecting reduction, windshields that do not mist, so reducing the need and advanced infra-red absorbing glazings. to operate air-conditioning, and coated glazing to keep the cabin Our aim is to provide further opportunities for cool in summer and warm in winter. We are constantly improving glass performance, enabling vehicle makers to use windshields vehicle manufacturers to meet their Sustainability and backlights with lower installation angles, enabling more requirements. aerodynamic and fuel-efficient designs. Hybrid and electric vehicles Increasing global emphasis on fuel economy and the need to mitigate the effects of transportation on the environment have accelerated demand for vehicles that deliver better environmental performance. The importance of hybrid and electric vehicles is growing, as consumers demand more environmentally-friendly models. We are working with a variety of established automotive manufacturers and new entrants who are developing new vehicles that are greener by design. Vehicle glazing is not only important in creating a modern exterior design, but can also contribute significantly to the feeling of space inside the car and all-around visibility. Popular in the smaller car segments is the use of modular glazing systems; fully-integrated or multi-panel rooflights and backlight quarter-light combinations. These inevitably bring with them more complex shaping requirements that the NSG Group, through its experience of designing and delivering processes and products, from the float-glass process to proprietary glass-bending technology, is well placed to address. 20 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Contributing to vehicle aerodynamics The Group’s advanced shaping technology enables the supply Glazing systems of glazing with low installation angles for the energy-efficient We develop and supply not only glass, but also glazing systems design of the Chevrolet Volt electric car. used to mount and seal the products in vehicle apertures. We work constantly to decrease component content, with a view to reduced cost and weight. New technology areas, such as integral seals, significantly reduce processing steps and the amount of hardware needed to transform glass products to glazing products. Issues such as driver visibility and pedestrian safety overlay our work in the development of the next generation of automotive glazing. Glass and end-of-life vehicles Glass typically constitutes around 3 percent of the composition of an average car. We are actively involved in the elimination of harmful materials in glass, ink, solder and other components in automotive glass products. Lightweight glazing There can be over 13 individual pieces of glazing on a vehicle, NSG glazing technology is contributing all contributing significantly to overall weight and affecting fuel to more sustainable vehicles consumption. We are focused on the introduction of lightweight • By moving from 6mm to 5mm windscreen thickness glass and glazing technology, with the launch of reduced and reducing overall vehicle weight, fuel efficiency thickness laminated and toughened sidelights, backlights, is improved. windshields and rooflights. • Superior infra-red reflecting windscreen enhances solar Our in-house developments for glass-shaping technology now control and reduces the need for air conditioning. make it possible for vehicle manufacturers to reduce the mass • Heated windscreen enhances visibility in icy or humid of glass components by up to 25 percent. Special features conditions, eliminates the need for de-icer spray and Glass in vehicles offers more properties than simple transparency, reduces damage to the wiper system. so when designing vehicles for reduced mass in the components, • Laminated, green tinted, hydrophobic front door glazing consideration needs to be given to acoustics, stiffness, sealing reduces the power required from the air-conditioning unit. and guiding systems and solar control. • Laminated glazing that removes more than 99 percent Vehicle glass of UV light transmission significantly minimises the degradation of interior fabrics. 65% • Privacy glass fitted to the rear lowers temperatures, enables greater cooling efficiency, and reduces UV light transmission. Our range of optimized green and privacy solar absorbing glasses can reduce the heat entering a vehicle by up to 65 percent. Shown fitted in the new Range Rover. Solar control technology Approximately 30 percent of the heat loading on a car’s interior comes through the windshield. The relationship between high-performance solar control glazing and vehicle CO2 emissions reduction has long been recognized. It is accepted that control of heat energy entering vehicles directly impacts air-conditioning usage and will lead to reduced fuel consumption and CO2 output. Our advanced solar control glass can make a significant contribution to the reduction of air-conditioning usage by reducing solar heat gain. Our vehicle glazing products provide advanced solar control by absorbing or reflecting infra-red energy from the sun. Our range of optimized green and privacy solar absorbing glasses can reduce the heat entering a vehicle by up to 65 percent. Advanced glass coatings used in laminated glazing can selectively allow the transmission of visible light while rejecting heat entering vehicles. Combining solar control properties with a heating function within the glass, for removing condensation, can reduce air-conditioning use on a year-round basis. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 21 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 TECHNICAL Glass OUR TECHNICAL GLASS PRODUCTS CONTRIBUTING TO ENERGY CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABILITY INCLUDE GLASS FOR DISPLAYS, LED PRINT HEADS FOR OFFICE MACHINERY, BATTERY SEPARATOR TECHNOLOGY FOR ELECTRIC AND HYBRID VEHICLES, AND GLASS FIBER FOR TIMING BELTS AND PAINTS. Battery separator technology — an important Our patented optical products are used in the role in the next generation of electric vehicles new generation of LED printer heads, offering The NSG Group is a world leader in the development of advanced the advantages of low power consumption, glass products for use in battery separators. Our sheets of miniaturization, and low-noise operation. Our non-conducting porous material between positive and negative expertize in the manufacture of ultra-thin float plates in storage batteries prevent short circuits caused by plates bending and touching and greatly increase the efficiency glass is helping to develop the next generation of batteries. of touch-screen devices, enhancing mobile communications. Initiatives to achieve a low-carbon society have focused the automotive industry on the development of more fuel-efficient We are world leaders in the development of vehicles. The Idling Stop and Start (ISS) system, which stops products using glass fiber, which is now a highthe engine during idle time and restarts only when necessary, profile, high-tech material in a variety of fields: requires advanced performance batteries. it is light and strong, fire retardant, non-conductive Our R&D is focused on improving the capacity, stability, and resistant to chemicals. Its use in vehicle timing power and safety margins of the next generation of batteries. belts helps improve fuel consumption. Enhanced performance characteristics can enable the use of smaller and more powerful batteries in future lower emission vehicles. Our sales of separators for these new batteries are expanding rapidly. We are developing and expanding sales of separators for smaller and more powerful batteries for use in future lower emission vehicles. Displays in communications devices — helping to cut power consumption and even reduce travel We are a world-leading supplier of ultra-thin glass for small LCD applications, helping to reduce power consumption in the display market. Our Ultra Fine Flat Glass (UFF) is produced in thicknesses as low as 0.3 to 1.1mm. These products are increasingly being used in the growing touch panel market, particularly in mobile phones and computers (including new tablet models) and now expanding into use in vehicles. 22 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 This technology helps reduce the need for additional peripheral equipment, such as keyboards and pointers, saving manufacturing NSG Glasscord® ‘Belt in Oil’ system resources, raw materials and energy. Mobile communications features in Ford’s Ecoboost engine devices also help reduce the need for face-to-face interaction Ford’s revolutionary EcoBoost™ engine features NSG and travel. Glasscord® ‘Belt in Oil’ timing belt system, developed by the NGF EUROPE division of Technical Glass. Our new range of advanced LED print heads offers the advantages of miniaturization, reduced noise and lower power consumption in the next generation of The NSG Glasscord® ‘Belt in Oil’ system features printers and scanners. in the new Ford Ecoboost™ engine. LED print heads — reducing power consumption in office machinery We have been involved with printer and scanner manufacturer Fuji Xerox in the joint development of a new generation of Light Emitting Diode (LED) print heads, using our proprietary SELFOC® Lens Array (SLA®) technology, which allows optical systems to be designed compactly and manufactured at low cost. The new system uses self-scanning light-emitting devices and radially distributive refractive index rod lens arrays to provide images up to 1,200 dpi. The new print head provides an image quality equal to or surpassing more conventional laser scanning units, but with the added advantages of miniaturization, low power consumption and low-noise operation. Glass cord engine timing belts — helping to reduce fuel consumption In the automotive industry, timing belts play a crucial role in maintaining optimal engine performance and fuel efficiency. Special features Our advanced glass cord is used in a new generation of belts. NSG Glasscord® high-tensile strength glass fiber cord improves belt flexibility and stretch resistance significantly. These characteristics help to provide accurate valve operation timing for better fuel efficiency over the lifetime of an engine. The technology has been advanced with the development of the new ‘Belt in Oil’ system using NSG Glasscord®. The system improves engine refinement further, through an innovative design that immerses the two main engine drive belts in oil. The system delivers the quietness and more efficient running low friction of a belt, but with the durability of a chain. NSG Microglas® Glass Flake in high-performance coatings. Microglas® Glass Flake can be used in formulations with reduced volatile organic compounds meeting environmental requirements and formulating cost-effective replacements for many traditional systems. Glass flakes dispersed through the coating prevent the ingress of water vapor and chemical solutions and extend life of protective coating. Glass flakes provide a thermal stabilization layer in the protective coating and greatly reduces the risk of cracking and peeling of the coating due to thermal shock. Glass flakes increase the hardness of epoxy and polyester resin coatings, giving higher resistance to surface wear. The famously endless task of painting Scotland’s iconic Forth Bridge was recently completed, thanks to epoxy paint containing NSG Microglas® Glass Flake. This consists of platelets of glass approximately 5 microns thick and 10 to 4000 microns wide. In paint, they help generate a chemical bond producing a virtually impenetrable layer, protecting the bridge’s steel frame from the elements for the next 25 years. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 23 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT WE TAKE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES EXTREMELY SERIOUSLY. ALL OUR OPERATIONS ARE REQUIRED TO MEET ALL LEGISLATIVE STANDARDS AS A MINIMUM, AND WHERE LOCAL REQUIREMENTS ARE NOT CONSIDERED SUFFICIENT TO ADDRESS AN ISSUE, OUR OWN CORPORATE STANDARDS DO. Our Environmental Policy Our Group Environmental Policy defines our Given the nature of our business, we acknowledge that our approach on environmental matters. In particular, activities will inevitably have an impact, but we have taken steps it outlines our management of both current activity to minimize the adverse nature of any impact and have put in and the legacy of past and inherited liability. It place systems to try to ensure that we manage such impacts in a controlled manner. reinforces our commitment to using good scientific principles to try to predict and assess our impacts Our environmental management system is certified on the environment, both positive and negative. to ISO 14001 for all our glass manufacturing and automotive manufacturing sites. Principal among the tools we use is our environmental management system, which is certified to ISO 14001 for all our glass manufacturing and automotive manufacturing sites. We are committed to reporting on our performance both good and bad. Calendar year 2007 is our chosen starting point for reporting on the progress of the enlarged Group. Environmental performance is monitored and reported for manufacturing operations that are under the direct control of NSG Group. We continue to work with regulatory authorities worldwide on issues relating to historical industrial activity on and around Group premises. Data collection Environmental and safety performance data is now collected right across the Group using an online electronic data reporting system known as Airsweb™. This database is multilingual and accessed over the corporate intranet, by sites under NSG operational control allowing monthly updating of relevant information. Environmental data is collected under the broad headings of energy, emissions to air, water usage, recycling and waste. The data collected is based primarily on the core environmental performance indicator set of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 24 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 ISO 14001 www.nsg.com/sustainability 70% More details on our environmental policies and risk analysis can be found on our website. of our operations take place on sites certified to ISO 14001 environmental standard. In addition to the collection of environmental emissions and resource usage data, the Airsweb™ system also incorporates an incident reporting system. This allows the timely reporting and recording of incident data both safety and environmental, as well as provision for tracking the progress or remedial actions and communication of learning points. Monitoring performance Supplementing the routine monitoring of our business, we also maintain a number of central registers, used to guide our strategic development and maintain a high level of corporate governance in the Sustainability field. For example, a register of all furnaces, their associated permits, relevant legislation and abatement capabilities is maintained and used to support the assessment of any proposed changes in operation or design. To ensure a consistent and innovative approach, we operate a number of multidisciplinary design panels whose task is to ensure full assessment and review of proposed changes. We utilize a stage gate process to ensure that an appropriate level of information and resource is applied to an issue at set points within the development of a project or proposal. This ensures the most efficient use of our resources and encourages the use of a wide range of skills to assist innovation. Our Automotive business was one of the first in the automotive industry to achieve a corporate certificate for environmental management. A single ISO 14001 certificate covers the Group’s Automotive sites worldwide. Environment For glass manufacturing plants we have defined our strategic approach to abatement in order to ensure that across the world we hold fast to our principles, even in parts of the world where legislative controls are less well developed. A register of all furnaces, their associated permits, relevant legislation and abatement capabilities is ISO 14001 Audit at Sungai Buloh, Malaysia. maintained and used to support the assessment of any proposed changes in operation or design. Certification We aim to certify our manufacturing facilities to the internationally recognized ISO 14001 environmental standard and now have 81 certified sites around the world, representing 70 percent of our business by turnover. Our Automotive business line was one of the first companies in the automotive industry to achieve a corporate certificate for environmental management. A single ISO 14001 certificate from TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH covers central functions and our Automotive plants worldwide. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 25 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Energy and resource usage WE WORK CONTINUOUSLY TO MINIMIZE ENERGY INPUT INTO ALL OUR PROCESSES, SO THAT THE USAGE OF GLASS CONTRIBUTES NET BENEFIT TO SUSTAINABILITY. IN ALL OUR MANUFACTURING AND PROCESSING ACTIVITIES, WE SEEK TO USE AS DIVERSE A RANGE OF ENERGY SOURCES AS PRACTICABLE. Our energy usage We own or operate 49 float lines globally and Natural gas have major automotive fabrication facilities in For both environmental and financial reasons and wherever 31 locations worldwide. possible, we use natural gas as the fuel of choice for glass melting and convert furnaces whenever practicable. As a result of the global economic downturn, We used 1,071 million cubic meters of natural gas in leading to reduced demand, some of our float lines 2011. This equates approximately to 37.7 PJ of energy, have been put on hot hold (maintaining working a 10 percent increase on the previous year. temperature, but not producing glass). Others have Heavy fuel oil been closed down with a view to restarting when Our second most utilized fuel is heavy fuel oil, readily available markets improve. Our Automotive and Technical and relatively low cost. It is therefore used when gas is not Glass operations were similarly affected, with available. It provides good heat transfer and is considered a an unusual number of shutdowns and restarts. good fuel for glass melting. Although some markets have since picked up, We used 237 million liters of heavy fuel oil in 2011, or 9.4 PJ; a 10 percent reduction on the previous year. these developments affected absolute resource consumption and emission data in calendar year Diesel oil and liquid petroleum gas 2011, on which this year’s Report is based. The use of diesel oil and of liquid petroleum gas as fuels for float furnaces is generally limited by cost. Both are used as back-up fuels in case of the failure of the preferred fuel, natural gas. Diesel oil is also widely used to power small Initiatives to reduce resource usage engines and boilers. Thermo-Photo Voltaic (TPV) Development In 2011, our consumption of diesel oil was 19.8 million A TPV cell is very similar to a solar cell except it uses Infra-Red liters, or 0.74 PJ (down 8 percent on 2010) and that of rather than visible light to produce electricity. NSG, Lancaster liquid propane was 10.5 k tonnes or 0.5 PJ (an 8 percent University, QinetiQ, CSI, Wafer-Tech, RWE nPower, and Tata Steel reduction on 2010). have been given £1.5 million by the UK Technology Strategy Board to develop TPV technology. Electricity Electricity is a major resource usage for the Group. A TPV system has been designed by the UK R&D Team and is The environmental impact associated with electricity is, currently installed in a furnace flue to test the resilience and of course, dependent on the method used to generate it. long-term output of the cells. It is hoped that investment in this technology will reduce environmental impact by generating During 2011, we consumed 8.7 PJ (2.4 TWh) of delivered electricity from our waste heat instead of the current steam electrical energy (a 1 percent decrease on 2010). turbine system. The total energy used by the NSG Group in 2011 was 57.12 PJ (15.87 TWh). This represents a 4 percent increase on 2010. Total energy used by the Group in 2011 57.12 PJ The total energy used by the NSG Group in 2011 was 57.12 PJ (15.87 TWh). A Thermo-Photo Voltaic cell. 26 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 NSG Group energy usage NSG Group resource usage 40,000 2010 1,200 2010 2011 2011 1,000 30,000 800 20,000 600 400 10,000 200 0 0 Na TJ TJ fu m3 tu ra el oi H lg as LP G ec as /g as lM I eavy fu TJ tr ici M Li qu id pr oi lx 10 M Dies el o il T ty ra Tota le le op an e x1 I el /g J El lg ea Tota ct ricity /1 0 kt as oi lT Na vy lw at er us 0 GW h J tu H esel e x1 0 M m3 Di Bo Ti m be ug ht rk m3 in cu lle tk t Our resource usage Water Renewable resources In glass-making, water is used for cooling, but most of our plants Some electrical power is directly generated on-site from waste operate with closed loop systems and so only require top up. gases or using co-generation installations. In 2011, we received Water is also used for washing glass in plants, but there the need 275 GWh from combined heat and power. is for very high purity, so water is treated and then reused. We expect our usage of renewables to increase significantly Across the Group water consumption can vary considerably over the next few years, with projects under way to install according to process and product demands as well as water photovoltaic arrays and wind generation at some of our facilities. quality. Typically, ~2m3 are required to manufacture 1 tonne of In June 2011 we commissioned a new 3,000-panel solar field float glass. ~90 liters are required to process each square meter at our facility at Northwood in the US. This is now generating of automotive product. 250 kW of energy, or about 7 percent of the facility’s We used a total of 20.8 million cubic meters of water requirement, every year. in 2011. This was a decrease of 3 percent on 2010 data, despite increased production levels. Other resources Recycled glass Timber Some cullet (recycled glass) is bought in from external sources In Europe, much of our glass is transported on steel stillages and remelted to form new glass, so closing the recycling loop. without packaging, utilizing specialist ‘Floatliner’ vehicles. In 2011 we bought in 200,000 tonnes of cullet to Outside Europe, more glass is transported in boxes and containers, supplement cullet from our own internal recycling. Environment often made of wood. Although much of the timber we use comes from sustainable forestry, we cannot yet guarantee this worldwide and this remains an area for improvement. We used 123,000 cubic meters of timber in 2011, mainly in the transportation of glass (up 27 percent on 2010). Thin film photovoltaic modules in action The 250 kW PV array installed alongside the Group’s North American R&D Northwood OH, USA, has generated nearly 330,000 kWh in its first year of operation; around 7 percent of the site’s energy needs. The panels are installed on top of a former waste impoundment originating from the East Toledo float plant that was demolished in 1987. 3,000-panel solar field at the Group’s R&D facility at Northwood OH, USA. Photo: BlimpShooter.com © John T. Hrosko. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 27 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Minimizing environmental impact Glass manufacture is an energy-intensive process, involving the melting of raw materials at high temperatures. Principal emissions from the process are to air and arise as products of the combustion of fuel and as CO2 from the decomposition of soda ash, dolomite and limestone used in the process. In 2011 we sent 506,000 tonnes of glass for recycling and Our environmental impact analysis of the float bought in 200,000 tonnes. 27,300 tonnes of glass could not glass and automotive glazing production processes be successfully recycled so was sent for disposal. 506,000 reveals that the significant emissions are carbon dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, oxides of sulphur and, to a far more limited extent, particulate matter. In the operation of our float plants, heavy oil to In 2011, we sent 505,954 tonnes of glass for recycling natural gas conversion has helped to reduce carbon and bought in 200,433 tonnes of recycled product. emissions by around 50 percent over the past 40 years, and a combination of design and operational innovations has made further progress. Waste The glass manufacturing process itself produces very little waste material. All trimmed glass is recycled back into the melting process and waste is limited to maintenance waste, Recycling occasional off-specification raw material that cannot be blended Glass for recycling is a valuable resource. Wherever quality allows, and packaging waste. we recycle any glass off-cuts or cullet within our own glass melting lines. Glass from our downstream operations and from If glass is produced that cannot be remelted on-site, it is sent, our customers represents a potentially useful resource to us. where practicable, for external recycling. We use the waste hierarchy to guide our disposal options. In this system, landfill We gain a double benefit from the use of such cullet. Its use is the least favored option. to make glass reduces the requirement for raw materials and avoids disposing of what would otherwise be a waste material. However, with significant tonnages of mineral materials arising 10 percent cullet use saves 3 percent furnace energy and leads for disposal we have not eliminated landfill completely. to reductions in CO2 emissions. We disposed of 57,146 tonnes of non-glass waste (a 14 percent increase on 2010), of which 1,771 tonnes of hazardous and 30,483 Glass for recycling is a valuable resource. Wherever tonnes of non-hazardous waste were sent to landfill. We disposed practicable, we recycle any glass off-cuts or cullet of 12,139 tonnes of hazardous waste in 2011. within our own glass melting lines. We also recover glass from our downstream operations and from those Emissions to air of our customers. These arise primarily from the combustion of fuel in melting the raw materials. The principal materials emitted are oxides of sulphur and nitrogen. Some particulates arise partly from trace components in the fuel and some from the glass formation itself. 28 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Oxides of sulphur and nitrogen The fuels we use – oils and natural gas – all contain sulphur Waste Heat Recovery compounds as contaminants. Natural gas, our preferred fuel, The recovery of waste heat is a key aspect which can contains less sulphur than oil. Heavy fuel oil contains the highest improve the overall efficiency of the float process. levels of sulphur of all our fuels, especially that readily available The majority of the heat is recovered through the in Japan. Our furnaces in Japan are therefore fitted with efficient regenerative process, while a high proportion of the emission gas-cleaning equipment. The combustion of such fuels remaining heat can be recovered to generate hot water can produce a mixture of sulphur oxides (SOx). and/or steam. Most sulphate arising from soda lime glass manufacture is Most recently, at Weiherhammer in Germany, a waste heat released as sodium sulphate, which is of low toxicity. Nitrogen boiler has been installed to replace the existing package compounds released arise from the combustion air in which the boiler system to generate hot water. The system has fuel is burnt. At the high temperatures used in glass-making, the resulted in reduced CO2 emissions of 2,800 tonnes. nitrogen in combustion air is oxidized to a mixture of nitrogen oxides (NOx). Actions we take to reduce or prevent the emission of these oxides of nitrogen are detailed on our website. A waste heat boiler installed at Weiherhammer, Germany. Reducing carbon emissions In 2011, the NSG Group was responsible for the direct and indirect emission of 5.0 million tonnes of CO2. This represents a 3 percent increase on 2010, but is mainly due to increases in production levels. Our direct emissions were 3.9 million tonnes (a 4 percent increase on 2010). Direct emissions occur from our furnaces and from fuel used in bending and toughening furnaces in Automotive and Architectural Glass. In Europe, externally verified, direct 2011 CO2 emissions from the Emission Trading Scheme were increased by 4 percent compared to 2010 but reduced by 13 percent compared to 2007. In the operation of our float plants, heavy oil to natural gas conversion has helped to reduce carbon emissions by around 50 percent over the past 40 years, and a combination of design and operational innovations has made further progress. Principal emissions from the NSG Group during 2011 NSG Group glass melting carbon emissions 2011 12,000 2010 4.5 Europe 2011 North America 11,000 South America Environment 4.0 Japan 10,000 China and South East Asia 3.5 9,000 8,000 3.0 7,000 2.5 6,000 2.0 5,000 4,000 1.5 3,000 1.0 2,000 0.5 1,000 0 0 es es es es es ta nn 2010 2010 nn nn nn nn nn f nt es 2011 2011 to to to to to to e l CO s/ 10 ec 2 f o t 10 10 s o tri r s on 0 10 /1 te SO OX 00 g/ 00 as To f C c i t ite ne X/ / 1, lin w ta lm O y/ e s CO e 2 f r 1 , 0 xc l g/ te N us as (m 2 e s o le c t om 00 udi in yc as ill mi do lu re io ss cl ec w ol fC ric fu t o ng ct n io t CO o n n n s cy rr us ar rp O i t y el nn (m 2 e es re fo do az Ai so 2f o r / 1 , 0 xc e es ill m io is ) or ts ar H si 0 lu n sio sf uc az as te 0 din to g al to n nn s as od -h m as /1 ,0 n To es) Gl Pr on al To m 00 ne s t Di t al to N To t nn es NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 29 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Employees OUR MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY VALUES PEOPLE AS ‘THE MOST IMPORTANT ASSET OF OUR COMPANY’. SAFETY, QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY UNDERPIN EVERYTHING WE DO, WITH THE PRINCIPLE OF ‘OPEN COMMUNICATION’ CENTRAL TO OUR EMPLOYMENT POLICIES. Employee engagement is a high priority. We invest in the We have around 29,000 permanent employees, training of our managers and supervisors to ensure they have working in 29 countries. the communications skills necessary to keep employees well informed of developments. Supporting our managers and We operate as an integrated international Group supervisors also involves providing them with detailed briefings with a multinational management and 80 percent on developments, such as changes to health and safety practices or programs that promote the health and well-being of our employees work outside Japan. We reflect of our people. diversity in our workforce and believe that the range of nationalities, skills, qualifications and Safety performance experience available in our many operations are Our safety programs emphasize the importance of individuals a positive benefit to our business. taking personal responsibility and of appropriate safe behavior, with managers taking the lead through their commitment to Our human resources strategy aims to ensure we our 10 Key Safety Leadership Behaviors. All injuries at work are have the right people where they are needed and regarded as unnecessary and avoidable. We require full reporting that we maximize our talent management around no matter how minor, and appropriate investigation to ensure the world. we learn from all such incidents. Group-wide initiatives to strengthen further Safety Culture within the Group is under way, with Health and Safety performance a part of the annual Management Incentive Plan. We have also launched a recognition program that rewards sites with outstanding Health and Safety performance indicators. The Significant Injury Rate (SIR) is now our primary reactive indicator. This records injuries requiring medical treatment or the reallocation of duties to allow an individual to continue working. The SIR for financial year 2012 was 0.35; an improvement of 38 percent compared to FY2011. The Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) which records work-related accidents or illnesses preventing individuals involved being able to report for work on the following day or shift has become a less useful measure. Group Employee Survey 87% Results from the 2011 Group Employee Survey showed that a total of 87 percent of employees participated — this was unchanged from the 2009 survey. Satisfaction and Motivation was up and Loyalty was unchanged against 2009. 30 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Diversity Our Code of Conduct acknowledges internationally proclaimed Moving Safety to the Next Level human rights and the impact these have on employment. Our safety programs emphasize the importance of Employment standards have been set, derived from external individuals taking personal responsibility and of appropriate international human rights employment guidelines and our safe behavior, with managers taking the lead through their own business requirements. commitment to our 10 Key Safety Leadership Behaviors. The Code and our overall employment policies provide employees Following the success of the first NSG Group Safety Day with reassurance on how they will be treated, and guide in 2011, the second such event was held on 14 November employment policy and practice in individual businesses. Our 2012. For more information, see pages 32 and 33 of equal opportunity policy aims to prohibit discrimination based this Report. on race, color, creed, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, union membership, political affiliation or any other status protected by law. Group-wide employee survey We conduct a global employee survey every two years. Results from the 2011 survey showed increased levels of satisfaction and motivation compared with 2009. A total of 87 percent of employees completed the questionnaire, the same as in 2009. Safety Nearly 80 percent of those who took part indicated that they rate NSG Group highly as an employer compared to other companies in the area, with 85 percent stating their belief Day that the Group is succeeding in its aim of becoming a truly international organization. Almost 90 percent stated their belief that the NSG Group emphasizes safety in everything it does and 67 percent stated that they are kept well informed on matters relating to the NSG Group as a whole. Maximizing the potential of individuals 14 November 67 percent of employees received a review of training and 2012 development in 2011, with our aim being to increase this proportion to 90 percent by 2015. In the 2011 process we continued to focus on the area of objective setting, aiming to significantly improve the quality of personal objectives. Significant Injury Rate (SIR) In order to foster the process of cultural change across the 2.0 whole organization in the area of Health and Safety, it was required that all managers were set personal safety objectives 1.5 in the 2011 process. Consultation and open communication 1.0 We operate a comprehensive system of regular communication and briefing within all businesses, including effective 0.5 mechanisms for two-way communication. Everyone receives regular updates on Group and local business objectives, targets, 0 results and best practice at central and business line levels. 20 06 07 08 20 09 2010 11 This includes monthly briefings from the heads of the respective 20 20 20 20 12 business lines. All employees also receive the Group’s employee magazine, NSG Group employee distribution Stakeholders MADO, every eight weeks in their own language. The Group Europe 42% Intranet, NSG Group Inside, is available to every employee on Japan 16% the company network. We operate formal mechanisms to NAFTA 13% brief and consult unions and employee representatives on China 9% Group operations and future plans, as appropriate to local Asia 11% South America 9% circumstances and requirements. (As at 31 March 2012) NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 31 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED BASIS OF REPORTING 42 EMPLOYEE SAFETY DAY 2012 THE ANNUAL NSG GROUP SAFETY DAY AIMS TO DEMONSTRATE TO EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS THAT WE CARE ABOUT THEIR SAFETY, THROUGH THE PROGRESS AND COMMITMENTS WE HAVE MADE OVER THE PAST YEAR. Launching Employee Safety Day 2012, CEO Keiji Yoshikawa said: Key focus areas for the Group’s 2012 Safety “The leadership team remains actively committed to the Group’s High Risk Activity reduction safety program. Day were: We must acknowledge and learn from the tragic fatality and • Vehicle and Pedestrian Safety. serious incidents we have experienced this year. • M  achinery Safety: guarding, frequent access We owe it to our colleagues and their families to fully investigate and isolation. and follow through on the concrete actions identified. We are committed to our high risk reduction program and the safety • Contractor Control including permits. tools we have in place. • M  aterials Handling: moving glass, load security, Our Annual Safety Day provides an opportunity to celebrate grabs, trolleys and pallets. what we have achieved. The day should be used to spend time thinking and discussing what we can do to make our company even safer. We must learn to become more self-critical and respond with concrete actions if we are to achieve the level of excellence in safety performance to which we aspire. We all tend to think our own behavior is better than it really is in practice. Safety Day provides an opportunity for everyone to evaluate their own safety behavior openly and honestly, identify the behaviors that individuals need to improve and decide how they are going to do things differently. Our challenge for Safety Day 2012 was for everyone in the organization to complete at least one safety action during the day, learn a new safety skill, complete an outstanding safety action, improve safety in the working area, discuss their safety concerns, or even change behavior.” The feedback we have had from small sites to major manufacturing plants suggests that employees found the day to be informative and entertaining. Office staff in particular enjoyed the opportunity to experience the safety issues and solutions experienced by employees in the operational sites often providing a very different safety perspective from their own. Many of those who were responsible for arranging activities suggested that the heightened focus generated by having a single day of focus for the whole organization was more important to the success of the day than any expenditure of time or money. 32 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 1. 2. 3. 4. 1. Vehicle and Pedestrian Safety 2. Machinery Safety Vehicle movements within our facilities pose a significant risk to Machinery safety improvements are one of the major safety both the driver and pedestrians. We have focused on minimizing challenges we face due to the significant variation in standards this risk with our policy of segregating vehicle and pedestrian across our global facilities. Our training and assessment tools routes as well as exploring the technical solution of a passive aim to address the gaps in safety and by identifying the gaps detection system. But a key initiative was introducing simple we are able to address these with solutions that go beyond legal key safe behaviors that everyone can adopt, like ‘signal for compliance. We are addressing machinery safety issues in three recognition’ and ‘keeping to walkways and crossing point’. core areas: a) guarding to prevent contact with machinery; Safety Day presented an opportunity for employees to experience b) frequent access safety systems for production; and the difficulty of driving some of our vehicles and for the drivers c) complete isolation for maintenance and repair activities. Stakeholders to show their unique skills of precision driving. Safety Day provided an opportunity for the business support functions to see, touch and feel the experience of machinery 3. Contractor Control safety in a controlled environment. We have sadly experienced fatalities when we have engaged contractors to undertake work at our facilities. We have learnt 4. Materials Handling from these mistakes and fundamentally focus on three key Incorrect lifting of glass packs has resulted in many fatalities aspects of contractor control: a) Challenge the contractors’ in the glass industry. At the forefront of our safety program method statement; b) Use a permit to work system; and is the development of the GSI Grab. This is an in-house retrofit c) Regularly visit the site of work. During Safety Day our design that tells the operator that the grab has engaged onto procurement function invited contractors and suppliers in the glass pack before a lift is attempted. Our unique approach to help us understand how they managed contractor control will reduce the risk from moving packs around our facilities and from their perspective. we are committed to rolling these grabs out. Safety Day allowed promotion of the grab to our operators and encouraged critical appraisal of the features. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 33 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED BASIS OF REPORTING 42 customers High quality and service standards are key features in building relationships with our industry customers and end-consumers. We are committed to the safe use of our products, ensuring they can be effectively handled, fitted and used by our customers. Most efficient means having the lowest delivered unit cost of We aim to be the most efficient, most reliable, what we supply and using the minimum resources and energy most responsive and most sustainable supplier to produce and process them. of choice of our customers. Our objective is to Most reliable means that, having committed to a customer order, produce a wide range of effective, innovative and we deliver what they ordered, with the promised quality, when they expect it, in full, on time, every time, without quality issues sustainable products in all our business and our or paperwork mistakes. R&D effort is focused on product and process development to support this objective. Most responsive means that when our customers contact us by whatever method, they get an answer immediately. In other words, they know where they stand with us. To be the most sustainable supplier means ensuring that we set high standards and adhere to them throughout the supply chain, from our own suppliers, through manufacturing, transport and delivery. We aim to achieve an economic performance that ensures the long-term viability of the Company. Product responsibility We aim to provide customers with products that have safety, environmental and in-service benefits. These include personal protection, security, energy saving, solar control, noise reduction, fire protection, improved styling and enhanced visibility for vehicles, and self-cleaning properties for glazing in buildings. We are well aware that glass products generally require careful handling. We are committed to the safety of our products and to ensuring they can be effectively handled, fitted and used by our customers. Our product risk review procedures are designed to identify risks and to provide advice to users on safe handling. We communicate these risks through safety data sheets, labels, and Glazing and Handling Guidelines. Highest quality Quality is a key feature in building successful relationships with our industry customers and end customers. It is also a key factor in Sustainability, because high quality can reduce waste throughout the supply chain, while improving production efficiencies. Quality encompasses design, development, manufacture, delivery, assembly and price of glass, as well as customer support. In the NSG Group, the achievement of high quality is supported by the use of rigorous quality management systems and standards. In the Architectural Glass business, the Group has ISO 9000:2000 quality management certification in Europe, Japan, North and South America. 34 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Our European Architectural Glass business has been a leading Awards for quality and marketing player in the development of new glass product standards Architectural for the European building industry. These standards have • First Solar Sunlight Supplier award presented to Vietnam provided a route for glass manufacturers to meet the European Glass Industries (VGI) for Flawless Execution And Construction Products Directive and apply to virtually all Outstanding Support. NSG Group products used in buildings. • Polish Responsible Business Forum has praised an Global supply chains in Architectural Glass are increasing and NSG campaign to promote ‘green’ building practices. we are actively contributing to the development of new global product standards that meet Sustainability requirements, • Shimizu Construction Award to Oki Glass Japan, for Excellent through collaboration with working groups set up by organizations Safety, Quality and Work Schedule Achievement at Japan such as the International Standards Organization. We work Hewlett-Packard H.Q. Building Project Site. closely with our customers, trade associations, governments • Komatsu House Award presented to Takahashi Glass Japan and standards-setting bodies to ensure that our products meet for Excellent Efforts at Zero Disaster Achievement in 2012. and where possible exceed local energy performance standards. • Malaysian Sheet Glass (MSG) was the recipient of the Our Automotive Original Equipment (OE) business operates a Customs-Industry Smart Partnership award. single quality management system to ensure the consistent quality of its products from wherever they are manufactured • BorgWarner office building in Jasionka, Poland has been and supplied. It has a corporate ISO/TS16949:2009 (the certified with LEED Silver (Products used: Pilkington Activ™ internationally recognized automotive quality standard) Blue + Pilkington Optitherm™). certificate, which covers all of our principle OE operations Automotive on a global basis. • 2012 Master of Quality award presented to Mexicali from We are now a leading supplier of glass products for solar module Daimler Truck (only glass supplier to win the award). production where quality standards are set by customers with • 2012 GM Customer Care and Aftersales On-Time Shipping electronics industry quality experience. Where applicable, our Platinum Award presented to Whitby, Ontario NA. management systems have been extended to include Solar Energy products. In this sector, formal glass product • AGR Mexico awarded Supplier of the Year by GNP Insurance qualifications with major customers are additionally required for outstanding performance and customer service. to ensure end products meet electronic industry IEC 61646 • TME (Toyota Europe): Technology Development Award for and IEC 61215 standards. New Yaris. Product innovation • Yachiyo (Honda Gr.): Quality Improvement Award (Japan). The NSG Group is a global leader in manufacturing excellence • Toyota: Quality Achievement Award (Japan). and innovation, notably in the areas of glass melting, glass • Toyota Auto Body: Outstanding Quality Award (Japan). forming by the float process, online coating and complex shaping technology, especially for automotive windshields and backlights. • Mazda: Outstanding CVI (VA/VE) Award (Japan). The Group invested ¥7,956 million in R&D in FY2012. Technical Glass The Group owns or controls approximately 4,000 patents and • Quality improvement certificate awarded by Shin-Kobe Electric patent applications, predominantly in the fields of float glass Machinery to NSG’s Tsu plant. production and processing and automotive glazing and also in • Development of durable, High Tensile Strength (HTS) glass the Information Technology field, and has access under license cord earned Craig Hayes, a member of NGFE Technical Dept, to patents held by third parties. The Group has also been active a PhD in Materials Engineering from Sheffield University. in selective licensing of its patents and technology, in the areas of online coating, encapsulation (of automotive glazing) and rain sensors for automotive glazing. Sunlight Supplier Award for NSG Vietnam Glass Industries (VGI) Stakeholders First Solar is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of photovoltaic solar modules. VGI’s award is in recognition of ‘Flawless Execution and Outstanding Support’ of the company’s Kulim plant in Malaysia. VGI went into full online coating production in December 11. There is normally a six-month customer qualifying process, but with good team work and excellent support from the quality teams, NSG VGI achieved qualification of its new online coated product in the record time of 15 weeks. First Solar Sunlight Award, 1Q 2012. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 35 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Shareholders WE AIM TO KEEP OUR SHAREHOLDERS INFORMED THROUGH A FOCUSED INTERNATIONAL INVESTOR RELATIONS PROGRAM. THIS ENCOMPASSES REGULAR COMMUNICATIONS THROUGHOUT THE FINANCIAL YEAR, THROUGH MEETINGS, PUBLICATIONS, PLANT VISITS AND OUR WEBSITES. Communicating our strategy In communicating with our shareholders, potential Management’s immediate priorities are to improve the profitability investors, the financial community regulatory of the Company and earn the trust of our stakeholders through authorities and the media, our aim is to report our accomplishments. Our profit improvement programs are well in a transparent, timely and accurate manner. advanced and since our initial announcement in February 2012 we have introduced additional measures and accelerated Our overriding objective is to provide as much restructuring activities. information as possible to help our shareholders We are looking carefully at all aspects of our current asset base. and potential shareholders understand our Our objective is to right-size our business urgently and we have strategy and performance, to enable them to identified the need for this to be accomplished within fiscal years take investment decisions. FY2013 and FY2014. We aim to improve manufacturing performance through efficiency improvements and rationalization. We have been quick to take Annual and Interim reports are produced in both Japanese and action to adjust our capacity to demand, through temporary and English and widely distributed to stakeholders who may have an permanent closures of plants. interest in our performance. These documents are also made available on our websites. We aim to be a sustainable company, believing that The CEO and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) make regular reports to good management of our people, our resources, our the Board on investor relations and on specific discussions with communities and our environment also makes good major shareholders. The Board receives copies of all research business sense. published on the Group. Shareholders have an opportunity at the General Meeting of Shareholders to ask questions of the We operate in a good industry with positive prospects, but we Chairman and the Board. must ensure we are cost competitive. We are aiming to lower Our Investor Relations (IR) Policy reflects our aims to be open and the breakeven point of our business by reducing overheads, fair and to comply with corporate ethics. The NSG Group is listed improving manufacturing efficiency and controlling our input on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) and the Osaka Securities cost through best-in-class procurement and shared services. Exchange and we disclose information in line with the TSE ‘Rules We aim to ensure that we spend our limited resources wisely on Timely Disclosure of Corporate Information by Issuers of and generate capacity at much lower capital costs. Listed Securities’. Where information does not fall under the category of timely disclosure rules, our policy is to communicate it swiftly and fairly, once it has been determined that the disclosure of such information is beneficial to investors. 36 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 We believe that ‘people are our most important asset’ and that CFO Mark Lyons effective use of our people is the main driver to surmount the current challenges we face. We are determined that we will not lose sight of our core Values and Principles, with Safety and Quality remaining top priorities. We aim to be a sustainable company, believing that good management of our people, our resources, our communities and our environment also makes good business sense. We are executing our strategy through a market-facing regionally organized business, based on three business areas: Architectural, Automotive and Technical Glass. A good balance between regional and global organizational structures will drive efficiency and allow us to react quickly to market developments. In parallel, we are strengthening our market-driven culture, creating a passion for revenue growth, to fully utilize our assets. Communicating our performance We report our results on a quarterly basis. We hold half-year and year-end financial results briefings for securities analysts and investors in Japan, with further communications in the intervening quarters. The CEO and CFO personally present Distribution of NSG Group shareholders and discuss financial results, charting our progress against our (as at 30 September 2012) strategy and the future outlook for the Group. Supplementing Financial institutions 17.74% this, the CFO and IR team give background briefings to analysts Securities companies 3.33% and investors following the release of financial results. From Other corporate entities 5.50% time to time, we arrange plant visits, to enable analysts to see Foreign companies/individuals 17.37% to our operations at first hand. Other individual investors 55.93% Treasury stock 0.13% Over the past year, we have increased our focus on non-financial aspects of our performance relating to Sustainability. The current report is an important channel for communicating our progress. Our Sustainability Report is made available to shareholders in both English and Japanese versions, with additional data available on our website. Evolving shareholder composition The acquisition of Pilkington plc in 2006 transformed NSG from a regional Japanese glass company to an international group headquartered in Tokyo. Following the acquisition, the proportion of non-resident foreign corporations and foreign individuals owning NSG Group shares rose, but has since dropped back, with a higher proportion of individual shareholders now based in Japan. We hold half-year and year-end financial results briefings for securities analysts and investors in Japan, with further communications in the intervening quarters. Stakeholders Nevertheless, as an international group based in Japan, we have expanded our global IR effort to meet the requirements of shareholders and potential investors around the world. Most of our publications are produced in both Japanese and English. Details can be found on page 45 of this Report and on our website. We organize ‘road shows’ for analysts, investors and potential investors outside Japan, when appropriate. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 37 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED BASIS OF REPORTING 42 Suppliers WE PURCHASE MATERIALS, GOODS AND SERVICES FROM OVER 20,000 SUPPLIERS WORLDWIDE. OUR SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT AND RELATED AUDITS HELP ENSURE THAT OUR SUPPLIERS UNDERSTAND AND COMPLY WITH OUR STANDARDS. The standards we expect As part of our Sustainable Procurement Program, We expect our suppliers to achieve and maintain high standards we operate a Supplier Code of Conduct. It outlines throughout the supply chain, but particularly with regards to behaviors, processes and procedures which the following: we observe as the standards we expect from Ethical behavior our suppliers. Our suppliers must accept personal responsibility for behaving professionally, ethically and with integrity and fairness. Our manufacturing processes use materials, products and services procured from around Social behavior — human considerations in the workplace All our suppliers must conform to the relevant International 20,000 suppliers throughout the world. Our Labor Organization Labor Standards as a minimum requirement. suppliers are therefore crucial to the achievement of our Sustainability objectives. To manufacture Environmental behavior Our suppliers must recognize the crucial importance of their and supply superior-quality glass products to our role in reducing environmental impact. They must play their part customers, we aim to build strong relationships in creating a prosperous and sustainable future by continually with suppliers that are based on a framework seeking to achieve best practice in environmental protection. of trust, co-operation and Sustainability. Audit Key elements of the Code now form part of our supplier audits. We have doubled the size of our supplier development team to 20 engineers, covering all regions. This team is responsible for Our Supplier Code of Conduct validating compliance. The wide range of issues addressed in the Code reflect the many and diverse activities in which our suppliers are involved. Wherever Our goal is to audit 50 percent of key suppliers by possible, the Code defines a fair and common-sense approach to doing business, while incorporating all relevant legal requirements. 2015. This represents around 250 new supplier audits over and above the 180 carried out in 2010 and 2011. The content of the Code also takes into account our Values and Principles, particularly the emphasis on safety, taking personal ownership for our actions and communicating with openness New Code of Conduct Audit and involvement. It is the responsibility of all of our suppliers 250 to follow the principles of this Code to ensure compliance with our requirements. Between 2011 and 2014 we plan to audit around 250 key suppliers. Around 120 selected suppliers are currently being audited and will now be subjected to these additional checks. Any that fall short will be given an improvement program. Important aspects of the new audit are the ethical and social behavior of our suppliers as well as their environmental management system and approaches to health and safety. 38 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Raw material delivery to an NSG float line. Communication and co-operation Energy In line with our Sustainability Policy, we communicate with We have secured supply of natural gas as an alternative to and work constructively with our suppliers and governments, heavy fuel oil for firing our float plants in China. As a result, regulatory agencies, the scientific community and other relevant emissions of CO2, NOx and SOx from these sites have been stakeholders, to develop and encourage business and community significantly reduced. We are introducing electricity demand practices that make progress towards the common aim of management programs in certain sites to enable our consumption sustainable development. to be reduced at time of peak network demand, therefore avoiding the need for additional reserve generation and distribution capacity on the network. In other sites, we have We expect our suppliers to uphold our standards in installed photovoltaic generation to fulfill a proportion of dealing with their own suppliers, contractors and our power needs. sub-contractors and to be able to provide evidence Transportation of this if requested. Glass is a bulky material, with transport between locations a significant contributor to CO2 emissions. We work with transportation providers to ensure that they operate cleaner Impact on the environment and more efficient trucks to reduce the environmental In 2010, we began to identify suppliers that have a particularly impact. We are increasing our weighting of environmental high impact on the environment. Our aim is to ensure that our factors when selecting our transportation partners. suppliers minimize their negative impacts and work positively on environmental initiatives. The scope includes wooden Polyvinyl Butyral (PVB) packaging, batch materials, waste management contractors PVB is used to manufacture laminated glass, mainly for and chemicals. We insist that suppliers in these categories automotive windshields. PVB trims from the edges of the have a recognized environmental certification such as ISO 14001 laminated glass are returned to PVB suppliers to be recycled or equivalent. In the case of wooden packaging we look for in their manufacturing processes. In 2011, around 2,000 tonnes a recognized chain of custody in regard to the wood supply. of PVB trim was returned to our suppliers or other recyclers Currently, around two-thirds of our 700 suppliers in this category to be reused. meet our requirements for environmental certification or chain Packaging of custody for wood supply. We use a significant quantity of wooden packaging in our operations. Wood is seen as a sustainable material. We aim Stakeholders Supplier-related activities to ensure that all our suppliers of wooden packaging have Our procurement activities and projects demonstrate our programs to ensure the responsible re-planting of timber, with commitment to Sustainability. Good practice is shared through recognized certifications for chain of custody for timber. We also Global Procurement Category teams and spread throughout the work with our suppliers to design reusable wooden packaging. Group. We leverage our Global Procurement function to achieve Maintenance parts this spread of good practice effectively and efficiently. We have developed detailed processes to encourage the Recycling repair of used maintenance parts, such as motors. Usually, In Automotive, all supplied materials are registered in the global these repairs are carried out by suppliers local to our plants IMDS (International Material Data System) to ensure we have to minimize transport. We are increasing our use of repaired complete visibility of material content to identify hazardous parts year on year. materials and opportunities for recycling. This data is shared Water management openly with our automotive customers, to support their own We seek to minimize our water consumption by working with recycling efforts. suppliers to recycle water and to install advanced water treatment facilities. This not only reduces the consumption of water itself but also the chemicals used in the treatment of the water. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 39 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED BASIS OF REPORTING 42 communities The local communities throughout the world in which the NSG Group operates are the foundation of our business and the lives of employees. Without a relationship of mutual benefit with these communities, the Group as a whole could not sustain its operation. An important element of our Strategic Management Plan We have around 29,000 permanent employees, is further expansion into emerging markets. The effects of with principal operations in 29 countries throughout such investments on our communities are generally beneficial, bringing additional employment and economic benefits. For Europe, Japan, North and South America, China and every investment we make, an impact assessment is conducted South and South East Asia. We do this in over 500 to ensure we understand and manage the likely effects on the separate facilities worldwide – some large and community, the environment and the local economy. some small. Each has an impact on the community As a responsible and often prominent member of the communities in which it is based, by providing employment, in which we operate, we believe it is important to be involved investment and other benefits, but also having actively by leveraging our core business and management an impact on the environment. resources to help to address local issues. Aims and objectives We want our operations to function in healthy, thriving communities and to be seen as a good neighbor to those communities. For every investment we make, an impact assessment is conducted to ensure we understand and manage the likely effects on the local community, the environment and the local economy. We know that if we want to operate effectively and to be able to expand or change when the time is right, we need the goodwill that comes from being an active supporter of the community. In addition to our business investments, helping to sustain local operations, we also invest in the communities in which we operate. We aim to help through direct cash donations to charities and other projects or through in-kind resources — to improve the health of the community or tackle specific social issues. We operate programs that assess and manage the impacts of our operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting. We also involve our staff in providing a lead in developing our relationships with the communities in which we operate. This can take the form of matching contributions raised by staff or allowing staff time to make personal contributions of time and effort in local projects. In FY2012, we made contributions worth around ¥102 million to our local communities. Our grants helped the arts, medicine, welfare, job creation and urban renewal. 40 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 NSG plays a part in improving a situation where more young Japanese students are moving away from the sciences. The former mayor of Yokkaichi, Japan initiated a collaboration project to conduct classes that increase students’ interest in science subjects. This aims to prevent them from becoming further indifferent to the sciences, the problem known as ‘Rikabanare’ in Japan. NSG Yokkaichi plant has supported this project in the local community for four years and has offered annual science classes to students of junior high schools to contribute to the education of the next generation. Students at Yokkaichi Junior High School enjoy a glass-focused science lesson developed by NSG employees. Employee involvement Support for education and training • Sponsors of the Royal College of Art Vehicle Design Award, Our employees are encouraged to participate in their local communities and appropriate community organizations, either now in its 25th year (UK). on an individual basis or with help from the Group. As needs vary • Nippon Sheet Glass Foundation for Materials Science and from community to community, each of the Group’s business Engineering (Japan). units has some flexibility to identify the most appropriate way • Sponsors of the Arkwright Scholarship scheme for students to grow with their respective communities. of technology (UK). We believe that, as well as generating goodwill in the community, • NGF Europe participate in the Young Enterprise programme (UK). involving employees in community projects can also help their development as potential managers and team leaders. • Member of The Visakha Skill Development Society. Their objective is to increase employability skills amongst rural Community action youth, especially in areas where government has acquired Local initiatives land for industrial development (India). • In Vietnam, VFG plant and customers donated to a newly Co-operation with business groups established kindergarten construction fund in a poor district • Supporter of the Sumitomo Foundation (Japan). of Hoa Binh Province. • Membership of Business in the Community (UK). • NSG in Poland provided support to a member of the Polish Paralympics team in London. • Nippon Keidanren 1 percent Club (Japan). • North American and UK sites regularly participate in local • Founder member of ‘Glass for Europe’ grouping of European fundraising activities, charity runs, volunteer sports coaching flat glass manufacturers (Belgium). and toy & food bank donations. • UK sites have made charitable donations throughout the year through schemes that accumulate contributions on a monthly basis when there has not been an LTI within defined groups of employees. Stakeholders Every year, Mexicali plant and employees make a food collection and donation to an Organization called Banco de Alimentos. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 41 THE NSG GROUP 02 GRI Where to find MANAGEMENT 08 Indicator Criteria this information SPECIAL FEATURES 14 1 Strategy and analysis ENVIRONMENT 24 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the SR Page 6 STAKEHOLDERS 30 organization about the relevance of Sustainability to the organization and its strategy. BASIS OF REPORTING 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. Pages 6-9, 15 & Web 2 Organization profile 2.1 Name of organization. Page 45 GLOBAL REPORTING 2.2 Primary Brands, products and services. Page 2 INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and Pages 2-5 & AR joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Page 45 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, Page 4 and names of countries. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. AR 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Pages 4, 5 sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. AR 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Page 35 As a global business, we have chosen to assess our 3 Report parameters performance against the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). 3.1 Reporting period. Page 42 The GRI aims to promote common conventions and to enable 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Page 42 comparability, such as currently exist in financial reporting, 3.3 Reporting cycle. Page 44 in corporate reporting on economic, environmental, and 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or Page 45 social performance. its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Page 44 We believe the GRI approach is consistent with our aim determining materiality; prioritizing topics within the to make steady incremental progress on improving our report; and identifying stakeholders the organization Sustainability performance and its criteria are a good expects to use the report. match with our own Sustainability objectives. 3.6 Boundary of the report. Page 44 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Page 44 We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B of the report. (Self-declared). We intend to be able to report further 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, AR progress in our 2013 Sustainability Report, to be published leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability in early 2014. We report our financial, social and from period to period and/or between organizations. environmental performance via three main channels: 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Not applicable • NSG Group Annual Report and Annual Financial information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. Statements (AR). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Pages 6, 7 • NSG Group Sustainability Report (SR). in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. • NSG Group corporate website, www.nsg.com (Web). 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Pages 42, 43 The table on the right shows where to find information on Disclosures in the report. Identify the page numbers or web links where the following can be found. our performance on the criteria on which we are reporting 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Self declared this year. external assurance for the report. at GRI Application Level B. No external assurance was pursued for this reporting period. 4 Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. Pages 12, 13 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Page 12 & AR body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Page 12, AR & state the number of members of the highest Web governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. State how the organization defines ‘independent’ and ‘non-executive’. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Pages 31, 36 provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Web board, senior managers, and executives and the organization’s performance. 4.6 Processes in place for the board to ensure conflicts Web of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and Web expertize of the members of the board for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 42 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 GRI Where to find GRI Where to find Indicator Criteria this information Indicator Criteria this information 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, Pages 8, 9 Customer satisfaction and principles relevant to economic, environmental, PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Web and social performance and the status of their results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. implementation. Marketing communications 4.9 Board procedures for overseeing the organization’s Pages 12, 13 identification and management of economic, & Web PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and Web environmental, and social performance, including voluntary codes related to marketing communications, relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. compliance with internationally agreed standards, Labor practices and decent work codes of conduct, and principles. Disclosure on management approach. Page 11 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own performance. Web Employment 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Web LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Web approach or principle is addressed by the organization. contract, and region. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Web LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Web social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which group, gender, and region. the organization subscribes or endorses. Labor/Management relations 4.13 Memberships in associations or advocacy organizations. Web LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Web 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Pages 8, 9, bargaining agreements. organization. & 30-41 LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Web 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Pages 8, 9, 44 changes, including whether it is specified in with whom to engage. collective agreements. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Pages 30-41 Occupational health and safety frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Pages 30-31 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities & Web 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Pages 30-41 by region. stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, Training and education including through its reporting. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Web Economic employee category. Disclosure on management approach. Page 10 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong Web learning that support the continued employability Economic performance of employees and assist them in managing EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, AR career endings. including revenues, operating costs, employee LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Page 7 compensation, donations and other community performance and career development reviews. investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Human rights EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Page 15 Disclosure on management approach. Page 10 for the organization’s activities due to climate change. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Web Environment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Disclosure on management approach. Page 10 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors Page 38 Materials that have undergone screening on human rights and EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Pages 26, 27 actions taken. & Web Society EN2 Percentage of materials that are recycled input Pages 27, 28 Disclosure on management approach. Page 11 materials. & Web Community EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Pages 26, 27 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and Pages 40-41 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Page 26 practices that assess and manage the impacts of EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Pages 26-29 operations on communities, including entering, improvements. operating, and exiting. Water Public policy EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Page 27 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Web Emissions, effluents and waste development and lobbying. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Page 29 Anti-competitive behavior by weight. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive AR EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gases by weight. Page 29 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Web Compliance EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Page 29 and weight. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number AR of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Page 28 laws and regulations. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Web EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Pages 14-15 products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Web of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Basis of reporting Product responsibility Disclosure on management approach. Page 11 Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Web products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Product and service labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by Web procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 43 THE NSG GROUP 02 MANAGEMENT 08 SPECIAL FEATURES 14 ENVIRONMENT 24 STAKEHOLDERS 30 BASIS OF REPORTING CONTINUED Approach to reporting This Report forms part of our non-financial performance In 2010, the Board agreed specific Sustainability targets for the communications and reflects Group, regional and site-level Group. These are shown on page 7 of this Report, along with an reporting. Unless otherwise stated, the Report covers those account of our progress towards them. businesses over which the NSG Group has management control. In 2012, Shiro Kobayashi was appointed as the Group’s Director Data relating to the environmental performance of Group of Sustainability. Shiro chairs the Sustainability Committee, which operations covers 31 float and five rolled glass sites. Joint is leading our efforts to ensure that the principles of sustainable venture sites where we do not have operational control are development are embedded in all of the Group’s activities. We excluded. All Architectural, Automotive and Technical Glass will report further on our progress in our 2013 Sustainability downstream processing are also included in the reporting. Report, which will be published in early 2014. Safety statistics shown cover our ‘workforce’ (employees and This Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with permanent contractors). the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Our environmental and social performance is of interest to Guidelines, which provide a globally recognized framework for our stakeholders and important to our business success and we reporting on an organization’s economic, social and environmental have been reporting on these matters since 2002, in successive performance and responsiveness. We have self-declared our environmental, social activity, or CSR reports. performance at Application Level B. We published our first Sustainability Report in 2009, when we To keep the size of the printed report to a minimum, we have decided to widen our reporting to cover all aspects of Sustainability. included additional information, charts and tables covering our In June 2009, we published our Group Sustainability Policy, performance on the Sustainability section of our website. setting our Sustainability agenda, and in December 2009 The printed report can also be downloaded from our website established a Group Sustainability Committee to direct, at www.nsg.com/sustainability. coordinate and monitor our efforts to improve our approach to Sustainability. 44 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Further information We produce a regular flow of publications intended to provide Company information (as at 31 March 2012) current and potential investors with as much information as Company name: Nippon Sheet Glass Co., Ltd. possible about the Group, the industries in which we operate and Unified global brand: NSG Group the organization, strategy, targets and progress of the Group. Head office: 5-27, Mita 3-Chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-6321 Japan The range of these publications is shown below. Established: 22 November 1918 Paid-in capital: ¥116,449 million Publications Total assets: ¥848,752 million Annual Report and Annual Financial Statements Net sales: ¥552,223 million (consolidated) The adoption of IFRS has meant that the Group is Employees: 29,702 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FISCAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2012 ‘MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO OUR WORLD THROUGH GLASS TECHNOLOGY’ now publishing more detail on its performance than NSG Group companies: 251 in previous years. To minimize the size of the Annual Web: www.nsg.com Report, the Group has decided to split its financial reporting between two documents: the Annual Websites NSG | Annual Report 2012 | 11/07/2012 | Proof 8b Report and a second document, the Annual Financial ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FISCAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2012 NSG Group corporate website (English) ‘MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO OUR WORLD THROUGH GLASS TECHNOLOGY’ Statements. The latter is available as a download www.nsg.com from our website at www.nsg.com. In order to obtain a full understanding of the performance of NSG Group corporate website (Japanese) the Group, both documents should be consulted. www.nsg.co.jp NSG | Annual Report 2012 accounts | 25/07/2012 | Proof 3b Commercial website (Architectural and Automotive) www.pilkington.com To our Shareholders Published twice a year, in June and December, designed Sustainability contact to keep shareholders informed of progress against our www.nsg.com/en/contact-us To oUR SHAREHoLDERS NIPPoN SHEET GLASS co., LTD. 147TH FIScAL PERIoD INTERIm REPoRT 1 APRIL 2012 — 30 SEPTEmBER 2012 ‘mAKING A DIFFERENcE To oUR woRLD THRoUGH GLASS TEcHNoLoGY’ NSG01_020 | NSG To Our Shareholders – December 2012 | Proof 6 | 12_11_2012 NSG01_020 | NSG To Our Shareholders – December 2012 | Proof 6 | 12_11_2012 strategy. Editions in both English and Japanese. The Way we do Business Produced for Group employees in all of the languages in which the Group operates, summarizing the main points of the Group’s Code of Conduct. Basis of reporting NSG Group Sustainability Report 2012 45 This report is printed on Revive uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste. Revive uncoated is manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001. Published by NSG Group Corporate Communications Department Designed by Corporate Edge Printed by CPI Colour
