Jotun Protects Property Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 CONTENTS Introduction Our business 2 Group key figures 3 CEO’s message 4 People Why corporate responsibility? 6 Jotun protects people 8 Diversity makes Jotun stronger 10 Bringing people together 11 Competence development 12 HSE HSE in Jotun 13 Assessing our HSE performance 14 Providing a safe workplace 16 Operations Safety and preparedness 18 Safe use of raw materials 19 The substitution challenge 20 Environment For a greener world 22 Our carbon footprint 24 Reducing our environmental impact 26 Customers and suppliers Market-driven development 28 Caring for the customer 30 Responsible sourcing 31 Local society A trustworthy corporate citizen 32 Reaching out across China 33 Anti-corruption 34 UN Global compact 36 OUR business The Jotun Group is a matrix organization divided into seven regions responsible for the sale of Decorative Paints and Performance Coatings (Marine, Protective Group and Powder Coatings). The company has 36 production facilities in 19 countries, 71 companies in 45 countries Key Figures and is represented in more than 90 countries around (Figures in USD million from consolidated Group accounts) 2012 2011 2010 the world. REVENUE Operating revenue 1 952 1 902 1 617 Operating revenue outside Norway in % 80 77 75 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Regions: Segments Operating profit 194 171 205 Profit before tax expense 181 159 198 • Scandinavia Decorative Paints: Jotun manufactures, Protective Coatings: Jotun’s protective Net cash flow from operations 155 54 117 • West Europe sells and distributes interior and exterior coatings are sold to companies active • East Europe and Central Asia paints to consumers and professionals in industries related to offshore, energy, • Middle East, India and Africa worldwide. infrastructure, hydrocarbon processing PROFITABILITY • South East Asia and Pacific and storage tanks. • North East Asia Marine Coatings: Jotun is the world’s Return on capital employed, in % 1) 19.5 18.3 29.2 • Americas leading provider of marine coatings to Powder Coatings: Jotun Powder Coatings Operating margin, in % 2) 9.9 9.0 12.7 shipowners and managers active in the is a leading supplier to companies active in Return on equity, in % 3) 15.8 13.1 19.9 newbuilding and dry-dock (maintenance) industries related to appliances, furniture, markets. building components, pipelines and general industries. YEAR-END FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 1 670 1 522 1 329 Investments in intangible and fixed assets 106 144 95 Equity (including minority interests) 899 837 801 Equity / assets ratio, in % 53.8 55.0 60.3 Number of employees in Group 6 379 5 884 5 577 Number of employees in Group 8 740 8 296 7 819 including 100 per cent in joint ventures and associated companies DEFINITIONS 1) Return on capital employed % = Operating profit amortisation of intangible assets x 100 Average total assets non-interest-bearing liabilities 2) Operating margin % = Operating profit x 100 Operating revenues 3) Return on equity % = Total comprehensive income for the year x 100 Average equity 2 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION 3 more important See a short film about Jotun's CR activities, featuring Morten Fon, CEO than ever http://e1.no/9crfon This year’s corporate responsibility (CR) report aims to provide you with an insight into the importance of CR to Jotun, our employees and the wider community. Within these pages we also highlight some of the significant activities and achievements of 2012 and how our CR programme contributes to shape our future financial and non-financial performance. E very year, the business world about acting ethically and responsibly anti-corruption becomes more competitive, towards all these stakeholders, while meaning companies must making smart business decisions which Jotun has a strong commitment to operate more efficiently and contribute to a sustainable, growing anti-corruption, and as a CEO, this is of effectively. Within this framework, you business. It is about: crucial importance for me. Through 2012 may ask whether an organisation has time • Choosing the right suppliers the active and structured anti-corruption to worry about CR. At Jotun, we think • Giving customers what they want in a work has continued in all organisations differently. We believe that it has never professional way and we are proud that Jotun is an organisabeen more important to place CR at the • Undertaking initiatives that enhance the tion that works actively against corruption. heart of the way we run our operations. health and well-being of employees • Responsible employment and creating people and integrity As well as simply making the world more valuable training and development colourful, we are proud of the role our opportunities As a manufacturing company, Jotun is a quality products play in the world, such as • Conducting business while operating in world leader in the production of paints in saving fuel and prolonging the lifetime the local community as a good corporate and coatings. However, it is our 9,000 of what we protect with our coatings. citizen employees that create success or failure. We also recognise that, as a consumer of And that success will only come about if chemicals used in these coatings, we need Our Business Principles and corporate our people act with honesty and integrity to act responsibly towards our employees, governance tools help us to achiev the in all work activities and business dealend-users and the environment. behaviour we strive for. On the top of this, ings. This is why we focus on explaining the core values that guide our thinking and why CR must be part of all of our actions. global compact direction remain the same – Loyalty, Care, Respect and Boldness. true commitment As in all of our business dealings, the aim in our CR activities is to seek continuous hse and jotun greensteps By taking into account the issues and improvement. We are therefore pleased challenges relevant to our own industry to review and report the development Over the last 12 months, the four and business practice we have been able to of CR activities and around the 10 corporate values have helped to further align our values with the expectations of important United Nations Global Compact develop Jotun GreenSteps, a core part stakeholders. At the same time CR helps Principles, including Human Rights of our sustainability programme. They enhance long-term competitiveness and compliance and fight against corruption. have guided us in our important HSE financial performance. programme and in our product developCR BASED ON values ment as we seek out new and innovative At Jotun, CR is not an afterthought – it is a products, which perform to customer’s part of who we all are. Jotun is a successful, global and growing demands whilst minimising impact on the organisation. We rightly have great environment. expectations from our stakeholders and understand the responsibility that this Morten Fon, bestows upon us. Our CR programme is President & CEO 4 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION 5 Why corporate responsibility? At Jotun, we conduct business operations with Loyalty, Care, Respect and Boldness in the interests of customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, the environment and society at large. We recognise and embrace our corporate responsibility vision. J otun’s own policies and attitudes reviews, health, safety and environment are based upon the United (HSE) audits, supplier audits, and CR our values Nation´s (UN’s) Human Rights reporting practices. This ensures that conventions, the International Jotun standards and responsible corporate Loyalty Labour Organization (ILO) convention, thinking are developed globally and • Reliable and trustworthy Organisation for Economic Co-operation applied locally. • Long-term relationships between and Development (OECD) guidelines for customers, Jotun and colleagues multinational companies, and the UN’s HSE standards • Commitment to Jotun’s values, Global Compact principles. In addition, as strategies, policies and decisions a minimum Jotun abides by and enforces Accepting only high HSE standards has local laws in all locations in which we always been a core policy at Jotun. Our Care operate. objective is to safeguard life, health and • Help and support others property, prevent pollution of the environ• Display trust and empathy • Appraise and judge fairly Development of and ment and other undesirable impacts caused • Protect internal and external adherence to policies by our activities. All companies within environment Jotun report on HSE performance based Our CR vision provides a strategic and on pre-determined criteria. The results of Respect operational framework that propels the this reporting are provided to the Board • Values differences in people entire organisation. Our commitment is of Directors of Jotun A/S every tertiary, • Be honest and fair driven from the top of the organisation, which takes an active role in the analysis • Build diverse teams across culture downward through to every employee, and and direction of HSE activities. and gender guided by the three Jotun principles of • Follow laws and regulations openness, transparency and accountability. Acting responsibly in the • Treat others the way they expect to CR begins through the direction and drive local community be treated of the Board of Directors of Jotun A/S, the parent of the Jotun Group of companies. We take seriously our commitment to Boldness Through a continuous and open dialogue, the locations in which we operate. We • Take initiatives to create the future the responsibilities and obligations are embrace efforts to contribute to the • Initiate and nurture change • Communicate openly, honestly and communicated. development of the country, creating jobs with integrity and ensuring democracy in the workOur CR activities have been developed place. Respect for the right to freedom over many years through a well-managed of association, non-discrimination, framework of CR principles. These elimination of child and forced labour and Jotun will continue to uphold strict stanare further supported and enhanced development of people are also integral to dards when it comes to anti-corruption, through governing bodies, documents the CR agenda for Jotun, not only because transparency and respectful attitude and and follow-ups at a corporate, regional they form a part of UN Human Rights, but trust that each stakeholder abides by these and segment level. At a local level, CR because it is a true part of the culture and same principles in their dealings with us. is followed-up through business reviews, attitude of the company. financial audits, human resources (HR) 6 PEOPLE PEOPLE 7 Jotun protects people Employees by numbers Number of staff male female nationalities Employees are the lifeblood of our organisation, Jotun total: 8 974 7 330 1 644 75 which is why Jotun tirelessly seeks to improve working Scandinavia 1 106 811 295 18 conditions for employees. Employee well-being is West Europe 690 533 157 24 incorporated in every aspect of Jotun’s global business, East Europe and Central Asia 453 362 91 9 from strategic and business planning to operations. Middle East, India and Africa 2 474 2 317 157 49 This has resulted in an excellent reputation as a South East Asia and Pacific 2 227 1 629 598 20 company that treats its employees respectfully. North East Asia 1 877 1 565 312 12 Americas 147 113 34 7 J otun’s labour policies, standards employee participation and strategies are built on the UN Human Rights and the Employee participation is a basic principle International Labour Organisation in Jotun and we create arenas to nurture (ILO) convention, but also go well beyond this. This principle is followed by our these obligations. To ensure that policies strong commitment to freedom of associaand standards are met in each company tion for each and every employee. and region, human resources reviews are undertaken. Human resources reviews Prevent discrimination Jotun undertakes regular HR reviews at all of its sites around the world. HR profesDiscrimination due to gender, religion sionals from the Jotun network spend or reduced operability is unacceptable in some days together with local HR staff Jotun. Professional recruitment policies going through all tools, formats, templates ensure equal opportunities in the hiring and procedures to ensure that policies and process. Another important tool is climate standards are met. The findings from the surveys. They are held regularly in order review are presented in a meeting with the to detect harassment or improvement areas top management of the company. The way of any kind. In addition, we continually we conduct the reviews secures a two-way work with the development of HR tools to interaction and transfer of best practice, ensure that our important labour policies which in turn leads to better standards and can be easily implemented and practiced. higher HR competence. employment standards Employment contracts are a given for all employees. Jotun follows the employment regulations of the country, and through this we make sure that human rights relating to employees are followed. These particularly relate to issues concerning: • child labour • forced labour However, over and above human rights standards, we have our own that enable employees to do their job without fear or intimidation and with the appropriate compensation. 8 people PEOPLE 9 Diversity makes Bringing people jotun stronger together Without an emphasis on maintaining diversity in A part of Jotun’s success is a result of its investment in See a short film about gender, culture, religion and age, Jotun would not be bringing people together across borders, cultures and Jotun’s global procedures the company it is today. functions in formal and informal networks. We believe http://e1.no/9crhgm that through these arenas, corporate culture is fostered, developed and shaped. Group Technical department has operationalized this strategic goal. A T profound principle in Jotun he centrally based Group is to prevent discrimination Technical department has of any kind, which is also an overall responsibilities beyond important aspect of human planning and construction of rights. operational sites world wide. It has also set ambitious targets to improve efficiency Over the years, Jotun has brought people and is accountable for global procedures, with different backgrounds together in such as HSE audit and assessment tools. A organisations and networks. Such exposure substantial part of the tools, templates and brings different perspectives to our efforts audit areas are based on goals within CR to create world leading paints and coatings and environmentally sustainable solutions. products. Connecting people across borders has been the key to securing BEST PRACTICE mutual respect throughout our global business. The standardisation of procedures is Group Technical (GT) provides the operational framework for HSE, operational a result of a best practice approach improvement, supply chain, maintenance and engineering, as well as support funcWe are fully committed to creating a developed through long experience tions for Jotun globally. GT is committed to supporting Jotun business by delivering diverse workforce that is capable of Gender equality from operations around the world. This sustainable solutions that enable its organic growth. GT is a multi-skilled partner that successfully serving the markets in which best practice implementation improves helps Jotun achieve synergy and world-class solutions across all of its operations. we operate. As well as diversity in race, While Jotun is sensitive to cultural norms in some regions where tradition may efficiency, enhances quality and safety and gender and physical disabilities, we respect discourage women from entering the workforce, the company seeks to be among the brings about financial advantages. first to offer opportunities to women when these traditions change. Over the last five personal differences such as culture, CULTURE is working to support our employees years, Jotun has welcomed five highly skilled women to join Jotun Saudia, working in lifestyle, age, religion, economic status, REGIONALISATION through training and development initiahuman resources, office administration and sales. sexual orientation, gender identity, marital Group Technical has placed efforts on tives. Training takes place at global and status and geography. Along with the development of the culture building throughout the regions. regional arenas, providing the opportunity centrally based technical function, In 2011 and 2012 Technical Conferences to expose employees to different stanWe work hard to ensure that men and local markets through customer services, Dubai and this multi-cultural approach has regional networks are established with set were held, with CR being a core part dards, cultures and attitudes and to share women are treated equally within the marketing and communications. Diversity helped to swiftly and successfully grow ups in Malaysia and Dubai, which work of the agenda. A variety of topics were best practice across borders. company. Jotun is committed to creating creates challenges, but the benefits are the business there. When we are setting up to implement corporate objectives locally. covered, including how the technical a culture of equality, opportunity and clear; it opens up new perspectives, new operations, we bring together the best The regionalisation programme is a core function can be a key player in developing Jotun knows that a strong corporate team diversity amongst our staff, based on the exposes high potential employees and people with the right skills and experience requirement to support Jotun’s ambitions Jotun GreenSteps. In addition, there were is vital to create the best results and the belief that all employees should be treated stimulates innovation. from across the entire Jotun organisation. of doubling growth globally by 2020. sessions dedicated HSE and anti-corrupnecessary standards and procedures. with equal openness, honesty and respect. tion training. However, the regional networks know diversity supports growth Such growth demands significant investbest how to implement ‘on the ground’. It diverse workforce ments in new and existing sites, which STRONG TEAMS is this balance of well-trained employees Jotun’s approach to diversity has been require high technical competence and working at this regional level, supported Diversity is a result of the way we work an important element in the company’s resources to take the right and responsible To achieve safe and productive growth, fully by Group Technical that will drive and think. A diverse workforce also growth. For example, we now have 27 decisions close to the market. Jotun is constantly looking to attract the Jotun’s future success. allows for better engagement with our nationalities working in our operation in best people in the industry. The company 10 PEOPLE PEOPLE 11 Competence HSE in Jotun development Everything we do at Jotun begins with our commitment to health, safety and environment (HSE). We are dedicated to ensuring the well-being of our employees Jotun’s success rests on our ability to attract, develop and the environment. and retain good people – from our current and future leaders to our frontline employees. W I e have spent many n order to continually improve our years refining our performance, we are constantly extensive development analysing every aspect of our HSE programmes to ensure initiatives. Training activities that staff members receive the necessary are a great part of these efforts and in training to do their job and continue to 2012 we increased further our training gain further development opportunities. programmes, including expanded web-based opportunities. Jotun’s Competence Board is important in developing new initiatives. It has been Our successful supplier audits have also integral to maintaining our international been further developed, ensuring our HSE expansion momentum. When we move in standards are replicated down the supply and invest, we are employing local talent chain. whenever possible as this is the best way to think long-term. Locals know the people Jotun Academy When it comes to the environment, for the Jotun’s HSE vision and culture, then benefit from tried and fourth year running we have undertaken The Jotun Academy concept started in 2006 to gather training into a school. We Jotun will enhance long-term competitiveness and financial performance through a tested procedures from other Jotun sites, a Carbon Footprint Report. This provides gathered the resources to do this and refined the training over a number of years. The responsible approach, attitude and actions regarding health, safety and environment. spawning a culture of best practice. us with information on our total CO2 Jotun Academy now covers learning in human resources, marketing, sales, purchasing, R&D, operations, logistics, technical sales support, management, alongside some emissions, as well as helping us to set All of Jotun’s activities shall: on the job training stand-alone modules. In 2012, Jotun ran approximately 200 training programmes future goals. • Prevent work-related illnesses around the world, for over 2 450 employees. These programmes were undertaken • Promote employees’ physical and mental health Competent employees increase perforusing 320 internal and 20 external trainers. In addition to emphasising the importance • Protect life and property mance, productivity, and personal job of HSE to all employees around the world, • Prevent pollution satisfaction. Through on the job training Competence development programmes are possibly the most important tool we have HSE is always on the agenda and ongoing – the greatest contributor to competence to create the “Penguin Spirit” within our organisation, where our employees underHSE performance is discussed at all in any company – and collaboration with stand our values and our strategic business goals. Furthermore, it is an important management meetings throughout the year. HSE reporting and internal audits are HSE reporting from all producing compacolleagues, we help employees reach their reason why people stay with us they know they are always able to build their knowlcarried out according to the same guidenies and the audit results are the backbone edge further, which then lead to greater career opportunities. potential. A systematic programme lines throughout all of Jotun’s production of our commitment to continually improve units. our HSE level. Based on the analyses of Three competence All Jotun’s activities shall be carried the last years performance, HSE objectives initiatives • Local trainee programmes, including learning programmes. We establish out in accordance with local laws and HSE accounts and target areas to reduce risk for serious the “Yes Programme” in China and a a culture whereby employees value regulations, and the Jotun HSE standard. incidents have been defined. This forms In addition to on the job training, compeprogramme for young recruits in the long-term learning that makes it possible Jotun HSE standards are primarily based Jotun compiles tertiary and annual the basis for the Group’s systematic HSE tence development is carried out through: Middle East for them to grow and maintain their on European legislation. If national accounts on health, safety and environprogramme, and is the foundation for • Jotun Academy – providing employees • External training provided through enthusiasm for developing themselves and legislation is less stringent than Jotun HSE ment. The purpose of the HSE accounts is Jotun’s long-term competitive strength. with learning programmes leading universities Jotun. This is one of the key reasons the standard, Jotun HSE standard shall apply. to monitor the performance of the Group • Jotun Learning Gateway – having over 90 company has sustained a low global staff In addition all producing companies shall and to provide information both internally courses available through an e-learning Through the above initiatives, Jotun can turnover level. be certified according to ISO 14001 and and externally about the effects on people portal for every Jotun employee internally offer a wide range of life-long OHSAS 18001. and the environment. 12 PEOPLE HSE 13 Assessing our The purpose of HSE audits The audits are used as a method to: HSE performance • Reduce undesirable risk • Improve the level of HSE • Maintain and promote sound ethical attitudes • Maintain the attention on Jotun’s corporate culture We recognise that audits are an important and useful • Report weaknesses and non-achievement against Jotun’s required level tool in monitoring and improving health, safety and environment (HSE) standards in our operations. Internal audits and controls are important elements of Jotun’s HSE policy and are carried out at all Jotun’s factories throughout the world. Using systematic audits, Group HSE creates a foundation for common learning and improvements. T he attitude of employees towards audit, the factories will be rated green, audits of factories and warehouses. This HSE is continuously improving yellow or red based on certain criteria – will ensure Jotun’s own requirements for a and audits are an important tool mainly the number of non-conformances systematic review of routines, systems and helping to raise the bar. Based identified. The “red” factories will have a production processes are met. on analysis of the audits, we can target new audit within six to 12 months. In additraining activities set up to address specific tion to being a simple way to communicate The internal audits are also used to issues. the HSE level, we believe that the colour provide a systematic, documented, objecrating system will increase the HSE focus tive assessment for Jotun factories planned In 2012, the Group HSE department and contribute to both sound competition for the future. carried out fifteen internal audits. The between the factories and improved use of results of the audits are presented to best practice. Internal audits are carried out by Jotun’s Group Management and Board of personnel who are sufficiently independent Directors three times a year. After the colour score system was introso as to provide an impartial attitude duced, five factories undertook a new audit and judgement. The auditors must have Main features of the audits as they were rated “red” in the previous sufficient knowledge of the areas that audit. are being reviewed, including knowledge From the internal audits carried out in and experience of relevant matters within 2012 it was identified that some sites need The results from the re-visits and the HSE, management, technical issues and to increase their focus on HSE to improve new audit have shown that necessary regulations. their standards. However, it is important to actions were taken and that the HSE level emphasise that the majority of sites have improved. Audits include discussions with personnel, an acceptable HSE level. inspection of the production sites’ indoor Audits carried out to verify that our and outdoor areas, inspection of operating Issues such as order and tidiness and factories comply with ISO 14001 and conditions and equipment, review of safety walks have improved significantly. OHSAS 18001 were carried out by Jotun’s journals, written procedures and other We also see that the Group’s HSE objecthird-party auditor. In addition, internal relevant documentation. tives in relation to action plans and specific audits and safety walks are in place in all management requirements introduced in our factories. 2011 are now in place in most of our factories. However, the audits have revealed Tools for improvement that Jotun still faces challenges linked to storing and labelling of hazardous raw Internal audits are an important tool used materials, waste handling and control, and by Jotun in its HSE activities. Regular testing of fire fighting systems. audits and every aspect of health, safety and environment are properly taken into A new rating system account. See a short film about Jotun’s safety walks A colour score rating system was introThe Board of Directors of Jotun A/S has http://e1.no/9crsfwk duced in 2012. In connection with the resolved to implement regular internal 14 HSE HSE 15 Providing a safe workplace We strive to ensure that every Jotun employee has the right to a healthy and safe working environment. We have implemented strict occupational health and safety measures in order to reduce the risk of accidents in all of our workplaces. H1-value for Jotun Group Absence due to sickness (%) Days of absence per injury Number of injuries causing one day or more of for Jotun Group for Jotun Group absence per million working hours. 6 1.6 1.62 1.62 25 5.60 5.54 1.58 23.5 1.57 5 5.45 1.5 20 1.48 4.40 4.39 4 1.4 15 16.1 3 1.3 13.2 13.4 12.3 10 2 1.2 1 1.1 5 How do we learn from incidents and accidents? 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 All producing companies report non-conInjuries and fatal accidents Fire formances in defined categories to Group • “Work at height” – special focus • A continued focus regarding earthing HSE department. Based on analyses of in shipyards, warehouses and and fire risk related to solvent-based the non-conformances from the previous maintenance production • Safe working procedure W year, the main focus areas to reduce risk • Reduce risk for “falling objects” in 2012 were: – special focus on warehouses and raw –“Hot work” e work continuously Training In 2012, the Logistic Academy Module material handling • Electrical installations to identify and eval(LAM) was offered at Jotun Academy. Accidental release – spill • Proper use of personal protective – Carry out a survey on all factories uate risk and provide Increasing HSE training is one of Jotun’s The module is aimed at logistics and • Internal transportation equipment (PPE) when handling recommendations and main objectives because it contributes warehouse personnel, with HSE featuring • External transportation corrosive chemicals resources to mitigate those risks. to a positive culture, where safe and as an important part of the curriculum. healthy working becomes second nature Focus areas to all employees. One of the company’s Jotun also conducts health surveys, ergogoals is for employees to receive eight nomic surveys and provides systematic absence through illness were recorded, as Occupational injuries Over a five year period, we have managed In 2012, our focus areas for reducing the hours of training per year. This year, the first aid training. In 2012, 1 280 employees compared to 28 521 days in 2011. to make a good improvement in the risk of injuries and fatal accidents were: average amount of training hours for each attended first aid training courses. A total In 2012, there were 856 days of absence number of days of absence per injury. • Reducing the risk for falling objects employee was 9.4. This represents an of 920 working days were spent on this The equivalent figures for Norway are recorded as a result of injuries. This – especially in warehouses and raw increase of four hours per employee over a training, marking a decrease on the 1 200 included in the total figures above. In equates to less than 0.1 per cent of the Deaths material handling environments five-year period. days in 2011. However, medical training 2012, the level of absence through illness total working hours, which is a slight • “Work at height” – special focus in hours given per employee increased from in Jotun A/S was 4.1 per cent, compared to decrease from 2011. The H1-value for There was one tragic accident in Belarus shipyards, warehouses and when doing One important preventative measure we 4.8 hours in 2011 to 5.7 hours in 2012. 4.5 per cent in 2011. Jotun Group for 2012 was 4.4, which is a that caused a death in 2012. A coating maintenance work have is training in using proper, protective good improvement compared to 2011 with advisor – Technical Service – was • Racking – improving equipment and equipment when handling hazardous Absence through illness Jotun has identified strain as one a H1-value of 5.5. This puts us on track carrying out an inspection of the ceiling working processes when loading and chemicals. 2 250 employees received important focus area to reduce long-term to reach our benchmark for 2013. The in a tank when the scaffolding he was unloading racks training in preventive measures in 2012 Absence due to illness for the Jotun Group sick leave in the factories. We will do this H1-value for Jotun A/S in Norway was 3.5 walking on collapsed. • Proper use of personal protective equipcompared to 2 150 employees in 2011. in 2012 was 1.6 per cent, the same level as by improving the use of existing lifting for 2012, which is an improvement from ment when handling corrosive chemicals for 2011. In 2012, a total of 27 036 days of equipment and introducing further units. 4.3 in 2011. 16 HSE HSE 17 Safety and safe use of preparedness raw materials It is the inherent right of all employees to have a We ensure that all chemicals and materials in our safe and secure working environment. It is Jotun’s production process at all sites are handled in a safe responsibility to make this happen. manner. J R otun ensures that safety training aw materials in production and education is undertaken by all fall into five specific groups, staff. Our use of active non-conthough each is interdependent. formance reporting enables us to The key elements of Jotun carry out specific training related to our paints and powder coatings, and how they highest risk areas. work together, are detailed below. Non-conformance Safe production reporting To create a safe working environment, we Any conditions which do or could result are striving towards more closed processes in damage to the environment or personal to 10 300 hours in 2011. On average We ensure that we have the correct and storage tanks, better utilization of raw the filling and weighing operations. When use gas masks and gloves when handling injury are treated as non-conformities. this represent 5.1 hours of training for fire detection systems and firefighting materials and reduced use of hazardous we have open handling of chemicals and organic solvents, dust masks and gloves These conditions must be rectified in order each of the 2 035 rescue personnel in the equipment at our sites in order to prevent raw materials. Some operations are still powders, extractors are installed to reduce when handling powders, and face shields, to prevent any recurrence. This applies to organisation. or limiting the scope of a fire. Our fire open and undertaken manually in the possible exposure. In addition to proper aprons and gloves when handling corrosive incidents involving fires, early stage of a detection and firefighting systems are production, such as cleaning and some of working clothes, the operators need to chemicals. fire, injuries and accidental pollution of the Specific incidents in 2012 activated automatically. Foam-based environment. These incidents are carefully extinguishing equipment is normally used Solvents necessary film properties such as adheextender is used to give the paint body, analysed, after which we then develop and There were no serious fires reported at factories and warehouses handling sion, gloss level, hardness, abrasion reduce gloss and to achieve certain proptarget training and special programmes to during the year at Jotun sites which had solvent-based products. Solvents are only used in paint and not in resistance, flexibility, drying speed and erties. In powder coatings it is important address these issues. a potential to cause injuries or major powder coatings. Solvents are the liquids durability. that the extender is heat resistant. damage to property. However, there were that carry the solid components e.g. Site security and training some initial stage of fires, mainly related pigments in paint. They must be present Pigments Additives to electrical equipment and hot work. to ensure the paint is of the correct consisFire fighting training hours Due to the nature of raw materials used, per rescue personnel tency for application by brush, roller or The pigments used in paint and powder Additives are the specialised components security is a vital element for the entire All fires and initial stage of fires were – Jotun Group spray. Paint is divided into water-borne coatings are normally present as fine used in paint and powder coatings that chemical industry. Companies such as extinguished by Jotun personnel and did paints and solvent-based paints using solid particles that are dispersed, but not give them their final performance and Jotun need to be prepared for any manner not result in any injuries, major damage to 6 organic solvents like mineral spirit. soluble, in the binder and solvent. The characteristics. For example in paint, they 6 pigments contribute to colour and opacity provide UV protection, inhibit tannin of threats and incidents, including intoxproperty or to the environment. 5.9 5.5 Binder to the paint, and protect the binders and staining, inhibit corrosion, protect the film icants, organised crime, violence in the 5 5.1 5.1 substrate from UV degradation. Pigments against mould growth, ensure good flow workplace and even terrorism. To manage Fire prevention measures The binder or resin can be thought of are normally added in small amounts. and levelling. Additives are normally used these and other security risks Jotun contin4 as the glue which holds the pigments in small amounts. ually evaluates the measures that need to Jotun is actively analysing and refining together and sticks them to the surface. Extenders be taken at any given time. In addition to its activities relating to fire prevention 3 In paint it is the basic solid film former that See a short animation this, crisis management plans are in place measures. These include providing remains after the solvent has evaporated, Extenders are natural or synthetic on paint and powder 2 for all of our factories worldwide. employees with training, fire-resistant and which binds the pigment particles minerals like talc, clay, etc., which are coatings production facilities and personal protective together into a cohesive paint film. evenly dispersed in the paint. The particles http://e1.no/9pntpwd 0 In 2012, 10 280 hours of preparedness equipment. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The binder determines many of the come in different sizes and shapes. The training were carried out, as compared 18 OPERATIONS OPERATIONS 19 The substitution Why does Jotun have a chemical policy? There are different legislations around the world that regulate the use of chemicals. challenge Jotun complies with these regulations and in addition, we put restrictions on some chemicals ourselves. These restrictions are reflected in our chemical policy. In doing so we are taking a responsible approach by restricting the use of hazardous chemicals that may represent an unacceptable risk to our employees, customers, third-parties and the environment. This is a continuous process as new information on hazardous properties of existing and new raw materials is emerging. Jotun is continually looking at ways of improving the Jotun´s chemical policy is based upon recommendations from our own competent environmental performance of its paints and coatings. toxicologist, and is approved by Jotun Group Management. One area of particular focus has been the substitution of more harmful raw materials for those that are more environmentally friendly. F or many years, Jotun has • Healthier – much lower level of volatile especially careful that the biocides we use constantly reviewed the raw organic compounds (VOCs) is better for are not hazardous to the environment and The substitution materials it uses in its products. the users including improved working have low-leakage properties. They need to principle This is due to changes in environment when producing paint be safe both for employees who make the environmental legislation, but also due • Environmentally friendly lower paint in the factory and the applicators, The substitution principle is an internato Jotun’s own decisions that certain raw VOC-emissions means less formation both consumers and professionals. tional principle stating that you should materials should no longer be used. of ground-level ozon (negative effect on choose the least hazardous chemical if vegetation). Jotun has a strict attitude to the use the technical and economical conseOver the past decade, Jotun has developed • Safe less flammable of biocides, and we will phase out the quences are not unacceptable. When we develop a new product we need healthier, more environmentally friendly substances that have an unnecessarily high to document that we have looked paints and coatings. The phasing out During the development of new waterrisk. This is our policy even where this into possible alternatives and acted of coal tar in 2009 is one example, but borne formulations, Jotun’s chemists work creates a more challenging competitive according to this principle. This prinwe have also phased out alkyl phenol to find the most healthy and environmensituation, for example in climates where ciple works in parallel with our chempolyethoxylates (APEOs), reduced formtally friendly combination of materials that it is difficult to control the growth of ical policy. aldehyde content, introduced less harmful provide protection for the product during fungi and algae. Unfortunately the most biocides, and our interior floor products production and storage. dangerous biocides are often the most are N-Methylpyrrolidone-free (NMP-free). effective and affordable, but Jotun has this complex information from our raw “Sens”, for example, is an interior overcome this challenge by offering high material suppliers into one-page data Water-borne coatings paint product that has a combination of quality products with new formulations. sheets. We believe this is a great advantage preservatives and raw materials so allergy for the customer. One of the areas in which Jotun has been sufferers can use interior paint without Even though paints are becoming safer, particularly active is the development of odours or risk of discomfort. “Sens” has issues still remain. Jotun puts a great The implementation of the Globally more water-borne paints. In water-borne long been the only product approved deal of effort into describing safe use Harmonised System (GHS) for labelling, paints, biocide preservatives prevent by the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy of chemicals, both in our factories and which Jotun is adopting, should further microbial growth both in-can and on the Association. In 2012, Jotun further towards customers using Jotun products. improve safety. With GHS, labelling surface in service. Biocides are strictly improved the biocides combination in Using advanced software, our Group will be more uniform, improving underregulated, and from 2012 all biocides “Sens”, so even the most sensitive users Product Safety department in Norway standing of potential hazards. At present, known to have an impact on rot decay can avoid any negative reaction. creates safety data sheets for 46 countries the EU (including Norway), China, Brazil, need to be approved. This year, five Jotun in 35 languages. Korea, Singapore and South Africa are products have been thoroughly tested and Film protectors implementing GHS. In Jotun China the approved, as part of the Biocidal Product Regulations for safety implementation is complete. Directive. Other products will be tested in Jotun’s chemists are also working to the coming years. develop improved film protection for The REACH and LEED regulations Jotun will continue the work to phase out exterior products. A paint film is exposed require that information on the safe use harmful chemicals and substitute them There is no doubt, though, that waterto moisture, dust and contamination, of hazardous materials is provided in an with safer materials that also improve the borne paints represent a better sustainable providing a breeding ground for fungus exposure scenario and communicated performance of our paints and coatings. product than solvent-borne paints. and algae. We add film preservative down the supply chain. As well as using We will also ensure that information on Compared to organic solvents water is: substances to protect the paint from comprehensive data sheets, Group Product our products is clear, concise and easy to unwanted growth. However, we must be Safety department has consolidated understand. 20 OPERATIONS OPERATIONS 21 for a greener world Jotun recognizes the responsibility it has to the environment. In response to this, in 2011 Jotun launched, GreenSteps, a platform to improve its environmental performance using a framework that also helps promote Jotun’s corporate profile as an environmentally responsible company. D uring 2012, Jotun further strengthened its environreducing voc reducing reducing reducing reducing mental efforts through emissions waste energy hazardous carbon a series of initiatives consumption material footprint that directly complement its five-step programme. The company is coordinating VOCs (volatile organic substances) are At Jotun, our key objectives are to Saving energy wherever we can Jotun is actively working internally, The carbon footprint is a measurethese efforts to support a more sustainable traditionally used as solvents in paint reduce, re-use and recycle across all makes both economic sense and is a with industry peers and raw matement of all greenhouse gases we environment, under the banner Jotun products. However, We are committed our operations, including waste from direct method of reducing our carbon rial suppliers to reduce the concenindividually produce and has units of GreenSteps. to offering our customers greener offices as well as production waste. footprint. Each new facility that we tration and quantity of hazardous tons (or kg) of carbon dioxide equivproducts that at the same time mainReducing and disposing of chemical build is more efficient than previous substances in paints and coatings. This alent. It is a measure of the impact Our five main focus areas are: Reduction tain high product quality and reliability waste is a major focus area. ones, meaning energy consumption is undertaken as a result of ongoing our activities – including the burning standards. That includes making a in relation to production volume is legislation – including the EU and EEA of fossil fuels for electricity, heating of solvents/VOC emissions, reduction/ large part of our products VOC-free. Along with concentrating on internal reducing. From the use of solar panels REACH initiative as well as Jotun’s and transportation – have on the substitution of hazardous materials, reducprocesses, we aim to reduce waste and sky tunnels, to sensors that own desire to reduce and replace the environment, and in particular climate tion of energy consumption, reduction of Today we offer products with low for our customers, bringing out new switch off lights and air conditioning number and quantity of hazardous change. carbon footprint and reduction of waste. VOC content in all product categories. products that result in less impact in rooms that are not in use, Jotun is substances. In 2012, all segments have reduced on the environment. In 2012, Jotun constantly analysing ways to reduce Electricity consumption accounts for As a responsible company Jotun has the amount of solvents per litre launched Jotamastic Smart Packs. energy consumption. In addition to the list of substances some 70 per cent of our CO2 output, worked with these issues for many years. coating delivered constantly and will These smaller container sizes, tailored phased out over the years, we have so this is a particular area of focus for However, this programme is the result of continue these efforts in the coming for the smaller maintenance jobs on Energy savings are not confined to our already stopped using coal tars and Jotun. a recognition that the company required a years. ships, reduce paint consumption by operations. We choose raw materials reduced the amount of Alkylphenol more structured approach, that better posiup to 50 per cent, and thereby waste. and develop products that can save Ethoxylate (APEO) and formaldehyde Jotun is working to reduce the carbon tions the company in a changing market. energy for our customers and end in our paints and coatings. We have footprint throughout the value chain, users, such as coatings which reduce taken steps to remove lead chromates through our own operations and in maintenance, and anti-foulings which from our coatings so that we can the products used by our customers. Here we detail the five areas of focus improve vessel fuel consumption and meet legislation demands by 2014. covered by Jotun GreenSteps, as well as examples of initiatives that have been For a more efficiency. CO2-reducing solutions for end-users While raw materials must not reduce is also an area of continuous develundertaken which exemplify the environcolourful world, a product’s overall safety, health opment. Among other products, mental approach that we are taking. we’re taking and environmental properties, Jotun always ensures that high product such as the next generation Sens in Scandinavia, Majestic Airmaster steps to be a quality and reliability standards in China, Majestic Eco-Health in continue to be met. Asia, Reveal Smooth was launched. little greener Reveal Smooth is the company’s latest eco-friendly premium MDF powder coatings solution, being a low temperature cure product. See a short film on Reveal Smooth will help the industry the Jotun GreenSteps to significantly decrease its eco and environmental carbon footprint when compared to programme alternative technologies. http://e1.no/9crgrst 22 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT 23 Our carbon Scope 3: Indirect Waste Employees flights / work travel Voluntary Purchased goods and services Emissions by source footprint Use of products Purchased transportation services Suppliers Mandatory Scope 2: Indirect Purchased The management and output of CO2 is one of the most Purchased electricity energy important measures that companies today can take District heating in order to improve their environmental performance. Jotun is no different in this respect. Scope 1: Direct Mandatory Transportation with own Emissions from vehicles, people and goods own production Own power and heating generation, boilers, etc. 3% Chemical process emissions Methodology: The greenhouse gas Chemical or physical processes emissions have been calculated 7% Energy generation (industry) according to the international 15% Internal transportation standard Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (GHG-protocol) scope 1 75% Electricity and scope 2. S ince 2009 we have produced an Actions taken to reduce energy include: annual Carbon Footprint Report • Changing the Thailand factory compresMeasures to provide Jotun with a global sors to new and much more efficient overview of our total emissions units – as it is more energy efficient than • With purchased electricity being of CO2-equivalents. operating one large compressor at very the main source of Jotun´s low capacity. CO2 footprint, a corporate HSE Each year the report contains detailed • Eco-friendly and energy efficient objective for the years 2011-2013 is to reduce the use of purchased information on our global carbon daylight skylights electricity by three per cent per footprint, with carbon indicators covering tonnes produced per year. This is the 36 production facilities, as well as our The initiatives that Jotun is undertaking followed up three times a year as a corporate unit in Norway. around the world are making a positive part of Group HSE reporting. contribution to the company’s reduction • Follow-up of all objectives through The report gives a measure of both how of purchased electricity. Jotun’s upgrading planned actions is a natural part of we are performing and the opportunity of production facilities and the opening of the Group HSE audits. to see where we are able to make further new, more efficient factories – such as that • The issue of CO2 footprint and improvements. in Sandefjord in Norway – are resulting consumption of electricity is a in a substantial reduction in our CO2 part of our Jotun GreenSteps The results show that the global emissions footprint. programme. for Jotun for 2012 were 77,500 tonnes of CO2 equivalents, which is a slight increase By initiating reductions both large and from 2011. The main reason for this rise is small, the company believes it can meet its due to our increased activity. stated aim to ensure an ongoing reduction emissions per produced tonne of three per cent of purchased electricity (kg CO2e/tonne) Purchased electricity is by far the largest per tonnes produced per year. creator of our CO2 emissions, with around 75 per cent of our emissions being the As well as analysing these details through 120 result of electricity use. We are working the Carbon Footprint Report, senior 108 hard to reduce our consumption at all of management on-site at all facilities are 100 99 101 our sites around the world. responsible for making and acting upon action plans that assist in CO2 reduction. 80 Harnessing natural light Evaluating electricity consumption has been a major part of Jotun’s HSE training 60 To reduce energy consumption in Jotun’s a transparent acrylic watertight dome skylights dramatically reduce costs related this year. Actions we are taking to reduce 1.55 network of warehouses in the Middle East, that diffuses light. The reflective surface to the purchase and disposal of fluoresconsumption of electricity include tasks 40 Jotun has invested in tubular skylights to on the interior of the tube collects and cent tubes and create cooler rooms. While such as switching off lights and air conditake advantage of the light from the sun. concentrates sunlight. The light shines not appropriate for every region, plans tioning and changing production practices. 20 Sky Tunnels are metallic, 475 mm diamdown with the equivalent illumination of are underway to expand the programme eter tubes that fit into a hole in the roof of a fluorescent tube during daylight hours. to other warehouses across Jotun’s global 0 the warehouse. The tube is capped with In addition to cutting energy costs, tubular network. 2010 2011 2012 24 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT 25 Reducing our Vindal improves our environmental performance environmental Opened in March 2012, Jotun’s new factory in Sandefjord, Norway, is setting new standards in environmental performance. By taking advantage of the latest developments in technology, design and logistics, the Vindal-sited factory is making is making a significant contribution to our carbon footprint reduction. Initiatives in place and impact benefits include: • An anticipated reduction of 80 per cent in CO2 emissions from internal transportation activities • Projections show a forecasted reduction in energy consumption of 50 per cent • New production methods, which enable a reduction in the use of solvents and the use of less hazardous chemicals By improving efficiency, Jotun has been able to increase • A reduction in waste output due to the application of new technologies production volume, while reducing our impact on the • The cleaning and recycling of waste instead of disposal, as had been the case previously environment. Now we are introducing measures to become even more efficient and further reduce waste and energy use. J otun is committed to reducing the ries amounted to 18,000 tonnes in 2012. aware of such conditions in connection Emissions to air amount of waste we generate and This was 2.4 per cent of the production Non-hazardous with purchase and sale of sites. However, Energy consumption for Jotun Group (GWh) to recycle without a risk to health, volume, which is a reduction from 2011. and hazardous waste before purchasing of property for indusEmissions to air from Jotun’s factories are for Jotun Group (1 000 tonnes) safety and environment. When we Jotun aims to reduce the total amount of trial activity, investigations are undertaken mainly linked to the production of solventGroup have to dispose of waste, it is preferable waste from 2.5 per cent to 2.3 per cent of Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste to identify any potential sources of based paints. These emissions consist of 120 that this waste is used to produce energy. the production volume between 2011-2013. environmental risks and to clarify whether solvents, as well as a marginal amount 110 12 any measures for avoiding pollution are of dust. The emissions of dust is reduced 100 All of Jotun’s environmental activities are Hazardous waste necessary. External specialists carry out by dust filters to a level below 10 mg 90 guided by the company’s Jotun GreenSteps 10 these assessments. suspended solids per cubic meter which is 80 programme, a five-point initiative that Hazardous waste at Jotun consists Jotun Standard. 70 drives sustainability efforts both within mainly of water, solvent-based waste and 8 60 the organisation and through its products packaging from hazardous raw materials. Production volumes Discharge to water 50 40 and solutions for customers. Process water is formed as a by-product 6 (1 000 tonnes) 30 of the production of binders. The largest Jotun A/S Coatings Jotun Group The cleaning of production equipment 20 waste volumes of solvent-based waste come 4 Paints Powder is the main reason for discharge from 10 from washing production equipment. This 800 production. In 2012, Jotun’s factories 0 The total waste volume (hazardous and waste is largely recycled in production. 2 generated 60,000 tonnes of washing and 08 09 10 11 12 non-hazardous waste) from Jotun’s factoProduction errors or returned goods can 700 process water, compared to 70,700 in 2011. also lead to hazardous waste. Production 0 600 This waste water was either treated in 08 09 10 11 12 failures can be recycled to production or separate plants or delivered to an approved Purchased electricity contributes to around Non-hazardous be hazardous waste. 500 waste contractor. There was no accidental 75 per cent of our carbon footprint. Jotun and hazardous waste 400 release of any substance with a significant Group aims to reduce consumption of as per cent of produced volume for Jotun Group 11,000 tonnes of hazardous waste were During the last years we have increased impact on the environment this year. purchased electricity – our main energy Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste generated at Jotun factories in 2012, focus on waste system to ensure proper 300 source – by three per cent of production, equating to 1.5 per cent of production separation of hazardous and non-hazEnergy consumption annually. 200 3.5 volume, which is the same level as last ardous waste at the factories worldwide. year. Jotun’s production waste mainly 100 The production of paint consumes 3.0 consists of packaging, such as cardboard, Contaminated sites relatively little energy compared to other 0 2.5 0.90 paper, plastic and metal. Jotun’s activities 08 09 10 11 12 process industries. The main energy 1.25 0.96 are covered by national return schemes, Some of our plants are located on brownsource is purchased electricity. In 2012, 0.85 which are becoming more common field sites, or have been located at the same Jotun Group consumed 116 GWh, up from 1.15 2.0 around the world. premises for a long period of time. New 111 GWh in 2011 for the production sites 1.5 1.55 1.49 rules and regulations have also resulted in Operations at Jotun require resources worldwide. Production planning is an important part changes as to which chemical substances 1.44 1.21 1.25 – and this involves emissions to air, 1.0 of reducing waste. Through the production are allowed and how to treat them. discharges to water and generation of In 2011, the volume of oil used on-site for of greater series, the washing of producwaste. Increasing production volumes creating energy was 1,800 cubic meters, mean that Jotun must focus on efficiencytion facilities and generation of waste can Surveys have been conducted at a number compared to 1,500 cubic meters in 2011. improvement initiatives to enable a 0 08 09 10 11 12 be reduced to a minimum. of plants, and initiatives have been impleMost of this oil is used for heating and reduction of the environmental footprint. mented at some sites. We are particularly producing binders in Norway. 26 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT 27 market-driven development There is an obligation nowadays on all companies to be more environmentally aware. Jotun, through its Jotun GreenSteps initiative, has developed a comprehensive programme that addresses market demand for more sustainable coating solutions. J otun continually develops prodreduced fuel usage. While the environexpensive. By reducing this raw material ucts and solutions that meet our mental performance of our products in our products we are able to produce customers’ expectations, environdrives their development, the total cost coatings that are more environmentally mental imperatives and financial of ownership is also a significant driver friendly – the ultimate goal of all of our demands. Our programmes ensure that all for our customers. No longer is the basic development work. three of these criteria are at the forefront product cost the defining factor – it is of our thinking as we bring new products how much the coating saves the protected Other initiatives include the development to market. object over its lifetime. of smart pack solutions that reduce waste. By offering customers different sizes of As a manufacturer of coating solutions, hull performance paint cans, there is less waste at the end of our greatest contribution to the environsolutions (HPS) its use, saving money and improving the ment and society is in protecting property user’s environmental performance. against decay and corrosion. We expend Our Hull Performance Solutions concept is significant resources in developing product an ideal example of how a new solution is ranges for our customers that both meet both environmentally friendly and creates and exceed legal requirements. However, financial advantage. Shipbuilders around more than this, we also want to ensure the world now see that HPS – through its that there are measurable benefits to our premium antifouling (SeaQuantum X200), customers of these new alternatives. priority technical service and reliable measuring tools can play a very signifiIn the past, regulation has driven much of cant role in further reducing fuel costs and what we do. Now customers are driving greenhouse gas emissions. this demand more than ever, and some customers specify clearly what they want. In 2012, Jotun’s Hull Performance Jotun’s product developments are taking Solution was nominated for the Thor place within the framework of more Heyerdahl Award for reducing the indusenvironmentally friendly products in line try’s contributions to greenhouse gases. with customer needs, in cooperation with Jotun was the first ever paint supplier raw material suppliers, to develop greener to be nominated. The prize recognizes alternatives. candidates in the shipping industry that have made an outstanding contribution to Improved performance the environment. Jotun’s products create long lasting tio2 and waste protection, which improves environmental performance. But more than this, we During 2012, we worked hard to reduce also develop products that improve our the amount of titanium dioxide in our customers’ performance, through such products. Titanium dioxide uses large solutions as maintenance reduction or amounts of energy to produce and is very 28 CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS 29 caring for the responsible Customer sourcing Jotun shall conduct business operations in accordance See a short film about Jotun is committed to being a reliable and long-term with sound values and business principles in the interest Jotun’s customer care in Saudi Arabia business partner and we aim to reach high ethical of customers, employees, owners, the environment and http://e1.no/9crsau standards in the whole value chain. We are therefore society at large. How does this aim specifically result working with our suppliers to ensure they meet the in our customers receiving the level of service that we benchmarks outlined in the United Nations (UN) Global demand and that they expect? Compact, including UN Human Rights and Anticorruption standards. T D he customer is a vital stakeoing business with companies holder. For this reason we that reflect our own values carry out a number of actions is an effective way to make and activities to ensure that we a positive impact on local make a real difference for the customer. communities and improve our carbon Jotun does its utmost to protect and footprint. We have a range of tools in place support customers every day. We do to help ensure that the companies we work this by building long-term relationships with act responsibly. with customers through creating loyalty, developing trust and ensuring quality. UN Global Compact Continual innovation is also key to the To simplify the process for both Jotun and development of new products in partnerits suppliers, Jotun has adopted the UN ship with our customers – and we offer Global Compact as the standard to which green, high quality solutions in all major we expect our suppliers to adhere. product categories. The Global Compact encourages busicustomer competence nesses worldwide to adopt environmentally sustainable and socially responsible We pride ourselves on our highly skilled policies and to report on their progress. customer service functions and Jotun Like more than 10,000 businesses in 145 constantly seeks to further build compecountries, many of our suppliers already tence through our new Customer Service refer to the Global Compact. This makes Academy. We recognize the relationship and efficient for our dealers through the or in improper dialogues with other it easier for Jotun also to apply our own binding cr contracts Supporting supplier between customer understanding and use of high quality, advanced Multicolor suppliers, which could destroy free-market business principles and standards. development market success and will do all we can machines and software. competition. In 2012, we updated all supplier to further this bond. We have taken Audit programme contracts to include a clause stating that Jotun works closely with suppliers to it even further through our Technical anti-corruption customers first the company shall adhere to the UN help them improve conditions, where Service team Team No.1 offering the Our supplier audit programme, which Global Compact principles. Although necessary. This cooperative spirit has highest standards of service among paint A fundamental part of Jotun’s ethical Since we began our business almost a has been in place since 2009, is a robust this does not guarantee that a company helped Jotun build stronger relationships producers, ensuring we create a safe conduct is our anti-corruption attitude and century ago, Jotun has always put the tool to ensure that companies meet our will always act in accordance with the with its suppliers, who generally welcome environment in which our customers and proactive activities. Both customers and needs of our customers first. Through our CR principles. All new suppliers are Global Compact, it provides awareness suggestions on how to improve. Indeed, applicators can use our products. suppliers prefer a market with fair compelong-term experience we understand the subject to audits – carried out by either and further incentive for them to do in some cases, suppliers have reported tition, and as a global player, Jotun wants differing needs for different customers Jotun employees or third parties – which so. Although a legally binding contract that changes made in their facilities as a Jotun also makes a difference as a supplier to contribute to a “clean playing field”. around the world. We continue to show mainly focus on HSE measures, but also provides a layer of assurance, inspecting result of audits have improved efficiency, for the dealers in the Decorative Paints every day that the customers can trust and on essential Human Rights like e.g. child our suppliers’ premises is the only way to quality, and lowered lost time to injury or segment, offering them service and help As important are our anti-trust princicount on Jotun as a long-term business labour and working conditions. determine whether they are fulfilling our sickness. The result is improved business to build up their one-brand Jotun shops. ples. Our customers need to know that partner. requirements. Such inspections are done performance. Jotun makes the day-to-day business easy Jotun does not involve itself in cartels, through supplier audits. 30 CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS 31 a trustworthy reaching out corporate citizen across China Our success as a business depends on our ability to China is one of the most significant markets in which develop good relationships with the local communities Jotun operates and Jotun China is considered to be in which we operate. one of the leading players in the marine and protective coatings segments. G S ood local community ince establishing our regional relations are necessary presence in China in 1998, for our business success. Jotun now has a workforce of Besides, the local commuover 1,500 employees and is nities are our hosts, they provide us with presently constructing its fourth Chinese our working environment, workforce and factory, located in Qingdao. licences to run our operations. In return Jotun gives employment, pays tax and As part of our global CR guidelines, and contributes to the overall development of as a reflection of the company’s strong the community. Mutual understanding and presence in the country, Jotun China has respect are key words. We aim to build an recently developed a comprehensive CR environment where both our company and programme. This extends the CR work the local society benefit. Jotun has been supporting in China for a number of years, particularly those school, there are six education departTargeted grants sustainable communities relating to education. ments including pre-, primary, junior, senior, vocational training schools and a As well as the Qingdao School for the Following the Arab Spring and political unrest in the Middle East since 2011, many The local societies around the world in Jotun, through its Chinese joint venture multi-handicapped education department. Blind, the Jotun COSCO Charitable of Jotun’s operations and employees were adversely affected by events that impacted which we operate rely on Jotun to be a business, Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings More than two hundred students are Foundation will make a series of both the workplace and the wider community. trustworthy and valuable contributor to (JCMC), recently announced the estabstudying here. targeted grants every year to promising their community. We accept this chalIn response to this, the company and employees alike recognised the benefits that lishment of the Jotun COSCO Charitable activities. The activities will be selected lenge and invest our time, expertise and local corporate responsibility initiatives could bring to the local society. With this in Foundation and a yearly RMB 500k donaThrough the support of the Jotun COSCO and approved by the board of the Jotun resources in order to do so. mind, the company participated in the repair of some civic areas damaged by protests. tion for the next 10 years to our partner, Charitable Foundation, Qingdao School COSCO Charitable Foundation. The Jotun provided Egyptian volunteers with the tools and paint to restore Tahrir Square in Qingdao Charity Federation, which will for the Blind will purchase a variety of foundation will seek to support local Building and maintaining vibrant and Cairo and other site, and gave employees half a day’s holiday to help with the effort. help distribute donations across China. equipment for students ranging from students in Shandong – the province in sustainable communities requires action book readers to large capacity USB which Qingdao is situated – who are and involvement. Jotun contributes to this Public welfare memory drives. Funding will also be experiencing financial hardship, so that goal by following local regulations and addition, it is important for us to establish and goals wherever we operate. used to support the Jotun COSCO Public they have equal learning opportunities to through respectful communication. Both operational sites based on a close-to-theThe foundation will support and promote Performance – a platform for the students higher levels of education. on corporate, regional and local level, we market approach which is not driven by group reporting educational, health and other charitable to showcase their talents. also donate funds to charities and back cheap labour cost. activities to improve public welfare in The aims of the foundation are in line initiatives that we believe will contribute Each company is undertaking CR both Qingdao and across China. The first With a spirit of dedication, Qingdao with Jotun’s unique Penguin Spirit (Jotun’s to quality of life and development. a positive environment reporting every year, stating all internal manifestation of this commitment is a School for the Blind provides high quality corporate culture), by which it utilizes its and external initiatives as well as CR project in collaboration with the Qingdao education and compensating rehabilitative local resources to ensure that financial local sourcing To contribute to the development of a more budgets and plans. This way we can School for the Blind. training to the children and youths, who aid and spiritual care can reach both the sustainable and safe paints and coatings monitor the activity and ensure that all are blind or visually impaired, to help young and the elderly in need, and help We contribute to the economy and develbusiness, we are working with industry companies operate in line with corporate This blind school was built in 1932. It is them get a balanced development, master them on a path toward a better life. opment by sourcing our raw materials peers in an open and transparent way in expectations and the Penguin Spirit (our the only residential school for the blind at least one useful skill, and participate from responsible local businesses, subject almost all countries. This cooperation is corporate culture). in Qingdao, and is the central school for in social life to their maximum level of to our supplier audit programme. In crucial to apply and reach global standards the blind in Shandong Province. At the independence. 32 LOCAL SOCIETY LOCAL SOCIETY 33 Working against Transparency International Transparency International (TI) is a global network comprising more than 90 locally corruption established national chapters. These bodies fight corruption by promoting transparency in elections, public administration, procurement, and in business. As a politically non-partisan organisation, TI does not undertake investigations of alleged corruption or expose individual cases, but at times will work in coalition with organisations that do. Jotun is a member of Transparency International and supports its vision and fight against corruption. Jotun’s well-established values and business principles, as well as a genuine commitment to maintaining high standards in business ethics and integrity, provide a strong foundation on which to combat corruption. C orruption prevents economic development, undermines free In support of competition and contributes to whistle blowing poverty around the world. As a conscientious global citizen, Jotun has In the context of Jotun’s business, a responsibility to contribute to the fight whistleblowing is the act of calling against corruption. Jotun’s anti-corruption attention to unacceptable circumpolicy reinforces our business principles, stances relating to Jotun’s activities, by aligns with our legal and moral obligations notifying someone who can do something about it. and applies to all Jotun entities, affiliated companies and employees. All employees are invited to contribute to an open discussion about responManaging risk sible attitudes and actions. Integrity and awareness of Jotun’s relevant poliJotun operates in some parts of the world cies, on the part of both employees where corruption represents a risk to our and management, is vital to creating business and reputation. The increasingly a culture in which people dare to extra-territorial nature of anti-corruption raise difficult subjects. It is Jotun’s legislation adds to that risk, and makes responsibility to ensure the welfare of implementing a global standard on whistleblowers. This means that the individual must not be discriminated corruption essential. However, despite the against directly or indirectly. company having a comprehensive set of anti-corruption tools in place, a certain level of risk will always remain. We work actively to minimise this risk. year anti-corruption training has become an integral part of Company Manager Building sound attitudes induction training and Sales Management Academy. We believe that it is important Nurturing the right attitudes amongst that these sessions are undertaken in Jotun employees is our strongest defence an open environment. Only when our against corruption. We do this by clearly employees can share best practice and communicating our stance on the issue discuss dilemmas openly with peers, can as well as through structured training the right and sound attitudes flourish. A sessions. Anti-corruption training is willingness to openly discuss corruption practical and focuses on dilemma training. also fosters an environment where whisYearly, Jotun puts employees through tleblowers are more likely to speak out. this training, with higher-risk groups, such as management and purchasing and sales teams, being prioritised. This 34 ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION 35 The UN Global Compact The United Nations (UN) Global Compact, Compact or UNGC, is a UN initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. T he Global Compact was first The Global Compact states ten principles Jotun is commited to aligning our compaannounced by the then UN in the areas of human rights, labour, the ny’s strategy and operations with these Secretary-General Kofi Annan environment and anti-corruption. Under universal principles. and was officially launched at the Global Compact, companies are UN Headquarters in New York in July brought together with UN agencies, labour 2000, and is now supported by more groups and civil society. than 10,000 businesses spread across 145 countries. Human Rights pages Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 31, 36 Principle 2 Make sure the company is not complicit in human rights abuses 6, 7, 8, 10 Labour Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 7, 8, 36 Principle 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 7, 8, 36 Principle 5 Abolish child labour 7, 8, 31, 36 Principle 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 6, 8, 10, 36 Environment Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 4, 5, 7, 11, 13, 20-28 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 4, 5, 7, 11, 13, 20-28 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 4, 5, 7, 11, 13, 20-28 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including exortion and bribery 4, 5, 7, 11, 30, 31, 34-36 For more information on the Global Compact, see www.globalcompact.org Copywriting: Blue-C The paper used to print this report has Design: Daniel Barradas / SAY PR & Communications AS ILJ ØMERKE the Nordic Eco-labeling – the Swan – and M T All pictures by Morten Rakke Photography, except: Front cover: Getty images; is also approved by the PEFC Council Svein Brimi, page 29; Jotun, pages 6, 23, 32, 33; Heidi Gøperød, page 12 (Programme for the Endorsement of 1 24 45 6 Trykksak QR films: Morten Rakke Photography, Allegro Film Forest Certifications schemes). Printed by: BK Gruppen 36 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Jotun A/S P.O. Box 2021 3202 Sandefjord Norway www.jotun.com Jotun Protects Property
