STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) PERIOD COVERED BY OUR COMMUNICATION ON P ROGRESS FROM: FEBRUARY 27, 2012 TO FEBRUARY 27, 2013 Edelman has been a participant of the United Nations Global Compact since March 2001. I am proud to affirm my continued support of the company’s commitment towards the Compact and its principles. Since our last Communication on Progress in February 2012, we published our FY 2012 Citizenship Report: It’s Who We Are to communicate our continued commitment to practicing responsible business from the inside out:  Empowering our employees to work and live well Human Rights, Anti-Corruption and Labour Rights Principles  Upholding our suppliers and business partners to high ethical standards Labour and Anti-Corruption Principles  Reducing our impact on the environment Environment Principles  Doing good in the communities where we operate It’s Who We Are To view our FY 2012 Citizenship Report, please click here. Leading up to our 60th anniversary in October 2012, we launched a global volunteerism initiative: 60³ Summer of Service, where employees in our 60+ offices participated in 60 days of professional and general volunteerism and fundraising to benefit the United Nations World Food Programme. Overall, we contributed 10,946 hours of volunteerism, valued at $938,412, according to citizenship industry standards. Additionally, Edelman raised $108,940 to support WFP and local nonprofit organizations, including a $50,000 gift to the WFP from the Daniel J. Edelman Family Foundation. In 2012, we established Citizenship as a sixth value: Acting with purpose in everything we do to better society. With a firm and lasting commitment to social good, we have turned our attention to achieving progress in the area of environmental sustainability. By implementing measurement of our firm’s absolute greenhouse gas emissions, we noted an increase in emissions from FY 2011 to FY 2012. As such, we are in the process of researching and proposing five key target areas – centralized and doublesided printing, energy-efficient lighting retrofits, video conferencing, more robust green teams, and ewaste and general recycling. Edelman continues to support the United Nations by collaborating on projects with United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) pilot program. Edelman is also actively engaged in the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI), reflecting our commitment to the tenth Principle of the United Nations Global Compact. As a company, we are committed to ensuring that business is performed in a sustainable and ethical manner. We look forward to our continued participation with the United Nations Global Compact as we move forward with our commitments to the Compact principles. Sincerely, Richard Edelman President & CEO
