MESA MAKINA DOKUM A.S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 REPORT MESA MAKINA A.S. BRIEF Founded in 1979, Mesa Makina looks back on a long tradition of casting and today has become one of the prominent OEM part producer in providing machined castings. Mesa Makina has the vision of being a regional leader by making a difference in its field. Behind the success of Mesa Makina there lies a customer-focused production that exactly meets customer demands with an expert staff. Our business activities are beyond the production of high-quality and hard-todo castings. Our Product R&D team provides comprehensive support to his customers from production development stage. Being a member of UN Global Compact, Mesa Makina seeks to maximize his market recognition not only in Turkey but also in the regional and global context. More than 160 skilled workers at Mesa Makina give detailed attention to their particular jobs as manual working man or expert technicians and engineers. Having the ISO TS 16949 quality management system, the range of casted materials offered by Mesa Makina varies from grey cast iron and spheroidal cast iron to SiMo and high nickel alloys and wear resistant high-chromium white iron. Machining is offered on all parts, and inspection and testing available includes Ultrasonic, X-ray, Magnetic particle inspection and others. With a production capacity of 7,500 tons of castings, we produce unit weigths of 0,5 – 60 kg of machine moulded castings with high-pressure vacuum technology. In addition to plant and machinery investments, Mesa Makina keeps his investments on quality and training of employees which he gives great importance. The IVECO (OTOYOL) quality award received in 2003 and ISO TS 16949 certificate gained in 2008 demonstrates the emphasis given on quality. Started production to OEM parts in 1984 with exhaust manifolds, today Mesa Makina enjoys exporting to 80 % of its production to automotive, agricultural machinery, construction machinery, defense, mining and energy industries in 3 continents, Europe is being in the first place. OUR MISSION We are existing as solution partner for your dreams of shaping the metal. OUR VISSION To be a leader , innovative and global company producing information and technology together with our employees being a strong and trusty family. OUR VALUES Honest and Trusty Dynamic,Flexible and Agile Complementary Teamwork Creative and Innovative Effective and Efficient Internal and External Customer Satisfaction and Addiction Community-sensitive and Enviromentally OUR STRENGTS 32 years experience in sector Having ISO TS 16949 A Class Supplier Export 80% of Our Products to the EU Countries Co-design capability 'Market-oriented' global perspective COP 2012 REPORT Managing Director Message We are very happy to be a member of Global Compact. Our company values and our vission are also support Global Compact Principles. We signed the UN Global Compact in June 2010 which is a strategic policy initiative for business that are committed to aligning their operations. Our company commit that we will carry out on implementing the ten principles of Global Compact and undertake a make clear statement of this commitment. Seyma AYHAN Managing Director HUMAN RIGHTS Our principle on that point has been declareted to our employees,customers and suppliers aware of social responsibilities and protecting human rights. Also we declared our UN Global Compact membership in our web site. LABOUR We have never practice any violation related to forced labor,compulsary labor,child labor child and women exploitation and discriminiation in recept of employment and occopation directly or indirectly before. ENVIROMENT Mesa Makine fulfill its responsibilities related to the enviroment.We always work with suppliers admitting their responsibilities to enviroment. ANTI-CORRUPTION Our principle on this point has been declared to our employees,shareholders and customers. Our employees and suppliers must obey the law and avoid and activity that places Mesa in a difficult legal position or hurts its reputation PERFORMANS INDICATORS INDICATOR TARGET Trainning for per 40 hours person/year Personnel satification % 90 ratio Increasing the woman 15% every year personnel Work accident 0 Having a OHSAS Year of 2013 18001certificate Having a ISO 14001 Year of 2013
