Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Les Fontaines, the home of Capgemini University Executive Summary Welcome to our 2011 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report in which we provide an overview of our approach and our 2011 highlights on Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability. 2011 was a year of solid progress with • Extending our partnership with our key achievements including: PlanetFinance: launching the Capgemini MicroWorld initiative • Strengthening our Ethics & enabling employees to lend funds Compliance Program: introducing our directly to micro-entrepreneurs in the new Anti-Corruption Policy alongside emerging world our existing Code of Business Ethics • Building on our in-house Carbon • Increasing our focus on the Accounting and Sustainability environment: launching our new Reporting approach to develop a Group Environmental Policy, and service we are now providing to attaining ISO14001 certification for our clients our operations in Portugal which become our latest country to hold This report is also our first report based environmental certification upon Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Increasing global pressures, • Continuing to make significant principles and is self-certified to GRI such as resource constraints, progress towards the environmental Level C. economic conditions and targets set by Capgemini UK and climate change, are forcing achieving our objective to improve the Further information about our efficiency of our data centres by 20%, approach to corporate responsibility businesses to adapt. three years ahead of our 2014 target and sustainability can be found Sustainability provides the • Developing our new Diversity and on our website at opportunity to simultaneously Inclusion charter www.capgemini.com/ improve efficiency, and lower • Reaching a total of 40,000 years of corporateresponsibility schooling provided to disadvantaged costs, whilst supporting the girls in India through our partnership James Robey Group Corporate Responsibility global environment. with the Naandi Foundation and Sustainability Director 3 Table of Contents Introduction 6 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 9 Pillar 1: Leadership, Values & Ethics 10 1.1 Leadership & Values 10 1.2 Group Ethics & Compliance Program 11 Pillar 2: Our People 12 2.1 Employee Demographics 12 2.2 Professional Development 13 2.3 Well-being 13 2.4 Diversity 14 2.5 Employee Engagement 17 Pillar 3: Our Clients 18 3.1 Enabling Client Transformation 18 3.2 Client Case Studies 20 3.3 Client Satisfaction Approach 21 Pillar 4: Environment 22 4.1 Group Environmental Policy 23 4.2 Identification of Key impacts 24 4.3 Environmental Performance 25 4.4 Key Performance Indicators 26 Pillar 5: Community 28 5.1 Our Global Initiatives 29 5.2 Some of Our National Initiatives 30 5.3 Community Investment and Donations 31 Pillar 6: Suppliers & Business Partners 32 6.1 Ethical Procurement 32 6.2 Sustainable Procurement Principles 33 Awards and Recognition 34 Appendix A – Organizational Structure 36 Appendix B – Additional People Data 37 Appendix C – Additional Environmental Data 42 Appendix D – GRI G3.1 Content Index 43 Appendix E UN Global Compact Reference Table 53 Pods’ at our award winning data center Merlin 4 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 5 Introduction “Ever since Serge Kampf founded Capgemini in 1967, being a responsible business has been at the heart of the Group’s values. In the last 45 years, as we have grown to become Europe’s largest IT services company, with almost 120,000 employees operating in nearly 40 countries, that commitment to corporate responsibility has endured and strengthened. For Capgemini, the principles of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability go far beyond legal compliance and philanthropy. We have focused on embedding them into our business strategy, our processes, and our ways of working. They are no longer specialist or peripheral activities, but real requirements for all parts of our organization. Our approach to the six pillars of responsibility described in this report is to provide global top-down leadership and strategic vision, while ensuring that we create the right environment for our people to deliver excellence to our clients in the challenging and volatile economic conditions we are currently experiencing. At Capgemini, we recognize that issues such as resource scarcity, energy security, climate change, and demographic evolution are also impacting our clients. Consequently, we remain committed to developing and delivering innovative business and IT solutions to support our clients, enabling them to adapt to the new realities of our changing world. This report is dedicated to sharing the progress we have made to date, as well as our ambitions for the future, recognizing that while we have come a long way over 45 years, there is still much further to travel.” Paul Hermelin Chairman and Group CEO 6 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Ownership and organisational structure Non-french French Group Individual Treasury institutional institutional Directors and Shareholders Stock shareholders shareholders Employees 53.4% 29.5% 7.0% 8.7% 1.4% Cap Gemini S.A Capgemini Capgemini Sogeti Consulting • Consulting • Technology • Local Services Services Professional • Outsourcing Services Services Headquartered in Paris, France and change, Capgemini now has a global operating in around 40 countries with and industrialized production capacity, almost 120,000 employees, we have Rightshore®, and is a partner to the established ourselves as one of the biggest names in IT. Our ownership top five IT services and consulting and operational structure are shown companies worldwide and the largest in the diagram above. There were no IT services company based in Europe. significant changes in structure which Capgemini’s mission is to enable affected our CSR approach during 2011. our clients to transform and perform through technology. Our vision is to Moreover, the Group is widening lead by providing clients with insights the scope of its activities, while also and capabilities that boost their creating new service models based on freedom to achieve superior results. software solutions. In 2011, the Group achieved revenues close to 10 billion We achieve this through an array of euros, an increase of 11.4% compared integrated services combining leading with 2010, and a net result of more edge technology with deep sector than 400 million euros, up by 44.3%. A expertise and a strong command breakdown of revenue by business area, of our four main business areas market sector and country is presented of consulting, outsourcing (both in Appendix A. 60% of our people and infrastructure services and business the majority of our data centers are processing outsourcing), technology located in France, the Netherlands, (application services) and local North America, India and the United professional services (Sogeti). To Kingdom. These countries represent support the challenges of technological our most material sustainability impact. 7 Benelu 10,3 United Kingdom and Ireland 8,977 France 21,307 North America 9,505 Morocco 431 Latin America 9,176 Number of team members by region Group Total as at December 31, 2011 119,707 Our approach to Corporate the environment through our use of We have been supporting the principles Responsibility and Sustainability energy and as a result of business of the UN Global Compact Program flows from our corporate values, and travel. Some of our operations, such since 2004, signed up to the UN we are committed to responsible as our data center facilities and the Global Compact Caring for Climate and sustainable business practices, services run from them, remain at initiative in 2007 and the UN Women’s delivering value to our stakeholders risk from extreme weather events for Empowerment Principles in 2011. Our who include: customers, shareholders, example. Our clients require, in many management approach also supports investors, business partners, suppliers, circumstances, continuous unbroken all international laws and regulations, in employees, the community, and service from our data centers no particular the fundamental conventions the environment. matter the weather conditions. We also on labor standards of the International recognise the opportunity and potential Labor Organization, the principles In particular, the impacts, risks and opportunities whereby Information and of the 1948 Universal Declaration of opportunities presented as a result Communications Technology (ICT) can Human Rights (where we refuse the of climate change touch every part be used to assist our clients with their use of forced and child labor) and of our business. Our services impact own climate change challenges. the OECD guidelines for Multinational 8 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 x 91 Rest of Europe 20,823 Asia 38,363 Australia 734 Enterprises. We continue to increase the This report is our first GRI report future reports to ensure the focus and proportion of our operations covered covering data from the 2011 calendar materiality of content is pertinent and by ISO14001 certification and are rolling year with some narrative showing a applicable. out globally a robust environmental and few 2012 highlights. Therefore, there social data measurement tool so we have been no re-statement of data Further information can be can ensure that we can manage our from previous reports. The policies and found at: www.capgemini.com/ sustainability performance. principles described in this report are corporateresponsibility applicable to our entire global operations. This report, which will be produced While there are some limitations to data annually, provides an overview of our availability, all available data has been approach and performance across our included in the following sections. six pillars of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability as defined following a We intend that this report will assist strategic review in 2006. The pillars are with an increased stakeholder dialog shown on the opposite page. at a Group level to proactively refine 9 Our own Fiona Mellors with Nanhi Kali school girls 10 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Our Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability approach are based on six pillars, which underpin all aspects of our business. For each of these pillars, we have identified the key aspects that are essential to our business, aspects on which we can act and which are important to our stakeholders. Leadership, Values & Ethics Environment “The way we work and behave. We “Recognizing our impact on the embrace the core values of Honesty, environment”. We recognize that even Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit/ though we do not manufacture products, Solidarity, Modesty and Fun. Our the services we provide and business rigorous Code of Business Ethics, activities we are engaged in can still our Anti-Corruption Policy and our impact the environment. We are working Competition Laws Policy underpin all of to reduce our environmental impacts, our business practices.” mainly use from energy use, business travel, waste and procurement, and to Our People raise employee awareness on the critical “We are committed to being a issues of sustainable development.” responsible employer, whom people choose to work for and who allows them Communities to deliver their best. Our focus is on the “Ensuring a positive impact on the professional development and the wellcommunities in which we live and being of all our employees by ensuring, operate. As a major global employer, in particular, that both our business we work on national and international practices and our facilities comply with levels with local authorities, charities and safety regulations. We have a culture non-governmental organizations (NGOs) whereby we respect and value the on different themes. We encourage the diversity of our people as individuals. We active involvement of our employees in also believe that effective communication community development.” is a prerequisite for an open and inclusive culture.” Suppliers & Partners “We are committed to following Clients reliable and sustainable procurement “Collaborating with our clients. We procedures with our suppliers. We undertake to understand our clients expect our suppliers and partners to fully real business needs and we are comply with the laws in the countries in dedicated to delivering profitable and which they operate and we work with sustainable growth by working with business partners to bring added value clients collaboratively to deliver value to our clients.” through our expertise. We take customer dialogue and feedback very seriously. We also look to embed sustainability considerations, notably Green IT, into our service offerings.” 11 Pillar 1: Leadership, Values & Ethics 1.1 Leadership & Values Since the creation of the Group in 1967, our culture and business practices have been inspired and guided by our seven core values. These principles drive us as a Group and also as individuals. They are at the heart of our approach as an ethical and responsible company. These values are more than just rules of behavior: they provide the basis for our ethical approach and our principles. From them, we have carved out our approach to responsibility and our ethical and sustainability culture: they are the Group’s DNA. They demonstrate our belief in integrity and ethical behavior. Our values are critical in respecting, defending and upholding the Group as an ethical and responsible business and in protecting our reputation. Our values Seven values lie at the heart of everything we do. team spirit honesty modesty fun trust freedom boldness 12 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 1.2 Group Ethics & by the Group Ethics and Governance on the code which can be completed Compliance Program Committee of the Board of Directors. in 4 languages. At the end of October 2012, more than 75,000 team members In 2009 the Group launched its Ethics & General Counsels across the Group (60% of the headcount) had completed Compliance program and built a network have been appointed as local Ethics the e-learning. of Ethics & Compliance Officers across & Compliance Officers. They are the Group. The objectives of the program responsible for the Ethics & Compliance The Anti-Corruption Policy is also are to: Program within the geography under available in 8 languages with an their responsibility and work closely with accompanying e-learning module • Develop a sustainable ethical culture, the CECO. available in 4 languages. In the two which reinforces integrity and leads to months following its launch, 27,000 ethical behavior; As part of our Ethics & Compliance employees had completed the e-learning • Strengthen knowledge and awareness program, we published our Code of module representing 22% of the Group’s of international and national laws Business Ethics in 2010, our Antiheadcount. At the end of October 2012, and internal policies applicable in the Corruption Policy in 2011 and our more than 67,000 team members had Group’s companies; and Competition Laws Policy in 2012. The completed the e-learning. • Implement initiatives reinforcing Code of Business Ethics and its resulting prevention and aiming at avoiding policies have received the collective The Competition Laws Policy is also misconduct and breaches in the field and individual support of the members available in 8 languages with an of ethics and compliance. of the Capgemini’s Board, our Group accompanying e-learning module. At Executive Committee and the Group’s the end of October 2012, after only 4 Managers across the Group are Vice-President community. weeks, more than 7,000 team members accountable in their respective units completed the e-learning. for ethics, and for compliance with the On publication in 2010, a hard copy of applicable laws and regulations. the Code of Business Ethics was sent, together with a letter from the CEO, The Chief Ethics & Compliance to all Vice-Presidents (approximately Officer (CECO) is responsible for the 1,200 managers) for their review and for Ethics & Compliance program for the signature of compliance. The Code is entire Group. The program and its available in 13 languages and we have achievements are reviewed annually rolled out a specific e-learning module Highlight: September 2012 Competition Laws Policy In 2012, the Group formalized its competition laws policy to provide a clear framework for its operations in all its locations. At the end of October 2012, more than 7,000 team members have followed a specific online training. 13 Pillar 2: Our People At Capgemini we believe that our biggest assets are our people. We therefore place a great deal of focus on the professional development and well-being of all our employees. We ensure that both our business practices and our facilities comply with safety regulations and we have a culture whereby we respect and value the diversity of our people as individuals. At Capgemini, being treated and treating others with respect and courtesy is a right and a duty for everyone. We believe that effective communication is a prerequisite for an open and inclusive culture. 2.1 Employee Demographics The workforce has more than doubled in a decade to a global headcount of 119,707 at the end of 2011. This constitutes an increase of 127%, or nearly 67,000 people. The geographical distribution of our Group headcount has been modified by the strong growth of Asia and Latin America, the economic crisis that affected continental Europe and the USA and the acquisitions of Kanbay, BAS B.V. and CPM Braxis. Despite economic uncertainty, we hired more than 32,700 people in 2011, which is an all-time Group record. 3,158 people joined following acquisitions or outsourcing contracts. During the same period 20,693 people voluntarily departed with 4,119 dismissals or non renewal of trail periods. Overall, 2011 saw 11,009 new team members join the Capgemini family. Group Headcount from 1970 to 2011 119,707 120,000 Number of team members 100,000 70,000 59,549 (at December 31) 40,000 18,919 10,000 3,104 0 1970 1980 1990 2000 2011 14 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 2.2 Professional the provision of training, both at Group stress management, improvement level and locally. Many of our employees of employee-manager relations, and Development also attend the Capgemini University. better working conditions. Many of our Our commitment to the continuing countries, including India, have Employee Each employee works closely with a development of all employees, Assistance Programs (EAP), which personal reviewer where, throughout personally and professionally, enables have proven invaluable in helping our the year, feedback is encouraged and us to create and maintain a fully employees manage stressful personal documented from specific assignment competent and motivated workforce situations through an entirely confidential appraisals to general and peer feedback. with core skills aligned to present and external service. Other services include This constructive guidance is used for future business requirements. We health checks, training for managers and continual development throughout the recognise that our greatest asset lies employees on improving their work-life year and as part of end of year reviews.  in the quality of our intellectual capital. balance, and fitness programs. Therefore, the fundamental strategy 2.3 Well-being Through our MyLearning learning of competency development draws management system, numerous books on various approaches: standard We take the well-being of our employees and e-learning modules are available to training programs; virtual classrooms; very seriously. Even though our employees. We have also purchased mentoring systems; e-learning; on-line business does not involve high-risk Well-being Essentials, a special range books; knowledge centers, video and activities, we still have established of products addressing concerns on online TV; on-the job training; easily specific processes and measures to personal finance, emotional well-being, accessible databases for knowledge ensure the well-being of our people. relationships, health challenges, stress, sharing; management of professional Our offices around the world have career transitions, work-life balance, interest communities; forums and team introduced initiatives to promote healthy eating, adoption, parenting, rooms and KM 2.0 communities, blogs employee well-being: work-life balance, fitness, grief & loss, abuse of harmful and wikis. Resources are devoted to substances, etc. Highlight In 2011, more than 82,000 Capgemini employees (69% of our workforce) took part in training schemes defined by the Group training paths. The total volume provided was 1,233,000 hours. Various channels were used such as the Group’s on-line learning management system MyLearning. Over 80,500 employees in 2011 used MyLearning for informal and just-in-time learning and also to register for more formal, structured learning events. 15 2.4 Diversity With almost 120,000 employees in 40 countries and representing 110 nationalities, Capgemini is proud of our wide cultural diversity. This diversity has many facets including gender, disability, ethnicity, origin, age and lifestyle. We view diversity as both a strategic advantage and an on-going challenge. By creating an international platform, it helps us better understand the global market and to adapt to the communities in which we operate. In 2011 we produced our Global charter for Diversity and Inclusion to formalise our active promotion of the principles of diversity in our employment practices. Our aim is to encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds who are innovative, enthusiastic, culturally aware and committed to delivering a truly collaborative experience to our clients. Global Charter for Diversity and Inclusion Ever since the formation of the Capgemini Group in 1967, Diversity and Inclusion has been an important part of our employee culture; shaping how we operate and work with our stakeholders, suppliers and clients around the world. For Capgemini, Diversity and Inclusion means attracting, developing and retaining the best people in the market, who share our values and our passion for service to clients, people and technology. The Group’s commitment to Diversity and Inclusion is embodied in our Code of Business Ethics. We have come a long way in developing our global presence through the efforts of our employees from many different communities across the world. Capgemini has created a Global Charter to highlight and focus our proactive employee engagement initiatives in Diversity and Inclusion. We are committed to: 1. Fostering the diverse make-up of our workforce in all locations where we offer services, and at all levels. 2. Increasing awareness of and training in Diversity and Inclusion for our employees through multiple communication channels to ensure we involve, and inform them of our actions and results 3. Continuing to build an inclusive work environment based on meritocracy; hiring the best people for the roles we offer, and mentoring, training, and supporting whenever possible to help individuals realise their full potential. 4. Wherever possible, considering any aspects of Diversity and Inclusion in our employment and procurement decisions, and involving our elected employee representatives with the design and implementation of employment policies where appropriate. 5. Engaging with our clients, partners and suppliers to ensure there is an understanding of our values and clear expectations from those that work with us. 6. Including in our business reviews criteria designed to measure progress made by Capgemini entities or Business Units, as regards Diversity and Inclusion. 7. Including questions on Diversity and Inclusion in our annual employee survey, and reviewing any changes as required as a result of employee feedback. 8. Including in our Annual Report information on our progress with Diversity and Inclusion: actions taken, best practices across our Group, and results. 16 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 These statements of intent reflect in detail Capgemini’s vision for Diversity and Inclusion for the Group. We are determined to take action on this on-going journey, Highlight harnessing the power and benefit of what makes each and every employee unique, and celebrating our multicultural and diverse workforce. We know this will enhance the employee experience around the Group, create greater opportunities for our Our Group Internal business and affirm Capgemini’s status as a preferred global employer. Communications 2.5 Employee Engagement Platform ‘Talent’ At Capgemini we believe that effective communication is a precondition for an open continued to grow in and honest culture, and for the involvement and engagement of employees. It is 2011 with nearly 5 also essential for effective knowledge dissemination, sharing success and creating a sense of belonging within teams, at both the Group and local level. Two way million connections. communications is at the heart of our communications philosophy. It is the gateway to Our commitment to formal two-way dialogue is demonstrated through our approach the national intranets, to employee representation. In 2001, the International Works Council (IWC) was set up as the official representative body in the Group. Since 2004, we have gone training sites and beyond European legislation on works councils and opened IWC meetings to all the communities members from non-European countries, including North America and India, creating a truly globally representative body. At the local level, we also support dialogue with hosted on a single unions or other employee representatives, within relevant bodies and through the platform. 33 million processes provided for under local legislation, regulations and agreements. connections were In 2011, the 22 member countries were invited to four plenary meetings including two which were organized by Group Management. Constructive and positive discussion registered in 2011. took place on various topics such as Group strategy, alliances, communication, the organization of Country Committees, recent acquisitions, new economic models, employability, skills development and the new performance management system, In 2011, more than MyPath. 63,000 employees responded to the Global Employee Survey (63% response rate). Employee enthusiasm for internal social media tools has been spectacular: Yammer, the Group social networking site, now boasts more than 35,000 profiles. 17 Pillar 3: Clients We are dedicated to developing profitable and sustainable business by working together with our clients to deliver value through our expertise and behavior. 3.1 Enabling Client Transformation Clients are increasingly expecting their suppliers to help them address their own sustainability challenges, for example: decreasing their environmental impacts. As a provider of business transformation services we believe that we are well positioned to help clients with these challenges which we expect to be amplified by increasing regulatory pressures around the world. As a service provider, we have an opportunity to help clients with their own carbon challenges in terms of the advice that we offer and solutions that we design and deliver. We also recognize that operational efficiency is a key factor in ensuring longevity for our clients and that this often goes hand in hand with reduced carbon emissions. Therefore, considering sustainability principles through our service offerings ensures clients can meet the rising demands of regulation, competition, rising operational costs and mounting scrutiny upon the consumption of resources. As an outsourcing provider, we ensure that when clients outsource all their operations to us, we can proactively mitigate the risk of increasing emissions through our sustainable data centres and implementing Green IT as well as by reducing our own internal impacts by employing energy efficient technologies in our offices and focusing on reducing business travel. Based on state-of-the-art technology, Merlin was considered the most sustainable data center in the world when it opened in 2010 to ensure client’s systems are run as efficiently as technologically possible with reduced emissions (based on their own in-house systems). It has won the Data Centre Dynamics Leaders’ Green Data Centre Award, and the Uptime Institute’s Green IT Award for data centre design. It was also a runner up in The Guardian’s 2011 Sustainable Business Awards, and a Finalist in the 2011 Business Green Leader’s awards. In 2011, we continued to assist our clients through a growing portfolio of sustainability focussed services, building on our strong track record of helping clients achieve improved efficiency, reduce operational costs and reduced environmental impacts. Detailed information on the sustainability services we offer to our clients can be found on our website at www.capgemini.com/sustainability-services. 18 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 A few examples are presented here: Our Merlin data centre continues Carbon Accounting and Reporting to be considered one of the most processes and systems are essential sustainable data centres in the to capture the complex and world due to its many revolutionary comprehensive data needed for welland state of the art design features. informed management decisions. Our Compared with a conventional data outsourced service for energy, carbon centre of the same size, Merlin, and sustainability data management in the first year of live operations and reporting, through our Business recorded a 92% plus reduction Processes Operations (BPO) team, in energy used for cooling and alongside leading software from partners a significant reduction in water CA Technologies, provides an efficient, consumption. Rising client concerns cost effective, high quality management, about sustainability have contributed analysis and back office reporting to the commercial success of the service. The client, as a result, is free facility. to focus on its sustainability strategy, operational efficiency and improvement www.capgemini.com/merlin projects. www.capgemini.com/ carbonaccounting Smart Energy Services offer a wide Cloud Computing enables us to help range of sustainable solutions to our clients maximise the efficiency of energy efficiency and environmental their IT and to embed sustainability issues allowing clients to optimise into their governance, processes energy consumption and address and infrastructure. Our consulting, environmental impacts. With more than technology and outsourcing teams 8,000 employees working in this area, draw on detailed knowledge of the our commitment gives us the capability latest sustainability related issues, to service more than 43 million users technologies and implementation who are looking for solutions which strategies to help develop, integrate optimize energy consumption and their and accelerate tailored sustainability environmental impact. action plans. www.capgemini.com/smartenergy www.capgemini.com/sustainableIT 19 3.2 Client Case Studies The following are two client case studies Texel Energy Neutrality The Dutch Island of Gemeente energy operator to mutual benefit to optimize the use of household Texel in the North Sea, is aiming to much like a co-operative. appliances; and be energy self sufficient by 2020. In conjunction with Capgemini and The implementation of Cloud Power is • A central Energy Management local energy company TexelEnergie, based on a few main components: System balances community a Smart Energy Program to reduce renewable generations with energy consumption, match demand, • Smart meters continuously measure household demand and supply. If supply more effectively and increase energy consumed and produced by there is a shortfall of energy, the the use of renewable energy has been local households; central system imports energy from put in place. Capgemini is delivering the grid (or exports energy if there is it’s Cloud Power solution to enable • The Home Energy Management an oversupply). members to own and manage the System uses the Smart meter data HMRC’s IT estate is one of the largest for a smaller IT estate which uses fleet and consumables are centrally in UK Government, consuming less electricity managed and use less electricty, vast amounts of energy and natural • Replacing 25,000 desktop paper and toner. resources. Between 2009 and 2011 computers over four years old with HMRC reduced IT carbon emissions new PCs which help staff work more In the UK’s 2012 Green IT Awards, by 20%*, through a range of initiatives quickly and efficiently, and which HMRC won ‘Team of the Year’ from creating a ‘carbon-cost aware’ use 70% less power for the virtual team which works culture, to projects and services which • Setting PCs to low energy mode acrss HMRC, Aspire and other Capgemini UK delivered through the when they are not being used, Government departments. Aspire contract. We helped HMRC and triggering them to ‘wake achieve environmental benefits and up’ for overnight software and * carbon saving estimate supplied by financial savings by: security updates HMRC carbon modelling, which allows • Improving video conferencing and the Department to accurately account • Decommissioning 13,000 desktops, telephony services to reduce travel for and track the amount of carbon 60 appications and 1,500 servers • Replacing 11,800 printers, copiers used by its IT as part of an IT Transformation and faxes with 4,300 new printing Programme. This involved system devices, many of which are multimerger and consolidation, and functional as they print, copy, fax switching off surplus equipment and scan, and all of which have paper saving default settings. The 20 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 3.3 Client Satisfaction Approach Our client relationship management process, known as OTACE (On Time and At or Above Client Expectations) is a key factor underpinning our strong client relationships. Clients are requested to specify their expectations from our services based on a set of indicators relating to the following: • type of service required; • nature of the working relationship; and • knowledge sharing. We document and review these indicators with clients to produce ratings that are reviewed regularly according to an agreed schedule. By allowing us to better assess the client satisfaction level with respect to the deliverables of their project(s), OTACE allows us to identify not only our strengths but also areas for improvement. Our client focus and the Collaborative Business Experience of Capgemini is the essence of the way we work with our clients. Client satisfaction and their appreciation of the value we bring in contributing to making their businesses successful and sustainable is essential to our business. This is reflected in how our people feel: in our 2011 Global Employee Survey, 90% of our people strongly agree that they “feel personally responsible for their client’s satisfaction.” Our Group operations serve many clients, distributed in several business sectors and countries. Our largest client, a major British government department, accounts for slightly less than 10% of our Group revenue, the second largest accounts for a little more than 2%. Combined, our ten largest clients account for just over 22% of our revenue and the top 30 for slightly more than 36% of revenue. The creditworthiness of our major clients and the wide dispersion of the others limit the credit risks. Highlight 2011 OTACE Scores In 2011, over 5,000 engagements were analyzed using OTACE. The results showed 91% of projects were delivered on time and 92% met or exceeded client expectations, with average client satisfaction being 3.94 out of 5. 21 Pillar 4: Environment Although at Capgemini we do not manufacture products, our services and our business activities may have an impact on the environment. To manage the growth of our company, we endeavour to identify and take into account the limits of our environment. Our contribution to reduce environmental impacts can take place not only within our company, but also through the help we can offer in this area to our stakeholders. The Group has therefore committed to minimize its negative impacts in the areas most relevant to its business, to comply with any legal and other relevant requirements involving the environmental impacts of its operations, and to permanently improve the environmental performance of its operations. ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management Systems are in place in our operations in the UK, Netherlands, Belgium, Portugal and Brazil. This currently accounts for around 20% of our global population. The implementation of the Group Environment Policy will facilitate activities within the remaining countries to address ISO14001 requirements. A Group wide EMS Guidance Document will commence its roll out in 2012 to ensure each country has the tools and correct best practice guidance to increase our global coverage. Management approach We are committed to identifying and complying with all local and international legal and other relevant requirements relating to the environmental impacts of our operations and to the prevention of pollution through the adoption of appropriate controls. 4.1 Group Environmental Policy A new Group environment policy has been signed by the CEO, Paul Hermelin, setting out the expectations for all countries. This policy statement reinforces our commitment to environmental compliance and the continual improvement of environmental performance across our global operations, specifically in the areas of energy, business travel and waste. 22 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Capgemini Group Environmental Policy Statement Capgemini is one of the world’s foremost providers of consulting, technology and outsourcing services. Our business activities are delivered from both our own network of offices and data centers as well as at our clients’ sites. This policy statement applies to all offices and data centers managed by Capgemini, all employees, and suppliers retained by Capgemini. Although we do not manufacture products, we recognize that our business activities do have impacts on the environment and we are committed to continually improving our environmental performance. We are committed to identifying and complying with all legal and other relevant requirements relating to the environmental impacts of our operations, and to the prevention of pollution through the adoption of appropriate controls. Specifically, we expect the operations in the countries we operate to: 1. have a full understanding how to quantify and track our environmental impacts (at a minimum, our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions) in line with our statutory reporting requirements 2. identify energy saving initiatives within our portfolio of offices to reduce the Group’s energy consumption and associated carbon footprint 3. drive energy efficiency initiatives in our Data Centers 4. implement initiatives to minimize travel (and in particular Air Travel), without disrupting our ability to meet the demands of our clients 5. implement initiatives to reduce the amount of waste we generate, and to maximize the percentage of our waste which is recycled 6. have procurement processes which ensure that our suppliers provide products and services which help us to achieve our Group environmental policy, particularly in relation to carbon emissions, reducing energy consumption, and minimizing waste Performance against our objectives and targets, and this Environmental Policy, will be reviewed at least annually. Signed: Paul Hermelin Position: Chief Executive Officer 23 4.2 Identification of Key impacts While local variations may exist, across the Group our key material environmental impacts are shown in the table below. Key Aspects and impacts applicable to the Capgemini business environmental aspects Energy Our main environmental impact comes from the consumption of electricity. gas and oil to light, heat and power our offices and data centers. Data centers are particularly energy intensive due to the high level of IT equipment to be housed, powered and cooled. As an example, around 78% of the electricity we use in our UK operations is consumed by the data centers alone. Travel The business journeys we undertake, including journeys by road, rail, air, and stays in hotels all consume fossil fuels. contributing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and impacting climate change. This is a major challenge for our industry, whose businesses rely on the mobility of their employees in order to utilize their skills and experience in serving our customers worldwide. We continue to take advantage of the opportunities created by technology such as videoconferencing, supported by virtual hosting services. We also introduced or improved some collaboratlve tools to facilitate remote working and allow a greater flexibility. In many countries we monitor the emissions from our car fleets, especially by setting emission limits or by promoting the use of hybrid vehicles. Waste Much of the waste that the Group produces is generated from office consumables and packaging. management Capgemini aims to minimize the amount of waste that is sent to landfill by providing recycling facilities in key offices. We also try to engage our people and work with key suppliers to reduce the overall amount of waste in the business. generated by daily operations. We ensure that all electronic equipment is recycled in accordance with local laws. 24 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 4.3 Environmental Performance Driving environmental performance improvement is dependent upon having accurate and robust environmental data. To ensure that we have the necessary high quality data, we are currently deploying a global Carbon Accounting and Sustainability Reporting system to provide standardized data collection, monitoring and management. This robust approach to environmental data collection and reporting is also critical for us to be able to meet the reporting obligations of the French Grenelle II legislation at Group level, and the Carbon Reduction Commitment legislation for Capgemini UK. We expect overtime to see additional reporting requirements in different countries. As well as an improved ability to report, our carbon accounting approach, requiring monthly data gathering, gives us the ability to identify areas for potential savings (in both emissions and cost). This approach has already enabled significant cost and emissions savings in terms of energy and business travel in Capgemini UK, the first country where the system has been rolled out. Capgemini UK has also been able to achieve Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) Registration for its Environmental Statement making Capgemini the only company in our sector to currently hold this. Following this success, our carbon accounting system is being rolled out globally starting in 2012 with our largest countries by headcount (France, Netherlands, North America and India). The quality of the approach has been validated as we are now also providing carbon accounting support services to clients. UK case study – UK Targets and Performance Capgemini UK set the following targets against a 2008 baseline: To reduce our non-data center CO2 footprint by 20% At the end of 2011, headline carbon emissions (excluding by 2014 (35% by 2020) data centers) are down 17.5% since 2008 To improve energy efficiency in our data centers by Achieved – Average data center PUE at the end of 2011 more than 20% by 2014 is 21.3% down To reduce our CO2 related to business travel by more Emissions from travel in 2011 was 12.5% below the than 30% by 2014 emissions in 2008 To send zero office waste to landfill by 2014 77% of our office waste was diverted from landfill in 2011 To implement an ISO 14001 certified Environmental Achieved in June 2009, and recertified in 2012 Management System (EMS) 25 4.4 Key Performance Indicators Given the varying maturity of environmental measurement across our Group, it has been necessary to make a number of assumptions in order to present the carbon emissions data tables set out below. Where only partial data is available, extrapolation has been employed to estimate the total impacts. This extrapolation has in several cases included the final months of 2011 as the full annual data sets were unavailable at the time of table processing. Specifically, the extrapolations have included: • estimating 2011 data based on available 2010 data (according to a documented methodology related to differing scenarios covering all aspects of energy, travel and waste); • estimating emissions based on available cost data (using assumptions such as the cost per kWh of electricity or gas, per liter of diesel or per km of travel or kg CO2 emitted per flight). Where no data is available, as was often the case for water and some modes of transport, the data has been deliberately excluded. Full details of the assumptions can be made are available upon request Our largest businesses in France, India, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and North America (including Canada and the United States of America) account for 68% of our global headcount. The combined carbon emissions of these operations amounts to 220,040 tons of CO2 emitted, calculated using the conversion factors and methodology recommended by the UK Government’s Department of Environment, Farming and Rural Affairs. The carbon footprint tables below include emissions associated with use of gas, diesel, electricity (in data centers and offices), business travel and waste. As water usage is not a significant environmental aspect for Capgemini, it has been excluded from the data tables below. Carbon Emissions (tons CO2) Country/Region Gas Diesel Data Office Business Waste Total Emissions centre electricity Travel (tons CO2) electricity India 33 34,382 10,884 11 45,310 France 247 16 3,610 1,543 17,992 19 23,427 United Kingdom 594 58 28,281 7,384 14,137 176 50,630 Netherlands 304 19 7,051 3,219 35,338 195 46,126 North America 544 4 12,338 3,642 37,818 202 54,548 TOTAL 1,689 130 51,280 50,170 116,169 603 220,041 Currently, the data for the United Kingdom and the Netherlands represents the most complete data set with both verified externally. Capgemini France, Netherlands and North America prepare carbon emissions estimates on an annual basis. Currently a degree of extrapolation has been required, mainly for North America where much of the data had to be extrapolated based upon 2010 carbon footprint calculations. For Capgemini India, the above data represents the first full estimate of its carbon footprint. 26 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Carbon emissions data has also been collected from our operations in Finland, Spain, Poland, Romania, Germany, Austria, Italy, Belgium, Norway, Portugal, Denmark, Czech Republic, Hungary, Croatia, Australia, China, Philippines, Vietnam, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Guatemala and Mexico, as well as our Sogeti operations in France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Total emissions from these activities, based on the extrapolations mentioned above, were 53,031 tons of CO2 emitted in 2011. These numbers cover 28% of the Group’s workforce and 66% of Sogeti’s workforce. The emission data is listed below: Carbon Emissions (tons CO2) Country/Region Gas Diesel Data Office Business Waste Total Emissions ( centre electricity Travel tons CO2) electricity Other Europe (1)(4) 356 100 1,571 4,435 15,390 82 21,934 Asia & Australia (2) 1,072 5,369 1 6,442 Latin America(3) 2 2 220 2,014 3,918 24 6,180 Sogeti 184 12 2,224 16,041 14 18,475 (France,NL,UK) Total Other 542 114 1,791 9,745 40,718 121 53,031 Operations Total Largest 1,689 130 51,280 50,170 116,168 603 220,040 Operations Grand Total All 2,231 244 53,071 59,915 156,886 724 273,071 Operations 1 The “Rest of Europe” section includes Capgemini operations in Finland, Spain, Poland, Romania, Germany, Austria, Italy, Belgium, Norway, Portugal, Denmark, Czech Republic, Hungary and Croatia. 2 The Asia and Australia section includes Capgemini operations in Australia, China, Philippines and Vietnam 3 The Latin America section includes Capgemini operations in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Guatemala and Mexico 4 In Belgium (included in the total for Rest of Europe), emissions data associated with travel includes personal car use as well as business mileage. A Note about Data Centers From a reporting perspective, it is important to acknowledge that in our data center business we frequently “take on” emissions from our clients when they outsource their IT equipment into our data centers. This is an inherent challenge for all IT outsourcing providers and is a reason why we maintain our focus on making our data centers as operationally efficient as possible. However while we strive to reduce our overall carbon emissions, we recognise that data center are likely to increase as our business grows. However, at the system level this is not an issue as our centers, benefiting from innovation and environmental economies of scale are typically a more efficient solution. One example of our innovation is our Merlin Data Center described in the previous section. 27 Pillar 5: Community Management Priorities Our focus on community projects is very much aligned to our corporate purpose and values. We recognize our responsibility to contribute to the talent and skills of the wider population and of future generations. Our basic community philosophy is to promote education, integration and skills development. We acknowledge that diversity is a source of richness and competitive advantage so our aim is to support diversity and nurture future talent in all its forms. We operate in communities across the world both from our network of offices, from client sites and from Rightshore® delivery centers. Our community strategy therefore focuses on local, national and global initiatives. We channel our time, energy and creativity into having a positive impact through: partnerships with various foundations; volunteering; pro bono work; fundraising; and where appropriate awarding funding. Mobilizing forces to help others strengthens team spirit, improves communication skills and promotes a better understanding of the communities around us. Our intention is to provide as many opportunities as possible for our employees and to engage in activities for the community that contribute to their development. Furthermore, we integrate our community programs in our business activities, and we coordinate them with the actions of our clients in favor of sustainable development. We measure and evaluate the impact of our community involvement and share this with our people, our community partners and our clients. 28 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 5.1 Our Global Initiatives NAANDI We have a strong partnership with the Naandi Foundation and its Nanhi Kali Initiative (focused on supporting young girls through their education). In 2011, we sponsored over 13,000 girls in India by means of schemes and initiatives across the Group. We are the largest corporate sponsor of Nanhi Kali internationally and the second largest for the foundation overall. The Nanhi Kali program has been officially adopted in the community framework of 11 of our countries with three new countries expected to launch initiatives in 2012. PLANET FINANCE Our local IT services business, Sogeti, has maintained a partnership with PlaNet Finance since its creation in 1998, a partnership that has made a significant contribution to alleviating poverty in some of the world’s poorest communities. PlaNet Finance is an international non-profit organization, created to reduce poverty in the world through the development of microfinance. Beyond financial assistance, Sogeti PlaNet Finance support includes the Paris HQ Germany Denmark technological expertise and the support of the main computer systems: we manage 117 117 155 their computer system voluntarily by hosting computer applications including intranet, Australia USA electronic messaging and on-line training as well as providing services related to 261 46 human resources. Through savings of time and money thus obtained, PlaNet Finance Finland Total no. Norway 333 5,038 is able to further invest in microfinance projects. of NK’s sponsored Netherlands UK 723 2,899 At the end of 2011 Capgemini and Sogeti launched a dedicated website in India association with MicroWorld to help micro-entrepreneurs and to promote the growth 1,844 of micro-credit in less advanced countries. This site provides a secure platform which Sweden 1,808 enables individuals to finance micro-entrepreneurs’ projects around the world by making on-line loans to projects that have been validated by a proven methodology in a socially responsible manner. Capgemini Employees & the Naandi Foundation: Capgemini and its team members sponsor the Naandi Foundation’s education program Nanhi Kali, which provides schooling to young, vulnerable Indian children. By March 2012, the Group’s cumulative contribution represented a total of 46,000 years of schooling. 29 5.2 Some of Our National Initiatives Capgemini France is part of ‘Passeport Avenir’ to help young students from modest backgrounds with their studies, approximately 60 employees take part as mentors and guide students through to graduation from high school or university courses. Capgemini UK continues to make a difference to young people through our national partnership with The Prince’s Trust. In 2011 we celebrated raising more than £1,000,000 over three years for The Trust. Our employees have multiple opportunities to get involved where they live and work, through volunteering, mentoring, client hospitality, pro-bono work and taking part in challenges. WeKare, a Community initiative for Capgemini India employees, is currently operational at our sites across India. Under the WeKare banner we partner with 30+ organizations working in the areas of education, environment and employment. Capgemini Netherlands partnered with SIFE (Students in Free Enterprise), an organization providing students with the opportunity to work on development projects to stimulate business and entrepreneurship and work towards a sustainable future together. Capgemini North America partnered with Habitat for Humanity. The partnership has given our employees an opportunity to make a difference in their local communities and get involved. In November 2011, 200 employees, family and friends participated in 7 builds across the region including Toronto, New Jersey, Dallas, Atlanta, Houston, Burbank and Lee’s Summit. Capgemini Poland has been working together with Siemacha Association for 3-years running successful knowledge sharing sessions, workshops for youth leaders, company visits, recruitment shows and training and our annual charitable theatre performance. In 2011 one of the highlights for Poland was their annual charitable theatre performance in which many of our Polish employees volunteer to take the stage and act out a Polish fairy tale. A record breaking amount of money was raised for the Siemacha Association in 2011. In Guatemala we continue to support Niños del Lago (NDL: Children of the Lake). We launched a special committee of Good-Will Ambassadors, a group of employees that will help progress specific activities and provide local leadership to engage with other employees and spread the word about getting involved in the communities in which they operate. Each initiative will support a different organisation that supports children in need. 30 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 5.3 Community Investment and Donations The table below summarises charitable donations made by Capgemini around the world. Summary of donations made Countries/Region Donations (€) Programs India 27,040 Nanh1 Kali, Goonj, Jagriti Sewa Sansthan and BOSCO and WeKare Society France 250,000 Mission Handicap and CSR (passeport Avenir, IMS entreprendre pour la cité, Foundation Good PLanet, Nos quartiers ont du talent...) UK 153,430 Naandi, The Prince’s Trust and several others Netherlands 267,317 Naandi and several other organizations North America 110,444 Naandi, Habitat for Humanity, United Way, American Red Cross, Ninos de Lago and several others Sub Total 808,231 Europe* 407,202 Naandi, CADIN Centro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Infantil, Associaçäo Portuguesa de Formaçäo de Actores para Cinema e Televisäo, Fundación Adecco, Sant’ Andrea Terra vicine e lontanek, Milan Accueil China 960 Other** 15,429 Hutt St centre, Queensland Floods, Autism SA, Coanil Foundation Sogeti 190,000 KWF Nederland, Stichting Opkikker, Make a Wish Foundation NL, Think Pink Campaign, Fundación Adecco, Red Cross, St. Kind Sponsor Plan Sub Total 613,591 Grand Total 1,421,822 * Europe = Belgium, Denmark, Italy, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden **Other = Australia, Chile 31 Les Fontaines 32 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Pillar 6: Suppliers & Business Partners Our commitment to supplier and business partner relationships is reflected in our comprehensive set of guidelines on the ethics of purchasing and the selection of suppliers. 6.1 Ethical Procurement 6.2 Sustainable Procurement Principles In our purchasing activities, we are conscious of environmental issues We expect our suppliers to conduct and impacts, social impacts, human their relationships with us and with our rights, and the fight against bribery and clients and commercial partners on a corruption. The ten key principles of the fair and ethical basis and in compliance United Nations Global Compact guide with our core sustainability principles. our activities throughout our business. These principles apply both to the goods This means that we are committed to and services provided, to the suppliers’ ensuring that we work only with suppliers activities and, where appropriate, to who respect appropriate ethical policies their downstream supply chains. Our and human rights. principles cover: We have set out Capgemini’s Guidelines 1. Human rights on Ethical Procurement and prefer to 2. Respect for national, international, develop long-term, sustainable relations regional and local applicable laws with selected suppliers. Should a 3. No forced or compulsory labor supplier fail to respect these ethical 4. No child labor guidelines, we reserve the right to cancel 5. Equality and diversity the contract. 6. Employee well-being and development Supplier diversity and equality is 7. Disciplinary practices encouraged, with our aim being to allow 8. Freedom of association qualified small and minority businesses 9. Health and safety the opportunity to receive a share of our 10. Confidentiality and business. Our “eco-system” approach intellectual property with major clients aims to foster this and 11. Refusal of bribery and corruption in level the entry barrier where practical. business practices. Contractors’ and suppliers’ employees 12. Environmental impacts are expected to work according to the same Corporate Responsibility In 2009, the Group’s Procurement and Sustainability standards as our Officers set up a program to complete own employees. In parallel, we expect risk and expense assessments on contractors and suppliers to comply all of our key suppliers. The program with the same sustainability, health & has been implemented in our largest safety and diversity standards as our countries since 2009 and supplier own employees. assessments currently cover 84% of worldwide purchasing expenses. Some 3,140 suppliers were or are currently being analyzed. Following this analysis, 271 suppliers have been delisted or reclassified. 33 Awards and Recognition Capgemini identified as a “Specialist” supplier of sustainable technology services, rated “Best in class” by Verdantix for data center efficiency, with the following citation: “through their Merlin data center, [they] have developed one of the World’s most sustainable and energy efficient data centers”. “Capgemini wins Best Capgemini Group listed in Class for its state in Newsweek Magazine’s of the art expertise in Top 250 Green Companies smart metering with the Capgemini identified as installation of more than a “Specialist” supplier of 15.7 million meters and the sustainable technology maintenance of 1.7 million services, rated “Best in meters in Europe and class” by Verdantix for data North America Capgemini is a participant center efficiency, with the in the Carbon Disclosure Verdantix 2012 Green following citation: “through Project Quadrant® Sustainable their Merlin data center, Technology Services Report [they] have developed one of the World’s most sustainable and energy efficient data centers”. Capgemini North America rated “2011 Most Admired Employer for Minority Technology Geeks” Diversity Careers issue of Hispanic Engineer & Information Technology magazine and in the Best Employers issue of US Black Engineer & Information Technology. 34 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Capgemini UK awarded Platinum status in Business in the Community’s (BITC) Corporate Responsibility index Capgemini Poland awarded “Solid Employer 2010” by Rzeczpospolita daily Capgemini has been a Capgemini Poland awarded member of the UN Global “Good Company 2010” Compact since 2004 and award by Forum Biznesu Capgemini UK achieved a signatory of the United three National Big Tick Nations’ Caring for Climate awards from Business in Capgemini Poland has been initiative since 2007 the Community (BITC) in included in The Ranking three categories: Climate of Socially Responsible Change, Sustainable Travel Companies 2011. (ways2work) and Healthy Capgemini listed in the Workplaces (WorkWell). FTSE4Good index 35 Appendix A – Financial Telecom, Media Services & Entertainment 20.8% 9.3% Organizational Manufacturing 17.7% Breakdown Structure of revenue by sector Consumer Products, Public Retail, Distribution Sector & Transportation 24.3% 12.7% Others Energy, Utilities & Chemicals 4.4% 10.8% Local Professional Services 15.7% Technology Consulting Services Services 41.5% Breakdown 5.3% of revenue by business Outsourcing Services 37.5% France Rest of Europe, Asia and Latin America 22.1% 26.1% Breakdown of revenue Benelux by country or region 13.1% North America 18.6% United Kingdom 20.1% Appendix B – Additional People Data Breakdown Of Workforce By Category: 2010-2011 CSS DSP DSS 6.3% 6.4% 6. 2% The Company’s workforce breaks down 2.6% 2.4% 2.2% into three broad categories: 91.1% 91.3% 91.6% • Client Serving Staff (CSS) who ensure our services with clients are managed correctly and make up the majority of the Group’s workforce. • Dedicated Sales People (DSP) who make up the sales team and are responsible for sales and customer relations management across the full 2009 2010 2011 product portfolio. • Dedicated Support Staff (DSS) who carry out administrative support functions. 20 Part Time And Fixed 2011 Working Hours 15.5% 2010 15 ￼ *The data covers 94.2% of year-end headcount. 10 9.1% The number of part-time employees in the Group decreased by 0.3 points compared 5.2% with 2010, to 4.6% of the headcount in 4.7% 5.0% 4.9% 4.6% 5 3.9% 2.2% 0.3% 2011. The figures show significant variation 0 ic a ne lu ia TA between regions and remained relatively stable over the last three years. Am d en Ge tra rm x In d L er N & Kin Ire go Be l E an ur y op & TO ordi la m So an e or c nd ut he d M oFr an th te C ou r Lan E ro ce co N ni nt tin uro Ampe U rie er an More than two thirds of our employees s C As ica d ia -P ac ifi c have a 40-hour working week, mainly in Europe (except the UK, Finland, and 68% Denmark with 37 hours and France with 35 hours). In North America and India, the Group offers an attractive 40-hour week, with the legal maximum working week being 48 hours. South American countries vary from a base of 44 hours per week in Guatemala, Brazil and Chile to 48 hours 19% in Argentina. 10% *The data covers 91.6% of year-end headcount. 2% 1% 35h 36-39h 40h 41-47h 48h 37 35.2% Breakdown Of Workforce By 2011 Length Of Service: 2009-2011 2010 24.1% 26.6% 2009 *the data 97% of year-end headcount 24.1% 23.4% (including CPM Braxis data). 19.0% 19.3% 17.6% 17.6% The average length of service in the 15.6% 16.2% 15.7% 15.7% 14.6% Company is down 0.4 years compared 12.5% with 2010 at 4.5 years, due to the high number of recruitments in 2010 and 2011. This varies according to the geographical area, ranging from just over 1.7 years for India to more than 9 years in the Benelux countries. <1 year 1-2 years 3-4 years 5-9 years 10 years + Learning and Development 2011 Percentage Of Individual 2010 Employees Trained 2011 112% 103% 98% 96% 98% Overall, more than 101,000 employees 90% 79% 80% 81% 85% were trained in 2011, up 21% compared 77% 78% with the previous year taking the total 77% 58% 56% 61% 56% 63% volume of training hours to 3.87 million. Employees use MyLearning for informal 51% 36% and just-in-time learning but also register for more formal, structured learning events. Nearly 1,800 project managers, 541 architects, 4,241 software engineers and 311 network engineers had either er ic el ux ia TA te a en Ge tra rm In d L d K Be l E an ur y TO obtained or reconfirmed an internal Am N & in Ire go n an op & e ordi la m So ut d M F r or c nd he r a or nc certification by end-2011. th ni C ou Lan E tin uro oc e o N U ntrie Ampe er an s C As ica d ia -P acific 19% Percentage Of E-Learning Training Completed 2011 15% In 2011 we continued to develop our on-line training courses using the Group University’s e-learning resources; 19% of training took place on-line. 11% 2009 2010 2011 38 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Performance reviews and Workforce Profile 100% 99% 99% 90% 91% 91% 88% 89% 84% 85% Percentage of employees having had a performance and career review in 2011 *the data covers 94.2% of year-end headcount (including CPM Braxis data). By establishing a clear framework based on a set of clearly defined and explained criteria to guide the appraisal process, we ic a en e G ne lu x Indi TA L can ensure the professional development and promotion of all employees and er d K tra rm l E an a TO Am N & in Ire go Be ur y op & ordi la m So an e respect for equal opportunities. In 2011, th c nd ut he d F M ra or c n or ni C ou r Lan E oc e te nt tin uro o 91% of the workforce concerned had N U rie Ampe s C er an As ica d ia -P undergone an annual performance review. ac ifi c 3.9% 3.6% Rate Of Absenteeism 2011 3.0% *The data for this study covers 61.8% of year-end 2.5% 2.6% headcount. 2.3% This percentage is relatively low due to 1.7% 1.6% the fact that some countries such as 1.2% India (which represents nearly 30% of our workforce) do not collect data on the number of days of sick leave in the strict sense. In 2011, the rate of absenteeism er te ux en Ge TA for sickness in the sample was 2.6%. ic d el tra rm l E an L N a & Kin Ire go Be ur y op & TO Am e The highest rate is observed in Poland ordi la m n So ut an d F or c nd he r M ra or c n th C ou Lan E oc e o (4.8%), followed by Benelux (3.6%). France, ni nt tin uro Ampe N U rie er an s C As ica d at 2.9%, was ranked just above our ia -Pac ifi c Group average. Well being Number of work-related 165 2011 accidents 2010-2011 2010 *The coverage interval for the above data is 58.9%. 105 This % is relatively low due to the fact 60 that some countries such as India (which 31 represents nearly 30% of our workforce) 2 3 14 17 do not collect this type of data. In 2011, ic ux en Ge the Group recorded 402 work-related accidents, of which 40% were in France te a el tra rm l E an er d K ur y Am N & in Ire go Be an op & e on account of the regulations in force or la m n So ut d F M ra or di c nd he r or c n oc e th C ou Lan E tin uro o relating to the reporting of information. The N ni nt Ampe U rie s C er an As ica d majority of these work-related accidents ia -P ac ifi c were accidents during the home/ workplace journey. No work-related death occurred in the Group in 2011. 39 Diversity 73.8% 73.5% 72.5% Breakdown of workforce 2011 by gender: 2009-2011 2010 *The coverage interval for the data below is 95.8% of 2009 year-end headcount (including CPM Braxis data). The % of females continued to rise in 2011 reaching 27.5% of the headcount at year end, due to strong growth in our 26.2% 26.5% 27.5% BPO business. BPO has successfully developed into countries where the male/female ratio is 76/24 (especially in India). In 58% of our countries the % of females has increased at a constant rate, with India (+1.3%) and Guatemala being particularly noteworthy. Male Female The overall gender breakdown is a reflection of the information technology sector as a whole, which tends to attract engineering graduates who are predominantly male. Recruits 2010 % of female 2011 % of female Female Recruitment North America 23.3 28.4 Rates 2010 & 2011 UK & Ireland 28.0 24.0 * Data covers 90.7% in 2011 and 92.2% in 2010 Nordic countries 26.9 32.9 Benelux 20.9 20.5 Germany & Central Europe 45.2 45.8 France & Morocco 20.9 22.3 Southern Europe and Latin 40.6 41.1 America Asia-Pacific 26.6 27.7 TOTAL 28.1 29.7 Recruits 2010 % of female 2011 % of female Female Turnover Rates 2010 & 2011 North America 15.2 12.6 Data covers 90.7% in 2011 and 92.2% in 2010 UK & Ireland 11.0 9.6 Nordic countries 15.6 18.2 Benelux 8.7 13.6 Germany & Central Europe 17.4 23.6 France & Morocco 8.2 13.0 Southern Europe and Latin 14.2 17.3 America Asia-Pacific 24.8 23.6 TOTAL 15.9 18.3 40 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 12.1% 18.1% 20.1% Proportion Of Women In 17.6% 16.5% 16.4% Top Executive Positions 14.2% 13.9% 14.6% Per Operating Unit 12% 11.0% 8.7% Following a decline in the proportion of females in the highest executive grades in 2010, this indicator has returned to growth by 0.3% in 2011. However, it remains lower than the total % of d er ic a C G en e Be ne lu x In a di 20 09 20 10 20 11 females in all grades across the Group. At the end of 2011, 18.2% of employees tra rm Am N & Kin Ire go l E an ur y op & TA TA TA ordi la m So an e L L L N c nd ut he d F M ra TO TO TO who had been promoted to the role or th te C ou r Lan E o nc ro e co Uni nt rie tin uro Ampe s er an As ica d of “Vice-President” were female, a ia -P ac ifi c percentage which has risen by more than 2% compared with 2010. 49.2% 49.1% 48.7% 2011 Breakdown Of Workforce By Age: 2010 2009-2011 2009 *The coverage interval for the data below is 96.6% of year-end headcount (including CPM Braxis data). 26.1% 24.7% 24% The average age of employees decreased in 2011 to 34.5 years 12.7% 12.5% 12.3% compared with 35.1 years in 2010, 10.9% 9.7% 8.2% mostly due to a strong growth in the 4.0% 4.1% hiring of young graduates (accounted for 3.8% 42% of recruitment in 2011). <20-24years 25-34 years 35-44 years 45-54years 55 years+ 436 2011 Number Of People In The Group 259 2010 With A Disability 2010-2011 241 *the data above is 60% of year-end headcount. This percentage is relatively low due to 62 0 6 32 4 the fact that some countries such as er en Ge x India and North America do not collect this type of data. In 2011, data indicated te ic a lu tra rm l E an d ne ur y Am N & Kin Ire go Be So an op & e that the Group employed 1,046 people ordi la m uthe d F M ra nc th c nd r o ro e or C ou Lan E tin uro co ni nt Ampe with a disability, of which 42% were in N U rie er an s C As ica d ia -P ac the UK and 25% in France. This was 60 ifi c people more in 2011 than in 2010. 41 Appendix C – Additional Environmental Data The following table shows the total emissions figure of 273,071 tons of CO2 distributed according to the Scopes 1 (Gas and Diesel), 2 (Electricity) and 3 (Travel and Waste) definitions as set out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which is a global reporting standard seeking to standardize sustainability reporting across organizations. The last table below shows Capgemini’s consumption of energy together with paper consumption, waste and recycling rates. Energy figures as measured in kilowatt hours, includes the use of electricity across our operations. Currently the use of paper and recycling is measured using different metrics in different countries. Consequently data is provided in terms of the weight of paper purchased, paper consumed and paper recycled. Finally, the table provides details of the weight of waste generated and the percentage of waste recycled. Capgemini has neither been subject to sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations, nor has it been notified of any fines in this field in the last ten years. Emissions in tons (CO2e) Scope Gas Diesel Data centre Office electricity Business Travel Waste electricity Scope 1 2,231 244 Scope 2 53,071 59,915 Scope 3 156,886 724 Paper (T) Waste(T) Country/Region Energy (Kw H) Purchased Consumed Recycled Hazardous + % Waste Non Hazardous Recycled India 26,994,205 23 23 na 25 na France 55,943,716 151 149 na 43 na United Kingdom 67,982,949 47 64 177 394 71% Netherlands 24,258,435 na 66 na 436 9% North America 36,551,465 na na 502 452 11% Sub Total Largets 211,730,770 221 302 679 1,350 6% Operations Other Europe 19,620,995 53 46 17 183 40% Asia & Australia 1,498,719 6 0.25 0.22 2 11% Latin America 19,987,319 58 56 27 54 17% Sogeti (France, Netherlands, 14,997,192 112 111 na 32 na United Kingdom) Sub Total Other Operations 56,104,225 229 213 44 271 34% Grand Total All Operations 267,834,995 450 515 723 1,621 7% na: denotes areas where activities occur but data is currently unavailable 42 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Appendix D – GRI G3.1 Content Index For this 2011 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report, our company has self declared a level C against the GRI 3.1 Guidelines. Extent Reported = Fully, Partially, Not Reported GRI G3.1 Content Index Profile: 1. Strategy & Analysis No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Fully Pg 6 of the CEO Statement organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully ‘Our Approach Section’ Profile: 2. Organizational Profile No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment 2.1 Name of the organization Fully Title page and Page 7 of the Introduction 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully Page 7 of the Introduction 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including Fully Org chart page 7 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and See also pages 27, 28, 41 and 42 in the Annual joint ventures. Report http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-INST_EN.pdf 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully Page 7 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, Fully statement added to page 7 next to the map. See and names of countries with either major operations or also Page 27 of the Annual Report that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ covered in the report. en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-INST_EN.pdf 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Page 7 See also page 28 of the Annual Report http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-INST_EN.pdf 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Fully Section 2.4 page 13 of the reference document. sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Ref added to Page 8 Page 25 of the Annual Report http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA201143 Profile: 2. Organizational Profile No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully Pages 27 and 28 http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-INST_EN.pdf Page 7, 13 14 of the Annual reference document http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-DDR_EN.pdf 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully No significant changes to our CSR approach regarding size, structure, or ownership. has been brought about by acquisitions during 2011 as stated on page 7 . The acquisitions are detailed on pages 29 and 30 of the annual report http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-INST_EN.pdf Page 5 of the Reference Document http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-DDR_EN.pdf 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully p. 32 Awards and recognition Profile: 3. Report Parameters No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Fully Page 7 information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully Page.3 2011 This report is the first report based on GRI 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully Annually (Page 7) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Fully Back Cover (Page 50) contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully??? Page 8 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Fully??? Comment added to Page 7 explaining subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). the global nature of our operations and See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. limitations of the sustainability data. Section 4 of the Environmental data gives more detail surrounding the entities included See also Page 23 of the Reference document http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-DDR_EN.pdf 44 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Profile: 3. Report Parameters No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or Fully Page 8 gives a high level explanation of boundary of the report (see completeness principle for limitations with more detail to be found in explanation of scope). Section 4 surrounding the availability and boundaries of the environmental data 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Fully This report covers our global operations where leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other data is available. As our carbon accounting and entities that can significantly affect comparability from reporting matures across our operations, more period to period and/or between organizations. countries will be added to our data suite Page 23 and 24 of the Reference Document details our subsidiaries http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-DDR_EN.pdf 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully Page 24 Data sections explain scope, calculations, including assumptions and techniques techniques and limitations of data underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Fully Page 8 explains that this is the first GRI styled information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons report for such re-statement (e.g.mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Fully Page 8 explains that this is the first GRI styled in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods report applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Fully As per this GRI table Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Fully The report is not currently externally assurance external assurance for the report. 45 Profile: 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Fully Please see pages 18-24 and 41 in the Annual committees under the highest governance body report responsible for specific tasks, such as setting http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ strategy or organizational oversight. en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-INST_EN.pdf Also see Pages 23 and 24 of the 2011 Reference document (p age 44 shown breakdown of gender in top executive positions) http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-DDR_EN.pdf 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Page 18 of the Annual Report body is also an executive officer. http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-INST_EN.pdf 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Page 18 of the Annual Report state the number and gender of members of the http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ highest governance body that are independent and/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-INST_EN.pdf or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Pages 52 and 110 of the Reference Document provide recommendations or direction to the highest gives details of the Investor and analyst meetings governance body. http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-DDR_EN.pdf 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Not Reported highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body Not Reported to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, Not Reported qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or Fully Page 14 Global Charter for Diversity and values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Inclusion, p.21 Environmental Policy Statement, economic, environmental, and social performance Page 31 Sustainable Procurement Principles and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Not Reported overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 46 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Profile: 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Not Reported body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Not Reported approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Not Reported social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Fully Page.7 Capgemini is signatory to the UN associations) and/or national/international advocacy Global Compact Caring for Initiative and organizations in which the organization: * Has signatory to the Women's Empowerment positions in governance bodies; * Participates in Principles. projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Fully Page. 7 identifies stakeholders who include organization. customers, shareholders, investors, business partners, suppliers, employees, the community and the environment. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Fully We are actively engaged with our key with whom to engage. stakeholders through a number of activities as detailed in Page 56, 61, 136 and 182 of the 2011 Reference Report. Historically, we have engaged with our key stakeholders on an informal and periodic basis. Our key stakeholders have typically included clients, investors and employees, and we are currently reviewing our stakeholder engagement process. http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-DDR_EN.pdf 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Not Reported frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Not Reported through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 47 Performance Indicators: Economic No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment Disclosure of Management Approach Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Fully Pages 7 and 29 of this report give details of including revenues, operating costs, employee Group revenue and community investments compensation, donations and other community Pages 131 and 172 of the Reference Document investments, retained earnings, and payments to gives details of operating costs and employee capital providers and governments. (group Management) compensation http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-DDR_EN.pdf See also the Annual Report http://www.capgemini.com/annual-report/2011/ en/download/Capgemini-RA2011-INST_EN.pdf EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Partially Environment Section opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan Not Reported obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Not Reported government. Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by Not Reported gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Not Reported locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Not Reported management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Not Reported investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Not Reported economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 48 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Performance Indicators: Environment No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment Disclosure of Management Approach Fully Page 20 (addresses compliance, and emissions, ISO14001 certified), p.21 environmental policy which covers GHG emissions, energy consumption, business travel, waste, procurement, products Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not reported EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Not Reported input materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Partially Page 39 energy consumption source. Reported EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Not Reported EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Partially Page 23 states that Capgemini’s carbon efficiency improvements. accounting has enabled significant energy and cost savings EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Not Reported or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Not Reported consumption and reductions achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Not reported Not a material aspect EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Not reported Not a material aspect withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Not reported Not a material aspect and reused. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Not reported Not a material aspect managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 49 Performance Indicators: Environment No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Not reported Not a material aspect products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not reported Not a material aspect EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Not reported Not a material aspect managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Not reported Not a material aspect conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Fully Page 24, 25, 39 (Scope 1 2 and 3 emissions) emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Fully Page 39 emissions by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Not Reported and reductions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Not Reported weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Not Reported by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Not Reported Not a material aspect destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Partially Page 39 method. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Not Reported EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Not Reported treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 50 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Performance Indicators: Environment No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Not Reported Not a material aspect value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Partially Page 17 Examples in Client section products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Fully Capgemini does not manufacture any product packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully Page 39 number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of Fully Page 22 transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Other EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures Not Reported and investments by type. 51 Performance Indicators: Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment Disclosure of Management Approach Fully Page 12 and 14 Charter of diversity and Inclusion. Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Fully Pages 12, 34 and 37 employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and Fully Page 37, page 38 Female recruitment employee turnover by age group, gender, and rates are reported on page 37. region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Not Reported are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental Not Reported leave, by gender. Labor Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Not Reported bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Not Reported operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Not Reported formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Partially Page 39 Number of work-related accidents and absenteeism, and number of work-related and rate of absenteeism is reported fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Not Reported risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Not Reported agreements with trade unions. 52 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Performance Indicators: Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per Partially Page 35 illustrates percentage of individual employee by gender, and by employee employees trained in 2011 by region category. LA11 Programs for skills management and Partially Page 13 outlines professional development lifelong learning that support the continued programmes in place. employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Partially Page 36 illustrates percentage of employees performance and career development reviews, who had a performance and career review in 2011, broken down by region. by gender. Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Fully Page 37 provides an overview of proportion of breakdown of employees per employee women in top executive positions per operating unit. Total workforce by gender, age, people with category according to gender, age group, disabilities are also supplied on pages 37-38. minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Not Reported women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after Not Reported parental leave, by gender. 53 Performance Indicators: Human Rights No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment Disclosure of Management Approach Partially Page 31 outlines sustainable procurement principles which cover non-discrimination, child labour, freedom of association, prevention of forced/compulsory labour, security practices, health and safety etc. Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Not Reported investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors Partially Page 31 and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies Partially Page 11 and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Not Reported corrective actions taken. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified Not Reported in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified Not Reported as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 54 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Performance Indicators: Human Rights No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment Prevention of forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified Not Reported as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in Not Reported the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving Not Reported rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that Not Reported have been subject to human rights reviews and/ or impact assessments. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights Not Reported filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 55 Performance Indicators: Social: Society No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment Disclosure of Management Approach Fully Page 10 (competition legislation and corruption),page 26 Local Communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Partially Local Community engagement is community engagement, impact assessments, and reported through community initiatives development programs. in the Community Section SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual Not Reported negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented Not Reported in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Not Reported analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's Fully Page 11 Ethics Section anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not Reported Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Not Reported policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Fully We do not support political parties political parties, politicians, and related institutions Page 29 Community Section provides by country. an overview of charitable donations Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Not Reported behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Not Reported of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 56 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011 Performance Indicators: Social:Product Responsibility No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment Disclosure of Management Approach Partially Page 16 Customer Health & Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products Not Reported and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Not Reported voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, Not Reported and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Not Reported voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of Fully Page 19 surveys measuring customer satisfaction. OTACE Scores Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes Not Reported related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Not Reported voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Not Reported customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws Not Reported and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 57 Server racks at our Merlin data center Appendix E UN Global Compact Reference Table Performance Indicators: Social:Product Responsibility No. Indicator Description Extent Reported Location / Comment Human Principle 1: Businesses should support Fully Page 11 Rights and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human Principle 2: make sure that they are not Fully Page 11 Rights complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Fully Page 11 freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Labour Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of Fully Page 11 forced and compulsory labour; Labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child Fully Page 11 labour; and Labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in Fully Page 11 respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a Fully Page 20 (addresses compliance, precautionary approach to environmental and emissions, ISO14001 certified), challenges; Page.21 environmental policy which covers GHG emissions, energy consumption, business travel, waste, procurement, products Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Fully Page 21 greater environmental responsibility; and Environment Principle 9: encourage the development Fully Page 18 Client section and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against Fully Page 11 Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 59 More information about our services, offices and research is available at www.capgemini.com Contact Details: James Robey, Group Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Director Capgemini Group, Place de l’Étoile, 11 rue de Tilsitt, 75017, Paris, France About Capgemini With almost 120,000 people in 40 countries, Capgemini is one of the world’s foremost providers of consulting, technology and outsourcing services. The Group reported 2011 global revenues of EUR 9.7 billion. Together with its clients, Capgemini creates and delivers business and technology solutions that fit their needs and drive the results they want. A deeply multicultural organization, Capgemini has developed its own way of working, the Collaborative Business Experience™, and draws on Rightshore®, its worldwide delivery model. The information contained in this document is proprietary. ©2012 Capgemini. All rights reserved. Rightshore ® is a trademark belonging to Capgemini.
