General Information July 1st, 2013 To our stakeholders: Consultoría Colombiana S.A. is in agreement and fully supports all the principles the United Nations Global Compact abides by, and therefore is committed to their fulfillment. We are committed to develop our business in accordance with the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti –Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Henry Sánchez Arenas Executive President Human Rights Assessment Policy Goals • We are in full agreement with all 30 articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • Our company's Labor Code of Conduct has been approved by Colombia´s Labor Ministry and complies with Global Compact principles on Human Rights as well as with Colombia´s applicable laws. This document includes a Chapter regarding Labor Harassment and internal solution procedures, as well as a Chapter regarding the creation of a Cohabitation Committee composed both by employees and employer for the study and solution of differences among employees in various aspects. Implementation • Our company culture includes an Open Door Policy, therefore providing access to all stakeholders to file verbally any grievances they might have. • We have a suggestion box where employees can file suggestions or grievances. • We offer equal opportunity employment without discrimination of Race, Religious Beliefs, Sexual Orientation, Gender or Incapacity. Measurement and Outcomes • Suggestion and grievances are taken to our Paritary Committee or to our Cohabitation Committee (composed 50% by employee elected representatives and 50% by employer elected representatives) for solution or follow up of taken actions. Among the employer elected representatives we count three senior Vice Presidents of the company. • Suggestions have been taken into account and in various cases implemented. • Our Cohabitation Committee hasn’t received any complaints. Labor Assessment Policy Goals • Our company's Labor Code of Conduct has been approved by Colombia´s Labor Ministry and complies with Colombia´s applicable laws. This document contains all employee’s rights and responsibilities as well as how compensation and benefits are applied. This document includes a Chapter regarding Labor Harassment and internal solution procedures, as well as a Chapter regarding the creation of a Cohabitation Committee for the study and solution of differences among employees in various aspects. Also, there is one article where it prohibits employees from inhibiting others to join any labor union. • Our company has been certified by Bureau Veritas Quality International BVQi under OHSAS 18001:2007 for which we get audited on a yearly basis. Also, we are members of the Colombia´s Safety Council (Consejo Colombiano de Seguridad), and we also get audited on a yearly basis. • As part of our OHSAS 18001:2007 compliance, we make a Labor related risk assessment for each project we perform and therefore determine the safety protection equipment and procedures to be supplied to each employee. Implementation • We have a suggestion box where employees can file suggestions or grievances. • When an employee joins the organization, he/she has to go through an induction process where we thoroughly explain how the company operates, this includes information about the existence of our Labor Code of Conduct, which is published in many places in our premises, as well as on the intranet. Employees must go through a re-induction process on a regular basis. • Our company culture includes an Open Door Policy, therefore providing access to all employees to file verbally any grievances they might have. • We perform a Labor related risk assessment for each project, which allows us to determine the risks and required safety equipment and procedures, we also perform entry and regular basis exams, to determine the employees health status and evolution, with recommendations about healthy living. • We offer equal opportunity employment regardless of Age, Race, Religious Beliefs, Sexual Orientation, Gender or Incapacity. We select people based on résumé credentials, and perform in many cases standardized psychological tests to determine who to hire. Regarding pay, each project has a pay schedule based on the approved offer by our client; people are hired based on these schedules. For those who are permanent employees of the firm, we have a Qualification system that determines the pay band where each person belongs and they get paid accordingly. Measurement and Outcomes • Every year, at the stockholders meeting we distribute an Annual Report with information about work related Accidents and Incidents, result of of the annual audit preformed by BVQi and the Colombian Safety Council, information about lawsuits filed by employees, statistical information about health exams performed. • Senior Management reviews results through the Paritary Committee and the HSEQ Committee which are performed on a regular basis. • We get external Audits from BVQi (ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001), by the Colombian Safety Council and by the External Audit appointed by the stockholders. These Audits review compliance of all internal procedures, as well as compliance with the law. Environment Assesment Policy Goals • We are a Consulting Engineering firm, an therefore have a very limited environmental footprint and impact. We've performed a footprint and impact assessments, where we've determined that Paper consumption, Energy Consumption, Water Consumption, Vehicle CO2 Contamination and Garbage Disposal are our main environmental impacts. • We have a Reduce, Reuse and Recycle policy which we apply to all our impacts. • Our goals are to progressively reduce impacts based both on culture change and on adoption of environmentally friendly technologies when applicable. Implementation • We perform periodic training and awareness campaigns. These include waste recycling, water and energy consumption habits, and use of paper. • We have signed agreements with our corporate suppliers for appropriate recycling of batteries, light bulbs, and vehicle lubricants. • We have virtually eliminated Logo paper, so we can print reports on both sides, review of blueprints is performed though PDF files or usage of reduced size paper formats. • We have installed timed valves and low consumption toilets in all sanitary facilities. • We have converted most of our vehicles to natural gas operation and, in other cases, we've acquired diesel vehicles. • We have an agreement with a Recycled paper manufacturer to sell them any paper waste we generate. • We have implemented in our offices garbage disposal cans so people can separate at the source. • We made an assessment of our CO2 footprint and purchased through CO2less.org enough trees to compensate such footpring. Each of our employees receives a tree (card) as a symbolic birthday present. Measurement and Outcomes • Senior Management reviews results through the Paritary Committee and the HSEQ Committee with are performed on a regular basis. • We get external Audits from BVQi (ISO 9001 and ISO 14001), by the Colombian Safety Council (It includes several Environmental Measurements). These Audits review compliance of all internal procedures, as well as compliance with the law. Anti-Corruption Assesment Policy Goals • In association with Pais Libre (a Non Government Organization), we have performed assessment of our exposition to Extortion and Kidnapping. • We support the UN Convention Against Corruption and we are determined to report to the corresponding authorities any corruption activity or indication thereof. Implementation • Using the before mentioned assessment with Pais Libre, we performed training courses with our project managers and established protocols for management of crisis situations. • When possible, we work with Transparency International to prevent bribery and corruption in the tenders where this organization gets involved. • We have also involved in multiple cases government control entities such as the Contraloria and the Procuraduria. These entities are responsible of assuring on a preventive basis or punishing any irregular activity related to the correct application of law by government contracting entities and officers. • We report, on a preventive basis, any irregular situations to the Colombian Infrastructure Chamber, so they take, when possible, the necessary actions. Measurement and Outcomes • As we mentioned in the implementation section, we have involved in some cases government control entities. • Also, as a result of our reports during bidding processes, where we consider there might be a bias in the terms of reference we have reported such situations to the contracting entity and in some cases also to the Colombian Infrastructure Chamber which in time have rendered changes in Request for Proposal documentation, making of these processes more balanced and transparent.
