Energy for a Better World Sustainability Report 2012 About this report This report includes performance data collected from January 1 to December 31, 2012. To ensure the continuity of the issues, some sections include data from 2013. Data accumulated from 2010 to 2012 is presented to show a trend analysis of the quantitative performance. The report covers performance of the domestic establishments including the Seoul head office and some subsidiaries. This report was prepared based on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative)* Guidelines and ISO 26000. The AA1000SES (Stakeholder Engagement Standard) was referenced to collect the stakeholders’ opinions and derive key issues. *GRI G3.1 Guideline, EUSS (Energy Utility Sector Supplement) For complete reliability and impartiality, verification was provided through the AA1000AS (Assurance Standard) by an independent third-party assurance provider, Ernst & Young. The verification outcomes are described on pages 79 and 80. The POSCO ENERGY 2012 Sustainability Report can be accessed through print or PDF version. More information on this report is available on the POSCO ENERGY website at http://www.poscoenergy. com. Contents Economic Value CEO Message 02 Stable Management Infrastructure 20 Our Leadership 04 Risk Management 23 Introduction to POSCO ENERGY 06 Financial Soundness 24 Mission and Vision 08 R&D for a Profit Center 25 Sustainability Management 09 Embodied the Culture of 26 System Continuous Improvement Communication with Stakeholders 11 Process Innovation 26 Materiality Test 14 Competitiveness of Power Generation 28 Sustainability Management of 16 National Green Business Fuel Cell 31 POSCO ENERGY in 2012 Environmental Value Response to Climate Change 36 Eco-friendly Management System 42 Operation of Eco-friendly Power Plants 43 Material Flow 46 Eco-friendly Communication 48 Social Value People-oriented Corporate Culture 52 Happiness Management 55 Safe and Healthy Workplace 58 Customer Satisfaction 60 Shared Growth with Suppliers 62 Communication and Sharing with 64 Local Communities UN Global Compact 68 Cover Story Appendix Financial Information 70 Sustainability Management 72 Performance Data Corporate Governance of Affiliates 73 GRI 3.1 & ISO26000 Index 74 Awards 78 The energy that evenly brightens Membership in Associations 78 the world is symbolized as the sun. Independent Assurance Report 79 The wave pattern spreading outward from the sun stands for the company’s passion and will for sustainability management to make a brighter world by providing cleaner energy. POSCO ENERGY believes that sustainability management is no longer a matter of will but of practice. WORLD BEST GREEN ENERGY COMPANY 3 CEO Message Dear Stakeholders, I would like to express my sincere gratitude for your continued produce electricity, and the Waste to Energy business, which uses interest in and support for POSCO ENERGY. With the release of waste and sewage as energy sources, are all making significant the second edition of the POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report, contributions to the creation of environmental value. I would like to share with you our efforts, performance, and social responsibility in creating shared value with our stakeholders. POSCO ENERGY has been building a corporate culture of communicating, sharing, and growing together with its In April 2012, the company changed its name from POSCO POWER stakeholders. The company has been putting in efforts for shared to POSCO ENERGY, and renewed its commitment to become a growth through industrial ecosystem development including the global leading energy company with the intent to expand the expansion of the domestic production of the fuel cell and the joint business from power generation to new and renewable energy, development of the reaction-type steam turbine. When it comes fuel cell and energy resources. to social contribution activities, the company has taken advantage of its energy business in setting ‘environmental protection’ and The year 2012 witnessed the best performance of the company ‘communication with local communities’ as its basic directions, since its foundation in terms of growth, profit, and stability. The and engaged in programs for enhancing energy efficiency for sales reached KRW 2.8trillion, increased by KRW 1trillion from the people who cannot afford to buy energy. Moreover, it has been previous year, and the operating income recorded KRW 270billion. promoting family-friendly management throughout the workplace However, the debt ratio stood at 173%, 70% down from the by opening an in-house nursery and adopting the flexible work previous year. system. These achievements are all the more meaningful given that POSCO ENERGY believes that sustainability management is no the company achieved its growth through not only financial longer a matter of will but of practice. performance but also environmental and social performance. For sustainability management, POSCO ENERGY will internalize its POSCO ENERGY has been making bold investments in the core values of Passion, Communication, Co-Success, and Green commercialization of green energy technologies, such as the Innovation into its management and corporate culture, create fuel cell and the energy storage system, so that it can achieve a pleasant workplace that complies with basics and principles, sustainable growth through future value creation. In the case of and become a much loved company that listens to and shares the fuel cell, localization is now at the final stage after 7 years of happiness with its stakeholders. the multi-phase development, with the in-house production of the key component, the Cell, expected in the near future. I ask for your unwavering trust and support. In addition, the company is actively engaged in establishing an Thank you. eco-friendly workplace, expanding the new and renewable energy July 2013 business, and also reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Chief Executive Officer introduction of high-efficiency power facilities and air pollution Chang Kwan Oh control systems has led to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions per MWh by 19% and nitrogen oxide emissions per MWh by 84% compared to 2009 levels. Moreover, the off-gas power plant, which uses the off-gas generated from a steel mill to 4 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Our Leadership POSCO ENERGY annually conducts interviews with the management to confirm their commitment to sustainability management and collect their opinions on the direction. This year saw the second interview, through which the executives of each division in charge of internal business and management activities shared their opinions. 2 Woo-Kyu Lee 4 Heung-Yul Yang 6 Myung-Chul Lee Executive Vice President Senior Vice President Executive Vice President Management & Planning Division Management & Supporting Division Technology Strategy Division POSCO ENERGY promotes its business We will strive for a work-life balance and We will develop competitive technoloactivities based on the enterprise spirit of create a 'happy workplace for employees’. gies through energy efficient and energy “value creation for POSCO ENERGY and recovering methods. its stakeholders”. 1 J i-Bok Jung 3 Kyung-Hoon Lee 5 S ung-Gyu Han Senior Vice President Senior Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Corporate Audit Division POSCO ENERGY will implement its own Power Generation Business Division Ethical management is a prerequisite for style of sustainability management and Based on the trust built on transparent sustainable growth and also a promise share its growth and value with the stakecommunication, POSCO ENERGY will that should be kept by everyone. holders. emerge as a ‘company that delivers happiness to the nation’. WORLD BEST GREEN ENERGY COMPANY 5 We are making every effort to reconcile the expectations of our stakeholders with the mission of the company. •We will achieve growth through value creation for our stakeholders. • We will consider compliance with ethical principles to be a prerequisite for the sustainable growth of the company. • We will foster a culture of work-life balance within the workplace. Employees will be able to fully express their creativity and find their work meaningful to the environment and society. 8 Sang-Soon Cho 10 Jin-Won Park 12 Yong-Hee Cho Vice President Senior Vice President Vice President Corporate Relations Division Power Plant Construction Division New and Renewable Energy We will strive for energy to make The construction of eco-friendly power Development Division a better world that brings happiness to plants will serve as a foundation for the We will strive to achieve both economic all employees and stakeholders. communication with local communities profit and environmental achievement in and the growth of the company. the global market. 7 Sung-Byung Kim 9 J ung-Gon Kim 11 Chang-Dong Shin 13 Min-Shik Shim Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Vice President Power Plant Development Fuel Cell Business Division We will take a long-term perspective PI 3.0 Project Department Division POSCO ENERGY promotes the in understanding the interest of our POSCO ENERGY will build the POSCO ENERGY will secure global IPP growth of the industrial ecosystem stakeholders and preparing for the foundation for sustainable growth competitiveness through contribution and customer satisfaction through future. through process innovation. to the local communities and strict its fuel cell business. compliance 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 1 6 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Introduction to POSCO ENERGY POSCO ENERGY was established in 1969 as Kyung-In Energy, the first independent power company in Korea, and became part of the POSCO Family in 2005. The company has so far provided a stable supply of electricity to the public in the metropolitan area by operating the Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant. It has also produced eco-friendly energy by running the Gwangyang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant and constructing the Pohang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant, solidifying its status as the nation’s largest private power provider. In the case of the fuel cell business, POSCO ENERGY has successfully localized relevant technologies and products, and thus taken a leading position in the national green market. In the areas of resource recycling and Solar and wind power generation, the company is actively promoting a variety of businesses at home and abroad. General Information (As of December 31, 2012) Company Name POSCO ENERGY Total Assets KRW 3.4trillion Sales KRW 2.9trillion No. of Employees 861 Installed Capacity 3,348MW Credit rating Corporate bond AA+, Commercial paper A1 Business Portfolio LNG Combined Cycle Power Fuel Cell Hub Plant 3 Pohang Fuel Cell Hub 1 Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Annual Production Capacity : 100MW Plant (units 1-6) 3,052MW Manufacturing Plant, Research Institute, 2 Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Service Center, Cell Manufacturing Plant Plant (units 7-9) 1,147 MW (Construction to be completed by 2014) Total construction to be completed by 2015 Solar Power Plant 4 S hinan Solar (Photovoltaic) Power Plant 14.5MW 2012 (2MW), 2013 (5MW) Construction to begin in 2013 (7.5MW) 5 Nevada Solar (Photovoltaic) Power Project in the U.S. 300MW Project under development WORLD BEST GREEN ENERGY COMPANY 7 Wind Power Plant Fuel Cell Power Plant 6 T amra Offshore Wind Power Plant 8 Pohang 2.4MW 30MW 9 Seoul (Nowon) 2.4MW Construction to be completed by 2014 10 Seoul (Sangam) 2.4MW 7 J eonnam Onshore Wind Power Plant 11 Incheon 2.4MW 100MW 12 G  yeonggi Green Energy 58.8MW Construction to be completed by 2014 Construction to be completed by 2013 (19% Equity Partnership) 5 9 1 10 2 19 11 12 13 8 3 18 15 16 4 17 14 7 6 Coal Thermoelectric Power Waste to Energy Business Generation 17 B usan Waste Treatment & Power 13 V ietnam Mong Duong 2 Coal Generation Facility Thermoelectric Power Generation Project Waste Treatment Facility Capacity : 900tons/day 1,200MW Power Generation Facility Capacity : 25MW Construction to be completed by 2015 Construction to be completed by 2013 (30% equity partnership) 18 Pohang Waste Treatment & Power  Generation Facility Off-gas Combined Cycle Waste Treatment Facility Capacity : 500tons/day Power Plant Power Generation Facility Capacity : 12MW Construction to be completed by 2017 14 Gwangyang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 284MW  19 Tancheon sewage heat energy utilization  15 Pohang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power facility Plant 290MW Heat Pump Capacity : 63Gcal/hr Construction to be completed by 2014 2013 (145MW), 2014 (145MW) 16 Indonesia Integrated Steel Mill Off-gas Power Generation Project 200MW Construction to be completed by 2014 8 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Mission and Vision Based on the mission of making a brighter world by providing cleaner energy, POSCO ENERGY has established its vision, core values, and strategies. The core values of Passion, Communication, Co-Success, and Green Innovation will lay the foundation for the company to unite its employees and accomplish the Vision 2020. Core Value Passion Co-Success •Ownership •Prosperous eco-system •Challenge •Social responsibility •Professionalism Mission We make a brighter world by providing cleaner energy Vision World Best GREEN Energy Company (Global, Reliable, Excellent, Efficient, Nature friendly) Communication Green Innovation •Trust •Eco-friendly growth •Consideration •Creativity and innovation •Cooperation Our Behavioral Principles •We are proud members of the POSCO ENERGY and take the lead in everything we do. Passion •We seek out new challenges with a sense of pride. •We grow with our work, develop out professionalism, and become the very best at what we do. •We trust one another with an open mind, and communicate freely and unreservedly. Communication •We recognized our diversity and take care of one another with sincerity. •We transcend regional and organizational barriers to work together and achieve shared goals. •We grow with all stakeholders, and we help to advance the ecosystem to Co-Success which we belong. •We fulfill our responsibilities as a global corporate citizen. •We are pioneering future energy through eco-friendly growth. Green Innovation •We apply creativity and innovation to secure new business opportunities. WORLD BEST GREEN ENERGY COMPANY 9 Sustainability Management System POSCO ENERGY champions sustainability management throughout the organization by sharing and promoting the values on sustainability management with employees to become a much loved company. Sustainability Management Strategy Become a much loved company that balances economic, social, and Goal environmental performance Strengthen the Sustainability Internalize Sustainability Promote Communication Direction Management Infrastructure Management with Stakeholders •Establish a task force for •Establish enterprise•Identify key issues of the execution of plans wide business strategies stakeholders and create •Implement sustainability based on sustainability the appropriate response Action Plan management strategies management process Select key tasks to •Run programs that •Promote mutual improve implementation increases values to each awareness with effectiveness stakeholders stakeholders •Link the goal for •Strengthen training •Publish sustainability sustainability and awareness-raising management reports management with KPI activities Sustainability Management Organization The Sustainability Management Group, a task force for the promotion of sustainability management, engages in establishing and implementing plans, analyzing performance, and improving internal competence, while prioritizing the improvement of stakeholder value. 1 Sustainability Management Committee The Sustainability Management Committee is an enterprise-wide consultative group under the guidance of the CEO that advises on the integrated management of sustainability management-related issues of the company. Under the Committee, there are 5 working committees for environmental management, social contribution, shared growth, GWP (Great Work Place), and customer satisfaction, which play a vital role in sharing issues, enhancing the consistency of activities, and reaching a consensus among 2 employees. CEO Strategic Decisions Sustainability Management Committee 1 | Sustainability  Management Committee Sustainability Management Group/ Secretary 2 | Working  Committees Operational Working Committees Decisions Environmental Social Shared Customer GWP Management Contribution Growth Satisfaction Action Working Group 10 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Slogan POSCO ENERGY's sustainability management brand represents its goal in “becoming a much loved company by creating stakeholder value”. Based on the direction set in the executive strategy discussion, an enterprise-wide contest was held. The current logo was selected from the contest with 240 employees submitting 345 ideas. The slogan, Energy for a Better World was also selected from an employee survey. Slogan Development Process for a Better Image Image of much Direction Jul. 12, 2012 y loved company Setting (At the executive d strategy discussion) Ene rg orl W Culture Stakeholder value Jul. 18 – 31, 2012 creation (345 entries from 240 employees) Contest Duration Vision/Mission/ Vision Core value Aug. 1 – Sep. 5, 2012 (Enterprise-wide survey, Selection consideration by Consideration external experts and executives) Motive Stakeholders SPICEE Slogan S ociety P artner I nvestor C ustomer E mployee E nvironment Sep. 11, 2012 Selection and (Announcement Award of official slogan) Presentation Slogan Shared Growth with Design Concept Stakeholders Since Sep. 2012 Development and Use The tree in the shape of the human body represents POSCO ENERGY striving to create value for various stakeholders and to make a better world. ■The slogan in the shape of a semicircle stands for a cleaner and brighter world (green) through the earth and green innovation and the warmth of energy (orange). ■The color of the tree is the color of the CI and represents the company, and the leaves of various colors stand for SPICEE, the company’s 6 major stakeholder groups.  * Local communities (blue), Partners (purple), Shareholders & Investors (yellow), Customers (pink), Employees (orange), Environment (green) Sustainability Management Slogan Awards 345 entries from 240 employees across the company WORLD BEST GREEN ENERGY COMPANY 11 Communication with Stakeholders POSCO ENERGY continuously identifies the expectations and interests of stakeholders and reflects them in the strategies and activities of its sustainability management while using various channels to communicate with stakeholders. Key Stakeholders and Communication Channels POSCO ENERGY defines its key stakeholders as shareholders and investors, the government, local communities, employees, partner companies, and customers. The company identifies the key interests and issues of each stakeholder group and effectively responds to stakeholder's requests. In addition, POSCO ENERGY operates communication channels tailored for each group by encouraging their participation in relevant activities. ● Communication Channel d Investors olders an ● Key Issues h are ● Our commitment Sh SkyLak e Incuvest •STIC In ve Go • stme OSC O nt ve •P rn •G m direct ors •Investment Associa tion o e d of ostics interviews s ve oar n diagn t rn nt •B anageme m M en as • isclosure •P rs ts me •D b e orate competitivene of Trad oli g corp power s le energ to ss cy s rovin istry cu p m •Im tifying core growth engines ee ubsid Min y ew en iarie pow • •Id aging and responding to r R gs the tin n isks •R einfo s an er c Ma as s •KEPCO w • ein rc •C fo o d l om ent ch g financial r Securin •Domestic rkshop • lim compet ing pric pro wer gem oc su y at ana al pan and enhanc •Develop ly of ele itive e a lity ty nes nd duct i ies y stab ing Inc n m ce safe cit r ee and r la C go ie s s profitable gr nc qu rkp se ou e pon fore pg •Custom ve s s wo Stable ali m in res to n ge Customer •KEPCO/ me sup t g ct ign ge er se sel cin rn uc p an •Reinforc nt of new ric po ly ndly ta and imp exh ing ch K rov of el -frie min •Renewa PX m h e eco s a ing i e he ion •Stable s rs bit f en cu ctri gt erat ion or n satis sin gen fac s ea wer upp tio o sin ess n bu erg e •Building tion and Local co Pr h •Win-wi sentat n ex rt t •Power g eration rials / S om yn wt at PC on gs ial otin m izin a ro c g Mainten m itie on Maxim gg po sc trib unit in utio ua har atio loc ust r pre n n gro ies / E omp •Fair eval for s o sup m al com mized en er Inch uc e atio facilit gt ies c ti •Power g nce mat to so zin ng s mu eon, ies •Supplie More lon support for h nitie form tiv oci wth s ener s an el com ge or al c -to petency velopment ac he ng nv ontr ion s mid ef de t t ir o ibution •Sharing and he tur m gy in king n ya d m ng eside promo m un i ting smart wor on de ent mp / Fu / C n c e s pla tiv As etin ities velop al im tru ion i busines as ac up •C inim ti pact •Technolo t environment so gs m infr selec pli ha r e •M uppo com nt o nts ers •B cia the am f n co ies ces r alan ng tio • t ce betw fe es S al n R een work and li of i erv tie d •D •F prese egular • loc y s an eve rn utu ntat k mee ge e com lopment of professional e S ts' tings ain d me re E ion Blu iden exc an peten s an om / in cy Gw nt • es ryner d oth an g ch •S s gy C er adv d an an •R adviso amp isory en ab •O atisfaction g dr ve us ts ro ad •L ccupatio survey l go an nal Saf e e a , up abo r-ma ety & Health Committe ocedur oc ng pli ers nagem ent council •Grievance pr •L Poha Pa rtn er •E s mp loye es of POSCO EN ERGY es ploye Em 12 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Stakeholder Committee POSCO ENERGY formed a stakeholder advisory group and held a stakeholder committee meeting. The advisory group consists of key stakeholders and sustainability management experts who can represent the nature of the energy industry. The committee identified issues and risks of sustainability management from various perspectives and explored the ways to achieve sustainable growth. _ Date July 11, 2013 Venue Conference room of the headquarters in Seoul _ Host Jae-Eun Lee, Sustainability Management Group leader / Director Jae-Seok Yang / KPX (Korea Power Exchange) “The government is currently implementing a competition system for more efficiency in the power market. However, the power generation industry still requires a high level of public concern due to the nature of its infrastructure. Thus, POSCO ENERGY needs to maintain a balance by increasing the efficiency of resource distribution through competition and strengthening the social contribution programs. It is expected that the lack of power generation facilities will render it difficult to ensure a stable supply of electricity for a while. F or POSCO ENERGY, it is important to actively invest in facility construction and maintenance and to 1 secure financial resources for a stable supply of electricity. Also, the company needs to promote its own social contribution activities in line with its business philosophy.“ / Professor Han-Gyun Noh / Kookmin University “The mission of POSCO ENERGY must be in line with the expectations and requests of its stakeholders. When it comes to setting the direction for the electricity or energy industry, POSCO ENERGY should not depend completely on the government but take the initiative and exert its creativity. It is necessary 2 to establish a vision for the power industry and to clarify the position and capacity of the company in that picture.” / Director Seok-Hyun Chun / KEMCO (Korea Energy Management Corporation) “POSCO ENERGY is fulfilling its social responsibility by setting a good example of active business activities in the production and supply of fuel cell, new and renewable energy, and energy products along with R&D investment. I hope the company continues to take the lead in the energy industry as now, and to maintain the partnership with the government in making efforts for the growth of the energy 3 industry.” WORLD BEST GREEN ENERGY COMPANY 13 4 / Executive Director Choon-Seung Yang / KoSIF (Korea Sustainability Investing Forum) “There are a number of ongoing international discussions on climate change. For instance, the U.S. and China have almost reached an agreement on GHG emissions reduction. Thus tightening regulations on GHG emissions across the globe seems inevitable. Against this backdrop, investors have started to put more attention on the impact of resource depletion and carbon regulations on energy companies. I think POSCO ENERGY will be able to find a way to survive in the era of climate change by building a smooth relationship with various stakeholders, including these investors, listening to their voices and exploring the ways to contribute to the sustainable development of the company as well the society.” / Team Leader So-Won Lee / FKI (The Federation of Korean Industries) 5 “It is impressive how POSCO ENERGY has well established its sustainability management system and promotes relevant activities in line with its social contribution programs. Its social contribution activities, such as renovating houses and operating community child center, clearly show the very nature of its business. I look forward to POSCO ENERGY employees more actively participating in the diverse activities.” / Director Gang-Yoon Lee / Doosan Infracore 6 “Sustainability management is no longer a mere trend but a main issue in the global business. It has become a sine qua non for the growth of the global infrastructure business. In particular, potential customers and talented human resources have a significant level of interest in sustainability management. Since POSCO ENERGY has a high level of stakeholder risk, such as climate change risk and reputation risk, it needs to put more emphasis on sustainability management.” Stakeholder Advisory Group 1C  ustomer Director Jae-Seok Yang 4 Investor Executive Director Choon-Seung Yang KPX (Korea Power Exchange) KoSIF (Korea Sustainability Investing Forum) 2A  cademia Professor Han-Gyun Noh 5R  elevant Organization Team Leader So-Won Lee Kookmin University FKI (The Federation of Korean Industries) 3G  overnment/Agency Director Seok-Hyun Chun 6 Industry Director Gang-Yoon Lee KEMCO (Korea Energy Management Corporation) Doosan Infracore 14 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Materiality Test Step1 Identify Issues of Sustainability Management 1-1. Analyze and benchmark domestic and foreign standards The company identified 30 issues related to sustainability management by analyzing a group of domestic and foreign standards (GRI3.1, EUSS, ISO26000 and UNGC), peer group benchmarking (key activities and issues), and advice from sustainability management experts. Economy Society Environment Growth Risk Value Great Social Climate Environmental Environmental Management Change Number of Chain Work Place Impact Management Communication Sustainability 30 Management 6 issues 4 issues 3 issues 5 issues 3 issues 3 issues 4 issues 2 issues Issues Step2 Evaluate Level of Interest and Importance to Business The 30 issues were evaluated through 2 criterialevel of external interest (5 factors) and importance to business (4 factors). 2-1. Analyze Media Period The company conducted media analysis on its sustainability management activities by examining 746 January 1 – December 31, 2012 articles released in 2012. Subject A total of 746 articles in major daily newspapers and technical Customers 1.3% Shareholders Negative 13.3% Partners 2.5% and Investors magazines Employees 2.7% 52.3% Positive/ Government 5.8% Stakeholders Negative Local Positive 86.7% communities 35.4% 2-2. Survey Internal / External Stakeholders Sample size Sample size Internal Stakeholder 922 persons External Stakeholder: 209 persons 483 participants Response rate 30 participants Response 52.4% rate14.4% 2-3. Evaluate External Interest and Business Importance Number of Webzine Government’s Policy, BOD Agenda January – December Vision, and Goal ... 43 WORLD BEST GREEN ENERGY COMPANY 15 To ensure that the sustainability report describes the interests of diverse stakeholders and deals with the most crucial issues, POSCO ENERGY conducted a 3-step materiality test. The key issues identified in each process are introduced in the table of contents and the main body of this report to ensure all issues is covered in the report. Step3 Define Key Issues The company created a pool of issues on sustainability management and selected the top 10 issues by mapping the results of the evaluation of external interest and business importance in a matrix based on the opinions of stakeholders and the comprehensive analysis. The activities and performance of sustainability management regarding these key issues are mainly disclosed in this report. Issues other than the top 10 will also be monitored and managed continuously. Materiality Test Matrix High Group Reference Rank Top 10 issues Classification page 1 Create new profits for stable revenue Economy 31-32 Contribute to the development of 2 Society 64-67 High Group local communities 3 Respond to climate change Environment 36-41 External interest Establish a sound labor-management culture 4 Society 57 and protect the rights of employees Run social contribution programs in 5 Society 67 line with the company’s business 6 Expand the business in the global market Economy 6-7 7 Ensure a stable supply of electricity Economy 29 Middle Group 8 Create a pleasant working environment Society 52-57 Minimize the amount of pollutants and 9 Environment 42-49 preserve the environment Low Group Promote win-win cooperation and 10 Society 21, 62-63 shared growth Business importance High Group  Issues that are highly important from the perspective of the company and stakeholders and require relevant performance and management of activities Middle Group Issues that are important in certain aspects and require continuous management Low Group Issues that are relatively less important but still require continuous attention Middle Group Rank Issues Classification Rank Issues Classification 11 Establish transparent and stable corporate governance Economy 20 Manage the health and safety around worksites Society 12 Promote customer satisfaction and attract new customers Society 21 Promote ethical management Economy Introduce eco-friendly and high-efficiency power 22 Develop and invest in eco-friendly technologies Environment 13 Environment generation facilities Recruit quality talent and strengthen the competitiveness 23 Promote eco-friendly communication Environment 14 Society of employees 24 Engage in protecting biodiversity Environment Contribute to establishing a market order of 15 Economy 25 Secure financial soundness Economy fair competition and anti-corruption Increase productivity and management efficiency through 26 Perform risk management Economy 16 Economy management innovation 27 Enhance the environmental management system Environment Invest in R&D activities and secure technology 17 Economy 28 Disclose transparent environmental information Environment competitiveness 18 Improve the compensation system and welfare programs Society 29 Comply with environmental laws Environment 19 Enhance financial performance Economy 30 Encourage employees to participate in volunteer activities Society 16 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Sustainability Management of POSCO ENERGY in 2012 Key issues Goals for 2012 Achievements in 2012 •Ensured early stability of newly-built facilities (Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant units 5-6) Make strategic case by •Promptly replaced old equipment Stable Supply of case responses to individual •Established maintenance and operation plans in preparation for Electricity power facilities the completion of the LNG PPA (Power Purchase Agreement) •Conducted preventative maintenance of blind spots and stand-alone facilities •Secured the global IPP competitiveness for the successful Economic construction of power plants in Vietnam Expansion into Value the Global Secure global business •Constructed off-gas power plants in Indonesia competitiveness •Diversified the sources of power generation and the areas for Market business activities •Stimulated the overseas demand for fuel cell Take the lead in and promote the diversification of the fuel cell •Developed the fuel cell market for buildings and dominated the market RPS market in advance Foundation for Strengthen product •Signed a contract on the transfer of Cell technologies and competitiveness (ex. cost reduction/ promoted the localization of products Future Growth quality stabilization) •Expanded the production scale and established a stable Secure green energy technologies to production system hold a dominant position in •Secured green energy technologies key businesses •Began the construction of Shinan Solar (photovoltaic) power plant unit 2 •Signed a business agreement on the onshore wind power project Expand the foundation of with Jeollanam-do Climate Change the green growth business •Complied with air regulations regarding the Busan RDF power Environmental plant Value •Began the construction of the Tancheon sewage heat energy utilization facility •Complied with the ISO14001 standard •Minimized the emissions of pollutants and GHGs Environment •Strengthened cooperation with external organizations for Green Clean Plant Protection environmental improvement •Conducted preventative maintenance of environmental facilities (discharge water treatment, water purification facility) Nurture and strengthen the •Recruited overseas workers, established and ran a growth system competitiveness of global talents •Diversified education programs based on the capacity building Pleasant Build a win-win relationship principles of leadership, globalism, and professionalism Workplace between labor and management •Built education infrastructure for self-performance management based on trust and communication •Established and ran the grievance committee Enhance the values of work and life •Obtained the certification of family-friendly management •Created a safety culture of trust and communication •Established a company-wide safety support system Establish a global safety and •Encouraged position holders to take the lead in conducting safety Safe Workplace health system based on activities human respect •Built a process for SAO (Safety Action Observation) •Developed an emergency response system to contact external organizations Social Value •Launched a project to improve the energy efficiency of aged housing •Developed a framework for social contribution activities Contribution to Raise the Status of •Awarded a prize for attracting the Incheon GCF Local Local communities through (Green Climate Fund) Communities social contribution activities •Launched theme-based volunteer activities with the families of employees •Supported the development of tourist attractions in local communities •Laid the foundation for shared growth by stabilizing the operation of the supplier evaluation system •Complied with fair trade standards for subcontracting Reinforce the Activities for •Reinforced win-win cooperation through benefit sharing Shared Growth Shared Growth •Conducted the joint-development of technologies through technology partnerships •Supported suppliers through the activities of the shared growth support team WORLD BEST GREEN ENERGY COMPANY 17 2012 KPI Goals for 2013 Plans for 2013 •Improve the performance of Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant units 5 and 3,348MW 6, and achieve forced outage Installed capacity Enhance the competitiveness of •Secure stable sources of profit through efficient performance management the power generation business •Complete the construction of Pohang Off-gas Combined Cycle Power Plant units 1 KRW 2.9trillion and 2 before schedule Sales •Construct Incheon units 7-9 with the optimization of energy management 75% Emerge as a global energy •Strengthen the core competence of IPP through the successful completion of Construction process of provider based on a balance overseas projects the off-gas power plant between growth and internal •Set the direction of business entry and expansion as a global IPP company stability •Lay the foundation to secure the fuel for power generation in Indonesia 115.6MW Successfully secure the original Accumulated order for technology for the fuel cell •Acquire the original technology for the Cell fuel cell •Raise the cost competitiveness by enhancing productivity and quality Secure the technology for •Develop fuel cell for buildings and the SOFC (Solid Oxide Fuel Cell) green energy from KRW 18.3billion •Develop the 100kW reaction-type steam turbine the business perspective R&D investment •Efficiently cope with the GHG energy target management system and the RPS (Renewable Portfolio Standard) system 8.13GJ/MWh •Make a proactive response to the carbon emission trading scheme Energy consumption Build an optimal portfolio of •Diversify the power sources of new and renewable energy and the climate change response develop businesses in response to the RPS 0.41tCO2/MWh business •Expand the power generation business using new and renewable energy GHG emissions •Reduce energy consumption through waste heat recovery and power consumption reduction 0.13kg/MWh •Comply with the ISO14001 standard NOx emissions Internalize environmental •Cope with the Total Air Pollution Load Management System management and strengthen •Reinforce cooperation with external organizations on environmental 0.13t/MWh competitiveness improvement activities (ex. Blue Sky Committee) Water consumption •Stabilize the operation of environmental facilities •Boost the competitiveness of engineers 132hr/person Attract quality talent •Secure experts in each field necessary for business expansion Average number of Design the vision for the future •Establish a self-directed career and competence management system hours for employee Realize the GWP of trust and •Create a working environment for smart work training communication •Introduce programs to enhance the quality of life for employees 1.9% •Develop the measures for the safety management of dangerous machinery and Absenteeism equipment Make a zero-accident workplace •Strengthen the compliance with the KOSHA18001 1case centered on the safety process •Reinforce the safety system based on the cooperation among worksites and Number of industrial divisions accidents •Encourage employees to engage in safety competence enhancement activities 34.2hours •Start the house remodeling business for the enhancement of energy efficiency Average number of Share green values with •Run the education business for the children of the energy poor hours for volunteer local communities •Provide a rewarding experience for employees through the BEST volunteer activities activities of employees •Improve the process of social contribution activities •Promote performance sharing programs based on win-win cooperation •Develop joint R&D activities KRW 556million Engage in the activities for shared growth •Expand the support for technology/management of SMEs Benefit sharing value •Promote the communication with partners through the diversification of channels Economic Value POSCO ENERGY strives to become a leading energy provider by expanding its business in the global market through achieving sustainable growth. As part of such efforts, the company is strengthening its competitiveness to respond to the CBP (Cost Based Pool) market and establishing a stable electricity supply system to ensure high economic performance. Moreover, the company will diversify the sources of power generation by securing the cost competitiveness of the fuel cell and focusing on the development and supply of new and renewable energy. Installed Capacity (MW) Sales (KRW billion) R&D Investment (KRW billion) Compared to 2010 Compared to 2010 Compared to 2010 60% 224% 106% 2,856.7 18.3 3,348 3,344 2,092 1,917.6 9.8 8.9 881.7 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 20 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Stable Management Infrastructure Accountable Corporate Governance POSCO ENERGY is practicing responsible and substantial management through the continuous improvement of its corporate governance. The board of directors, the highest decision-making body of the company, is doing its best to enhance the value of shareholders and the benefit of stakeholders. Composition and Operation of the Board of Directors The board of directors (BOD) consists of four internal directors, including the CEO, two non-executive directors, and one auditor. The BOD is chaired by the CEO, and the CEO is appointed upon the resolution of the board. Directors who make general management decisions are elected at the general meeting of shareholders. The BOD appoints one financial expert as the auditor to audit the accounts and financial status of the company throughout the year. The auditor may supervise directors and has the right to request reports on general management activities. In 2012, a total of 19 BOD meetings were held to make decisions on key management issues. The BOD regulations stipulate that directors who have a special stake in the company should not exercise their voting rights in those meetings. In addition, it was decided that a regular BOD meeting would be held on the last Tuesday of every month for more efficiency. BOD Activities Evaluation and Compensation Number of Meetings Evaluation of and compensation for the BOD comply with the internal regulation based on a merit-based 19 compensation system. Participation and performance in BOD meetings during the tenure of directors are regularly monitored through the BOD minutes, and performance compensation is paid after the Number of Approved Agenda evaluation of the executives of POSCO family companies. 43 Major BOD Agenda for 2012 The 2012 BOD agenda for approval include 1) domestic and overseas projects for power generation, 2) Attendance corporate social responsibility (CSR), 3) communication with local communities, and 4) risk management 88 % to emerge as a comprehensive global energy company. The BOD will continue to act as the top decision-making body for company’s sustainable growth, giving consideration to the opinions of various stakeholders presented throughout the business process. Shareholder Status (As of December 2012) Composition of the Board of Directors (As of April 2013) ▒ Skylake Global 12.9% Incuvest 5 Private Classification Name Position Equity Fund Chang-Kwan Oh CEO Kyung-Hoon Lee VP ▒ KoFC STIC Growth 7.5% Champ No. 2010-2 Internal Head of Management & Composition of Directors Woo-Kyu Lee Planning Division Private Equity Fund Shareholders Head of Technology 1.4% Myung-Chul Lee ▒K  oFC Skylake Growth Strategy Division Champ 2010-5 Head of POSCO Private Equity Fund Eung-Gyu Kim Management Support Non-executive Division ▒S  TIC Korea 0.6% Directors Integrated-Technologies POSCO Executive Director of Gyung-Chul Gu New Growth Engine STIC Investment 77.6% Private Equity Fund Standing Head of Corporate Ji-Bok Jung Auditor Audit Division ECONOMIC VALUE 21 POSCO ENERGY maintains a transparent and stable corporate governance to fulfill its responsibility of enhancing the value of stakeholders. Moreover, the company prioritizes ethical management as a standard of decision-making and behavior of employees, thereby creating an ethical corporate culture. Fair Trade POSCO ENERGY strives for the sound development of the national economy by ensuring the market mechanism and suppressing the concentration of economic power through promoting fair and free competition. Introduction and Operation of the Fair Trade Compliance Program To voluntarily comply with the Fair Trade Act, POSCO ENERGY introduced the fair trade compliance program (CP) in October 2009. To effectively operate the program, the company develops the guidelines, and the compliance manager establishes and implements specific action plans. To ensure that all employees understand and comply with the laws and regulations, the company offers compliance program and an online education program, ‘Easy to Understand Fair Trade’. The company continues to develop inhouse experts, who can perform their jobs with thorough understanding of law, through regular training sessions from external specialized agency. The company also distributed a handbook on fair trade to all departments, and encouraged employees to practice fair trade in their daily lives. Furthermore, the company is taking disciplinary actions for violators as stipulated in the HR policy. Autonomous Inspection of Fair Trade POSCO ENERGY has introduced a system that enables employees to autonomously check whether they are violating the laws and regulations of fair trade and takes measures against the risks as soon as they are reported. This system contributes to prevent violations from the bottom and maintain the fair and free trade market economy. Ethical Management POSCO ENERGY has made corporate ethics a part of its corporate culture and takes ethical management as a core management strategy for the company's survival and growth regardless of any challenges. Ethical Management System To become a company trusted and loved by stakeholders, POSCO ENERGY takes the principle ‘Do the right thing in the right way’ as a standard for decision-making and behavior at work. As part of CEO’s commitment at the BEST such efforts, the Ethical Management Office supports the internalization of ethical management by (Business Ethics and Sustainability management for Top performance) establishing regulations, offering programs on ethical practice as well as education on the prevention of Forum unethical behavior, and checking any violations of the code of ethics. Code of Ethics To realize the vision of becoming a comprehensive global energy provider, POSCO ENERGY has established a global code of ethics, which is based on the philosophy that the most important factors in corporate management are the company achieving sustainable growth and employees having a right set of values. The company has also placed the code of conduct and practical guidelines under the code of ethics for effective compliance. 22 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Ethical Management Programs 「Promotion of Participation in Ethical Management」 POSCO ENERGY encourages all employees to engage in ethical management through various programs. To increase the employee awareness of ethical management, the company uses the intranet to send popup notices about ethical management issues, distributes a handbook on the code of ethics to all divisions, holds events such as ethics fortune cookie giveaway, and operates a gift return center during holidays in order to establish a culture of integrity across the company. Ethical practice leader awards 「Programs on Corporate Ethics Autonomous Practice」 POSCO ENERGY operates ‘Programs on Corporate Ethics Autonomous Practice’, through which employees can voluntarily identify and deal with ethical risks. Each division assigns Ethics helpers responsible for the Program, and they carry out the Program by conducting self-assessment, selecting task, and executing task. The system of ethical management will be completed by stimulating employees to enhance their ethical awareness and to comply with the code of ethics. In addition, leaders of ethical practice are appointed and given their own R&R, while the executives of each division take the lead in holding regular meetings on ethical practice so that all employees and executives can internalize ethical management. 「Reporting System and Online Consultation Services on Unethical Behavior」 POSCO ENERGY operates two reporting systems on unethical behavior. One is its own system of ‘Cyber Shinmungo’, and the other is an outsourced system that protects the anonymity of whistleblowers. These systems help the company to establish a corporate culture of ethics. Moreover, online consultation services are offered to deal with the inquiries on ethical management and fair trade. 「Ethics Education」 POSCO ENERGY provides all employees with education programs on the In-house ethics education prevention of unethical behavior and sexual harassment on a regular basis. New employees take a class on the introduction to ethics while the rest participate in programs tailored for each position. These programs are also offered to the employees of partner companies. Commitment to Trust, Communication, and Ethical Practice Given that a series of ethical issues has recently caused a great impact on the Korean society, POSCO ENERGY believes that now is the time for a real change. The company announced the “Commitment to Trust, Communication, and Ethical Practice” for a sound organizational culture, and established the following top six principles: build trust, communicate with an open mind, share with gratitude, practice ethics, take responsibility as public figures, and have ownership. Based on these, a number of education programs on leadership with trust and communication skills and on ethical awareness are provided for all employees. A list of self-assessment on corporate ethics has been distributed to all employees to encourage their ethical practice. In this Ceremony of Commitment to Trust, way, POSCO ENERGY strives for a sound organizational culture based on employee Communication, and Ethical Practice consensus on change and the practice of the top six principles. ECONOMIC VALUE 23 Risk Management To eliminate or minimize the risks that might affect the company’s business activities, POSCO ENERGY has established its risk management system and has managed such risks through inter-division cooperation. Risk Management Strategy Under the responsibility of the CEO, POSCO ENERGY defines and manages the risks related to strategy, finance, law, procurement, EHS, maintenance, manufacturing, human resources, and ethics by division and position. Moreover, the company identifies the risks that can negatively affect stakeholders in advance, reflects them in the decision-making, and makes all-out efforts to prevent the subsequent loss through self-assessment. Risk Management Activities Autonomous Inspection of Risk Factors The company has conducted autonomous inspection of risk factors by division and position to identify the risk factors embedded in working-level divisions. Regarding the risk factors, autonomous inspection, improvement, and feedback on activities help the company to establish an effective response system and to internalize the importance of risk management. Enhancement of the Audit Portal POSCO ENERGY strengthens the monitoring and inspection of risks by enhancing its audit portal in ways such as improving the operation, reinforcing the pre-inspection by working-level, and expanding the monitoring. The process of risk management starts with detection, moves on to pre-inspection, then final inspection by the Management Audit Group, and ends with post-management by a concerned division. Risk Management System Management Head of Person-inSystem Audit Group Division Charge Report on abnormality Report on abnormality (through SMS) (through SMS) Audit Checking of materials portal Checking of for explanation by abnormality and working-level division appointment of person in charge Lack of materials Y Request for materials Materials for for explanation for explanation explanation N Grading and Check and approval of post-management materials Cause analysis and recurrence prevention/ Post-management distribution 24 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Financial Soundness POSCO ENERGY secures stable and sound financial performance by operating Enterprise Risk Management. Financial Risk Management System F/X Derivatives Posco Energy secures financial flexibility with well-diversified debt maturity structures. The volatility of foreign exchange rates and interest rates is minimized with the investment in F/X derivatives contracts. In addition, the operation of internal accounting management system enables effective risk management USD 100% over various financial activities, including settlement, tax, and funding. Outstanding Growth, Profitability, and Stability EUR 53% The increasing investment in infrastructure, such as expansion of the Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant (1,252MW) and the establishment of Gwangyang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant JPY 30% (284MW), as well as growing demand for electricity have enabled the company to reach KRW 2.85trillion in sales and KRW 273.2billion (operating income ratio : 9.6%) in operating income. The large investment in power plants over the past 3 years has led to the total debt amount of KRW 1.6trillion as of December 2012. However, capital increase of KRW 200billion and repayment of principal and interest owing to Credit Rating the operation of new power plants allowed significant improvement of financial soundness with debt to equity ratio decreasing from 242% to 173% year on year. These results contributed to maintaining Long-term AA+ company’s long-term credit rating of AA+, short-term credit rating of A1, and securing quality funding Short-term A1 from financial market. Growth 117.5 73.3 48.4 Sales Growth Rate (%) 49.0 Asset Growth Rate (%) 17.1 13.5 2,856.7 3.4 3.0 1,917.6 2.5 Sales (KRW billion) 881.7 Asset (KRW trillion) 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Profitability 14.7 5.4 5.1 5.3 ROA (%) 1.7 1.5 ROE (%) 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 9.0 9.6 7.3 4.8 6.4 Operating Income Ratio Net Income Ratio (%) 2.4 (%) 273.2 181.9 140.6 Operating Income 79 Net Income 42.5 46.1 (KRW billion) (KRW billion) 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Stability 241.6 202.7 173.0 36.6 33.0 29.3 Debt to Equity Ratio (%) Equity Capital Ratio (%) 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 ECONOMIC VALUE 25 R&D for a Profit Center POSCO ENERGY strives to enhance the value of the company through its creative R&D activities by not only securing the core technologies of new growth engines, such as new and renewable energy and energy storage system, but also focusing on its existing business of gas turbine-based power generation. R&D Promotion and Organization Based on the goal of maximizing the investment performance by integrating all R&D results into the field work, POSCO ENERGY promotes its R&D activities with a focus on the enhancement of power generation efficiency, diversification of product usage, and development of new growth engines (such as the energy storage system). To this end, the company has established a company-wide technology support system, mainly led by the technology strategy division, and strives to secure the technological competence in fuel cell and green energy. Maximization of R&D Investment Performance through Selection & Concentration R&D for the Efficiency of Power Generation POSCO ENERGY is developing a variety of technologies to enhance the efficiency of power generation and thus, to maximize the value of its existing power generation business. The technology of the reactiontype steam turbine, which uses the mid and low heat from power plants as a power source, is expected to increase the efficiency of power generation and reduce the cost of fuel. Jointly developed with a domestic SME, this steam turbine is considered an excellent example of shared growth and win-win relationship. Diversification of Usage of Fuel Cell Products POSCO ENERGY is developing technologies that can diversify the usage of fuel cell products in order to create new markets and boost sales. The fuel cell for buildings installed in Seobuk Hospital and the Children’s Grand Park in 2012 are the most representative cases. The usage will be more diversified in the near future to include the fuel cell for emergency backup power and ships along with the development of the corresponding technologies. 1 Development of New Growth Engines POSCO ENERGY is focusing on the development of ESS (Energy Storage System) and SOFC (Solid Oxide Fuel Cell) as new growth engines in the energy industry. ESS is a key product that can overcome time and space, which are the fundamental limitations of new and renewable energy sources, such as Solar power (Photovoltaic, Solar thermal), and wind power. The development of ESS with various capacities will allow the company to lead the bulk energy storage system market. SOFC is a next generation fuel cell with a 2 much higher efficiency than MCFC (Molten Carbonate Fuel Cell), and it is now under development to prepare for the future free competition market of the power sector. By securing the core technologies of Cell/Stack and maximizing their efficiency, the company will take the lead in the fuel cell market, reduce the cost of power generation, and diversify the usage of products. R&D Manpower and Investment 1 | Agreement ceremony for joint KRW 18.3billion development of reaction-type steam KRW 9.8billion 69persons turbine 2 | Fuel cell for buildings in Seobuk KRW 8.9billion 53persons Hospital 29persons ▒R  &D manpower R&D investment 2010 2011 2012 26 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Embodied the Culture of Continuous Improvement Management Innovation Activities The philosophy for innovation activities at POSCO ENERGY, “All employees take the initiative in increasing efficiency and making improvements”. The company also has a goal of making a pleasant and rewarding workplace by encouraging employees to have the sense of ownership in doing their jobs. QSS Activity Frame Create a pleasant and rewarding workplace for all employees Employees all together participate in QSS activities properly and continuously 3-ZERO (Zero Accidents, Zero Defects, Zero Waste) Be a leader of Carry out the site improvement Establish the QSS Philosophy of the CEO QSS improvement project centered on 3: site, •Employees all together : QSS activities based on current state, and wise solution employee consensus •Properly : QSS activities of empirical tradition Make a Nurture Take the Continue to improve the daily •Continuously : QSS activities with consistency under worksite talents with initiative business processes the goal that wastes the power of nothing execution Improve the daily 5S, My Machine, Best Plant business processes Jump-Up activities QSS Activity System •Establish a system for senior QSS improvement leaders Reform of consciousness, awareness of waste, activity of practice, •Establish a system for activities with initiative encouragement of suggestions •Establish a system for improvement of daily business processes Commendation · Encouragement · Appreciation •Support activities of innovation Process Innovation In accordance with the need for a new operating system in line with the business expansion, POSCO ENERGY is conducting process innovation by standardizing the business process across the company and establishing a new operating system. To improve the connectivity and efficiency between systems that used to be operated by function/sector, the company is promoting the visualization of the business process. It is designing a customer-oriented process with a simplified and standardized work approach; establishing an ERP in compliance with the energy industry and international standards; and introducing a company-wide transparent and speedy management information system. In addition, it will design an Proclamation ceremony of PI 3.0 optimal organizational structure through process innovation and internalize a culture of improvement to stimulate employees to focus on creating higher added value. PI 3.0 Goals Establish a transparent and speedy management information system through company-wide process innovation Design a customer-oriented process based on the visualization of all business processes Process and simplification and standardization of the work approach Information Build an enterprise-wide integrated management system corresponding to the energy System industry and global standards Organizational Design a process-oriented organization and internalize the culture of Culture continuous improvement to focus on creating higher added value PI 3.0 Super User Workshop ECONOMIC VALUE 27 Direction of QSS (Quick Six Sigma) Jump-Up Activities The company has set its direction of innovation as “Employees all together participate in the QSS activities properly and continuously”, and the QSS Jump-Up activities will be continued until all the employees become leaders of improvement. QSS Jump-Up Roadmap Year 2013 Year 2014 Year 2015 Make improvement activities Strengthen the will of a part of daily business Share successful cases of employees to engage in based on the voluntary QSS activities with employees QSS activities participation of employees Opening of Innovation Support Center and Launch of 1st Class of Senior QSS Improvement Leaders For the higher performance of the organization through the integration of work, innovation, and learning, POSCO ENERGY opened the Innovation Support Center in April 2013. So far, a total of 17 improvement leaders from each worksite have started to engage in the QSS Jump-Up activities. These leaders use their off–job time to effectively focus on the improvement activities. Opening of Innovation Support Center and Launch of 1st Class of QSS Improvement Leaders Activities of QSS Improvement Leaders Apart from conducting innovation tasks, the QSS improvement leaders enjoy opportunities for various education programs on change management ranging from overseas training at outstanding foreign innovation companies to benchmarking of outstanding domestic innovation companies, as well as facilitator training and creativity development. Based on these programs, the leaders are developing capacity to lead the improvement activities at their respective worksite. PI 3.0 Project Department For successful PI, the PI 3.0 Project Department was launched under the direct control of the CEO in November 2012, playing a pivotal role in process innovation. It strives for the enhancement of corporate value through process innovation, encouraging employee participation, standardizing the business process, and providing the standards for improvement. Organization Chart Project Sponsor CEO PI 3.0 Project Department PI 3.0 Project Department PMO Director PM (22employees) Leader (Owner of key tasks) Cooperation Power Generation Fuel Cell Management planning & New Business & R&D Group Leader/ Support Head of Cooperation Division (Owner of Super User (34employees) practical tasks) Working Group PI 3.0 Roadmap Beginning of ERP Operation July 2014 November 2012 February 2013 April 2013 June 2013 September 2013 June 2014 September 2014 Analysis of Current Planning of Selection of Establishment of Application and Preparation for Stabilization State (3 months) Innovation Tasks ERP Package Detailed Plans / Testing of ERP Operation (3 months) (2 months) Standardization of System / (1 month) Designing of To-Be Basic Information Development of System / Planning of (3 months) Extension (8 months) System Establishment Devising of PI Master Plan (7months) Establishment of ERP System (12months) Stabilization (3months) 28 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Competitiveness of Power Generation The power generation facilities of POSCO ENERGY are capable of making timely responses to the domestic power demand. As the largest private power company providing approximately 16.5% of the electricity to the metropolitan area, the company is making continuous efforts to sharpen its competitive edge. Introduction of Power Generation Business Flexible Supply of Electricity in line with Demand The peak-load power stations of POSCO ENERGY, designed to effectively deal with the volatility of the domestic electricity demand, produce electricity according to the order of system operation from the KPX. Power Generation Facilities LNG fuel is combusted to produce the primary electricity in the gas turbine. The waste heat from the turbine is then sent to the heat recovery steam generator to produce steam with high temperature and pressure, and this steam starts the operation of the steam turbine. Facility Specification Commercial Composition Method of Classification Capacity Operation (MW) Electricity Trading G/T 6 units : 600 Units 1-2 900MW 1997 PPA S/T 2 units : 300 Incheon (Power Purchase LNG Combined G/T 6 units : 600 900MW 1999, 2001 Agreement) Cycle Power Units 2-3 S/T 2 units : 300 Plant (3,052 MW) G/T 4 units : 812 CBP Units 4-5 1,252MW 2011 S/T 2 units : 440 (Cost Based Pool) Flow of LNG Combined Cycle Power Generation Process LNG(fuel) Gas Turbine The heat energy generated from LNG combustion is converted into rotational Source of Demand energy to produce the primary electricity Generator Power Transmission / Reception Facilities Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG) Steam The facilities raise the voltage of and send out the electricity produced The high temperature combustion gas from the generators or receive the discharged from the gas turbine is passed electricity needed for power generation through to produce high pressure steam from the water in the boiler, which is then supplied to the steam turbine generator Generator Cooling Steam Turbine Recovery of The steam generated from the HRSG Condensate water is used to convert heat energy into rotational energy that produces the secondary electricity Supply of Cooling Water Seawater is supplied to condense the steam used in the steam turbine ECONOMIC VALUE 29 Zero-Forced Outage The peak-load power stations of POSCO ENERGY are maintained to enable their operation and suspension according to a power supply signal. In addition, their availability is maximized to respond to the order of system operation from the KPX by minimizing the number of breakdowns and reducing the time for planning and repairing. Preventive Inspection (Regular Facility Monitoring) The possibility of a breakdown of facilities increases in proportion to their usage. In this regard, POSCO ENERGY has expanded the online inspection of facilities and takes preventive measures according to the schedule of facility replacement to prevent the occurrence of failures. The facilities are monitored based on the inspection checklist to maintain their optimal conditions. Moreover, abnormalities are detected in advance through close inspection, and proper measures are taken at the appropriate time to prevent any unexpected breakdown. Securing Facility Soundness by Nurturing Internal System Operators The LNG combined cycle power plants require a high level of operational skills due to their more frequent operation and suspension than base-load stations. Accordingly, POSCO ENERGY has enhanced the soundness of its facilities through the cooperation among the divisions of power generation operation, technology, and maintenance. The company has also strengthened its ability to cope with emergency situations in through the ‘Operator Skill Up Training’. The company strives to respond to emergencies in a timely manner by accumulating facility maintenance skills through internal recruiting and training of maintenance workforce, and running a task force for around-the-clock maintenance. In the case of the newly built units 5 and 6, the forced outage rate has significantly decreased from 1.18% in 2011 to 0.06% in 2012, increasing the overall reliability of the facilities. Forced Outage Rate of LNG Units 5 and 6 Availability Stabilization period 93.80% 93.40% 1.18% in 2011 93.10% 92.50% Plan 0.06% in 2012 Performance Year 2011 Mar. May. Jul. Sep. Nov. Year 2012 Jan. Mar. May. Jul. Sep. Nov. Dec. LNG unit 5, 6 LNG unit 1~4 * T he average (unexpected) forced outage rate of LNG combined cycle power plants *The average availability of LNG combined cycle power plants in in Korea / 2011 (0.56%), 2012 (0.47%) Korea : 93.29% (subject: 331 central power stations) Source : KPX Statistics (May 2012) Emergency Response System for Rapid Increase of Electricity Demand To effectively deal with the rapidly increasing demand for electricity, POSCO ENERGY is conducting regular safety inspections during the summer and winter seasons. Based on the emergency measures of the KPX, the company is on emergency stand-by according to the weekly, daily, and real-time electricity reserve. In particular, to immediately cope with the shortage of electricity, an emergency committee chaired by Overseas User Conference the head of the power plant operation division has been established, and the emergency service system (POWER GEN) is scheduled to be operated when the power reserve falls below 4million kW, against emergency load adjustments and wide-area blackouts. Information Exchange on Facility Operation POSCO ENERGY promotes the effective operation of facilities through regular technology exchange with power companies and production companies that use the same facilities. The company strives to secure the measures of effective facility operation through the following ways: making a joint response with domestic and foreign production companies in sharing operation/technology information on working and maintenance, updating the current status of reserve materials and special tools used for construction Domestic Technology Information and working, cooperating on the rental of emergency materials, and dealing with the defects of power Conference facilities. 30 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Domestic Power Market At present, the domestic power market allows a competitive tender power generation and each power company supplies the electricity only in power generation business, and the KEPCO has the right accordingly. Such generator under the order of the KPX is called for power transmission, distribution, and sales. After receiving bids the central power station. The electricity supplied from the power for power generation based on the expenses reflecting the power generation of the KPX goes through the transmission and distribution generation cost of each generator, the KPX makes an order for network of the KEPCO to be delivered to the end consumers. Transmission/ Source of Generation Transaction Distribution Demand Bid Sales Sales •Subsidiaries of Order for KEPCO power •Private Power generation  PX •K •K  EPCO •End Consumers Company Payment Payment Payment •Installer for Private of purchase of purchase of charge Use price price (Computer processing) (Computer processing) Electricity Electricity Market Price Depending on Changes in Electricity Demand The domestic power market is a CBP (Cost Based Pool) market where at the end determines the market price of the given time, and this is the variable costs determine the market price. The variable costs are called the SMP (System Marginal Price). determined by the power production cost, such as fuel and operation In the case of LNG combined cycle power plants, fuel costs have costs, while fixed costs are compensated by the CP (Capacity Price) relatively high influence on determining the market price compared based on the long run marginal cost. The capacity price compensates to coal or nuclear energy. The demand for electricity is flexible the fixed costs of generators, attracts investment in new facilities, depending on the time bracket, and thus the supply of electricity and maintains the reliability of the system. must also be flexible. In this regard, LNG power plants act this way The KPX directs generators to produce electricity in the order of low despite their high power generation cost since their operation is cost to high cost, according to the time-based electricity demand. In flexible according to the demand for electricity. other words, the variable cost of the generator producing electricity (Unit : 10,000KW) (Unit : won/kWh) 6,000 142.21 won Market Price 5,000 32.67 won LNG Combined Cycle (142.21won) Electricity Demand 4,000 Heavy Oil (138won) Domestic Coal (97won) 3,000 Bituminous Coal 98 Bituminous Coal (34won) 2,000 Nuclear Energy Nuclear Energy (3.7won) 1,000 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 time ECONOMIC VALUE 31 National Green Business Fuel Cell Fuel cell is an eco-friendly distributed power generator. They can be installed wherever energy is needed, and energy can be produced directly by consumers. Fuel cell is drawing much attention from the public as the next-generation energy source. Based on the world’s largest fuel cell manufacturing plant and the world’s best fuel cell technology institute, POSCO ENERGY provides a total solution of fuel cell, including technology development, production, installation, and maintenance of fuel cell power generation systems. Next-Generation High-Efficiency & Eco-Friendly Energy In 2003, POSCO designated fuel cells as a future growth engine, and has since promoted the relevant R&D activities and investments. Ever since the world’s largest and Asia’s first fuel cell manufacturing plant was completed in 2008, core technologies have been secured and investments have been made in order to enhance efficiency and quality. The company is expanding the range of fuel cell products while overcoming the restrictions of new and renewable energy and conventional energy-based power generation. Pohang Fuel Cell Manufacturing Plant Fuel Cell Products 100kW 300kW 1.4MW 2.8MW 50m2 120m2 400m2 500m2 Small and medium-sized buildings Small production facilities, Sewage treatment plants, hospitals Power plants, landfills, large buildings medium and large-sized buildings Fuel Cell Supply For power generation For buildings Seobuk Hospital (Eunpyeong, Seoul) 2012.01 0.1MW E  WP (Ilsan, Gyeonggi Province) Nowon-gu Eunpyeong-gu 2009.10 2.4MW The Children’s Grand Park (Gwangjin, Seoul) Gwangin-gu 2012.01 0.1MW  WP (Ilsan, Gyeonggi Province) E Mapo-gu 2011.04 2.8MW POSCO ENERGY (Nowon, Seoul) 2009.05 2.4MW E  WP (Ilsan, Gyeonggi Province) 2013.03 2.8MW POSCO ENERGY (Sangam, Seoul) 2010.09 2.4MW KOSEP (Bundang, Gyeonggi Province) POSCO ENERGY (Pohang, Northern Gyeongsang Province) 2006.11 0.3MW 2008.08 2.4MW POSCO ENERGY (Incheon) TCS1 (Seongseo Industrial Complex, 2009.11 2.4MW Daegu) 2010.09 11.2W GYEONGGI GREEN ENERGY Busan Fuel Cell Power Plant (Busan) (Hwaseong, Gyeonggi Province) 2011.10 5.6MW Under constrution 58.8MW GS EPS (Dangjin, Southern Byuksan Engineering & Construction Chungcheong Province) (Busan Sewage Treatment Plant) 2009.10 2.4MW 2010.05 1.2MW KOMIPO (Boryeong, Southern MPC Yulchon Chungcheong Province) (Yeosu, Southern Jeolla Province) 2008.09 0.3MW 2009.10 4.8MW Natura Power (Gunsan, MPC Yulchon Northern Jeolla Province) (Yeosu, Southern Jeolla Province) 2008.09 2.4MW 2012.01 5.6MW Total HS Holdings (Jeonju, EWP (Ulsan, Southern Gyeongsang Northern Jeolla Province) 2008.09 2.4MW 115.6MW Province) Under construction 2.8MW 32 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Establishment of Independent Business Infrastructure POSCO ENERGY is working hard to build an independent business infrastructure of fuel cell. Since the establishment of a strategic partnership with FCE (Fuel Cell Energy) of the US, the company has localized 100% of the EBOP through independent development and 88% of the MBOP as of 2012. Throughout the localization process, POSCO ENERGY promotes a virtuous cycle that expands the supply chain, including a number of domestic SMEs, and creates excellent examples of win-win cooperation throughout the cycle. Moreover, since the completion of the Stack Manufacturing Plant, one of the key facilities, in 2011, the company is self-producing Stack. It is also in the process of constructing a plant for the in-house production of the Cell, another key component. Localization Roadmap ▒ F CE MBOP STACK MBOP STACK MBOP STACK ▒ POSCO ENERGY Cell STACK MBOP EBOP Cell EBOP Cell Cell EBOP EBOP Stage 1 Import and sale of finished FCE Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 products Localization of BOP Localization of STACK Localization of CELL Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Period ~2008 2009~2010 2011~2012 2013~2014 Investments by Period (KRW million) 75.5 122.4 120.3 172.5 Manpower (persons) 46 133 297 623 Number of SMEs for Win-win Cooperation 20 56 126 Rate of Localization (%) 40 70 100 Globalization of Green Industry POSCO ENERGY has made strenuous efforts to enter the overseas market based on its local experience. At present, the demand for distributed power is rising due to the Fukushima nuclear accident, and fuel cell is emerging as an alternative energy to meet such demands. Through successful overseas expansion, POSCO ENERGY will create new history in the fuel cell market. Entry into the Indonesian Market through ODA As part of its Official Development Assistance (ODA) for the economic development and improved quality of life in developing countries, POSCO ENERGY is installing fuel cell of 300kW at Ancol, Indonesia, which is suffering from a shortage of electricity supply. In June 2011, POSCO ENERGY signed the contract for its first overseas fuel cell supply project. According to the contract, it will provide electricity to seawater desalination facilities. This project is expected to contribute to overcoming the shortage of electricity and drinking water in Ancol, as well as to reducing GHG emissions. Furthermore, after the successful implementation of this project, the Indonesian government is planning follow-up projects on the island areas with unstable supply of electricity. Promotion of Fuel Cell Business as National Project Since the Fukushima nuclear accident in 2011, countries around the world have recognized the necessity of securing alternative energy sources and supported the sector on national level. Korea has also noted the gravity of the domestic energy problems ever since the blackout on September 15, 2011, and thus made a commitment to solve the energy problems by making a breakthrough with new and renewable energy. Fuel cell is an eco-friendly urban energy source appropriate for the domestic situation with high population density and developed industry. Fuel cell is considered an optimal energy solution in dealing with shortage of electricity and establishing a stable energy supply system. POSCO ENERGY will take the lead in solving energy problems through continuous investments in the fuel cell business, and make the utmost effort to promote fuel cell as a national green business and new growth engine. ECONOMIC VALUE 33 Introduction of Fuel Cell Fuel cell produces electricity and heat through the electrochemical reaction of hydrogen and oxygen. Fuel cell produces electricity through the inverse reaction of water electrolysis. As opposed to the conventional power generation method that runs turbines by converting the heat energy generated from fuel combustion into kinetic energy, the new method produces electricity through the electrochemical reaction of hydrogen and oxygen. System Configuration BOP Stack Fuel cell is a power generation system consisting of MBOP, MBOP EBOP Stack, and EBOP. MBOP, which is related to the operation Stack refers to the layers MBOP refers to any EBOP converts the direct reliability, supplies fuel and recovers heat. Stack is the of Cells consisting of mechanical device that current produced by lamination of Cells consisting of electrodes, electrolytes, and electrodes, electrolytes, supplies hydrogen and Stack into alternating separators. As electricity is produced and heat is generated and separators, and oxygen current and takes produces electricity (ex. heat recovery charge of the system through the electrochemical reaction of hydrogen and through the ventilator, humidifier, control oxygen, it is most closely related to the efficiency of the electrochemical reaction and reformer). It can (ex. inverter, converter) generator. EBOP converts the direct current produced by between hydrogen and improve electrical Stack into alternating current, controls the system, and oxygen. efficiency through the maintains a stable supply of electric power. connection to the turbine and also recover heat. Electricity + Heat Generation Fuel Supply and Heat Control and System Enhance Power Generation Recovery Connection Efficiency Secure Operational Reliability Secure Power Stability * MBOP : Mechanical Balance Of Plant * EBOP : Electronic Balance Of Plant Fuel Cell System Configuration (based on MCFC system) MBOP (Fuel Supplier) STACK MODULE EBOP (Power Converter) Direct Current Hydrogen H2 Bipolar Plate Power Converter CO3-2 Electric Power LNG / Cathode Bio-gas HRU (Heat Recovery Unit) Electrolyte Oxygen Anode Heat O2 e– HRU Steam / Hot Water Fuel Cell, the Next-Generation Power Generation by Demander Constant Use Energy Area of installation (per 1MW, m2) Usage (%) Fuel cell can produce electricity wherever it is necessary, 39,600 90 (220 times) therefore, can provide a solution to the current power supply system which lacks transmission and distribution 19,800 facilities. Fuel cell can be installed at any conditions, thereby (110 times) 25 maximizing space efficiency. Unlike other types of new 179 15 and renewable energy that are significantly influenced by topography, fuel cell‘s utilization rate around 90%, and thus stable power generation during any period of time Fuel cell Photovoltaic Wind power Fuel cell Photovoltaic Wind power can be expected. Through these features, fuel cell power generation enjoys a variety of applications. ENVIRONMENTAL Value POSCO ENERGY champions eco-friendly practices across the business structure by solidifying its status as an eco-friendly energy provider through continuous environmental investments and by focusing on the development of new and renewable energy. Based on its efforts to expand eco-friendly businesses and establish a green environmental infrastructure, POSCO ENERGY will emerge as a leading eco-friendly energy provider. Energy Consumption (GJ/MWh) Water Consumption (ton/MWh) GHG Emissions (tCO2 /MWh) NOx Emissions (kg/MWh) Compared to 2010 Compared to 2010 Compared to 2010 Compared to 2010 16% 52% 16% 73% 9.69 8.18 0.27 0.49 0.49 8.13 0.41 0.41 0.19 0.20 0.13 0.13 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 36 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Response to Climate Change Climate Change Response System For an effective response to climate change, a task force has been formed to supervise responses to climate change, establish plans to reduce GHG emissions, and encourage each worksite to engage in GHG reduction activities. GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy For the effective reduction of GHG emissions, POSCO ENERGY is promoting activities to increase the efficiency of power facilities, through which the annual energy consumption has been reduced by 15,878MWh. In addition, the company is promoting the new and renewable energy business, including fuel cell, off-gas power, wind power, and solar power, as its sub-core business. GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy Promotion of New and Enhancement of Power Facility Efficiency Renewable Energy Business Expansion of new and Promotion of Optimization of Introduction of renewable energy resources recycling power facility efficiency high-efficiency facilities business business Optimization of Power Facility Efficiency For the optimization of the generator operation, the company engages in operating high-efficiency power generators, making continuous improvements for facility efficiency, and recycling waste heat. Moreover, the greenhouse gas reduction project, which uses the off-gas generated from the operation process of Gwangyang Steel Works as a fuel for generators, has received credits from the government for its reduction performance. Major Achievements in Energy Reduction Energy Reduction Activities Performance (MWh/year) Description Certificate for GHG Emissions Improvement of washing installations Reduction Installation of Washing Skid at Units 5-6 12,264 of compressors Application of variable operation to Installation of CWP VFD at Units 5-6 2,900 CWP (Circulating Water Pump) Introduction of Lighting-control System 274 Removal of year-round lighting Improvement of Lighting System 440 Introduction of high-efficiency lighting Total 15,878 GHG Emissions and Energy Consumption POSCO ENERGY strives to reduce GHG emissions and energy consumption through a series of energy reduction activities: analyzing the status of energy consumption and GHG emissions, introducing highefficiency facilities, and making continuous improvements for facilities. Classification Unit 2010 2011 2012 Energy Consumption GJ/MWh 9.69 8.18 8.13 GHG Emissions tCO2/MWh 0.49 0.41 0.41 ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 37 The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and a more stringent set of domestic regulations on GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emissions and energy efficiency require the electricity industry to effectively respond to climate change. Responses include using energy more efficiently and ensuring a stable supply of electricity through low-carbon green electricity generation. POSCO ENERGY sees this situation not as a crisis but as an opportunity, and is reflecting its perspective into its business strategies by promoting energy efficiency and new and renewable energy business through the introduction of high-efficiency facilities. New and Renewable Energy Business POSCO ENERGY is actively promoting the new and renewable energy business as a new growth engine to serve as a driving force for low carbon green growth. Exerting its best efforts in various businesses of new and renewable energy, including solar power, wind power, fuel cell, and RDF (Refuse Derived Fuel), the company is effectively responding to the RPS (Renewable Portfolio Standard) by the government. New and Renewable Energy Business Development Plan Installed capacity 176MW 138MW 112MW 2MW 2012 2015 2018 2020 Solar Power POSCO ENERGY has independently developed and is operating solar (photovoltaic) power plants of 2MW and 5MW, for a total of 7MW, in Palgeum-myeon area, located in Shinan-gun, Jeollanam-do. In particular, the Shinan solar power Plant has been recognized for its outstanding work in minimizing the environmental impact on surrounding areas and creating eco-friendly synergy with local communities by utilizing a closed salt farm that had been unused for years. The company plans to construct another power plant of 7.5MW, thereby will operate a large solar power plant of 14.5MW by 2014. Wind Power In cooperation with domestic company, POSCO ENERGY is developing the domestically first commercial offshore wind power complex of 30MW on the public water near the northwestern part of Jeju island, and also planning on the development of a large-scale onshore and offshore wind power complex in Shinangun, Jeollanam-do. The wind power plant in Jeollanam-do is expected to contribute to revitalizing the local economy by using wind power turbines produced within the region. POSCO ENERGY is developing an onshore wind power plant of 100MW as a first stage, and after reviewing business conditions, it is planning to carry out additional developments of an onshore plant of 100MW and an offshore plant of 300MW. The development of these projects will make continuous contributions to the development of the domestic wind power industry. Shinan Solar (Photovoltaic) Power Plant Tamra Offshore Wind Power Plant 38 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant Off-gas combined cycle power plants are eco-friendly since they produce power by using the excess offgas generated from the steel making process. Moving away from the conventional steam power plant, the company is operating high-efficiency combined cycle power plants. Flow of Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Generation Types of off-gas Steam •BFG Blast Furnace Gas •COG Coke Oven Gas •FOG Finex Off Gas Gas Compressor Generator Electricity Production Steam Production Steam Turbine Gas Turbine Off-gas Cooling Heat Recovery Boiler Gas Mixing Condenser Recovery of Demineralized Condensate Water water Supply of Cooling water Demineralized water Purification System Gwangyang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant The Gwangyang plant, the first off-gas combined cycle power plant in Korea, was completed in December 2010 with total installed capacity of 284MW. Through high-efficiency and eco-friendly power generation, the plant achieved the crude oil substitution effect of KRW 57billion per year and reduced 0.18million tons of GHG emissions. Categorized at present as new and renewable energy, the Gwangyang power plant sells its electric power to the KPX on a preferential basis regardless of its generating capacity. Classification Gas Turbine Steam Turbine Total Unit 1 86MW 56MW 142MW Unit 2 86MW 56MW 142MW Total 172MW 112MW 284MW Pohang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant The Pohang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant, now under construction, will have an installed capacity of 290MW in total. It is a eco-friendly type of power generation which reuses off-gas, such as BFG, COG, and FOG, as a power generation source. Also, it will contribute to the local community which faces electricity shortage. Start of Total Installed Classification Commercial Completion of Capacity Operation Construction Unit 1 145MW August 2013 May 2014 Unit 2 145MW January 2014 Total 290MW For air conservation, more stringent regulations on NOx emissions (30ppm) than the government regulation (50ppm) will be established, and the SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction) device will be introduced to minimize the emissions of NOx and fine dust so that the company can take the lead in improving air quality. ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 39 Eco-friendly Fuel Cell The eco-friendliness of fuel cell has allowed POSCO ENERGY to create new markets and expand business opportunities. The company is trying to minimize the environmental impacts in all manufacturing processes, including assembly and transportation. Development and Increased Supply of Fuel Cell Fuel cell is an eco-friendly energy technology with little air or noise pollution. It is a clean energy system that takes humanity, technology, and environment into consideration. POSCO ENERGY continues to develop eco-friendly fuel cell products and secure technical knowledge, and strives to create a clean world by supplying fuel cell. Support for Fuel Cell CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) Project In February 2008, POSCO ENERGY started developing the fuel cell CDM methodology and in the following October, it completed the development and submitted to the UNFCCC. In May 2009, the UN approved the company’s new methodology regarding fuel cell for the first time in the world. Based on its professional knowledge of fuel cell installation and CDM project, POSCO ENERGY provides relevant services for successful implementation of CDM projects. NOx Emissions (ppm) SOx Emissions (ppm) CO2 Emissions (g/Kwh) Noise (dB(A)) Average of 223 230-250 1400 or more 250 Thermoelectric power 182 100-110 Generation 175 90-100 100 or 171 less 42 or less 111 72 1.2 0.01 Fuel Cell Gas Gas Diesel Fuel Cell Gas Gas Diesel Fuel Cell Gas Gas Diesel Fuel Cell Gas Gas Diesel Engine Turbine Engine Turbine Engine Turbine Engine Turbine Overseas New and Renewable Energy Business Integrated Steel Mill Off-Gas Power Generation Project in Indonesia This project is to construct an off-gas power plant of 200MW inside the BROWN-FIELD integrated steel mill, in cooperation with the Indonesian state-run steel company, PT.KS. The project is an example of combining the company’s off-gas power generation technology with its experience in domestic off-gas power plant operations, which is recognized as a successful case of overseas expansion. The project is expected to create additional profits by carrying out off-gas power generation CDM project in line with the integrated steel mill investment project. Solar Power Generation Project in Nevada At present, POSCO ENERGY is developing a large-scale solar power (photovoltaic) plant of 300MW in Boulder City, Nevada, and preparing for a PPA (Power Purchase Agreement) with major power providers in the US. Once completed, the Nevada power plant will serve as a bridge for the overseas expansion of the company’s new and renewable energy business. POSCO ENERGY is also considering to promote joint overseas expansion with a domestic company that has difficulty in securing a strong overseas track record. The efforts to develop new and renewable energy, mainly in the US and the prospective countries, such as Japan and Latin American countries, will contribute to reducing GHG emissions. Site and bird’s-eye view of the solar (photovoltaic) power plant in Nevada 40 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Environmental Value Created by POSCO ENERGY – Waste to Energy Business No waste should be wasted any more. Waste is a valuable source of energy. CSV (Creating Shared Value) A concept of business operation POSCO ENERGY is reducing GHG emissions by converting waste and sewage heat into energy sources to method and policy that can enhance replace fossil energy. We believes that ‘saving the earth’ is no different from its mission, ‘Make a brighter the economic and social conditions of world by providing cleaner energy’ local communities and the corporate competitiveness at the same time Michael E. Porter (Harvard Business Review) (Annual consumption of 20,000 households) Reduction of 「Tancheon Water Reuse Center Using Sewage Heat for District Heating」 The domestic LNG Consumption sewage discharged from the southeast of the metropolitan area is treated at the Tancheon Water Reuse 19 Million Nm3/year Center before being discharged into the Han River through Tancheon. The amount of daily discharge after treatment stands at 1.1million Nm3 at the average temperature during winter of 12℃. POSCO Reduction of CO2 Emissions ENERGY recovers such wasted heat energy by using a heat pump for district heating, which has the same 44 thousand tCO /year 2 effect as substituting 19million Nm3 of LNG, per year. The use of wasted energy instead of fossil fuel can contribute to reducing the annual GHG emissions by 44,000tons. District heating Substation District Heating Substation Wastewater Wastewater Effluents Effluents (7℃) 110℃ (12℃) 55℃ 70℃ 110℃ Domestic Sewage 55℃ Housing Complex Sewage Treatment Heat Pump Plant Wastewater Effluents Before Domestic Sewage (12℃) Housing Complex Sewage Treatment Plant After ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 41 POSCO ENERGY is creating social and stakeholder value through its energy business. To fulfill its social responsibility, the company is engaged in a variety of activities to solve social issues. The enhancement of social value through such activities is providing the company with an opportunity for CSV (Creating Shared Value), which helps to strengthen its competitiveness. POSCO ENERGY is creating new business opportunities by understanding the relationship between social issues and its key business activities. RDF (Refuse Derived Fuel) Development Project: Creating Energy and Reducing Environmental Pollution Household waste used to be incinerated or buried, and this often caused environmental pollution since inflammable waste and nonflammable waste were not separated in the process. POSCO ENERGY is currently promoting the RDF development project as part of its new and renewable energy business, which is expected to reduce environmental pollution and create new energy. Upon the successful implementation of the project, household waste will be separated and selected, and only the inflammable waste will be used as fuel to produce electricity at designated boilers. The heat generated through this process will be supplied to district heating substations and various industrial facilities. POSCO ENERGY is also promoting the joint R&D activities with specialized research institutes and expanding the relevant businesses at home and abroad. Waste Selection RDF Power Electricity Customers Process Generation 「Busan Waste Treatment & Power Generation Facility」 The Busan Waste Treatment & Power Generation Facility, the nation’s first RDF Power Generation facility, began construction in October 2010, is now under test-operation, and will be completed in October 2013. The facility will process waste into fuel and produce electricity for 40,000 households per year. 「Pohang Waste Treatment & Power Generation Facility」 The company was selected as a priority negotiator in March 2011 and is currently in negotiations with the government, with a plan for construction to start in 2014 and end in 2017. Busan Waste Treatment & Pohang Waste Treatment & Power Generation Facility Power Generation Facility Waste Treatment 900 tons/day Waste Treatment 500 tons/day Facility Capacity Facility Capacity Power Generation 25 MW Power Generation 12 MW Facility Capacity Facility Capacity LNG Substitution 70 million Nm /year 3 LNG Substitution 34 million Nm /year 3 CO2 Reduction 174 thousand tCO /year 2 CO2 Reduction 84 thousand tCO /year2 42 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Eco-friendly Management System Environmental Management Strategy POSCO ENERGY will boost its corporate competency by establishing and executing strategies of Green System, Green Operation, Green Business, and Green Communication, and make a brighter world as a Green Energy Creator. Mission We make a brighter world by providing cleaner energy. Vision World Best GREEN Energy Company Green Green Green Green System Operation Business Communication •Build a •Comply with laws •Operate •Publish performance check through the high-efficiency power sustainability reports process reinforcement of generation facilities •Enhance employee Action •Establish an internal management •Improve the efficiency awareness Strategy standards emergency of resources through (ex. environmental response system •Improve facilities to the off-gas combined education) •Operate the minimize the cycle power •Conduct environmental environmental load generation eco-friendly social management (invest in pollutant •Develop and supply contribution system emission control fuel cell activities facilities) •Expand the new and •Expand the new •Improve energy renewable energy and renewable efficiency and reduce business energy business GHG emissions 1 Organization and Operation of Environmental Management Organization The Technology Team under the Power Plant Division supervises the organization in charge of the environmental management system and supports each worksite. In addition, the environmental management working committee is operated to check the current status of the environmental management at each worksite, discuss the relevant issues, and carry out the activities to strengthen environmental management. 2 Operation of Environmental Management System For the optimal operation of the environmental facilities and continuous and systematic environmental improvement, the company has acquired the ISO14001 certification for all its worksites, including the Incheon LNG power plant, the Gwangyang off-gas power plant, and the Pohang fuel cell manufacturing plant. POSCO Family’s Integrated Environmental Management System 1 | ISO14001 Certification Through the establishment of the POSCO Family’s integrated environmental management system (G-Cop) 2 | POSCO Family’s environmental management policy and the participation of the environmental management committee, POSCO Family companies share and exchange various information on environmental policies and technologies. ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 43 Operation of Eco-friendly Power Plants Proactive Reduction of Environmental Impacts Environmental Impact Assessment To minimize environmental impacts during the construction and operation of power plants, POSCO ENERGY is conducting a 3-step environmental impact assessment. The environmental impact assessment allows the company to check the location and size of the biodiversity protection area and habitat and, should problems arise, to establish and implement an improvement strategy. So far none of the operated sites are located in biodiversity protection areas. Before Construction During Construction After Construction Predict and prevent of Check and enhance of Manage environmental environmental impacts arising environmental impacts during impacts during power plant from power plant constructions construction operation Compliance with Environmental Laws It has been proactive in environmental management, in particular, the company has set a stricter standards for the air and water pollutants than the government standards. Consequently, there have been no violation of environmental laws and no leakage of pollutants to date. POSCO ENERGY will continue to implement a high level of environmental management as an eco-friendly energy provider. Continuous Environmental Investments POSCO ENERGY is exerting its utmost efforts to minimize the environmental impacts while operating businesses. The company continuously makes investments in air pollution control, response to climate change, and waste water management, for the optimal installation and maintenance of environmental facilities and the application of the minimization technology for environmental impacts. Environmental Investments Major Environmental Investments (Unit : KRW million) Air Pollution Management and 7,000 3,392 Waste Water Control 16,322 Response to Climate Change •Installation of ULNB (Ultra Low NOx Burner) and •Additional construction of discharge water 23,322 24,122 2010 2011 SCR (Selective Catalytic NOx Removal System) treatment plants for the Incheon LNG for the Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Combined Cycle Power Plant Plant Units 5 and 6 •Establishment of the discharge water facility for 110 20,730 •Installation of LNB and EP of the Gwangyang the first treatment at the Gwangyang Off-gas Off-gas Combined Cycle Power Plant Combined Cycle Power Plant 7,560 Units 1 and 2 2012 7,450 Minimization of Environmental Impacts ▒A  ir Pollution Management and Resource Management Response to Climate Change For the Gwangyang Power Plant, both ground water and industrial water are used for the production ▒ Waste Water Control of steam and operation of facilities; the water used for other power plants is 100% ground water. At present, the amount of used water is continuously being reduced due to the increased water reuse and recycle and continuous search and examination of the problems in the facilities. In the aspect of energy saving, the company is maximizing energy recovery by implementing projects and tasks such as improvement of lighting fixtures and establishing systematic preventive plans for facility maintenance. Moreover, since 2011, the seawater used in the power plants is being provided to local governments to be used for snow removal. In addition, POSCO ENERGY strives to save resource and energy through various green activities, such as the Green Office Campaign, which employees voluntarily participate. 44 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Management of Air Pollution To manage nitrogen oxide (NOx), the only air pollutant emitted from POSCO ENERGY’s power plants, the company established the CEMS (Continuous Emission Monitoring System) for real-time monitoring. As a result of setting its own standards for nitrogen oxide emissions that are more stringent than the legal limits and establishing the annual reduction plan, the Incheon units reduced the emission factor by 75% and 85% in 2011 and 2012, respectively, compared to 2009 levels. In 2012, the Gwangyang plant also reduced its emission by 52% compared to the legal standards. Such outstanding air pollution control efforts will be continued through constant facility improvements and technology investment. 「Best Company on Air Pollution Management」 Since POSCO ENERGY entered into the Blue Blue Sky Council Sky Agreement with Incheon City, it has made constant efforts to reduce the emission of air pollutants POSCO ENERGY entered into the Blue Sky Agreement with nine power by improving and investing in power plant facilities. Consequently, it received the highest scores and was generation companies and one oil selected as the best facility in both 2010 and 2012 in the air pollution improvement evaluation among company in Incheon to reduce the emission of air pollutants by 15% by the large power facilities in Incheon. 2014 compared to the past five years (2005~2009). Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Emissions in Incheon Units Regulation Standards for Units 1-4 100 100 1.00 70 0.80 Compared to 2009 75 66 75 0.80 0.74 50 44 50 Regulation Standards for Units 5-6 85 % Reduction 0.60 0.53 25 25 20 16 13 12 0.40 0.20 0.12 0 0 0.00 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Incheon LNG Units 1-4 (ppm) Incheon LNG Units 5-6 (ppm) Emission factor (kg/MWh) Management of Discharged Water Quality POSCO ENERGY strives to prevent environmental hazards that may affect local rivers and thereby enable local residents to live in a healthy and pleasant environment by controlling the quality of water discharged from its power plants. To this end, the company’s own standard is set more stringent than the legal standard for water pollutants, and the CEMS (Continuous Emission Monitoring System) is used to check for any abnormalities with waste water discharging/prevention facilities in real time. In addition, the company has a management system to quickly grasp the situation and take measures should any problems occur in relation to the water quality, with regular self-assessments on the water pollution standards such as COD, SS, and pH. Water Quality Management of Incheon Units COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) SS (Suspended Soild) (ppm) pH (potential of hydrogen) (ppm) 130 Emission Standard 120 Emission Standard 5.8 8.6 Emission Standard 7.3 7.3 3.7 7.1 3.2 2.9 1.8 1.8 1.2 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 45 Management of Persistent Organic Pollutants Equipments for managing Persistent Organic Pollutants (PCBs) include oil-filled transformers, condensers, and metering outfits, as well as equipment using electrical insulating oil as insulating medium. These equipments are reported, used, and discarded in accordance with the Persistent Organic Pollutants Management Act. Management of Soil Contamination POSCO ENERGY strives to not only manage soil conditions of its facilities but also the soil of local community and national environment. Therefore, the company reports and manages the facilities which may bring about soil contamination, in accordance with the relative laws. Furthermore, it prevents the corrosion or oxidation of facilities through regular soil contamination tests, and ensures that no pollutant is leaked. In the case of a leakage, the company makes sure all the leaked pollutants flow to the wastewater treatment plant to prevent proliferation. Waste Management The company decreased the amount of wastes in the plants by 72% in 2012 compared to 2009 levels by reducing the waste generation and increasing the amount recycled. The wastes in the plants are managed and disposed according to the legitimate process. When bringing in and taking out the wastes, the details (ex. size and kind) are recorded and the waste disposal data is submitted to the concerned district office. Moreover, each worksite has recycling bins to separately collect recyclables and to reduce the amount of wastes. Emergency Drill Procedure Management of Chemicals POSCO ENERGY uses chemicals in processes such as producing energy and handling discharged water. Identify risks To properly operate the chemical-related facilities, prevent accidents, and abide by environment-related and select laws, daily and monthly inspections are conducted to regularly check the facility status and leakage regions prone occurrences. In addition, a special inspection team checks and deals with safety/environmental issues on to risks Develop an a regular basis to ensure the safety in managing chemicals and preventing any leakages. emergency To prevent the leakage of chemicals, all the chemical-related facilities have the system to transfer the scenario leaked chemicals to treatment plants should any leakage occur, and proliferation-prevention systems Conduct have been built up around the facilities. Also, outsiders are not allowed to enter the facilities without emergency drills permission, and a discharge of chemicals is prevented through a strict management of locks to the (leakage facilities and entrances. simulation / disaster drill) Emergency System To make a prompt and effective response to environmental emergencies, POSCO ENERGY established an Improve disaster emergency response system with an emergency control team to prevent any damages to the safety and prevention health of employees and community residents as well as the neighboring environment. The company measures has also developed emergency response scenarios and regularly conducts emergency drills. In particular, according to drill result a fire drill is held once a year with neighboring companies and a fire station for a swift response to emergencies. Emergency Reporting System Emergency Control Emergency Report Team Control Center Team Leader Propagate Emergency Emergency drill CEO First Finder Report 46 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Material Flow Fuel 3 Power Generation LNG 2,540,069,749 Nm 3 15,791,978 MWh BFG 4,834,404,296 Nm 3 Compared to 2011 ▲23% COG 51,319,218 Nm Energy Usage 128,403 TJ Direct energy 99.8 % Indirect energy 0.2 % Water Fuel Cell Usage 2,052,256 ton BOP 42.0 MWh Recycled 13.40 % Stack 36.4 MWh Compared to 2011 ▲189% Environmental Investment KRW 7,560 million Power Generation (MWh) Input 2012 15,791,978 2011 12,809,742 2010 4,898,798 LNG Consumption (Nm3) Water Recycled rate (Gwangyang) (%) Incheon LNG Combined Cycle (MWh) 2012 2,540,069,749 2012 13.40 2012 13,612,486 2011 1,967,934,125 2011 5.84 2011 10,591,310 2010 994,035,338 2010 4,390,290 Direct / Indirect Energy (%) Gwangyang Off-gas Combined Cycle (MWh) Off-gas Consumption (Nm3) 2012 2,138,844 2012 99.8 0.2 2012 BFG 4,834,404,296 2011 2,184,832 2011 99.6 0.4 2011 5,068,025,525 2010 467,806 2010 99.5 0.5 2010 1,202,104,375 Direct Indirect Fuel Cell and Others (MWh) 2012 COG 51,319,218 2012 40,648 2011 25,103,776 Water Consumption (Total ton, Basic Unit ton/MWh) 2011 33,600 2010 1,471,851 2012 2,052,256 0.13 2010 40,702 2011 2,243,153 0.19 Energy Consumption (Total TJ, Basic Unit GJ/MWh) 2010 1,302,967 0.27 Fuel Cell Production 2012 128,403 8.1 BOP (MW) 2011 104,784 8.2 2012 42.0 Environmental Investment (million in KRW) 2010 47,453 9.7 2011 25.4 2012 7,560 Stack (MW) 2011 24,122 2012 36.4 2010 23,322 2011 12.6 * In 2010, the production of BOP and Stack amounts to 8.4MW ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 47 Greenhouse Gas Emission 6,465,523 tCO 2 NOx Emission 0.13 kg/MWh Compared to 2011 ▼35% Waste Emission 842 ton Harmful Chemicals Usage 2,016 ton Discharged Water Basic unit emission (m3/MWh) 2012 0.03 2011 0.05 Discharged Water 2010 0.08 3 Emission 0.03 m /MWh Output Compared to 2011 ▼25% COD (ppm) 2012 2.9 2011 3.2 2010 3.7 Greenhouse Gas Emission Harmful Chemicals SS (ppm) Scope1* (tCO2) Total (ton) 2012 1.2 2012 6,451,805 2012 2,016 2011 1.8 2011 5,273,743 2011 1,296 2010 1.8 2010 2,389,570 2010 1,065 Waste Scope2* (tCO2) Basic Unit (kg/MWh) Total (ton) 2012 13,718 2012 0.13 2012 842 2011 19,592 2011 0.11 2011 679 2010 11,274 2010 0.24 2010 526 Basic Unit (tCO2/MWh) NOx Emission (kg/MWh) Basic Unit (kg/MWh) 2012 0.41 2012 0.13 2012 0.05 2011 0.41 2011 0.20 2011 0.06 2010 0.49 2010 0.49 2010 0.12 * GHG emissions are categorized according to the sources : Scope 1 is direct emission and Scope 2 is indirect emission 48 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Eco-friendly Communication Together with its employees, POSCO ENERGY is making a Green Workplace and spreading the company’s eco-friendly policy to external stakeholders. In addition, the company is sharing the activities and performances of environmental management through external communication. Environmental Education For environmental education, a number of systematic programs are offered to employees to raise their awareness of environmental issues and to foster environment experts. Customized education programs are regularly provided to employees to satisfy their needs by position or job. When an environmental issue arises, weekly meetings are held for position holders, and employees in charge of environmental issues are given the relevant training. Environmental Education System Classification Target Content Method Note Environment Persons in charge of Education for experts on environmental Environment management system Management environment management system (once every 3 years) •Education for air experts •Education for water quality experts Outsourced training Legal education (once every 3 years) •Education for persons in charge of *Education for persons in charge of Legal managers & toxic chemicals wastes treatment: upon the request of Environmental persons in charge by the concerned agency Experts •Education for persons in charge of sector wastes Education for persons in charge of toxic Education for toxic chemical handlers In-house training chemicals (once a month) Introduction Newly employed Outline and management points In-house training Upon new employment Program Environmental control and issues Circulation of materials Bi-monthly All employees E-campus global Providing education first to positionEnvironmental Outline of environmental environmental holders and persons in charge, then Awareness management management gradually extending it to all employees Environment-related laws and Operators on site Group training Once a year (using shift work education) management points Support for Environmental Management of Partners POSCO ENERGY holds monthly meetings of the environment safety council with its partner companies to strengthen their environment, safety, and health management of the partner companies, providing them with environment-related maps and information, and training, and listening to their VOC. Provide education on environment/safety / health Find Permanently management, and conduct annual evaluation on improvement Stationed Partners environment/safety/health management, such as factors and inspection of field supervision support environmental 1 2 Non-permanently Run programs to support partners through regular management of Stationed Partners field visits partners External Environmental Evaluation POSCO ENERGY’s environmental management performance has been proven by a series of environmental 1 | Receiving a citation for evaluation awards. In March 2012, the company was awarded a citation from the Incheon City for its environmental preservation and outstanding environment preservation and water management. In October 2012, it also received the water management 2 | Receiving the Korea Environmental Korea Environmental Award in the air pollutant reduction category. POSCO ENERGY will solidify its Award status as a leading eco-friendly company through continuous eco-friendly management. ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 49 Awareness of Environmental Management Leftovers per Person POSCO ENERGY seeks to accomplish genuine environmental management through participation of all (Unit: g/person) employees. To help employees participate in environmental activities and management, the company is 124.4 ▼27 .50% offering a variety of awareness-raising programs such as Green Workplace campaign and PR activities. 90.2 「Zero Leftover Campaign」 A system was introduced to predict the number of people eating at the cafeterias per day to reduce food wastes. As a result, the amount of leftovers has been reduced, and promotions are being held to encourage all employees to actively participate in the campaign. Leftovers Tree Campaign Before campaign After campaign •W  hen an employee has no leftovers, he/she will receive a stamp on his/her Leftovers Tree coupon on the cafeteria bulletin board. Employees who collect 10 stamps will receive a gift. WIE DAY Campaign (Wednesday is Eat-All Day) •On Wednesdays, the menu has a theme, such as “detox” or “hair loss prevention.” When an employee does not leave any leftovers, he/she will get a dessert and gift related to the theme. (50% decrease in leftovers per person compared to other days) Intranet / Off-line Information Sharing •Posting campaign information on the intranet bulletin board to encourage employees to participate in the campaigns and to raise their awareness on the environment through constant reminder. •Making and posting monthly Zero Leftover Campaign posters (reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and environmental improvements, etc.) Social Contribution Activities •“Merry WIE DAY”, WIE DAY’s year-end charity campaign is held in December (donating 210 kg of rice to neighbors in need in Incheon and Pohang) 「Green Touch, PC Power-Saving Program」 POSCO ENERGY has introduced a PC power-saving Green Touch Effect program to manage the energy efficiency of the PCs used by employees, since the power consumption Reduction in Power of a PC is the largest among all the electronic equipment used in the office and employees can easily Consumption participate in the power-saving practice. At present, many employees are actively engaged in this program under the slogan ‘Touch the Green’. 14,375kWh Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions 6,094kgCO 2 Tree Planting Effect 2,197 trees Tree Planting per Person 2.9 trees SOCIAL Value POSCO ENERGY seeks to share its values with its employees, customers, partner companies, and local communities through interactive communication. The company will work for internal and external stakeholders and create a world in which the company and stakeholders can coexist by fostering talents, enhancing customer satisfaction, collaborating with partners, and sharing benefits with the local communities. Average Employee Absenteeism Average Employee Social Benefit sharing amount Education (hr/person) (%, Industrial accidents) Contribution Activities (hr/person) (KRW million) Compared to 2010 Compared to 2010 Compared to 2011 32% 41% 61% 34.2 556 132 110 28.5 100 24.2 345 1.9(1) 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 * The B/S system was enforced in 2011 52 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report People-oriented Corporate Culture Global Talent Training and Capacity Building POSCO ENERGY makes effort in attaining outstanding employees to attain global competitiveness Talents Envisioned by and achieve continuous growth. Recognizing that employees are the starting point of corporate POSCO ENERGY competitiveness, the company is conducting various activities to improve employee value. World’s Best Energy Leaders who place importance on the Selection of Competent Manpower values of challenge and trust The confidence and passion of POSCO ENERGY for securing capable talents is a core value across the business, and the company is doing its best to recruit and nurture excellent people. World’s Best Experts with global competency and leadership 「Talents Envisioned by POSCO ENERGY」 The talents envisioned by POSCO ENERGY are those who place importance on the values of challenge and trust, based on the 4 core values of Passion, Communication, Co-Success, and Green Innovation. These views reflect how POSCO ENERGY is evolving Trusted Talents who recognize their into a globally competitive company. differences and communicate with others 「Respect for Diversity」 POSCO ENERGY offers equal opportunities for all employees according to their qualifications without discrimination by gender, academic background or disabilities, and Talents with hires people from diverse backgrounds. In recent years, the number of female workers has gradually Challenging Spirits increased, around 35% since 2011. The company hires the disabled, veterans, and patriots without any who prepare for the future discrimination. Also, it is encouraging local employment holding recruiting events at colleges near the with creativity and passion and take the lead in green power plants. To accelerate the globalization of the head office, the company is increasing its overseas innovation recruiting, and plans to continuously expand its global leader training and localization. Human Resources Development System Average Education Time POSCO ENERGY places its priority on fostering competent people through its human resources and Total Education development system. All employees are building leadership skills through the job competency programs Expenses that teach the common values of the POSCO Group and acquire fundamental job competencies and 2012 expertise. Moreover, the company offers employees language courses to encourage them to become 132 global talents, and also provides overseas expert training, and innovation programs such as Six Sigma and QSS so that they can complete the competency-based education programs. 1,120 Basic direction of human resource development 2011 Building the Reinforcing the Systematically Sharing Core Values 110 Infrastructure for Global Player Training Training Next and Enhancing Performance-oriented 1,140 Program Generation Leaders Creativity Education 2010 100 「Building CDP (Career Development Plan) System」 POSCO ENERGY established the Career 760 Development Plan (CDP) system, through which it manages individual's competency and performance. The CDP system provides a guideline to help all employees set up their own career development plans according to their individual capabilities. Average employee education time (hr/person) Total education expenses (KRW million) SOCIAL VALUE 53 POSCO ENERGY’s Manpower Training System World Best GREEN Energy Company (Global, Reliable, Excellent, Efficient, Nature Friendly) Global Competency Leadership Competency Innovation Competency Leadership by Rank / Position-holder Trust Leadership •Enhancing •Qss education / activities understanding of other Common Competency Job Competency •Six Sigma Belt acquisition cultures and improving •Internalizing the common •Professional training by support language proficiency core values of the Group function •Improving ability to carry •Fostering area exerts out innovative •Fostering basic job skills •Fostering professionals •Overseas training improvement ideas •Implementing global •Fostering innovation standards, etc. experts Various kinds of programs to build the learning culture in the organization and reinforce competency (Credit Transfer Program / Action Learning / KM System / Study Group POSCO ENERGY’s Manpower Training Program Leadership competency Job competency Global competency Common competency Outside chief officer course Executive Over-the-phone foreign language classes / Language study clubs / Language examination support Breakfast with outside Saturday Education for promoted employees Managing Extensive language course Mandatory e-learning course (ownership / sexual harassment / business ethics) Leadership education for position holders Director study Skill remind Education after holding position organizations education Education for organization revitalization SV fostering course, Professionals Overseas regional experts training General for position holders Technique training center course (Target: engineers/professionals) Education for local employees at In-house lecturer training Monthly Group education for appreciation sharing activities Education for employees on Manager High-level course study Mid-high level education Deputy Mandatory course by division (general employees) course General MBA & other degree courses course overseas branches overseas assignments Extra language course Director (Official scores are reflected in promotion reviews) (Shin-tong-hwa-tong-han-mah-dang: A Fun and Hot Festival) Manager Mid-level course General administration action Engineer paper presentation Assistant Family MemberGroup education for Group education for Manager Low-mid level education learning ship Training CapacitySecond building Assistant new/experienced employees new/experienced employees program for Low-level course Manager fresh graduates Employee ▒ POSCO ENERGY’s own course ▒ POSCO Group course ▒ Courses planned for 2013 Reinforcement of Global Competency To secure global competency, POSCO ENERGY continues to provide its employees with foreign language learning programs. It also continues to hire and train outstanding local talents to accelerate the localization of its overseas businesses. 「Overseas Assignment and Overseas Regional Experts System」 For the countries where POSCO ENERGY is carrying out overseas projects, the company selects and trains the talents with a passion for overseas services and an understanding of the local language. The overseas regional experts system is also being operated to foster employees who will take leading roles in establishing overseas business strategies and implementing development projects. Participants conduct research activities to analyze overseas markets, discover business items, and develop business plans. After completing their overseas service, they are assigned to the overseas project development division above other divisions. 54 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report 「Education for Local Employees of Overseas Offices」 As a number of foreign offices have been newly established, POSCO ENERGY launched an education course for the locally hired employees in Indonesia. To help them understand the company and enhance their work capacity, the education course was provided twice to 20 local employees. The three-week course included understanding of the core values of the company, job training, visit to worksites, and experience of Korean culture. The course inspired the employees with a sense of belonging and reinforced the Korea-Indonesia partnership. In Education for the local employees addition, the on-the-job training on the advanced facility system strengthened the work capacity of local hired in Indonesia employees. 「Support for Overseas Study」 The company provides overseas study support program to nurture enterprising and creative leaders who will lead the future growth of POSCO ENERGY. The program provides full tuition to the selected employees studying abroad. Job Capacity Building Engineer Paper Presentation For the capacity building and career development of engineers, the company holds a biannual engineer paper presentation. At the presentation, engineers share their papers on work-related themes based on their field knowledge. The presentation offers a venue for engineers from all worksites to gather and share their knowledge and information. Action Learning POSCO ENERGY provides the Action Learning program to all administrative staff. Action Learning is a learning capacity building program that helps employees set their own research themes highly related to their duty and performance, find the problems, and establish problem-solving strategies. The program has helped employees to improve their job competency and spread a culture of learning. Fair Performance Management and Compensation Performance Management Based on Autonomy and Delegation All employees of POSCO ENERGY are making efforts to establish a corporate culture of autonomy and delegation. Through the performance-based management that respects autonomy and delegation, the company has been promoting the creativity of employees, established HR principles that enable individuals to develop and display their competency to the fullest, and made them a clear guideline for HR and organization operations. Fair Performance Management and Compensation To ensure that all employees display their maximum ability, POSCO ENERGY has established its own performance evaluation system. Based on this system, the company manages the performance of employees to enhance fairness and rationality in personnel evaluation. The company impartially compensates and rewards employees according to the performance-based evaluation, and makes it a rule to treat male and female employees equally. Personnel Evaluation System through Performance Management Goal Organization Setting MBO registration Meeting MBO Approval goal setting Quarterly Monthly performance Performance Quarterly registration and Management Quarterly plan setup Quarterly coaching performance immediate feedback compensation Final Evaluation based on monthly performance and 2nd evaluation Evaluation 1st evaluation quarterly Feedback (Group discussion) SOCIAL VALUE 55 Happiness Management Employee Communication POSCO ENERGY seeks to establish its own corporate culture to become a close-knit organization, by internalizing the corporate culture of autonomy and delegation and unifying the visions of both the company and its employees. Happiness Index Survey Happiness Index POSCO ENERGY believes that the happiness and satisfaction of employees lay the foundation to enhance the competitiveness of the company and to establish its own corporate culture. Based on this principle, 2011 73.4 points all employees are cooperating to make a pleasant workplace, increase trust towards the company and the management, enhance pride in their work and the company, and respect and understand each 2012 75.1 points other. Every year, the company conducts a survey and interviews targeting all employees to measure the Happiness Index. The Index is measured through various criteria, for example, based on worksite, position, length of service, and gender. The survey result is actively incorporated to improve systems and to establish the future direction for happiness management. Shin-tong-hwa-tong-han-mah-dang: A Fun and Hot Festival POSCO ENERGY holds festivals to create a culture of communication and foster a spirit of passion and challenge so that its employees have affection for their colleagues and the company. Until 2011, the annual “Hanmaeum Training” was held three times in total, under the motto of “building a corporate culture of communication and trust.” In 2012, the “Hanmaeum Training” changed its name to “Shin-tonghwa-tong-han-mah-dang” which means a fun and hot festival. During the 2-day session, all employees participated in various programs, including group games, communication/harmony encouragement programs, and hiking. Held under the themes of harmony, teamwork, and fun, the programs provided an opportunity to review the values of communication and harmony. Luncheon Meetings Luncheon meetings with the CEO and the executives are held to promote the communication between employees and the management. Employees and the executives can share ideas or problems about the company, or discuss any other questions in a relaxed atmosphere. Through the ideas and suggestions exchanged at the meetings, POSCO ENERGY has shown positive improvements such as opening a daycare center, providing special lecture on dating for singles, and celebrating employee's anniversaries. Even the most trivial ideas have been collected from the meetings to continuously improve the welfare of employees. Pub Day To promote the communication and mutual understanding among employees, the company holds a Pub Day once a year at each worksite. Pub Day provides employees with an opportunity to share the results of major in-house surveys, enjoy recreation activities with colleagues, and communicate with the Shin-tong-hwa-tong-han-mah-dang: executives. A Fun and Hot Festival In-house Club Activities By actively supporting the in-house club activities, the company encourages employees to enjoy their free time, work on self-development, and engage in communication with colleagues. At present, there are 20 in-house clubs for sports, music, and photography, and the company gives them full support to run the clubs in a practical and sustainable manner. 56 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Family-friendly Management POSCO ENERGY promotes family-friendly management through the flexible work hour system. Employees are allowed to make monthly adjustments to start work at any time between 7am and 11am. Through the system, employees can flexibly utilize their time for childcare, family life, or self-development. Furthermore, the company designated every 2nd and 4th Wednesday as Family Day. 「Opening of Daycare Center and Support for Childcare」 Even though POSCO ENERGY is not a company that is obliged to have a daycare center, it has opened one to create a working environment where employees can work happily without concerns about childcare. The company also allows female employees to take 90 days cumulative maternity leave (paid) and up to one year of child care leave. Male employees can also take a paid paternity leave. 「Certified as Family-friendly Company」 In December 2012, POSCO ENERGY was certified as a family-friendly company by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family, for its successful implementation of family-friendly policies. The policies improved the quality of employees’ lives and the productivity of the company through a work-life balance. 1 2 1 | Opening of daycare center 2 | Family-friendly company certificate Employee Welfare POSCO ENERGY enforces the statutory welfare and benefits program and operates various programs to improve the welfare and benefits of all employees. Welfare System Housing Loan Medical (health) Support Educational Support Lending money for Health examinations for Financial aid for school tuition home purchase and lease to employees once a year, of employees’ children, non-homeowners, lending supporting employees and supporting over-the-phone living stabilization funds their family members with foreign language education medical expenses and language clubs Subsidies for Leisure Time Selective Welfare Other Programs Activities Welfare card for employees Condominium reservations, Congratulations and that can be used for summer resorts, rail fare condolences program, self-development, hobbies, discounts, and travel expense company housing, club leisure, and health discounts activity support, funeral service, management overseas training programs for outstanding employees, etc.) SOCIAL VALUE 57 「Retirement Pension」 For the stable management of employees’ severance pay, POSCO ENERGY introduced a retirement pension program in December 2011. The program sets the retirement age at 60, and guarantees the highest level of job security. Moreover, the company re-hires some of the employees scheduled to retire for a certain period of time considering their expertise and necessity. POSCO ENERGY will make continuous efforts to ensure the job security of its employees. 「Café Mirae」 POSCO ENERGY opened Café Mirae through the cooperation of the company, the labor union, and the employees. It serves as a model of a virtuous cycle for the co-prosperity of the company, the employees, and the local community. The café was established for the welfare of the employees, and all the profits are used to help the neighbors in need, spreading the warm hearts of the employees. Opening of Café MiRAE Event for the Employees of Happy Concert at Café MiRAE Profit Donation for the Needy Inviting the employees to name Cafe MiRAE Use lunchtime once a month the café, (Cafe MiRAE) Event for selling more than 10,000 Free coffee for employees cups of coffee Eco-friendly campaign : reduce the use of disposables Establishing Labor-Management Relations In regard to human rights and labor issues, POSCO ENERGY stipulates the continuous stability of labormanagement relations in the internal collective agreement and ethical standards. POSCO ENERGY has established a systematic grievance resolution system to listen to the voices of employees and to promptly address their difficulties. Labor-Management Council and Grievance Committee POSCO ENERGY operates a labor-management council and a grievance committee at each operational site. Through online or face-to-face meetings, employees can make a suggestion or report a grievance to the company on the problems related to work duties or family issues such as childcare, and the company tries to give a prompt feedback and solution. The grievance committee guarantees the confidentiality of the reported grievances, and when it is not Counseling center possible to handle the issue immediately, the company does its utmost to address the grievance at the quarterly labor-management council. Dialogue between Labor and Management POSCO ENERGY regularly conducts collective bargaining with the labor union in regard to wages and agreements. As for important company decisions or issues directly connected to the working conditions of employees, the company frequently consults with the labor union to reflect their opinions in the decisions. Besides the labor-management council, the company holds monthly meetings to review grievances and difficulties, and to ensure a close dialogue between labor and management. 58 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Safe and Healthy Workplace Safety-Health System Direction for Safety-Health Policy Under the goal of creating sound and safe operational sites through respect and care, POSCO ENERGY is striving to create its own safety culture to make sure that every employee can work in a safe environment. The safety-health management system has been established through efforts such as acquiring KOSHA18001 and operating the safety and health management index. Operational Raising facility competitiveness, maximizing profits through Goals optimization of operation, and securing growth engines Implementation Goals Creating sound and safe operational sites through “respect and care” Implementation Synergy Up between Jump Up of Smart Work Capacity Felt Leadership through Action Plans Operational Sites / Divisions •Enhancing the role of the Safety Base •Leveling up the safety capacity of all •Strengthening the mindset of positionCamp employees holders on safety issues •Establishing an optimal response •Internalizing the Safety Smart Work •Promoting the SAO system for overall review and (persistently discovering and solving •E xpanding the Safety Communication inspection problems) Network •Expanding safety activities with •E stablishing a perfect emergency employees response system Occupational Safety & Health Committee and Voluntary Safety Committee POSCO ENERGY operates the Occupational Safety & Health Committee to consult and discuss issues related to safety and health in accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act. The Committee is held every quarter, to make continuous efforts to improve the safe and healthy environment and create pleasant working conditions. The Voluntary Safety Committee is also held every month for the heads of plants and position-holders, to encourage position-holders to voluntarily participate in safety measures and to share safety and health issues. Safety-Health Education The company is providing safety education programs by sector, including statutory education, in-house 1 education, and fire drills. To raise the awareness of employees on safety, safety-sharing education is provided every month, and external experts are invited to give special lectures on safety. In addition, POSCO ENERGY is operating SAO (Safety Acts Observation) to promote safety activities and encourage fundamental changes in working behavior through positive approaches of observing and commending safe behavior rather than existing approaches such as pointing out mistakes or ordering behavior. 2 Education Program on Safety Statutory Education In-house Education Fire Drills •S tatutory manager education •Special education on safety and •F ire drills for all employees •Regular education for all health •Drills to put out fires in the early employees •Safety and health education for stage •Safety education for supervisors employees of partners •Emergency drills 1 | Voluntary Safety Committee •Safety education for •Education before harmful and 2 | Safety-health workshop for new employees dangerous work position-holders •Special education •Company’s own safety education SOCIAL VALUE 59 POSCO ENERGY has a safety-health system to help all employees, customers, and partners’ employees work in healthy and safe workplaces. The company operates a safety system to prevent accidents and provides continuous safety trainings so that it can become a happy power plant where employees set and accomplish their own safety goals to achieve zero accidents. Activities to Improve Safety 「Near-Miss Activities」 POSCO ENERGY conducts Near-Miss Activities to remove possible risks Absenteeism from the worksites and to prevent similar disasters through improvements, while providing employees 2010 / 2011 2012 with safety education based on actual cases to firmly establish a safe operating system. Moreover, the company encourages study groups (Safety Management) to register safety activities in real time so that 0% 1.9% employees can share the activities. Also, those who identify Near Miss are selected and rewarded on a monthly basis. Industrial Accidents 2010 / 2011 2012 「Top 10 Risk System」 The Top 10 Risk System assesses the risks of the accident-prone power generation facilities, identifies the top 10 improvement tasks and conducts improvement activities to 0case 1case prevent disasters. The Top 10 Risk activities are also carried out through assessments of the divisions and those with issues for improvement as part of the efforts to prevent accidents. 「Distribution of Guidelines for Safety Work」 The company conducts weekly safety inspections and shares the inspection results companywide. All employees always carry the safety guidelines to prevent industrial and work-related accidents. 「Performance of Safety Management」 To reach the goal of becoming an accident-free and happy power plant, POSCO ENERGY is trying to step up as a leading company in terms of safety and health by operating a systematic safety system. To this end, not only is the company trying to operate facilities in a stable manner, but it has appointed its own maintenance personnel to respond immediately to emergency situations. In 2012, POSCO ENERGY was selected as the exemplary company for fire-safety by the Incheon City and the Pohang plant achieved 1st grade in ‘Zero Accidents’ authorized by Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency, and was honored with a commendation from the Governor of Honored as the best company for fire-safety Gyeongsangbuk-do. Co-existence & Cooperation Programs POSCO ENERGY operates “co-existence & cooperation programs” to educate the education on safety supplier companies. The safety experts from POSCO ENERGY provide education on safety prevent safetyrelated accidents. The company also newly built locker rooms, shower rooms, and refresh zones for the stationing employees from the suppliers to strengthen friendly relations and improve work efficiency. 60 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Customer Satisfaction Organization Chart Restructuring for Technical Independence in Services To improve the quality of products, POSCO ENERGY has gradually stabilized the operation rate by not Customer Service Division only localizing its products and improving its facilities, but also fostering experts in services. In April 2012, the customer service division was newly established through organizational restructuring to nurture proService Technology Division fessionals suitable for more segmented service duties. The company is planning to maximize customer •Customer/Contract response satisfaction and stabilize the quality of products by achieving technical independence in the service area •Remote control/technical support from the fuel cell manufacturer by 2015. Gyeongin Service Division •Service duties in the Gyeongin Opening of Gyeongin Service Center area (Seoul, Gyeonggi, and POSCO ENERGY opened the Gyeongin Service Center in May 2012 to improve the operation rate and Chungcheong areas) customer satisfaction in the Gyeonggi and Incheon areas. The Gyeongin Service Center allows the comSouthern Service Division pany to focus on providing service of stable quality since service duties are now divided into regions: •Service duties in the Gyeongsang Pohang (former base of service duties), Gyeongin area, and southern area. To provide more prompt and Jeolla areas response, POSCO ENERGY plans to establish infrastructure for customers in Gyeongin area by 2014, and is making continuous efforts to secure the trust of both existing and new customers. Stack Repair Division •Diagnosis/repair of Stack modules •Management of spare Stack modules 24/7 Technical Support Center POSCO ENERGY established a remote-access system and the basic hardware in the Pohang fuel cell manufacturing plant. Since February 2013, the company has provided technical support such as an around-the-clock remote operation, repair and maintenance support, integrated history management, and sustaining of optimal status. At present, the company is securing operational technology, including technology transfer programs, through cooperation with the original manufacturer. It is scheduled to reach the goal of providing its own around-the-clock real time customer response by 2014 to maximize customer satisfaction. Gradual Stabilization Trend in Operation Rate ▒ Operation rate (%) 100 90 80 2010 3Q 2010 4Q 2011 4Q 2009 1Q 2010 1Q 70 2011 3Q 2009 4Q 2010 2Q 2011 1Q 2011 2Q 2012 1Q 2012 4Q 2009 2Q 60 2012 2Q 2009 3Q 2012 3Q 50 1 2 3 1 | Opening of the Gyeongin Service 2,3 | Operation of Around-the-clock Technical Support Center Center SOCIAL VALUE 61 With competition intensifying around the world, customer satisfaction has become the most important factor in securing competitiveness. POSCO ENERGY is improving its customer-oriented service system in a more proactive and professional manner. Strengthening Functions of Stack Module Repair Center POSCO ENERGY set up a Stack Module Repair Center in the Pohang fuel cell manufacturing plant and improved customer satisfaction by cutting down the repair period of Stack modules from one year to 40 days. The company’s repair capacity has been enhanced by strengthening facilities and improving diagnosis ability and technology of Stack modules. From 2015, the company is expected to diagnose and repair Stack modules with its own technology to prevent breakdowns and stabilize the quality of products. Customized Technology Education As fuel cell systems are more diversified, POSCO ENERGY is expanding the customized technology education for its customers. In 2012, a total of six technical education programs were provided to satisfy the needs of local customers (1 technical seminar, 3 field education programs, 2 operation/repair education programs), while a group of Indonesian public officials were invited to Korea for two technical training seminars. Education will be provided more actively in various ways to satisfy the expectation of customers on fuel cell technology. Technical education and field education Technical training seminar for public officials of Indonesia Diversification of Promotion Channels POSCO ENERGY participated in Renewable Energy Korea 2012, a renowned new and renewable energy exhibition in Korea, to promote POSCO ENERGY’s vision as a global energy company. It also attended an energy exhibition at Abu-Dhabi to pioneer new overseas markets of fuel-cell systems. The PR Center of the Pohang Fuel Cell Hub was opened to the general public and the PR Center and the fuel cell manufacturing plant became landmarks representing the fuel cell industry. The Sangam fuel cell power plant also provides the public with an opportunity to experience new and renewable energy so that people can recognize the importance of fuel cell in their daily lives. Participation in the 2012 Abu-Dhabi Exhibition Exhibition booth at Renewable Energy Korea 2012 62 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Shared Growth with Suppliers Establishment of Fair Trade Relations POSCO ENERGY is taking the lead in creating the right trade culture through implementing transparent and fair procedures from selecting, managing to contracting with suppliers. Securing Fairness in Selecting and Evaluating Suppliers POSCO ENERGY applies the supplier selection and evaluation standards, stipulated in the purchasing regulation, and carries out the new supplier registration and bidding process without partiality through POSCO Family’s SRM (Supplier Relationship Management). POSCO ENERGY’s evaluation criteria include supplier’s codes on human rights or its fulfillment of corporate social responsibility reinforce the fairness of the evaluation process, strengthening cooperation with suppliers. Transparent Contract The company carries out fair electronic bidding processes through its e-Procurement system. In addition, it operates the Subcontracting Evaluation Committee to enhance the transparency of the whole process from bidding to contracting, such as evaluating the compliance of prohibited behavior, including oral ordering or unfair curtailment of prices, in order to create fair trade relations with suppliers. Various Support Programs for Suppliers POSCO ENERGY is operating various support programs to build the capacity of suppliers and taking a lead for genuine shared growth, through joint R&Ds with outstanding suppliers. Benefit Sharing Value Operation of Benefit Sharing POSCO ENERGY operates the Benefit Sharing system. The company reviews the feasibility of the suggested 2011 KRW 345million projects from the suppliers or field employees and takes corresponding actions with the suppliers. It pays the price of the prototype, and after the performance has been proved for a certain period, the company 2012 KRW 556 million shares the benefits with the suppliers in various ways such as cash reward, unit price compensation, or sales compensation through a private contract. Field visit to the Benefit Sharing Best Company (National Commission for Corporate Partnership) SOCIAL VALUE 63 POSCO ENERGY is making diverse efforts to achieve shared growth with its suppliers by operating various support programs and taking the lead in settling a culture of fair trade with small and medium-sized suppliers. 100% Cash Payment on Purchase · Financial Support Amount of Order from Small POSCO ENERGY pays for the purchases from SMEs in cash, and the payment is made twice a week. and Medium-sized Suppliers When an SME submits the document evidence in advance, the payment is completed no later than 5 days after the products are received. Moreover, suppliers may take out loans from the POSCO Group 2011 KRW 60.84billion Fund, with a volume of about KRW 200billion, with favorable conditions. Technical Support 2012 KRW 69.71billion POSCO ENERGY strives to provide technical support to suppliers by signing techno-partnerships. The Rate of Order of Small and company provides customized technical consultation with its outstanding manpower in research centers Medium-sized Suppliers and operational fields, allows the suppliers to use expensive research facilities for free, and jointly conducts national projects with the suppliers. In addition, POSCO ENERGY pays for some of the expenses 2011 61.3% for SMEs when the company and the suppliers jointly apply for a patent. POSCO ENERGY will also make 70.8% continuous efforts to protect the technologies of its suppliers by operating the online patent counseling 2012 center and promoting the use of the technology escrow system. Education and Human Resources Support The suppliers are provided with various collective education and e-learning for free, through POSCO Group’s National Human Resource Development Consortium. In addition, the Win-Win Growth Support Team, a group of one to two executives, carry out the support activities through visits to SMEs for six months. The executives offer various consultations using their expertise, from business consulting such as HR and finance to QSS consulting. One of the support activities in 2012 received the best prize in the POSCO Family’s Win-Win Growth Festival, as the activity was recognized as having contributed to the improvement of a supplier’s productivity. Win-Win Benefit Growth TechnoBusiness Sharing Support partnership Consulting Team Performance Attendance Rate of With Supported in 2012 KRW 556 million 99% 10 companies 10 suppliers Description •Exceeded the Goal of •9 Executives, •Introduced the •Management KRW 500million Once a Month POSCO Doctor Program, Techno-partnership QSS Consulting, Safety Education, etc. Activities of Win-Win Growth Support Team (Maintech Plant) 64 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Communication and Sharing with Local Communities Social Contribution Strategy POSCO ENERGY established a system of social contribution and volunteer activities to accomplish the value of sustainability management to generate “Energy for a Better World.” Through various social contribution activities, it hopes to become a loved company among the local community. Social Contribution Framework POSCO ENERGY, which belongs to the equipment industry, focuses on social contribution activities to share green value and co-exist with the local communities where its power plants are located. To reach the goals, the company plans and implements social contribution activities to create the value of energy that makes a better world within the local communities. Social Contribution Framework Policy Communication with Local Communities Sharing Green Value Direction Representative Improvement of Energy Efficiency Educational Support for the Areas around the Power Plants Programs Basic Entertaining Strategic Together Best Volunteer Sharing Saturday Themed Volunteer Activity Energy Volunteer Activity Family Volunteer Activity Activities of •Company’s traditional •Leisure-style volunteer •Volunteer activity linked •POSCO Family joint Employees volunteer activity with a activity for employees and to the representative CSR volunteer activity long history their families programs •Green volunteer activity •Basic environmental •Joyful volunteer •Strategic volunteer with family companies volunteer activity of the activity under the theme of activity related to the company that every ‘Green’ energy industry employee should participate in Social Contribution Costs Social Contribution Fund in 2012 Classification Description Place of Use Used for social welfare projects to Bright World Created by voluntary wage deduction of improve the local communities around Fund employees Total the power plants 3,706 1% Sharing 1% of the salaries of POSCO Family executives Used for POSCO Family’s joint projects to support multicultural families and to are contributed to the fund as a practice of Fund supply steel houses to the vulnerable noblesse oblige classes Implementation of the representative CSR programs, Creation of Bright Company’s (Unit : KRW million) Company’s contribution for energy welfare World Fund on a matching grant basis, Contribution E nvironment & Deposition of year-end donation to the international community 43 Community Chest of Korea, etc. Research & academics 1,330 The aid amount is calculated by the government Social welfare 2,321 The local governments and power based on the power generation produced by each Aid to the plants (use the aid to improve the Others 12 plant two years in advance (Implemented by the Neighboring Areas neighboring areas within 5 kilometers of Electric Power Public Tasks Evaluation & Planning * Operational cost of POSCO ENERGY of Power Plants the plants in such ways as educational Women’s Table Tennis Team is excluded Center in accordance with the Act on Assistance to support) as the support is to revitalize sports Neighboring Areas of Electric Power Plants) SOCIAL VALUE 65 Performance of Energy Energy Efficiency Improvement Project for Aged Houses Efficiency Improvement In the second half of 2012, the company carried out the energy efficiency improvement project for aged Project houses around the power plant in Incheon to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by improving energy Voluntary Participation of efficiency of aged houses as well as to reduce energy costs of the energy-poor. Employees 96 employees Performance in 2012 Energy Savings Classification Energy Efficiency Improvement Project for Aged Houses 17,018 kWh/year Region Seo-gu, Incheon 10 households in the low-income bracket (beneficiaries of basic living allowance, houseTarget holds of the near poverty group) Tree Planting Effect 1,377 trees/year Description Improvement of energy efficiency Insulation installation : Installing materials with insulation function *CO2 reduction 7,488kg/year Joinery construction : Replacement of PVC chassis of windows, doors, and front doors Energy Cost Savings Floor construction : Conducting plumbing construction on the floor to use hot-water 1.607 million/year Range heater Repapering walls and floors : Replacement of wall and floor papers after construction ※ E mergent improvement works are included such as water-proof construction or securing storage space Seo-gu Office of Recommendation of beneficiaries, Project cooperation Incheon City System General Planning (Planning – Selection of beneficiaries – POSCO ENERGY Implementation Implementation of project – Follow-up management) Korea National Council on Implementation (Establishing construction plans, Social Welfare Construction and inspection, Performance analysis) Volunteer activities for improving energy efficiency Volunteer activities with the CEO Educational Support around Power Plants POSCO ENERGY provides educational support such as scholarship programs and community child centers for the children of the poor who live in the local communities around the power plants in Seoul, Incheon, Pohang, and Gwangyang. In 2013, the company selected 10 regional childcare centers in Seogu, Incheon and started the “Warm Community Child Center Projects to Make a Brighter World (Project I : Community child center project to make a brighter world; Project II : Warm community child center project).” Project I dispatches “Hopeful Energy College Student Volunteer Corp.” as study mentors to help the children of those centers to grow up to make the world brighter. Project II aims to create a studying atmosphere by supporting the cooling/heating bills, development of educational contents, and center renovations. 66 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Participation of Employees POSCO ENERGY is providing not only the company itself but also its employees with the opportunities to understand the local communities, and employees are actively participating in the sharing activities. BEST* Volunteer Activities POSCO ENERGY operates its Basic volunteer program, called “Sharing Saturday,” by division and by Volunteer Hour of small group. In addition, the Family Volunteer Activity in which POSCO Family companies participate Employees per Person Together is held every year. In 2012, new volunteer activities were introduced: 1) Entertaining volunteer activities with diverse themes that employees and their families can enjoy together on Saturday, and 2) 2010 24.2Hrs Strategic energy volunteer activities which employees can participate in the company’s representative CSR program, the Energy Efficiency Improvement Project, to understand the company’s CSR direction 2011 28.5Hrs and the local communities where the power plants are located. Through these volunteer activities, in 2012, the average employees’ volunteer hour recorded 34.2hours per person. *BEST : Basic, Entertaining, Strategic, Together 2012 34.2Hrs Sharing Saturday volunteer team sets up a sisterhood Themed volunteer activity with family relationship with a childcare center in Gwangyang Bright World Fund Bright World Fund is a social contribution fund to make a brighter world. The fund was created by employees who want to donate a certain amount of money through salary deduction for the vulnerable classes of the local communities near their workplace. To develop a donation culture jointly participated by labor and management, the company also donates matching grant to the Bright World Fund. Moreover, the company established a Bright World Fund committee at each operational site for employees to discuss and approve the use of the fund on their own. The fund created in 2012 alone amounted to KRW 126 million (as of the end of 2012) with the participation of 78.8% of POSCO ENERGY employees. Noeul-jong (Evening glow bell) Symbol of Jeongseojin POSCO ENERGY’s Incheon power plant created a sculpture, the “Noeul-jong (meaning, evening glow bell),” to symbolize “Jeongseojin” of Incheon, and donated it to the Seo-gu Office of Inchen City in September 2012. The name “Noeul-jong,” given by the Former Minister of Culture Lee Uh-Ryuung, means that people can have new hope to start tomorrow by enjoying the evening glow of Jeongseojin and healing themselves. The exterior of the sculpture features a pebble, which is one of the most familiar objects in the West coast, and the interior features a “bell” to chime a new Jeongseojin Noeul-jong tomorrow. The size of the sculpture is 21meters in length and 13.5meters in height. The sculpture is expected to be a tourist attraction of Jeongseojin and contribute to vitalizing the local economy. SOCIAL VALUE 67 Women’s Table Tennis Team Donation Activities The POSCO ENERGY Women’s Table Tennis Team has carried out continuous volunteer activities for residents and youths in Seo-gu, Incheon since its formation in 2011, to promote and table tennis and expand its base. 「Support for Table Tennis Class」 The Women’s Table Tennis Team has regularly held table tennis classes to local residents and youths at the company’s gym. The Team taught basic and advanced techniques and gained huge popularity among the local residents. Moreover, as children got to meet the famous table tennis players and get autographs from them, the local children are more satisfied and frequently participating in the program. 「Support for Club Activities」 The Women’s Table Tennis Team holds regular exchanges with the company’s table tennis club. The Team teaches the club members table tennis and plays a match with them. This helps in improving the club members' skills and promoting communication among members. The Women’s Table Tennis Team is not only promoting and enhancing the image of the company, but also contributing to the improvement of the welfare of employees and their affection towards the company. Shinsuk Park For the health and leisure of the local residents, the company operates Shinsuk Park, which has various sports and convenient facilities. According to the MOU with the Seo-gu Office of Incheon City, the company also operates Incheon United soccer team, the Youth Soccer Academy of Seo-gu, Incheon, and kindergarten soccer classes for free, making efforts to foster young sports talents and promote sports for everyday life. 68 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report UN Global Compact Accession to UN Global Compact and Compliance with 10 Principles In September 2012, POSCO ENERGY acceded to UN Global Compact to reflect the international standards of sustainability management and show its willingness to pursue sustainability management at home and abroad. The company complies with the 10 principles in the 4 areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. The company will continue to carry out its activities in improving relations with stakeholders, maintaining smooth relations between labor and management, participating in the environmental issues, and strengthening anti-corruption activities. It will also disclose the results in a transparent manner. The compliance status of the 10 principles can be found on the related pages of this report. UNGC (UN Global Compact) 10 Principles Category The Ten Principles GRI Page HR1 HR2 HR3 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of HR4 HR5 HR6 22, 57, 62 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human Rights HR7 HR8 HR9 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights HR1 HR2 HR8 62 abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association HR5 and the effective recognition of the right to collective 57, 73 LA4 LA5 bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory HR7 57 labour; Labour 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and HR6 57 HR4 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment LA2 LA10 18, 52, 54, 73 and occupation. LA13 LA14 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 4.11 23 environmental challenges; EN5 EN6 EN7 Environment 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental EN10 EN14 EN18 EN26 36-41, 43-47, 49, 65 responsibility; and EN27 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmenEN2 EN5 EN6 EN7 EN10 36-41, 43-47, 49, 65 tally friendly technologies. EN18 EN26 EN27 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-Corruption SO2 SO3 SO4 22 including extortion and bribery. SOCIAL VALUE 69 APPENDIX Financial Information Sustainability Management Performance Data Corporate Governance of Affiliates GRI 3.1 & ISO26000 Index Awards Membership in Associations Independent Assurance Report 70 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Financial information Statements of Financial Position (Unit : KRW) Classification 14th (December 31, 2012) 13th (December 31, 2011) Current assets 761,329,353,836 712,872,667,043 Quick assets 627,072,197,736 635,472,825,912 Inventory assets 134,257,156,100 77,399,841,131 Non-current assets 2,623,582,662,472 2,269,779,311,553 Assets Invested assets 222,642,538,937 98,475,190,696 Property, plant and equipment 2,247,928,722,874 2,016,903,716,259 Intangible assets 78,585,118,404 79,793,428,739 Other non-current assets 74,426,282,257 74,606,975,859 Total Asset 3,384,912,016,308 2,982,651,978,596 Current liabilities 691,757,756,265 600,715,917,889 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 1,453,066,197,450 1,508,750,341,469 Total liabilities 2,144,823,953,715 2,109,466,259,358 Capital stock 259,307,365,000 233,333,335,000 Capital surplus 530,866,685,071 356,973,438,447 Capital adjustments (3,658,794,737) (3,746,987,570) Equity Accumulated other comprehensive income (49,842,796,279) (36,448,810,410) Retained earnings 503,415,603,538 323,074,743,771 Total equity 1,240,088,062,593 873,185,719,238 Total liabilities and equity 3,384,912,016,308 2,982,651,978,596 Statements of Income (Unit : KRW) Classification 14th ( January 1 December 31, 2012) 13th (January 1 December 31, 2011) Revenue 2,856,715,672,711 1,917,583,996,192 Cost of sales 2,506,086,566,982 1,732,405,433,686 Gross profit 350,629,105,729 185,178,562,506 Selling, general and administrative expenses 77,460,926,088 44,555,568,819 Operating Income 273,168,179,641 140,622,993,687 Other non-operating income 80,443,469,488 18,952,338,825 Other non-operating expenses 135,913,695,754 109,042,901,059 Income before income taxes 217,697,953,375 50,532,431,453 Income tax expenses 35,828,847,408 4,432,908,823 Net income 181,869,105,967 46,099,522,630 Earning per share 4,355 1,152 APPENDIX 71 Statement of Changes in Equity (Unit : KRW) Accumulated Other Capital Classification Capital Stock Capital Surplus Comprehensive Income Retained Earnings Total Adjustments (loss) January 1, 2011 (At the beginning of the 233,333,335,000 356,973,451,329 (3,746,987,570) (22,474,427,592) 276,975,221,141 841,060,592,308 previous period) Net profit 46,099,522,630 46,099,522,630 Gain and loss on valuation of (12,673,384,307) (12,673,384,307) available-for-sale securities Gain and loss on (2,871,398,210) (2,871,398,210) valuation of derivatives Gain on valuation of investment stock using 1,570,399,699 1,570,399,699 the equity method Other capital reserve (12,882) (12,882) December 31, 2011 (At the end of previous 233,333,335,000 356,973,438,447 (3,746,987,570) (36,448,810,410) 323,074,743,771 873,185,719,238 period) January 1, 2012 233,333,335,000 356,973,438,447 (3,746,987,570) (36,448,810,410) 323,074,743,771 873,185,719,238 (Reported amount) Change in accounting (1,528,246,200) (1,528,246,200) policies January 1, 2012 (Balance at the beginning of 233,333,335,000 356,973,438,447 (3,746,987,570) (36,448,810,410) 321,546,497,571 871,657,473,038 the year after adjustments) Increase of share capital 25,974,030,000 173,862,848,760 199,836,878,760 Net profit 181,869,105,967 181,869,105,967 Gain and loss on valuation of (11,101,724,454) (11,101,724,454) available-for-sale securities Gain and loss on 5,388,790,935 5,388,790,935 valuation of derivatives Gain on valuation of investment stock using (7,695,840,850) (7,695,840,850) the equity method Changes through merger 30,397,864 (14,788,500) 14,788,500 30,397,864 Other capital adjustments 102,981,333 102,981,333 December 31, 2012 259,307,365,000 530,866,685,071 (3,658,794,737) (49,842,796,279) 503,415,603,538 1,240,088,062,593 (at end of term) Statements of Cash Flows (Unit : KRW) Category 14th (January 1 December 31, 2012) 13th (January 1 December 31, 2011) Ⅰ. Net cash provided by operating activities 394,031,379,555 57,688,564,039 1. Net income 181,869,105,967 46,099,522,630 2. Addition of expenses not involving cash outflows 257,756,591,550 186,361,137,065 3. Deduction of revenues not involving cash inflows (69,127,561,955) (6,023,937,407) 4. Changes in assets and liabilities resulting from operations 23,533,243,993 (168,748,158,249) Ⅱ. Net cash used in investing activities (567,348,175,926) (237,873,192,187) 1. Cash inflows from investment activities 4,667,963,166 1,632,282,935 2. Cash outflows for investment activities (572,016,139,092) (239,505,475,122) Ⅲ. Net cash provided by financing activities 161,403,869,877 222,509,104,530 1. Cash inflows from financing activities 508,746,209,277 797,632,980,399 2. Cash outflows for financing activities (347,342,339,400) (575,123,875,869) Ⅳ. Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (Ⅰ+Ⅱ+Ⅲ) (11,912,926,494) 42,324,476,382 Ⅴ. Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 179,160,708,201 136,836,231,819 Ⅵ. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 167,247,781,707 179,160,708,201 72 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Performance Data Economic Performance Indicators Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 Generation MWh 4,898,798 12,809,742 15,791,978 Generation and Transmission MWh 4,767,814 12,339,542 15,424,543 transmission Transmission loss rate % 0.03 0.04 0.02 Government subsidy* KRW million 8,563 6,689 8,675 Status of manpower person 29 53 69 R&D** Amount KRW billion 8.9 9.8 18.3 Recommended % 9 55 81 participation rate Level of innovation Innovation activities point 72 75 79 activities Innovative manpower % 22 38 51 cultivation rate D+ operational quality point 84 88 * Calculated on the basis of the amount of renewable energy development difference funding and government subsidies for national projects ** Counted on the basis of the business report Environmental Performance Indicators Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 LNG Nm3 994,035,338 1,967,934,125 2,540,069,749 Fuel consumption BFG Nm3 1,202,104,375 5,068,025,525 4,834,404,296 COG Nm3 1,471,851 25,103,776 51,319,218 Energy consumption TJ 47,453 104,784 128,403 Total tCO2 2,400,844 5,293,335 6,465,523 GHG Emissions Scope1 tCO2 2,389,570 5,273,743 6,451,805 Scope2 tCO2 11,274 19,592 13,718 Water consumption ton 1,302,967 2,243,153 2,052,256 Discharged water quantity ton 359,535 421,344 464,479 discharged Total ton 530 679 842 General Waste ton 514 658 797 Waste Specified Waste ton 16 21 45 Waste recycled % 29 25.1 17.6 Harmful chemicals quantity ton 1,065 1,296 2,016 used Environmental investments KRW million 23,322 24,122 7,560 APPENDIX 73 Social Performance Indicators Classification Unit 2010 2011 2012 Total number of employees person 465 688 861 Seoul person 114 138 147 Incheon person 193 266 326 By region Pohang person 131 241 318 Gwangyang person 27 30 56 Overseas person 13 14 Male person 426 633 784 By gender Female person 39 55 77 Regular job total person 274 443 577 By job Regular job (M/F) person (Male 236 / Female 38) (Male 397 / Female 46) (Male 501 / Female 76) category Specialized job total person 175 214 252 Specialized job (M/F) person (Male 174 / Female 1) (Male 213 / Female 1) (Male 251 / Female 1) Full-time / Regular employees person 449 657 829 Part-time Contract workers person 16 31 32 Average employee education hr/person 100 110 132 Education time Total education expense KRW million 760 114.0 112.0 Rate of flexible work program % Monthly average 38.0% 35.9 Rate of job return after maternity leave % 100 100 Happiness index point 73.4 75.1 Turnover rate % 6 4 2 Average employees’ volunteer hour hr/person 24.2 28.5 34.2 Benefit Sharing cost KRW million 345 556 Membership rate of labor union % 67 69 65 General Professional Within 5 years Within 10 years Within 5 years Within 10 years Employees scheduled to retire by job type (%) 2.7 0.4 0.4 Corporate Governance of Affiliates (As of December 31, 2012) Affiliated Company Share Affiliated Company Share PSC Energy Global Co., Ltd. 100% Fifth Combined Heat and Power Plant LLC 30% POSCO E&E 100% Gyeonggi Green Energy 25.5% Techren Solar, LLC 99.9% Fuel Cell Energy, Inc 16.6% PT. KPP 90% Postech Electricity Fund 11.6% Tamra Offshore Wind Power Plant 64% eNtoB Co., Ltd. 3.95% * Pohang Fuel Cell Power Generation and Shinan Energy were merged by POSCO ENERGY in November 2012 74 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report GRI 3.1 & ISO26000 Index GRI 3.1 ISO26000 Page Remarks Ⅰ Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Declaration of Sustainability management from the CEO and the executive committee. 2, 3 6.2 1.2 Descriptions of major risks and opportunities. 36-41 Ⅱ Organizational Profile 2.1 Organization name 6 2.2 Main products and services 6 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 2.3 6, 73 subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Main business locations 6 2.5 Overseas business locations 6 6.2 2.6 Equity structure and legal status 73 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ 2.7 6 beneficiaries) 2.8 Organizational size/scale 6 2.9 Major change(s) in organizational and/or equity structure 6, 73 2.10 Awards 78 Ⅲ Reporting Variables 3.1 Reporting periods Cover First issue published 3.2 Latest report publication date in 2012 3.3 Reporting interval Cover 3.4 Contact information for queries and comments regarding reports Cover 3.5 Processes to determine contents of reports Cover 3.6 Scope of reporting Cover 3.7 Restraints on the scope of reporting Cover Basis for reporting on the entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period 3.8 Cover and / or between organizations 3.9 Criteria for data measurement and calculation, such as indicators of performance Cover 3.10 Effect of re-stating what has been previously reported Cover 3.11 Major changes from previous reports Cover 3.12 Table of a standard list of contents making up the report and included therein 74-78 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 7.5.3 Cover Ⅳ Governance Structure, Responsibility, Participation 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 18 4.2 Whether the chair of the committee also holds a position on the Board of Directors 18 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of 4.3 18 the highest governance body that are independent and / or non-executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to 4.4 18 the highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 18 executives, and the organization’s performance 4.6 Processes to prevent conflicts of interests among the Board members 18 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of 18 diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 8 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 6.2 Processes by which the Board identifies and manages economic, environmental, and 4.9 18 social performances 4.10 Processes by which the Board’s own performance (economic, environmental, and social) is evaluated 18 4.11 Principles and approaches to preventive actions 23 External causes, sites of action, and/or initiatives in economic, social, environmental areas supported 4.12 68 by the organization 4.13 Membership within national and international councils and policy organizations 78 4.14 List of participating stakeholders 11 4.15 Criteria for selecting participating stakeholders 11 Current state of participation by stakeholders (including types and frequency of participation by 4.16 12-14 group) Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 15 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting APPENDIX 75 GRI 3.1 ISO26000 Page Remarks 1. Economic Performance EC1 Creation and distribution of direct, tangible economic values and benefits 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 62-64 Impact of climate change on financial environment and risks/opportunities EC2 6.5.5 36-41 it presents for business environment EC3 Scope of pension support 6.4.4, 6.8 56 EC4 Record of benefitting from government subsidies 6.6.6, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 72 Ratio of the legally mandated minimum wage applicable to the region of EC5 6.4.4, 6.8 main business location to the wage level for new employees Policy, customs and proportion of local purchasing decisions made by EC6 6.6.6, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 62-63 the main location of business Preferential treatment for employment of the locals in the region of EC7 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 52 main location of business 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.5, 6.8.6, EC8 Investment in infrastructure and support for services in public interest 64-67 6.8.7, 6.8.9 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.5, 6.8.6, EC9 Explanation of economic ripple effects 32, 40, 41 6.8.7, 6.8.9 2. Environmental Performance EN1 Amount of materials used, either in weight or in bulk 46 EN2 Proportion of recycled materials used 46 EN3 Amount of directly consumed energy from primary sources 46 EN4 Amount of indirectly consumed energy from primary sources 46 EN5 Amount of energy saved through active saving efforts and improvement in efficiency 6.5, 6.5.4 36 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services 37-41 EN7 Efforts for indirect energy conservation and performance 37-41, 49, 65 EN8 Total amount of water gathered from each source 46 EN9 Sources of water easily affected by water-gathering activities 43 EN10 Total amounts and proportions of reused or recycled water 43-47 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, EN11 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Not located in the outside protected areas 6.5, 6.5.6 areas of biodiversity EN13 Preserved or restored ecological habitats conservation EN14 Strategies (current actions and future plants) to protect ecological diversity The number and types of species found on the Red List of the IUCN or the national list EN15 of endangered species found to inhabit the areas within the impact of project EN16 Total amount of direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 47 EN17 Amount of other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 6.5, 6.5.6 47 EN18 Efforts for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and performance 36 No ozone layerEN19 Amount of emissions of ozone-destroying substances depleting substances EN20 Amount of emissions of major air pollutants, such as NOx and SOx 44,47 EN21 Total amount and quality of wastewater by final area of discharge 44,47 EN22 Amount of wastewater by type and treatment method 6.5, 6.5.3 47,72 EN23 Amount of major harmful substances leaked No leakage reported Eight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of No case reported transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and EN25 related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 No case reported water and runoff EN26 Efforts to reduce the environmental impact of products/services and performance 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 36-41 EN27 Recycling rate for the packaging materials of sold or used products 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 45 Amount of fines imposed and the number of sanctions issued for violations of No violations EN28 6.5 environmental laws reported EN29 Environmental impact of transporting products, materials and employees 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 39 EN30 Total cost and investment caused by environmental preservation 6.5 43 76 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report GRI 3.1 ISO26000 Page Remarks 3. Social Performance Labor LA1 Employee distribution by labor type, contract and region 73 LA2 Employee turnover rate and demographic makeup (by age, gender and region) 6.4, 6.4.3 73 Benefits provided for full-time employees and not for contract LA3 56 (part-time) employees LA4 Proportion of employees eligible for collective bargaining 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 73 Minimum notice period for notification of employees regarding important changes in LA5 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 6.3.10 57 their situation Proportion of employees represented by the Labor-Management Joint Committee on LA6 6.4 ,6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5 57 Health and Safety Number of incidents involving employees injured, contacting occupationally LA7 59 caused diseases, absent, or affected by other work-related accidents 6.4, 6.4.6 Disease and safety management programs in place to assist workforce members, LA8 56, 58-59 their families, and community members Health and safety policy for employees subject to official agreement with LA9 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.8 6.9 57, 58 the labor union LA10 Average number of hours of training per year per employee 6.4, 6.4.6 52 Job-related training and continuous learning programs for continuous employment LA11 6.4, 6.4.7 56 and retirement Proportion of employees subject to regular performance evaluation and capacityLA12 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 54 enhancing training and review Demographic makeup of the Board and employees (by gender, age, ethnic or racial LA13 6.4, 6.4.7 18 backgrounds or other indicators of diversity) Comparison of basic wage levels between men and women across ranks and LA14 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3 54 positions Rate by gender at which people return to and maintain their jobs after LA15 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 73 maternity/childcare leave Human rights Number and proportion of major investment agreements including provisions for HR1 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 62 human rights protection and/or review Proportion of human rights reviews conducted regarding major business partners and HR2 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 62 contractors Training for employees concerning human rights policy and processes at work HR3 6.3, 6.3.5 22 (including proportion of employees who have completed the training) Total number of cases of discrimination reported and actions taken to remedy the No discrimination HR4 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 situation reported Areas of work with great risks for the violation of freedom of association and collective HR5 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.4.5 57 bargaining Areas of work with great risks for employing child labor and actions taken to prevent HR6 57 child labor 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Areas of work with great risks for forced labor and actions taken to prevent forced HR7 57 labor Proportion of security agents who have completed training on human rights policy and HR8 6.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 processes at work Cases of infringing upon rights of the Native Peoples and actions taken to remedy No infringement HR9 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, 6.6.7 the situation reported No. and rate of projects conducted to monitor human rights violations and evaluate HR10 their effects No. of lawsuits / responses / complaints concerning human rights received through HR11 57 the official complaint process Society Characteristics, scope and effectiveness of programs assessing impact on SO1 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, 6.6.7 64-67 local communities SO2 Number and proportion of projects with risks for corruption No case reported SO3 Proportion of employees trained in anti-corruption policy and processes 6.6, 6.6.3 22 No corruption SO4 Actions remedying corruption reported Record of winning awards for contribution to public policy, and/or SO5 No case reported participating in the development of or lobbying for public policy 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 SO6 Cash and other gifts for political parties, politicians and related national agencies No case reported APPENDIX 77 GRI 3.1 ISO26000 Page Remarks Number of cases involving unfair practices of competition and monopoly and the SO7 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 21 outcomes of such cases Fines imposed and non-monetary sanctions issued for violations of applicable laws SO8 6.6, 6.6.7, 6.8.7 No case reported and rules SO9 Projects with potential or actual negative impact on local society No case reported Preventive and reductive measures for projects with potential or actual negative impact SO10 64-67 on local society Product Responsibility Proportion of lifecycle evaluations undertaken to assess the impact of products or PR1 60, 61 services on health and safety for the purpose of improvement Number of cases involving violations of applicable laws or self-imposed rules 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 PR2 protecting the health and safety of consumers during any period of the lifecycle of No case reported a given product or service Types of product or service information required by due process and the proportion of PR3 60, 61 products or services meeting this criterion 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Number of cases involving violations of applicable laws or self-imposed rules PR4 No case reported concerning product labeling PR5 Customer satisfaction activities, including surveys 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 60, 61 Applicable laws, standards and other self-imposed rules regarding advertising, PR6 No case reported promotion, sponsorship and other acts of marketing communications Number of cases involving violations of applicable laws, standards and 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 PR7 other self-imposed rules regarding advertising, promotion, sponsorship and No case reported other acts of marketing communications Number of cases involving infringement of customers’ right to privacy and PR8 6.7, 6.7.7 No case reported complaints raised concerning the loss of customer-related data Amount of fines imposed for violations of applicable laws on product and service PR9 6.7, 6.7.6 No case reported distribution 4. Electric Utility Sector EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 6, 7 EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 72 EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime EU5 Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework EU6 Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availability and reliability 28, 29 EU7 Demand-side management programs including residential, commercial, institutional and industrial programs 29 Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and EU8 25 promoting sustainable development EU9 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, broken down by energy source and EU10 28, 29 regulatory regime EU11 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and by regulatory regime 29 EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy 72 EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas No case reported EU14 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce 52-54 EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years broken down by job category and by region 73 EU16 Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees and employees of contractors and subcontractors 59 Compliance with EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in construction, operation & maintenance activities statutory working hours EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant health and safety training EU19 Stakeholder participation in the decision making process related to energy planning and infrastructure development 28-30 EU20 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement No case reported Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and training programs, and EU21 45, 58, 59 recovery/restoration plans EU22 Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken down by type of project No case reported Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or maintain access to electricity and EU23 No case reported customer support services Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers to accessing and safely using electricity and EU24 No case reported customer support services 78 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report GRI 3.1 ISO26000 Page Remarks Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal judgments, settlements and pending EU25 No case reported legal cases of diseases EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas No case reported EU27 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by duration of disconnection and by regulatory regime No case reported EU28 Power outage frequency 29 EU29 Average power outage duration 29 EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime 29, 60 Awards Award Awarding Organization Date Awarded Citation for contributing to environment preservation and water management Incheon Metropolitan City 2012.03.28 Korea Environmental Award_ Industry category / Reduction in air pollutants Eco-media 2012.10.17 Best company in fire safety Incheon Metropolitan City 2012.11.09 POSCO Family Environmental Management Award POSCO 2012.11.23 Sustainability Management Award, First Report Award Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy 2012.11.27 Family-friendly Company Certificate Ministry of Health and Welfare 2012.12.03 Membership in Associations Association Name Association Name Association Name The Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers Incheon Chamber of Commerce & Industry The Korean Institute of Resources Recycling The Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry Incheon Safety Association Korea Electrical Contractors Association The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Korea Federation for Environmental Movement Korea Electric Engineers Association Korea Electric Association The Federation of Korean Industries Korea Battery Industry Association Independent Power Producer Association Korea Power Exchange Korean Standards Association The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies The Korean Institute of Power Electronics Korea Wind Energy Industry Association Executive Committee for “One Less Nuclear Power Plant” campaign by Korea Construction Engineers Association Korea Chemical Management Association Seoul Metropolitan Government Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea Environmental management Association BEST SM Forum Korea New & Renewable Energy Korea Environmental Engineers Association Korea Personnel Improvement Association Korea Society of Energy & Climate Change Korea Environmental Preservation Association Incheon Green Federation Korea Energy Foundation Climate Change Center (Korea Green Foundation) APPENDIX 79 Independent Assurance Report At POSCO ENERGY’s request, we have reviewed the information presented in the 2012 sustainability report (the “Report”). The management of POSCO is responsible for preparing the report. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement on the report and to provide opinions on it based on our review. Procedures Performed We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE 300011 and the requirements of a Type 2 assurance engagement as defined by AA1000AS(2008)2. We performed the following procedures to form our conclusion on the report: •Evaluated POSCO ENERGY’s processes for stakeholder engagement. •Reviewed POSCO ENERGY’s processes for determining material issues of stakeholder groups. •Searched the media coverage of POSCO ENERGY’s sustainability issues during the applicable reporting period. •Reviewed recently reported sustainability issues of the POSCO ENERGY’s global competitors. •Interviewed a selection of people in charge to understand the current status of sustainability performance and the reporting process during the reporting period. •Reviewed selected data regarding POSCO ENERGY’s sustainability performance, supporting evidence for assertions, and information from corporate-wide systems. •Interviewed several executives mainly in charge of sustainability issues. •Reviewed POSCO ENERGY’s process for collecting and consolidating sustainability performance data •Reviewed whether financial performance data has been extracted properly from the POSCO ENERGY’s audited financial statements. Level of Assurance We undertook a limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000. A limited assurance is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the nature, timing and the extent of procedures for gathering sufficient, appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. The Limitations of Our Review We excluded GHG(Greenhouse Gas) emissions in our limited assurance engagement. And, we did not review environmental and social performance data prior to 2011. However, we reviewed financial performance data based on POSCO ENERGY’s 2012 audited financial statements. Our Conclusions The result of our review is outlined below. Inclusivity Has POSCO ENERGY been engaging with stakeholders across the business to develop and implement its approach to sustainability? •We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from the stakeholder engagement process outlined in the report. •We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that POSCO ENERGY has not applied the inclusivity principle in developing its approach to sustainability. 1 International Standard on Assurance Engagement : Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information from the International Federation of the Accountants 2 AA1000AS(2008)-The second edition of the AA1000 Assurance Standard from the Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability 80 2012 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Materiality Has POSCO ENERGY provided a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability performance? •We are not aware of any material aspects concerning POSCO ENERGY’s sustainability performance which have been excluded from the report. •Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that POSCO ENERGY’s management has not applied its processes for determining material issues to be included in the report. Responsiveness Has POSCO ENERGY responded to the stakeholder concerns? •We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that POSCO ENERGY has not applied the responsiveness principle in considering the matters to be reported.. Completeness and Accuracy of Performance Information How complete and accurate is the economic, social, and environmental performance data in the report? •We are not aware of any that have been excluded from the economic, social, and environmental performance data. •Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data relating to the above topics has not been collated properly from POSCO ENERGY’s reporting processes. How plausible are the statements and claims within the report? •We are not aware of any misstatements of information or explanation used to support statements and claims on POSCO ENERGY’s sustainability activities presented in the report. Observations and Areas for Improvement Without prejudice against our conclusions presented above, we believe the following matters require attention in order to improve POSCO ENERGY’s sustainability reporting. •Considering the degree of social interest towards rapid growth of POSCO ENERGY and recent strengthening of private power providers, stakeholder concerns on POSCO ENERGY’s sustainability management and corporate social responsibility will become more profound. POSCO ENERGY needs to develop more active stakeholder communication programs, such as expanded operation of its stakeholder committee meeting that was launched this year. •Although management of sustainability performance data at POSCO ENERGY is appropriate, a more substantial performance management, such as setting specific sustainability targets and managing/ reporting its level of achievement in comparison to the original target, is necessary. •POSCO ENERGY’s efforts to address part of its negative issues are disclosed in the Report. At this point, POSCO ENERGY needs to engage in more active disclosure of negative information in order to improve balance as well as credibility of the Report. Independence We comply with the Ethical Standard issued by IFAC (International Federation of Accountants). Our Assurance Team The assurance engagement was performed by the engagement team with a long history of experience and expertise in sustainability area. Seung Wha Gweon Country Managing Partner EY Hanyoung August 2013 Should you have any inquiries or opinions about the POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report, please feel free to contact the below. POSCO ENERGY, Sustainability Management Group 8F, POSCO Center, 440 Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 135-777 Korea Tel +82-2-3457-2246 Fax +82-2-3457-2115 Designed by intoGraphic E-mail sustainability@poscoenergy.com Homepage www.poscoenergy.com This report is printed on FSCTM (Forest Stewardship Council) C111531 Certified paper with Soy ink.
