Sustainability Report 2012 Contents Highlights of 2012............................................................. 3 From the CEO............................................................... 4–5 This is Peab The Nordic Community Builder............... 6–9 Examples from our business......................................10–11 Dialogue with the world around us............................ 12–13 Employees our main asset...................................... 14–17 Environment and Energy.......................................... 18–22 Social engagement................................................... 23–25 Business ethics and anti-corruption work.................. 26–27 Long-term financial added value............................... 28–30 GRI and UN Global Compact index.......................... 31–32 Glossary......................................................................... 33 A B O U T T H E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T This is Peab’s second separate Sustainability Report, and it follows GRI’s framework version G3.1 and satisfies the criteria for level C. The report has not been examined by external auditors. The Sustainability Report describes social, environmental and financial perspectives of Peab’s sustainability work and covers the full calendar year 2012. The first Sustainability Report, in respect of the calendar year 2011, was published in April 2012. Peab intends to continue to publish a Sustainability Report on an annual basis in connection with the publication of the annual report. As Peab signed up to the UN Global Compact in 2012, as from this year the Sustainability Report will also serve as our COP report (Communication of Progress) for the UN Global Compact. Unless otherwise specified in the text, the report is valid for the whole of Peab’s business in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Hired businesses, part-owned subsidiaries and leased facilities such as office premises where other companies are responsible for operations are not covered by the report. This year we have increased the number of indicators in the Sustainability Report to include PR5 and LA3, and for these indicators we report statistics for 2012 without comparative data from 2011. In text and tables, figures and results from the previous year are presented in brackets. All indicators are reported for the whole Group, except for the environmental indicators EN3 and EN16, which do not include the Finnish business as there are not any systems for collecting data. All financial values are expressed in Swedish kronor. Kronor are expressed as SEK. More information about Peab is available on our website: www.peab.com. If you have any questions about the report or about Peab’s sustainability work, please contact Kristina Gabrielii, who chairs our internal Sustainability Council and is Environmental Manager at Peab, by email: kristina.gabrielii@peab.se or on tel.: +46 (0)733 375690. HIGHLIGHTS DURING 2012 Highlights during 2012 Peab signed up and joined the UN Global Compact. Peab set up a Sustainability Council to work strategically on sustainability issues. Peab started a strategic initiative involving stakeholder dialogues with a focus on sustainability, and conducted a materiality analysis. Eight overarching sustainability focus areas were drawn up by the sustainability council. These focus areas were based on, among other things, the materiality analysis and were adopted by the management group. Peab adopted a new sponsorship policy with a focus on social benefit, social development and social involvement. The Peab School opened in Gothenburg. This is the fifth Peab School in Sweden. Nine ISO certificates were renewed during the year and two certificates were issued for the first time. There are now a total of thirteen ISO certificates among Peab’s construction divisions and industrial companies. A major initiative on the working environment was carried out during the year throughout the whole business. Two of Peab’s construction projects were selected for participation in a pilot project to develop a Swedish manual for BREEAM, a sustainability certification system for buildings. In all, four projects will be included in the pilot project. Peab Civil Engineering was involved in a pilot project to develop a Swedish version of CEEQUAL, a sustainability certification system for land and civil engineering projects. Prizes and awards during the year: • The Peab Schools in Solna and Upplands Väsby were awarded the quality label as industry-recommended schools by the Swedish Construction Industry Training Board (BYN). (The Peab Schools in Ängelholm and Malmö were awarded the quality label in 2011). • The Tervapääskynen project in Helsinki, Finland, received the award for “Sustainable Stone Building 2012”, an annual award made by a council consisting of six of the industry’s partnership companies. • The Peab School won both gold and silver in the Skåne Professional Championships for Woodworkers in Construction. • Peab’s asphalt team in Oppland, Norway, was one of three asphalt teams to receive the award as best asphalt team in 2012 from the Norwegian Public Roads Administration. • The Planning and Building Board in the city of St Karins, Finland, awarded the prize for Construction Project of the Year 2012 to Peab Housing in Finland for homes for the elderly. • During the year, Peab’s workgroup at Oslo University, Norway, received two awards for their work on safety, health and the working environment by the proprietor Statsbygg, which inspects its workplaces twice a year. In the first half of the year Peab was awarded a diploma, the second-highest award. In the second half of the year Peab received the Golden Helmet, which is the highest award for work on safety, health and the working environment. • Peab’s Mandolinen project in Åkersberga near Stockholm received the housing industry’s highest SCI (Satisfied Customer Index) in 2012. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 3 FROM THE CEO High ambitions for the Nordic Community Builder Peab’s ambition to be the Nordic Community Builder involves a clear commitment in which we contribute to sustainable development. Being a community builder means that we are involved in influencing the environment and the world in which current and future generations will live, and also that we assume responsibility for what we do. There are a number of current trends in the involves everyone and is based on common school’s building hall, which, together with society that are affecting developments for sense and good judgement. The corporate individual adaptation, increases the Peab. The major movement of people to big culture that has emerged at Peab down the students’ motivation to learn. The first cities, the need for renewed and extended decades creates good conditions for this. Peab School opened in 2006, and since infrastructure, the shortage of housing, the Our core values – Down to Earth, Develthen developments have exceeded all change in the population’s age structure, oping, Personal and Reliable create a expectations. stricter energy requirements, the climate solid foundation for ethical, open business issue and the earth’s limited resources, activities. Everyone in our organisation It is our objective that Peab shall be the views of companies’ social responsibility, must know what it means to work at Peab, best workplace in the Nordic region. During and so on. The list is a long one. and everyone must know which rules apply. the expansion of the last few years, we If the current rules are observed, we avoid have undergone a significant generation There are major expectations of us as an ethical problems. We therefore hold regular change and welcomed many new active member of society, in which we must training sessions for employees on issues employees and businesses. This makes assume responsibility in both the short-term relating to ethics and anti-corruption. major demands on our organisation and our and the long-term perspective. Strategic, Breaches, regardless of at which level they leadership, where there are many impulses long-term work on sustainability gives us an take place, result in consequences. and corporate cultures that have to be opportunity to develop as a company, and brought together under the Peab brand. We this contributes to our competitiveness and Peab has a long tradition of social engagemust therefore be a learning organisation in views of us as an attractive employer. Our ment. We support many socially beneficial which clarity and adaptation form the backcustomers and other business partners set organisations, in particular activities that bone. We view the job satisfaction, health out requirements for clearly defined are aimed at young people. In autumn 2012 and safety of all as a precondition for a sustainability work that is adapted to our we opened our fifth Peab School, this one good working climate and engagement. various businesses and is firmly accepted in Gothenburg. There were already Peab by all in our organisation. Schools in Ängelholm, Malmö, Solna and One of the most important issues of all that Upplands Väsby, with approximately 450 we work with every day is how we can miniIt is together with customers, employees students. Education is provided in partnermise the number of accidents and incidents and other stakeholders that we find new ship with trade and industry, with work at our workplaces. Issues relating to the opportunities and innovative solutions for placements primarily at Peab’s workplaces. working environment were given extra sustainability issues. One keyword in this The theoretical element of education is priority at Peab during 2012. This initiative process is collaboration. Sustainability work often integrated into practical work in the involved a focus week in which manage”While we have to be sensitive and capable of changing, lasting is one of Peab´s mottos” Jesper Göransson, CEO and acting President PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 4 K O N C E R N C H E F E N S K O M M E N TA R E R ment groups visited workplaces around the will contribute to improved profitability in a bility issues. A dialogue has been started business. We have tightened our Order and constructive way. with selected stakeholder groups, and this Safety Rules and put a lot of effort into a will be further enhanced in the years ahead. dialogue about safety. Preventive safety We have made some progress in sustainaListening, both internally and externally, work must always be at the top of the bility work, but we still have much to do, as helps us to set the right priorities. agenda. If everyone observes the current we have high ambitions. To emphasise the Order ad Safety Rules, the number of accifact that sustainability issues are a central Collaboration, openness and resource optidents can be reduced to a minimum. One element of our business, in 2012 Peab misation are becoming increasingly imporimportant element of leadership is commusigned the UN’s Global Compact. This tant in society, and therefore also in our nicating this to everyone at the workplace. means that we support the ten internationsustainability work. This is a matter that ally recognised principles that deal with concerns the entire Peab Group, and 2012 was in many ways a challenging year human rights, labour law, the environment everyone must be aware of what systemfor Peab. Demand slowed down in the and anti-corruption, and at the same time atic work on sustainability involves. Nordic construction market. The rate of guarantee that these principles will be a production was high, while at the same time self-evident part of our day-to-day business profitability was far too weak in our activity. Signing up to the Global Compact Förslöv, April 2013 construction business. We will therefore be also means that we undertake to issue a stepping up the tempo of work to achieve development report, Communication on the desired level of profitability, while at the Progress, and this report is integrated into same time we must intensify the process our Sustainability Report for 2012. Peab’s for the Group’s cost-efficiency. We must executive management has also decided to Jesper Göransson integrate sustainability issues in this work, set up an internal Sustainability Council, CEO and acting President and we are resolute in our intention that this which will work strategically on sustainaPEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 5 THIS IS PEAB THE NORDIC COMMUNITY BUILDER This is Peab The Nordic Community Builder Peab was founded as a family business in 1959 on the Bjäre Peninsula in Skåne by the brothers Mats and Erik Paulsson. Peab AB is now publicly listed and one of the Nordic region’s biggest construction and civil engineering companies, with operations in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Together with other players in society, we develop modern communities where people will settle, live and work. We understand local conditions, assume social responsibility and challenge old truths with new solutions. This is what makes us the Nordic Community Builder. OPERATIONAL BUSINESS approximately 6,400 projects were in municipal facilities. The opera­tions are run Peab has business operations in Sweden, progress. The number of companies in the in geographical regions in Sweden, Norway Norway and Finland. The head office is Peab Group on 31 December 2012 was and Fin­land. Customers are the Swedish located in Förslöv on the Bjäre Peninsula in 288. Total operating turnover during the Transport Administration, munici­palities Skåne, where the business was started up year was SEK 45,997 million (SEK 43,777 and local businesses. more than 50 years ago. With a view to million). Peab’s total assets in 2012 were Construction creating a platform for continued growth in SEK 32,073 million (SEK 31,349 million), order to develop the customer offering, Business area Construction comprises the liabilities SEK 24,088 million (SEK 23,402 rationalise the organisation and clarify the Group’s construction related services and million) and equity SEK 7,985 million (SEK control structure, in January 2012 the busiown housing projects. Operations are run in 7,947 million). ness was divided into four Nordic business five geografic divisions in Sweden, one diviareas Construction, Civil Engineering, Civil Engineering sion in Norway, one division in Finland and Industry and Property Development. In the Business area Civil Engineering works with a Nordic division, Special projects, which is Construction and Civil Engineering busithe construction of larger infrastructure specialized in larger, more complex ness about 2,000 new projects started and civil engineering projects and smaller projects. Production is primarily comprised during 2012, around 3,400 projects were projects on the local market. Civil Engineering of housing for external customers and our completed and as of 31 December 2012 also operates and maintains roads and own housing developments but also public Operating turnover by business area, 2012 Operating turnover by customer category, 2012 Operating turnover by country, 2012 Construction 54% Industry 21% Public 31% Others 11% Sweden 81% Finland 6% Civil Engineering 24% Property Private 58% Norway 13% Development 1% PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 6 THIS IS PEAB THE NORDIC COMMUNITY BUILDER and commercial premises and buildings. nies connected to the development of hill, sold most of his shareholding in Peab. Customers are private property owners, Arenastaden in Sol­na as well as other holdAll Class A shares were sold to Sara municipali­ties and companies as well as ings. Wholly owned subsidiaries and pro­ Karlsson via companies and to Svante business area Project Development. jects consists of a number of holdings that Paulsson via companies, and the Class B Operations in Construction also include include everything from land for developshares sold were acquired by, among construction related servic­es such as ment where zoning is being worked out to others, Mats Paulsson via companies. At construction maintenance and repairs. complet­ed projects ready for sale. the year-end, the total shareholding associated with the company’s founders, Mats Industry GOVERNANCE and Erik Paulsson with their families and Business area Industry is run in seven At Peab we are striving to integrate our companies, totalled 29 per cent of capital product segments; Asphalt, Concrete, work on sustainability into all parts of the and 65 per cent of votes. Gravel and Rock, Transportation and business. Responsibilities and mandates Machines, Rentals, Foundations and are delegated to the line organisations, and Policies Industrial Construction. All of them work support is provided by specialist expertise A number of policies constitute steering on the Nordic construction and civil engiin the areas of the environment, ethics and documents in the field of sustainability. neering markets. Custom­ers are mainly the social issues at various levels in the organiPeab’s Code of Conduct, which is a general Nordic Construction and Civil engineering sation, as well as a number of steering and policy based on the UN’s Global Compact, com­panies. Most of the business is genersupporting documents. Since 2012 Peab covers environmental, social and anti-corated on the Swedish market. The business has also had a Sustainability Council, ruption issues. It is rooted in the general is run in a larger number of companies and charged with the task of drawing up objeccompany policy, which is an integrated under a number of different brands. The tives and action plans for Peab’s ongoing environment, quality and working environbiggest brands are Swerock, Cliffton, work on sustainability. The Council deals ment policy. The Code of Conduct is Lambertsson, Skandinaviska Byggelement, with ongoing sustainability issues in the supplemented by a number of underlying Peab Asfalt and Peab Grundläggning. Group and prepares matters for decisions policies and guidelines such as Peab’s at executive management level. ethical guidelines, the policy against Property Development alcohol and drugs, sponsorship policy, an Group operations revolving around acquisi­ Shareholder structure equal treatment plan in accordance with tions, development and divestiture of Peab AB is a publicly listed company, with legal requirements with an-appendix commercial property and rent­al property in the share listed on the NASDAQ OMX covering victimisation and a manual for the Nordic region are run in business area Stockholm Stock Exchange, in the Large entertainment and petty cash. Property Development. During the year the Cap list. As of 31 December 2012 there business has been followed up in three were approximately 31,800 shareholders in Assuming responsibility in areas; Listed holdings, Associated compaPeab. Mats Paulsson and his companies the value chain nies and Wholly owned subsidiaries and constituted the biggest single shareholder It is Peab’s ambition to assume responsiprojects. Listed holdings during the year with 15.9 per cent of capital and 22.3 per bility for sustainability aspects in the entire has primarily consisted of shares in Brinova cent of votes. Erik Paulsson and his family value chain. We have adopted models and Catena. Both hold­ings were divested and companies were previously the second describing how new suppliers are to be in 2012. Associated companies and joint biggest shareholder with 8.1 per cent of assessed and existing ones evaluated. In ven­tures consists of, for instance, Peab’s capital and 22.2 per cent of votes. In 2012 the first instance we are defining the availownership in Tornet, in Centur, in compaErik Paulsson, through his company Backaable range of subcontractors and construcPEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 7 THIS IS PEAB THE NORDIC COMMUNITY BUILDER tion materials of good quality in the counSweden we also have an ongoing partnermeans of responsible behaviour, Peab tries where we operate. If and when the ship with the Swedish Tax Agency to builds its credibility and creates added alternatives cannot compete in terms of improve checks on our suppliers and to value for customers, shareholders and price and quality, we look for solutions from combat financial crime. The partnership society at large. other countries. Our Code of Conduct specwith the Swedish Tax Agency means that ifies how we behave towards our suppliers, Peab, as an element of its supplier evaluaVision – The Nordic Community Builder and this is included when contracts are tion, has access to the Swedish Tax AgenPeab builds sustainable communities signed in order to make sure that suppliers cy’s information in respect of suppliers’ for the future: We are the obvious partand subcontractors can behave in the same payment of taxes and employers’ contribuner for community building in the Nordic way. It is our ambition to develop our work tions. This information is then reconciled region. We come up with ideas, take inion follow-up and partnerships with suppliers against the activities run by the supplier, tiative and break new ground. We conin the whole area of sustainability in our which facilitates the identification of rogue serve resources and our climate smart future work. Peab’s basic requirement is to enterprises and increases the opportunities solutions have spearheaded developobserve international conventions and to exclude criminal elements. ments. Our work is sustainable throughnational laws. According to our Code of out its entire life cycle. Conduct, we do not accept any form of VISION AND CORE VALUES crime against human rights, discrimination, Peab has been a competitive, successful Peab is the nordic company for child labour or corruption. Products and company in the construction and civil engiconstruction: Our entire organization services that Peab buys must be manufacneering industry for more than 50 years by works together to exceed our customers’ tured or provided by people who have combining long-term, strategic work with a expectations. Peab is always close to our chosen freely to work, who have the right to strong corporate culture. To achieve the customers no matter whether they operate work in a working environment that is in vision of becoming the Nordic Community locally, nationally or globally. Satisfied accordance with national working environBuilder, Peab works according to six customers contribute to our success in ment legislation and to form unions and Group-wide strategies, with a work method the entire Nordic region. organise themselves as they wish. In that is deeply rooted in our core values. By guidelines for the procurement of services from the Election Shareholders Election Nomination auditors other than the audit, maintains ongoing Auditors Constitute the annual General meeting Committee contact with the company’s auditors, evaluates the Information Proposals audit assignment and represents the nomination committee in the preparation of proposals for and Election payment of fees to the auditors. Finance committee Executive management Information Board of Directors Remuneration committee The President, who is also the CEO, manages the Audit committee business in accordance with the framework adopted Goals Strategies by the Board of Directors and is responsible for the Reports Governance Internal audit ongoing administration and control of the Group. In mechanisms 2012, Peab’s executive management consisted of Ethics Council eight people, none of whom is a Board member. The CEO and President has appointed One person in executive Group function Executive management management has special responsibility for sustainaSustainability Council bility issues. This person is also a member of the Sustainability Council and who is charged with the task of compiling and presenting results and Civil Property preparing base data for decisions. Executive Construction Industry Development Engineering management deals with sustainability issues on an ongoing basis. Administrative functions Shareholders Board of Directors Peab has a number of Group-wide administrative funcAll shareholders, including minority interests, can Peab’s Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for tions. There is leading-edge expertise in areas such as influence the company by exercising their voting the business, and thus also for work on sustainability. the environment and energy, purchasing, business rights at the Annual General Meeting, Peab’s ultimate The Board of Directors comprises a total of eleven development and ethics to provide support for sustaindecision-making body. The Annual General Meeting members and two deputies. Eight of the members are ability issues. The Group functions for HR, safety and provides a forum for shareholders to ask questions elected by the AGM and three permanent members legal affairs make up the ethical council, which deals and submit comments on the company’s sustainaand two deputies are appointed by employees’ organiwith any breaches of Peab’s ethical guidelines. bility work. At the AGM in 2012 questions were asked sations. Of the eight members elected by the AGM, five about, among other things, when we plan to sign up are considered to be independent and three dependent Business areas to the Global Compact and how we are striving to in relation to the company and company management The business area managers are responsible for inteachieve greater gender equality in the company. We and in relation to the company’s major shareholders. grating work on sustainability into the line organisasigned the UN Global Compact in autumn 2012, and Employees have an opportunity to influence Peab’s tion by delegating responsibilities and mandates, thus we will be reviewing our internal processes and business via their employees’ representatives. making sustainability issues an integral part of daily drawing up action plans to work towards a more equal operations. gender distribution, which is a challenge facing the Finance committee whole industry. The finance committee, which consists of three Board Sustainability Council members, handles and makes decisions on financial Peab’s Sustainability Council is charged with the task Nomination committee matters in accordance with the adopted Finance Policy. of drawing up objectives and action plans for Peab’s The nomination committee consists of four members: ongoing sustainability work. The Council deals with the Chairman of the Board and three members repreRemuneration committee ongoing sustainability issues in the Group and senting Peab’s large and small shareholders. One of The remuneration committee, which consists of three prepares matters for decisions at executive managethe nomination committee’s main tasks is to nominate Board members, draws up guidelines and framement level. The Council includes a representative of candidates for election to the Board of Directors at the works for senior executives in respect of salaries and executive management in the form of the HR Director. AGM. The election committee has stated that knowlother remuneration, in accordance with the RemunerThe chair of the Council is Peab’s Environment edge in the field of sustainability is important for all ation Policy adopted by the AGM. Manager, and the other members are the Group members of Peab’s Board of Directors. Legal Advisor, the Purchasing Manager, the Head of Audit committee Business Development and one Project Manager. The audit committee consists of the eight Board Auditors members elected by the AGM. The committee The AGM selects the auditors. The auditors examine prepares the work of the Board of Directors to qualiPeab’s financial statements. ty-assure the company’s financial reporting, defines PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 8 THIS IS PEAB THE NORDIC COMMUNITY BUILDER Peab attracts talented people: We are the ment we need to be sure that we have that the work we do is compatible with family number one Nordic employer. Our values access to the resources required to do a life and leisure interests. We want good are simple and clear. Our personnel is good job. We must be recognised for our communication, a good atmosphere and deeply engaged and our leaders committed down-to-earth way of working with short respect for the individual to prevail at Peab. to helping people develop. When our decision-making paths, and be sensitive to Reliable: Our customers must feel secure employees grow, Peab grows. our customers’ interests. when engaging Peab. This means that we Group-wide strategies Developing: We must be innovative, flexmust always apply good business ethics, To realise our vision, we work with six ible and constantly improving ourselves. competence and professional expertise. We Group-wide strategies. We must appreciate our employees’ must plan well, get it right from the outset, Cost-efficient business. competence and offer good opportunities eliminate risks and meet promised deadInvestment in profitable growth in the for development, training, promotion and lines. We must comply with laws and requireNordic region. preventive healthcare. We want our ments, choose the best possible techBe seen and heard in the Nordic region. employees to be dedicated and involved in niques, prioritise renewable resources and Pioneers in sustainable community the business, and to contribute to our posiavoid environmentally harmful substances. building. tive growth. At Peab we must have an Sustainable Building of Communities Strengthen and develop our customer opportunity to influence our work situation. – Peab’s Definition relations. Everything we plan and implement must be Personal: We must be the personal Be the best workplace in the Nordic region. fully in line with our ethical guidelines, and company. By means of an honest, trusting also designed in a responsible, long-term Peab’s core values dialogue with our customers and suppliers, way. This shall enable us to satisfy environDown to earth: We want to work close to we must create and maintain good, longmental, financial and social aspects. our customers. Before taking on an assignterm relations. We must strive to ensure Age and gender distribution Number of Number of Number of People People aged People members women men aged < 30 30-50 aged > 50 Board of Directors (incl. deputies) 13 (13) 3 (3) 10 (10) 0 (0) 4 (5) 9 (8) Executive management 8 (4) 1 (0) 7 (4) 0 (0) 4 (1) 4 (3) Finance and remuneration committees 3 (3) 0 (0) 3 (3) 0 (0) 0 (0) 3 (3) Audit committee 8 (8) 2 (2) 6 (6) 0 (0) 2 (3) 6 (5) Auditors (incl. deputies) 4 (4) 0 (0) 4 (4) 0 (0) 1 (1) 3 (3) Nomination committee 4 (4) 0 (0) 4 (4) 0 (0) 1 (0) 3 (4) PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 9 EXAMPLES FROM OUR BUSINESS EXAMPLES FROM OUR BUSINESS Examples from our business Kaunisvaara – reduced environmental impact from transport operations First wooden apartment Gothia Towers – logistical Nya Överby Handelsplats – In Sweden’s latest mining project in Kaunisvaara, where Northland Resources started trial deliveries of iron ore in block in Finland solutions at a high level pilot project for BREEAM-SE October 2012, Peab prepared operations and built the enrichment plant as well as premises for administration and In PuuViikki, in Northern Helsinki, Peab has built an entire district of apartment blocks made of wood. The district, which Peab is building a six-storey extension and a new, third hotel In Trollhättan, in partnership with the City of Trollhättan, Peab accommodation. Peab subsidiary Cliffton Mining was covers approximately 12,000 square metres, has five tower of 29 storeys while conference and hotel operations is developing the Nya Överby Handelsplats retail centre; this contracted by Northland Resources to transport iron ore 3-4-storey wooden buildings and more than 100 apartments continue at Hotel Gothia Towers in Gothenburg, an advanced project is one of a total of four projects for the Swedish concentrate from the mine in Kaunisvaara to Pitkäjärvi, and is the first of its kind on such a scale in Finland. Construclogistical exercise at a high level. Since construction work BREEAM manual. The building proprietor is Peab Fastighetwhere transshipment will take place for onward transport by tion work started in July 2011 and was completed in summer started in 2012, the objective has been to have the new sutveckling AB, who will be offering a sustainable, modern rail to Narvik. Lots of new jobs were created, and to minimise 2012. buildings certified in accordance with the BREEAM certificaretail centre for wholesale shopping that meets strict environthe environmental impact the concentrate is being transtion system. With BREEAM certification and high-class mental targets. A total of 65,000 sq.m. of sustainable retail ported on specially designed, licensed vehicles with a total standards, Peab is involved in creating a facility that is space will become available in two to three stages over the weight of 90 tonnes, which cuts fuel consumption in full operabsolutely world class. next few years. At the same time, new road links are being ation by about 32 per cent compared with using standard created to the Stallbacka bridge in partnership with the vehicles with a total weight of 60 tonnes. Swedish Transport Agency, thoroughfares, an area of wetland for sustainable surface water recycling and the new creation of attractive stream biotopes instead of building culverts. E4 Sundsvall pilot project for CEEQUAL In a pilot project under the auspices of the Development Fund of the Swedish Construction Industry (SBUF), potential Dredging spoils are solidified Arenastaden – tools for the Swedish certification of sustainability work in the construction industry are being evaluated. Peab’s E4 Sundsand reused in the Port of a vibrant district vall project has been chosen to take part in a preliminary Gävle In Solna, in partnership with Fabege, Jernhusen, the City of study in accordance with CEEQUAL, a manual for grading on the basis of environmental and social impact. Despite the Solna and the Swedish Football Association, Peab is develPeab is working on the extension of the Port of Gävle in a oping a vibrant district with a blend of shops, offices, homes, fact that the study was conducted when the project had partnership project with Gävle Hamn AB. The port has seen leisure venues and a hotel. The hub of the district will be the already been under way for a while, the evaluation produced a significant increase in volumes in recent years and thereFriends Arena and the Mall of Scandinavia, which combine a high grade, an indication that in-house sustainability work fore needs new quays, bigger and wider port areas and greater opportunities for continued expansion. Dredging with the hotel to enclose the Arenatorget square. About 2,000 is already of high quality. Sustainable stone building homes and 10,000 new jobs will be created in the district. The spoils are contaminated with heavy metals and have to be Mall of Scandinavia will have BREEAM certification. for Tervapääskynen in taken ashore to be encased (solidified). In Peab’s specially constructed design – ProSol 2010 binders are mixed with Helsinki the dredging spoils in order to solidify the contaminants and stabilise the spoils. The spoils can then be reused in the Tervapääskynen in Helsinki was awarded the prize for extension of the port, an alternative that is cheaper and Sustainable Stone Building of 2012. This award is presented causes less environmental impact than transporting the every year to people and companies that have been involved spoils and placing them in landfill sites. in projects made using bricks and concrete cast in situ. Tervapääskynen comprises 65 apartments as well as cellar and attic spaces. The challenges faced included the different forms of the frame and the façade, as well as bringing together the old and new styles of the façade to create an effective whole. According to the jury, Tervapääskynen is architectonically surprising yet still harmonic. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 10 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 11 DIALOGUE WITH THE WORLD AROUND US Dialogue with the world around us As one of the biggest community builders in the Nordic region, Peab influences and is influenced by a number of different stakeholder. We strive to achieve long-term relationships and collaboration that are based on credibility and receptiveness. In 2012 we started work on sustainability-focused stakeholder dialogues and we conducted our first materiality analysis. This formed the basis of the production of eight general focus areas for our future sustainability work. IDENTIFICATION OF Stakeholder Selection Response Prioritised STAKEHOLDER GROUPS group rate areas It is extremely important for Peab’s continued success that the company can Business Biggest customers 21 (38) • Rationalised resource utilisation customers • Compliance with laws and live up to the expectations that the world business ethics around us has of us as community builders, • Energy efficiency and can offer competitive solutions that Employee Representatives from 22 (29) • Assuming responsibility generate added value for all stakeholders. organisations employee organisa• Compliance with laws and In August 2012, a workshop took place tions within Peab. business ethics with executive management and the central • Energy efficiency administrative managers. The aim was to Shareholders and Board of Directors, 22 (30) • Compliance with laws and define stakeholders and to produce an business ethics capital market investors, analysts and internal prioritisation of sustainability banks • Productivity issues, which could then be compared with • Responsible employer/health the areas that our stakeholders ideally want and working environment issues to see us working on in a materiality analyNGOs Stakeholder groups in 5 (17) • Energy efficiency sis. The workshop was chaired by an indearea of sustainability • Sustainability requirements in pendent third party to guarantee an exterissues/communithe supplier chain ty-building • Minimise substances harmful nal perspective. to the environment or health Eleven general stakeholder groups were identified during the workshop. These authorities and administrators. Our local together with Non-governmental organisagroups were evaluated on the basis of their connections mean that we conduct an tions (NGOs) – to prioritise which areas of effect on Peab and their interest in our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders at a sustainability work they would prefer Peab sustainability work. local level, and we also have regular to further develop. We plan to extend this DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS contacts at a regional and national level. In dialogue and to discuss sustainability with Peab has a long tradition of collaborating 2012 we also started a dialogue focusing more of our stakeholder groups in future. with stakeholders in various forums in order on sustainability with some of the staketo strengthen relationships and be recepholder groups we had identified. In a MATERIALITY ANALYSIS tive to preferences and expectations. This web-based questionnaire, we asked repreOnce the internal and external prioritisatakes place in the form of, for example, sentatives from all over the Nordic region tions had been made, the results were customer meetings and customer surveys, within four of these stakeholder groups compiled. The areas considered most participation in networks, information meetbusiness customers, employee organisarelevant by both our stakeholders and our ings in residential areas and dialogues with tions, shareholders and the capital market management group are shown in the top PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 12 DIALOGUE WITH THE WORLD AROUND US right-hand box in the figure below; these Sustainability issues shall be fully inteareas also constitute the main content of grated into the operational business. this report. We shall be perceived as an ethical, The dialogue with our stakeholders transparent company in our commergave us a valuable foundation on which to cial business. stand ahead of ongoing work to prioritise We shall have competent, clear leaderfocus areas and develop a sustainability ship with responsibly for sustainability strategy. It also provided us with an insight issues. into the fact that we need to be clearer in Employees shall have good knowledge what we include in each area of sustainaof and a high level of engagement in bility ahead of ongoing work with more, sustainability issues. in-depth stakeholder dialogues. Our proacWe have a zero vision in respect of tive anti-corruption work, for example, is accidents at the workplace. part of an area we used to call “Compliance Almedalen 2012: We shall assume responsibility for suswith laws and business ethics”, and this is dialogue on tainability aspects of the value chain one of the areas we will be further clarifying in future. sustainable urban We shall continuously reduce our environmental impact by means of correct GENERAL FOCUS AREAS IN development material choices, more efficient SUSTAINABILITY WORK Collaboration, with clearly defined rules of play resource utilisation and minimising On the basis of stakeholder dialogues, the between State, municipality and construction waste and emissions. company, is required in order to produce susmateriality analysis and experiences from tainable urban development. That’s how the We shall support and contribute to the the Sustainability Council, general focus discussions at the panel discussion organised development of the communities in areas were suggested for future sustainaby Peab in Almedalen in 2012 can be summawhich we operate. rised. Some of the most prominent experts in bility work at Peab. These were adopted by Sweden were invited to discuss issues such as executive management at the end of 2012 how to plan urban development of the future, and now form the framework of Peab’s whether economic realities are slowing down development, who is responsible for developongoing sustainability work. They will also ment heading in the right direction and how we form the basis of work that has already can minimise energy consumption in the cities started to formulate clear sustainability we build. targets. Stakeholder identification Materiality analysis – External and internal priorities Minimise the use of substances Compliance with laws and Very important 11 harmful to the environment and business ethics Significance outside world 5 health Productivity 7 10 2 Responsible employer 4 (health & safety issues, etc.) 9 Energy efficiency 3 Satisfied employees 8 1 Interest 6 More efficient resource utilisation Correct waste management and Logistics maximised recycling Sustainability requirements in Important supply chain Proactive work against financial crime Certified construction Contribute to social development Influence Important Very important 1. Customers Internal significance 2. Existing & potential employees 3. Employees’ organisation 4. Employers’ organisation 5. Research & higher education 6. Suppliers 7. Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) 8. Shareholders & capital market 9. Authorities & administrations 10. Politicians 11. Media Stakeholder groups involved in Peab’s stakeholder dialogue druing 2012 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 13 EMPLOYEES OUR MAIN ASSET Employees our main asset The commitment and professional skills of our employees form the very core of Peab. We want to offer the best workplace in the Nordic region, which is why we place great emphasis on creating a developmental, pleasant working environment. With a focus on our employees, we create a profitable Peab. EMPLOYEES WORKING ENVIRONMENT workplace. We want to offer safe, secure During 2012 Peab’s overall workforce ORGANISATION workplaces for both our own employees decreased by 830 people, from 14,830 Work on the working environment at Peab and hired staff and subcontractors. Peab employees in 2011 to 14,000 on 31 is organised under the Human Resources works preventively to avert accidents by December 2012. 10.7 per cent of Peab’s function. Strategic work is carried out at providing safe equipment, quality-assured employees are female and 89.3 per cent Group level by a Working Environment work methods and training in this field. male. The charts below present further Manager and a Working Environment CoorWhen employees and subcontractors arrive statistics about Peab’s employees. dinator. Responsibilities and mandates at a new workplace, they are given an introhave been delegated to the line organisaduction to and a review of risks at the workSYSTEMATIC WORK ON THE tion and are an integral element of daily place. We also offer targeted information WORKING ENVIRONMENT operations. All business areas and divisions packages that describe how we at Peab Peab’s working environment policy, which have working environment managers, and work to create safe, secure workplaces. is integrated into the company policy, regions, companies and units also have Statistics on accidents at the workplace forms the basis of our strategic work on additional support in the form of production are based on accidents that have caused the working environment. Peab has long coaches and QEW coordinators (Quality, an absence of at least eight hours. In 2012 been working systematically on health Environment and Working Environment) to the ratio of accidents at the workplace per and working environment issues, fully in support operations. In parallel with this, one million hours worked increased slightly accordance with the requirements of the there are also health and safety officers in all countries. One of the reasons for this regulations in current legislation in the appointed by employees to represent increase is that the Industry business area countries where we operate. In Finland we personnel on working environment issues in in Norway and the Industry and Civil Engidecided to certify our working environevery single project. At present there are neering business area in Finland is now ment system in accordance with OHSAS about 575 health and safety officers in the included in the statistics, which was not 18001, in Sweden we follow the requireSwedish business, 44 in Norway and 40 in previously the case. The Industry business ments of AFS 2001:1 and in Norway we Finland. area has a slightly higher ratio of work-rework in accordance with the Working lated accidents per hour worked than the Environment Act and the current regulaPREVENTIVE WORK ON THE WORKother business areas. The Finnish way of tions for the construction and civil engiING ENVIRONMENT AT WORKPLACES applying rules for sick leave in connection neering industry. Peab has a zero vision for accidents at the with accidents at the workplace differs from Number of employees by country, gender and individual category Sweden Norway Finland Peab in total Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Salaried staff in managerial 96 1,474 10 161 16 79 122 1,714 positions Other salaried staff 945 2,188 109 279 65 213 1,119 2,680 Skilled workers 200 6,964 32 746 19 404 251 8,114 Total 1,241 10,626 151 1186 100 696 1,492 12,508, Workplace accidents per Sick leave Types of employment for all employees 1 million hours worked Number Women Men % 60 6 2012 Permanent employees 1,343 11,786 2012 50 2011 5 2011 2010 2010 Project/temporary employees 149 722 40 4 30 3 20 2 Type of employment for permanent 10 1 employees 0 0 Sweden Norway Finland Sweden Norway Finland Women Men 2012 2011 2010 Full-time employees 1,198 11,693 As from 2012, the statistics from Finland relate to all business areas, which explains the high figure for 2012. The figures from Finland for Part-time employees 145 93 2010 and 2011 were based on the construction business alone. The comparative figure for 2012 for the construction business is 29. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 14 EMPLOYEES OUR MAIN ASSET the practice in Norway and Sweden, hence Norway they use a similar web-based ness, revisions of the order and safety rules the higher figures for Finland. system known as RUH (Registration of and clear commitment from management. There were two fatal accidents during Undesired Events) and in Finland reporting Management groups made several visits to the year. In Norway a contract employee takes place directly to the Working Environworkplaces in order to put a focus on the suffered a fatal accident, as did one of our ment Manager. A number of workplace importance of a good working environment. subcontractors in Sweden. The crisis organaudits are also conducted every year. Peab isation is trained by MSB, the Swedish Civil analyses the results annually and identifies WORK TO PROMOTE HEALTH Contingencies Agency. All accidents are causal relationships from employee statisWork continues on an ongoing basis to investigated meticulously and appropriate tics, employee surveys, employee appraisal make Peab the best workplace in the action is taken to avoid any recurrence. meetings, workplace audits and the occuNordic region. We want to be a company pational healthcare services. This then that attracts, develops and retains skilled FOLLOW-UP AND forms the basis of decisions on prioritised employees. This means that a work method IMPROVEMENT WORK areas of action, objectives and measures. that promotes health is an important straAll incidents and accidents are reported The working environment is a prioritegic issue for Peab. Our objective is to and followed up. In Sweden this takes tised area at Peab. Throughout 2012 we have the industry’s healthiest, most satisplace via a web-based system for the worked hard to further enhance the working fied employees, and we work systematireporting and registration of accidents environment in the company by means of cally on supportive, preventive and rehabili(OTR Accident and Incident Reporting), in communication initiatives to raise awaretating health work. Salaried staff in managerial positions by gender Other salaried staff by gender Skilled workers by gender 7% 3% 29% Women Men 71% 93% 97% 1,836 people in total 3,799 people in total 8,365 people in total Salaried staff in managerial positions by age Other salaried staff by age Skilled workers by age 4% 17% 27% 27% < 30 years old 30% 37% 30–50 years old 59% > 50 years old 56% 43% 1,836 people in total 3,799 people in total 8,365 people in total PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 15 EMPLOYEES OUR MAIN ASSET Job satisfaction and well-being are imporboth straightforward courses and also initiaEMPLOYEE APPRAISALS tant factors in being able to do a good job. tives to enhance informal learning. Skills The employee appraisal is an important In Sweden we have hired health developers development at Peab must always be element of Peab’s business development who work to support and develop an atticlosely associated with the business and process and one of the most important tude that promotes health at our workstrike a good balance between theory and management tools. All employees must be places. A balance between work and leisure practice. offered an employee appraisal every year. is a precondition for good health. All This is also an opportunity to discuss the employees in Sweden are offered activities EQUAL TREATMENT employee’s potential skills development within Peab Leisure, an organisation that The basic view in Peab is that all people needs in order to be able to achieve the aims to encourage and stimulate a healthy have the right to be themselves, without objectives set out in the business plan. lifestyle and a sense of community. being victimised by others. To combat Successful appraisals lead to continuous Employees can also be offered subsidies discrimination and achieve equal opportunidevelopment of the company, the workfor activities such as giving up smoking, ties for all within Peab, regardless of place, managers and employees. To make dietary advice and exercise. The organisagender, age, sexual orientation and sure that all employees have been consulted, tion that promotes health in Norway is ethnicity, Peab has an equal treatment plan follow-up on this is included in the employee known as BIL, through which Norwegian that covers not only employees, but also survey The Handshake. The results of the employees have the opportunity to become students, trainees, borrowed or hired staff latest survey showed that about 80 per cent involved in various kinds of sport. In Finland, and job applicants. Peab accepts no form of male employees and 90 per cent of the company supports leisure clubs, whose of harassment or victimisation. If a situation female employees were offered an employee operations and activities are defined locally arises, we act in accordance with Peab’s appraisal in 2011. The material used for by employees, and range from evenings at action plan against victimisation. employee appraisals was updated in 2012, the theatre to open-air activities. while at the same time managers were Sick leave in Peab fell slightly in EMPLOYEE SURVEY offered training in how to conduct the Norway and Finland compared with 2011, “The Handshake” is the name of Peab’s appraisals. Development work on the but increased marginally in Sweden. employee survey. It is conducted every employee appraisal will continue in 2013 other year by an independent organisation and be linked even more clearly to the skills SKILLS DEVELOPMENT in the form of an anonymous questionnaire. development process. We hope to be able In order to develop Peab and our The purpose of The Handshake is to idento see results from the initiative in the form employees, and to make sure that we tify areas for improvement by finding out of improved figures in the next Handshake. always have the right competence for the how employees perceive their working assignments we take on, we work actively environment, opportunities for developEMPLOYEE BENEFITS with skills development in the company. ment, leadership and Peab as an employer. Peab offers benefits to its employees in all Peab has its own skills development operaAll employees are informed about the result three countries in the form of healthcare, tion The Peab Academy. This offers a and are offered an opportunity to conduct a personal injury and invalidity insurance number of wide-ranging development dialogue about prioritised areas for cover, and parental leave, regardless of programmes that aim to develop improvement and measures, as well as type of employment. Life insurance and employees’ skills so that they can take on about strengths that are important to shares are not offered as benefits in any of new jobs. preserve. The most recent survey was the countries. There is a major focus on the area of conducted in 2011. The response rate then In Sweden, where most of our business sustainability, including leadership, the was 87 per cent, an increase of one per takes place, all employees except holiday environment, the working environment and cent since the survey in 2009. The survey, workers have access to the Benefit Box. ethics. Development work is taking place in which contains about one hundred quesThis is a service that offers a number of 2013, partly in order to further enhance the tions, shows, among other things, that 77 discounts and benefits that promote wellsustainability aspect of the programmes, per cent of employees are happy to recombeing and a healthy lifestyle. These include primarily by reinforcing those blocks that mend Peab as an employer to others and discounted prices for everything from deal with leadership, diversity and social that 63 per cent believe that they work in an customised spectacles and public transport sustainability. In addition to these proenvironmentally aware way at their workpasses to exercise passes and advice on grammes, all employees are offered variplace, an increase of three per cent since health. ous skills development measures, including the 2009 survey. Average number of training hours Average number of training hours per per employee and gender in 2012 employee and employee category in 2012 hours hours 20 40 15 30 10 20 5 10 0 0 Women Salaried staff in manaSkilled workers Men gerial positions Other salaried staff PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 16 Working environment a high priority In 2012 the issue of the working environment was a top priority issue throughout the whole of Peab. A number of initiatives were carried out during the year to disseminate knowledge, affect attitudes and identify any deficiencies with the objective of achieving 100 per cent compliance with Peab’s Order and Safety Rules. The focus week at the beginning of the summer was one of the more wide-ranging activities carried out. In order to highlight risks and create a dialogue about health and the working environment, Peab executive management and divisional teams visited many of Peab’s workplaces in the Nordic region. These meetings with committed employees generated valuable guidance on how attitudes can be improved and how lessons can be learned from past events, which will contribute to creating good conditions for ongoing work on the working environment. In 2013 the effects of this year’s working environment initiative will be measured in the form of achievement of the objective of 100 per cent compliance with our Order and Safety Rules. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 17 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY Environment and Energy Strategic environmental work is an integral part of Peab’s business. For us, well-established procedures and processes, awareness of the company’s impact and continuous improvement work are crusial elements to minimise our negative environmental impact. ENVIRONMENTAL ORGANISATION ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT companies, in order to achieve a better Peab’s environmental and energy work SYSTEM AND ISO CERTIFICATIONS focus in day-to-day activities. The table takes place at all levels of the organisation Peab’s environmental management system below shows which units/divisions/compaand is an integral part of the business. The is integrated into the business management nies within Peab have environmental certificentral environmental function has ultimate system in each business area. The Industry cation in accordance with ISO 9001 and responsibility for developing Peab’s envibusiness area has business management ISO 14001. ronmental and energy work, and for systems with integrated environmental guaranteeing that Group-wide procedures systems at company level, a number of ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION are in place. The business areas are companies with environmental certification FOR PRODUCTS responsible for ongoing environmental in accordance with ISO 14001 and the The environmental certification of buildings work. Environmental work in the operaobjective is that all companies will have an is a trend that has really boomed over the tional business is passed on to subcontracenvironmental management system by the last few years. There are also environmetors and suppliers when we sign agreeyear 2014. Peab’s environmental managental certification systems for districts and ments, by means of project plans and dayment system for the construction and civil civil engineering projects, although impleto-day work. engineering business is an integral part of mentation of these has not made as much their general business management system progress as those for buildings. The scope SYSTEMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL that satisfies the requirements of both ISO of these standards varies, with some coveWORK 14001 and ISO 9001. Many construction ring only energy aspects, while others Peab’s environmental policy forms the divisions are currently certified in accorinclude the entire sustainability perspective. basis of our strategic environmental and dance with ISO 9001 and 14001, and the Group decision on energy work. The policy is integrated into aim is that all construction divisions will certifications Peab’s company policy and is in harmony have environmental certification by 2014 at In 2011 Peab decided that all properties with our Code of Conduct, which is based the latest. In Norway, extensive further built by the company itself are to have envion the principles of the UN Global development of business management ronmental certification. In Sweden, homes Compact. The environmental policy also systems is under way, also including enviare certified in accordance with “Miljösatisfies all of the requirements of ISO ronmental management systems. The aim byggnad” and commercial properties in 14001:2004. Peab works systematically on of this system upgrade is to achieve ISO accordance with BREEAM. We are focuenvironmental issues in accordance with 9001 and 14001 certification. At the same sing on BREEAM certifications of commerthe precautionary principle. We are aware time, they have gradually started to certify cial properties, primarily in metropolitan that our industry has traditionally had a the departments in accordance with the areas. In Norway, “Energimerkning” is used significant impact on the environment, and ”Miljöfyrtårn”, a well-known Norwegian for residential projects and BREEAM-nor we work to reduce our negative impact. system for the environmental certification of for commercial properties, and Peab in Finland uses LEED certifications. In projects where Peab works on behalf of an external ISO certifications in Peab client, and the client has a clear view of ISO 9001 ISO 14001 which system they want to use, Peab complies with their wishes. In cases where the Business Area Construction, Nordic client has not decided on a system in Region advance, the possibilities of various certifiDivision West Yes, renewed 2012 Yes, renewed 2012 cation systems are discussed in order to Division North-East Yes Yes determine which is most suitable. Additional information about the number of certification Finland Peab OY Yes No projects started and completed may be Business Area Industry, Nordic Region found in the table on the next page. Swerock Yes, renewed 2012 Yes, renewed 2012 Development of environmental certification systems Rådasand Yes, renewed 2012 Yes, renewed 2012 Peab is a member of the national Green Building Councils that exist in all three Peab Asfalt Yes Yes, renewed 2012 countries where we operate, NGBC Asphalt surfaces in Boden Yes Yes, renewed 2012 (Norwegian Green Building Council), SGBC PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 18 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY (Sweden Green Building Council) and Since 2009 we have also been involved in FIGBC (Green Building Council Finland). All an industry partnership together with SGBC, Green Building Councils strive to develop who have drawn up criteria for the Swedish environmental and sustainability work in the manual for the BREEAM system for construction industry and are responsible for commercial buildings, BREEAM – SE. Peab the administration of certification systems. is contributing two of the four pilot projects in Together with other industry players, all to test the Swedish manual. Peab is also Peab is taking part in development work for Max IV in Lund – taking part in the project HCS that aims to the sustainability certification of civil engineering projects. In an initial stage, an pilot project for develop a Swedish manual for sustainability certifications of communities and is coordiinvestigation is being conducted into BREEAM – SE nated by SGBC. whether and how international certification The MAX IV facility is currently being built in systems, for example CEEQUAL, can be Lund, and in future it will be offering absolutely SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL world class research into synchrotron light. The adapted to Swedish conditions. The deveproprietor is Fastighets AB ML4, with Peab and ASPECTS lopment project also aims to result in propoWihlborgs as owners and Lund University as Peab is constantly identifying and analysing sals for a possible implementation. In a tenant. In total, the facility comprises over 20 indithe business’s environmental aspects from vidual buildings and a gross area of 50,000 sq.m. second phase, CEEQUAL will be tested in GFA. There are strict environmental objectives, a life cycle perspective. The environmental current Swedish projects, and Peab’s E4 and it is particularly pleasing that the facility can aspects then form the basis of Peab’s contiSundsvall project has been selected as one also be used to contribute to the development of nuous improvement work to minimise the the Swedish application of BREEAM. of the pilot projects in the preliminary study. business’s environmental impact. Five Number of projects with environmental and sustainability certification Sweden Sweden Norway Norway Finland Finland in progress completed in progress completed in progress completed Environmental Building 24 (14) 1 (2) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) Breeam 4 (4) 0 (0) 0 (1) 1 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) Breeam Communities 1 (1) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) LEED 2 (2) 1 (1) 0 (0) 0 (0) 2 (1) 1 (0) Green Building 4 (3) 1 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) Energimerke 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 391 (97) 0 (0) 0 (0) The table shows the number of ongoing and completed certification projects in 2012 within Peab; projects that were certified before 2012 are therefore not included in the table. A project in progress is one that has been registered with the organisation responsible for the certification system. A project that is completed is one that has received certification, although not necessarily the final certification that is provided after a certain verification period. The table includes both projects carried out in-house in which Peab is responsible for certification and projects in which Peab is building for a client, who in turn assumes responsibility for certification. Energimerke is a statutory, mandatory label for all projects built in Norway, the other certifications are voluntary. Each separate apartment in an apartment block must have the Energimerke label; the figure in the chart therefore denotes the number of apartments awarded the Energimerke label in 2012. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 19 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY significant environmental aspects have society. This means that work to reduce our been identified for the construction and civil waste is of major significance for all of engineering business: society. Work with waste is closely related to Resource and material utilisation. resource and material utilisation. For Peab, Waste. it is a matter of achieving overall resource Substances harmful to the environment efficiency that aims to minimise both the or health. extraction of finite natural resources and the Transport operations. volume of waste generated. One important Energy. element of this work is making it possible to Within the Industry business area, the signireuse as much material as possible. ficant environmental aspects have been In recent years Peab has developed and identified at company level, as the compaimproved the waste sorting ratio significantly, nies run different kinds of operations. especially in the Swedish business. We have 95 per cent recycbeen measuring the sorting ratio in Sweden RESOURCE AND MATERIAL UTILISATION ling in Seinäjoki for a long time now, and developed close collaboration with two waste suppliers under The Itikanmäki area is an important developResource and material utilisation at Peab is a national agreement. Following successful ment project for the expansive town of Seinäall about choosing products with little envijoki in Finland. Here Peab is demolishing the collaboration, this agreement was recently ronmental impact and at the same time old factory buildings one kilometre away from renewed. The sorting ratio in the Swedish the centre and creating a new district with reducing the total volume of material homes, offices, restaurants and other cultural construction business increased from 63 per consumed. We work to develop technical venues. This demolition project, the biggest in cent in 2010 to 68 per cent in 2011, and in solutions while at the same time creating Peab’s history, will see the recycling of enough 2012 it rose further to 71 per cent. The demolition waste to fill one thousand trucks. procedural work methods and processes in Only five per cent of the waste will go to landfill. sorting ratio was 75 per cent for the whole order to rationalise resource and material A total of approximately 17,000 tonnes of conSwedish business in 2012. These figures are crete waste and 13,000 tonnes of brick waste utilisation. based on the waste processed by the two have been collected in the area. Some of the To mention one example, we reuse waste is crushed on site and used to build waste suppliers with which we have agreelarge volumes of excavated material in the yards and noise barriers. ments. The sorting ratio in Norway for 2012 civil engineering business. Natural matewas 70 per cent. In Finland we recently rials that are left over after detonations and signed a central agreement with two waste excavation works are used as filler in neighwinter season. It was possible to reuse no suppliers, instead of several local ones, bouring areas. Over the last three winter less than 25,000 tonnes of grit from the last which will facilitate follow-up on waste statisseasons, Peab Operation and Maintenance winter season. tics and sorting ratios in future. Our long-term in Stockholm has also reused grit from the objective is to achieve 100 per cent sorting, streets. The grit is sieved and processed in WASTE as well as reducing our total waste volume, in a number of stages in order to make sure The construction sector currently accounts particular the fractions that go to waste that it can be safely reused during the next for a large proportion of waste generated in disposal and incineration. Total volumes of waste in tonnes Sweden Norway Finland All countries Total 125,458 (158,345) 5,755 (2,871) 6,700 (20,000) 137,913 (181,216) Non-haz122,806 (155,760) 5,629 (2,837) ardous waste Hazardous 2,652 (2,585) 126 (57) waste Processing method, non-hazardous waste Processing hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste in Sweden and Norway Hazardous waste in Sweden and Norway 128,435 tonnes (158,597) 2,778 tonnes (2,642) <1% <1% 6% 16% 12% The statistics on waste processing methods in these charts refer to Sweden and Norway, and are limited to the waste processed by our contract partners. A 37% large proportion of our civil engineering and industrial 14% business activities are based on reusing excavated 30% material, which is not processed by waste suppliers 68% and is therefore not included. In the 2011 accounts, we included the volumes reused in the volumes for recycling; this is why comparative figures for reuse 17% and recycling are not reported. Landfills Incineration Recycling Reuse Composting PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 20 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY SUBSTANCES HARMFUL TO THE systems in areas such as building products, during 2012, and the launch is expected to ENVIRONMENT OR HEALTH consumer safety, the energy efficiency and take place in 2013. The meeting and travel In our efforts to minimise the use of ecological efficiency of products, and impleportal will help employees to choose travel substances that are harmful to the environments legislation in these areas. alternatives with less environmental impact ment or health, we use industry standard In Norway we use an electronic system and also facilitate measurement of and systems and tools. In Sweden, Peab uses called CoBuilder/BASS. All suppliers must follow-up. BASTA and the Building Material Assessregister goods supplied in the database in In Sweden we have also introduced ment (BVB). BASTA is an industry-wide which Peab has established an automatic financial incentives for employees to system that aims to phase out hazardous filter based on State criteria on hazardous choose company cars that have less envisubstances in building products. Suppliers substances as well as criteria defined ronmental impact. In 2012, a vehicle enviare offered the opportunity to sign agreein-house. ronmental tax was in force of SEK 1,000 ments to register their products in BASTA. per month for cars that emit 136-160 The Building Material Assessment system TRANSPORT OPERATIONS grams/km, SEK 500 per month for cars that assesses building products from a life cycle Peab is working on several fronts to reduce emit 121-135 grams/km, while cars that perspective and publishes these assesstransport operations and carbon dioxide emit 120 grams/km or less do not pay any ments in a database. The criteria for the emissions. All employees are encouraged vehicle environmental tax at all. content of substances are identical in both to minimise their travel by prioritising video, Peab Vehicle Operations is responsible for systems. telephone or web conferences ahead of Peab’s vehicle fleet in Sweden, and works In Finland we use TUKES (Finnish physical meetings. In 2012, there were continuously to develop and improve enviSafety and Chemicals Agency) safety 8,600 (6,284) conference hours via video ronmental performance. In 2012, Peab was sheets in order to make sure that we are and 15,417 online meetings. To further one of the first companies to start using using approved products in production and reduce the environmental impact of busilight goods vehicles powered by electricity. in connection with subcontractors, TUKES ness travel, a new meeting and travel portal Initially there are about ten new vehicles monitors products, services and production has been developed. This was tested that are powered solely by electricity, but PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 21 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY there will be more as older vehicles are via the central agreement in Sweden is decommissioned. electricity with an environmental declaration from hydro power. This means that ENERGY consideration has been given to the entire At Peab we focus on finding energy-effilife cycle in the production of electricity. cient solutions for our operational business One practical example of how we are activities, and also for the homes and builreducing energy utilisation at our workplaces dings we hand over to the customer upon in Sweden is the L-Ctrl energy optimisation completion. We strive to build homes with system. This system makes it possible for energy consumption levels that are lower employees at the workplace to control than the standard requirements. energy utilisation in the form of, for example, To guarantee energy performance in ventilation, heating and lighting via a parent the projects we create, Peab’s energy system. Reducing the night-time temperagroup has developed an energy follow-up 30 per cent lower ture in an accommodation block can cut process. This method and its aids provide energy consumption by up to 20 per cent. support for energy work throughout the carbon dioxide whole construction process and guarantee emissions with LICENSABLE AND NOTIFIABLE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES that projects’ energy targets are met. The process is based on Sveby’s “industry stanlow-temperature Peab operates licensable and notifiable dard for energy”, a programme that asphalt business activities in Sweden and Finland. These comprise rock and gravel quarries, includes information about user data and Over the last decade, Peab Asfalt has been water operations, transport of waste and aids for agreements on energy consumpworking intensively to develop asphalt that has less impact on the environment and is energyhazardous waste, asphalt works, concrete tion. Work is facilitated by the appointment efficient to manufacture. By reducing the surfaproduction and aggregate operations. of an energy coordinator to projects to cing temperature of the asphalt by around 30 Permits are renewed and supplemented on support the project organisation. degrees, energy consumption is reduced by 20 an ongoing basis. Licensable business actiWe operate in an energy-intensive per cent and carbon dioxide emissions by 30 per cent, while at the same time exhaust gases vity constituted about 2 (3) per cent of the industry, which makes it important that we and dust particles are reduced by no less than Group’s revenue in 2012, and notifiable do as much as possible to both reduce 65 per cent. This reduces the environmental business activity about 6 (6) per cent. energy consumption and minimise the enviimpact and improves both the quality of the ronmental impact caused by our energy finished asphalt surface and the working environment for our employees. utilisation. All electricity purchased by Peab Carbon dioxide emissions Energy sources purchased directly in Sweden and Norway Carbon dioxide emissions in Sweden and Norway, 148,416 tonnes (112,867) Liter MWh GJ Electricity, 32 tonnes 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 E85, 47 tonnes District heating, 651 tonnes Oil 11,532,882 9,485,336 108,795 89,480 391,663 322,127 Oil, 33,445 tonnes Petrol 848,405 1,226,986 7,971 11,528 28,696 41,502 Diesel 16,834,813 18,189,061 165,140 178,424 594,504 642,328 (Vehicles) Petrol, 1,927 tonnes Diesel 25,066,604 12,248,128 245,889 120,147 885,201 432,530 (Bulk) E85 136,371 283,565 902 1,875 3,246 ,6,750 Diesel, 112,314 Total 54,419,075 41,433,076 528,697 401,454 1,903,310 1,445,237 tonnes Energy sources purchased indirectly Sweden Norway Finland All countries 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Electricity MWh 118,623 122,663 1,840 2,620 10,750 11,600 131,213 136,883 GJ 427,043 441,587 6,623 9,433 38,700 41,760 472,367 492,780 District heating MWh 21,432 29,489 489 134 5,450 8,500 27,371 38,123 GJ 77,155 106,161 1,759 482 19,62 30,600 98,536 137,243 The figures for direct energy sources purchased in MWh from 2011 have been corrected since the Sustainability Report for 2011 was published; this is because of incorrect unit calculations. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 22 SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT Social engagement Peab has a long tradition of engagement in the communities in which we operate. We want to be an involved, responsible player in society and therefore contribute experience and resources in various contexts that promote sustainable development. Activities aimed at young people are particularly close to our heart. SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT – SOS Children’s Villages STRATEGIC AND SUSTAINABLE Peab is a mentoring company with SOS Being engaged in social development and Children’s Villages, supporting the positive being a responsible player in the communidevelopment to which the organisation ties where we operate is fully in line with our contributes by taking care of orphaned chilbasic values and strategies. We believe dren in the poorest countries in the world. that cross-sector collaboration benefits all The organisation is politically and reliinvolved and lays the foundations for giously independent and works in accordbuilding sustainable communities. By ance with the UN’s Convention on the contributing knowledge and resources in Rights of the Child. The building of schools, various forms of social engagement, we not health centres and centres to meet the only help the target group for a specific initimost important needs for children’s develative, we also believe that it makes our opment are just some of the initiatives that employees and customers feel a sense of the organisation contributes. pride and involvement in social development. Rebuilding Utøya TelgePeab In partnership with AUF – the Workers’ Youth Peab’s subsidiary TelgePeab builds homes NEW SPONSORSHIP POLICY League – Peab is working to build the New in Södertälje, and aims at the same time to Utøya. The project involves, among other Peab has for a long time been sponsoring things, the rebuilding and modernisation of the provide the unemployed, people on beneyouth sport and youth activities. To extend main building, conference hall, canteen and fits and refugees with an opportunity to the guidelines for our sponsorship, a new catering kitchen, as well as improving other received training, practical experience and facilities on the island. Utøya will be an arena sponsorship policy was adopted at the end that engages young people and serves as an work. The company was set up in 2009 by of 2012. According to the new policy, sponimportant place for development and social Peab and Telge within Södertälje Municidebate in future, and contributing to the rebuildsorship shall focus on contexts that promote pality. The first construction project, the ing process is therefore an honourable, responsocial benefit, social development, inclusible task. There are also plans for students Körsbäret district, was completed in 2012 sion and team-building. from the Peab School to be involved in creating and has 77 tenant-owner apartments. The one of the buildings. Work started in autumn 2012 and is expected to be completed during project created work for 25 people. At the A FEW EXAMPLES OF PEAB’S 2014. beginning of 2013, Peab Housing became SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT the sole owner of the company and is now We want to contribute actively to helping continuing to run it in the original spirit of people who for various reasons have found Mentor financial and social sustainability. The it difficult to be a part of society having an Peab is a main partner in the non-profambition is to build between 100 and 150 opportunity to do so. Below are a few pracit-making organisation Mentor, which works homes each year on competitive terms, and tical examples of how Peab gets involved to to prevent violence and drug abuse among at the same time to offer jobs, work placecreate safe, pleasant communities for all. young people. ments and traineeships that can result in PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 23 SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT people being able to support themselves other local organisations renovated a dereand continue with a career in the construclict tennis court in the multicultural district of tion industry. Hammarkullen near Gothenburg. The tennis court was created in the 1970s, but in recent Barents Reunion years had been used as a car park. During Peab organises the Barents Reunion the summer, activities were organised on the together with IKEA, the City of Haparanda newly renovated court for young people who and the City of Tornio. This is an annual wanted to try their hand at tennis. The initiaevent to promote cooperation between the tive for the tennis court at Hammarkullen is a five ethnic groups in the Barents region. partnership project that aims to contribute to A convention is held every year on various many people who might not otherwise come subjects, such as energy and environment, into contact with tennis having a chance to culture, entrepreneurship and education. get involved in sport. The theme of the convention in 2012 was “Sustainable social development of Barents”. Holiday workers from the Traffic Office Camps for children with reading In summer 2012, Peab Operation & MaintePeab’s Homeand writing difficulties In August 2012, the Parents’ Association for nance in Stockholm welcomed 220 young building Day 2012 people aged between 15 and 17 on behalf Dyslectic Children in Ängelholm joined of the Traffic Office in Stockholm. Over – A dialogue about forces with Peab to organise a summer three periods, each of three weeks, the homes for young camp for children with reading and writing difficulties in Ängelholm Municipality. The young people helped with various operation people and maintenance jobs such as planting, idea behind the summer camp was that Young people prioritise homes with a good cleaning and as park wardens. For many of location and low rents ahead of high standards. children should have their self-esteem the young people, this holiday work repreThese are the results of a recent study. In colenhanced and be able to practise their sented their first job and was a chance to laboration with municipalities and authorities, English in a natural way in various activiPeab wants to strive to ensure that more try their hand at working in the running of homes are built adapted to the needs of young ties. The camp lasted one week and about streets and parks. At Peab we are delighted people, and to conduct a dialogue about more 20 children attended. Also on site were to be able to offer young people an insight flexible legislation in this field. The main speaker at Home-building Day 2012 was special-needs teachers and older students into work; supervisors received good Minister for Enterprise Annie Lööf. from both England and Sweden. assessments and we hope that these Tennis court in Hammarkullen young people come back to Peab when During summer 2012 Peab and a number of they apply for jobs in future. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 24 Participation, security and confidence at the Peab School With a wave of retirements on the horizon Peab felt the need to ensure access to future employees. This factor, together with a deep concern for elementary students that do not have all the grades they need to go forward, was the foundation of the Peab School, launched in 2006. The Peab School offers the secondary school Construction and Civil Engineering program and is based on a pedagogic where focus is just as much on students becoming secure, aware community members as becoming skilled workers. The key to this is participation, security and confidence. Theory is mixed with practice at Peab’s own worksites and around 70 percent of students who get their diploma have begun to work at Peab. The Peab School’s pedagogic methods are based on four cornerstones: Actively working with everyday values – Ethics and values are cemented in a person’s teens. We educate both community members and community builders and we take this responsibility seriously. An education in reality – All possible professional know-how that can be taught at a workplace will be taught there in real life situations. Comprehensive view and context – All the subjects are connected together and integrated into projects. The individual in focus – Goals and demands are the same for everybody but the way to reach and meet them is different depending on circumstances. Everyone is challenged to achieve their full potential. This innovative pedagogic has generated good results. The majority of students leave the school with a job and a complete set of secondary school grades – even the students that came with almost nothing from elementary school. There are currently Peab schools in Ängelholm, Malmö, Gothenburg, Solna and Upplands-Väsby with some 450 students in total. All the schools are quality certified as a Trade Recommended School by BYN (the Swedish Construction Industry Training Board) except for the new school in Gothenburg and an application will be sent in soon for that school as well. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 25 BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION WORK Business ethics and anti-corruption work At Peab, ethics is about our actions in relation to one another and our stakeholders. By means of good ethics and transparency, we create trust and strengthen our relations. We work with education and information about ethics and anti-corruption, and make it clear that any breaches, no matter by whom, will have consequences. OUR ETHICAL GUIDELINES (0) skilled workers. This corresponds to 9.6 preach. The principle in Peab is that if an Peab’s ethical guidelines summarise how per cent of all salaried employees in manaemployee is unwilling or unable to take up we must conduct ourselves in the company, gerial positions, 7.1 per cent of all other salaan issue with his or her immediate in society and in our business dealings. The ried employees and less than 1 per cent of manager, they can always contact their steering document containing our ethical all skilled workers. manager’s manager. There is also an guidelines is updated regularly and adopted There was a major initiative on training opportunity to contact the Ethical Council by executive management in order to guarin ethics in 2011, which is why more people via a form on which comments can be put antee a current, modern document to which were trained then than in 2012. Peab will forward either anonymously or openly. everyone can relate. The most recent continue to train its employees in these Peab has chosen to work with the Ethical update took place in August 2012. issues during the years ahead. All senior Council as the whistle-blowing function Peab strives to be the best workplace managers also attend a one-day course on instead of using an external party, as long and the obvious partner in building Nordic competition law. experience has taught us that handling communities. We are convinced that good ethical issues internally builds up trust business ethics and transparency THE ETHICAL COUNCIL between the company and its employees, strengthen our customer relations and Peab has an Ethical Council that consists which promotes transparency and honesty contribute to a safe working environment. of one representative of executive managein these issues and combats defamation The level of ambition for our business ethics ment, three from administrative functions and the spreading of rumours. The Ethical is therefore high, and the ethical guidelines and, where applicable, the senior manager Council guarantees anonymity for anyone go well beyond what is required under legis(business area manager or administrative reporting an incident who desires it. lation and international declarations. manager) under whose business area the Supplementary documents, such as the area in question belongs. EVENTS DURING THE YEAR manual for entertainment and invoice attesDuring 2012 two cases of suspected tation procedures, contain rules on how we THE ETHICAL COUNCIL corruption or other financial irregularity at Peab behave in specific matters. If The Ethical Council’s undertaking is to were discovered, and these are reported anyone is insure about how to behave in a answer questions of an ethical nature from below. No cases of anti-competitive activigiven situation, help is available from their the business and employees, to communities, breaches of competition law or monopmanager, administrative functions or the cate Peab’s approach to ethical issues, olistic behaviour leading to legal action Ethical Council. both internally and externally, and to prepare occurred during the year. Nor has any and make decisions on issues when laws cases of corruption resulting in terminated PREVENTIVE TRAINING ON ETHICS or ethical guidelines are breached. Action contracts with suppliers or sub-contractors As an element of preventive work against that can be taken in connection with breaches occured during the year. corruption and breaches of Peab’s ethical can be anything from a verbal warning and guidelines, the wide-ranging training information about what applies at the workA supervisor within Peab used their programme known as the Ethics Round was place to a written warning, the serving of position to arrange for Peab to pay for started in 2009. Since then, more than 3,500 notice, dismissal and reporting to the police. material and labour at the supervisor’s salaried employees in Sweden, Norway and The Ethical Council makes sure that incihome. The supervisor was dismissed Finland have completed the course. The dents that occur in the Group are handled and the event was reported to the police. course has been customised to meet Peab’s in the same way, regardless of within which A site manager from Peab was susneeds, and contains situations that illustrate part of the business they occur and the pected of involvement in financial crime various ethical dilemmas that can arise in position of the person who committed the relating to a municipal company. When the business. The intention behind the breach. Peab was made aware of this suspicion course is to provide participants with an against the site manager, the site manopportunity to calibrate their ethical compass ETHICS ARE EVERYONE’S ager was excluded from the workplace against the standards and rules that apply RESPONSIBILITY and a written warning was issued. When within Peab and to provide a method of idenAt Peab, everyone is encouraged to the preliminary investigation was comtifying and finding solutions to various kinds assume personal responsibility for their pleted, the public prosecutor brought of ethical dilemmas. Everyone who has behaviour. Peab’s managers have a major charges against the site manager and completed the Ethics Round signs an underresponsibility to inform and communicate three other people, two of them managtaking to the effect that in their work they will awareness among employees of the ers in the municipal company. The disalways observe the values on which the content and importance of the guidelines. It trict court found the site manager guilty ethical guidelines and the Code of Conduct is also the job of managers to follow up and of serious fraud and involvement in the are based. In 2012, a total of 447 (2,004) make sure that employees have become obstruction of a tax inspection. When employees were trained in ethics and acquainted with and accepted the guidethe district court issued its judgement, anti-corruption, of which 176 (1,205) were lines and that they act accordingly. All of the site manager’s employment at Peab salaried employees in managerial positions, Peab’s managers must act as role models was terminated. 268 (799) other salaried employees and 3 in the organisation and practise what they PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 26 Peab contributes to a more secure society Security work is not just an internal matter for Peab. It is the task of the Security function to prevent crime, minimise the harmful effects of crime and to create the conditions for secure workplaces at Peab. In this work, Peab collaborates in projects with the Swedish Construction Federation, the Swedish Police and various companies, all with the aim of contributing to a more secure society. Peab works actively together with the Swedish Construction Federation to combat moonlighting and financial crime in the construction industry. ID06 is a security system that only allow authorised people to access our workplaces, it is one example in which Peab is the driving force to increase usage and value. In Finland, Peab uses personal ID cards with tax numbers, and in Norway we use ”Byggekort” [Building Passes] so that we know who is allowed to work at our workplaces. CCTV surveillance of offices and at remote workplaces transmitting moving images in real time has in many cases resulted in thefts or break-ins being prevented and perpetrators being apprehended. The crisis organisation, which is trained by the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency (MSB), provides professional care for those affected by, for example, serious accidents, regardless of whether they involve employees or third parties, and cooperates on site with authorities and organisations. The so-called ”PoFa” system (Police and Insurance Report), developed in-house, means that reports of thefts or insurance cases can be made directly at the workplace and simultaneously to the police and insurance companies. The reporting frequency is increased, and labelling and collaboration are improving the prospects of linking the perpetrator to the theft and recovering the stolen goods. Within ”Bolyftet”, Peab’s concept for upgrading areas created under the environmental programme, the Security function is involved through its knowledge of how to create secure outdoor environments. Training is provided within Peab to raise awareness and understanding of how moonlighting takes place and how our employees can prevent the use of rogue subcontractors. Peab also makes presentations in the industry, for example to local crime prevention councils. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 27 L O N G T E R M F I N A N C I A L A D D E D VA L U E Long-term financial added value Peab’s business affects many aspects of financial developments in society. For Peab, this represents a major responsibility, and we always strive to find solutions that create value for all of our stakeholders. By means of long-term planning, good relations and a financial life cycle perspective, we can build communities in a cost-efficient, sustainable way. EFFECT ON naire is completely anonymous for respondTHE SOCIAL ECONOMY ents, who can also choose to submit written By running a responsible business, Peab comments. It was sent to more than 2,500 contributes both directly and indirectly to business customers in the Civil Engineering, economic developments in society. We Construction and Industry business areas in deliver financial value to our stakeholders by, Sweden and Norway. The response rate among other things, paying wages and other was 45.5 per cent 1,164 respondents and benefits to our employees, paying taxes to the results show that customers appreciate the State and municipalities, buying services the contact with our employees, our prodand products from suppliers, offering highucts and services. These are the areas in quality products to our customers and paying which we received the highest marks. The dividends to our shareholders. We contribute survey has many aims, including to make it to technical developments in the industry, possible to identify areas for improvement. and our social engagement contributes to the local economy. Mandolinen – The results are analysed by business area and at company and project level. The the industry’s most results for 2012 indicate, among other CREATING FINANCIAL VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES satisfied customers things, that there is a group of projects where improvements need to be made in The workgroup in the Mandolinen project At Peab we want employees to have a defined clear guidelines and common goals by terms of work methods, reliability and good understanding of the profitability means of a partnership on equal terms. The schedules. On the basis of the results, aspect and to be able to share in the starting point was that we are working with homes and people, and order and foresight action plans are set up so that we can better company’s successes. This is why we have pervade the whole project. Mandolinen not only meet our customers’ requirements and a profit-sharing foundation that aims to has the most satisfied customers, they also expectations. stimulate employees’ interest in long-term achieve the best results in terms of sorting waste, contractual compliance, profitability and We started measuring the SCI for employment and to create better financial satisfied employees. Peab’s housing customers in 2010. The conditions for employees when they retire. survey, which is industry-wide, is also conducted together with Prognoscentret, GOOD RELATIONS AND surveys (Satisfied Customer Index). The with all of our private customers receiving a CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SCI surveys follow an international standard questionnaire approximately two months Good customer relations are based on a and are coordinated by the independent after moving in. In 2012 we received 539 long-term approach, credibility and receporganisation Prognoscentret. In 2012, for responses, representing a response rate of tiveness. To find out how customers the first time surveys were sent out to our 57 per cent. Since we started measuring perceive their contact with us and how we business customers in the form of a the SCI, we have improved satisfaction are meeting their expectations, we use SCI web-based questionnaire. The questionamong our housing buyers, even though PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 28 L O N G T E R M F I N A N C I A L A D D E D VA L U E we still have a little way to go to reach greater understanding, which means that relations with suppliers, it is important to industry levels. The result shows that the more people can be involved and have an have a holistic perspective in logistical work. most important areas for improvement are influence. At the same time it increases the We have run a number of pilot projects to continue to work on our reliability and to quality of planning and contributes to stable, to identify how the opportunities of logistics deliver fault-free homes in accordance with efficient production. Participation increases can be utilised to rationalise Peab’s customers’ expectations. To supplement engagement and thereby the quality of processes. In 2012, the Group’s logistics the index figures, the customer is given the day-to-day work and of the end product. project in Region Mälardalen Housing was opportunity to submit anonymous free text completed, the aim of which was to identify responses to the survey. LOGISTICS efficient logistical solutions in the areas of Our industry is characterised by a large planning, costing, purchasing and producPRODUCTIVITY number of suppliers and subcontractors, tion. The project was carried out in close Productivity is a measure of the degree of who deliver products to the workplace in a collaboration with four selected suppliers, target fulfilment in relation to resource utilicontinuous flow. To make it possible to do and all six construction projects involved in sation in production. A high level of producthis in a cost-efficient way with the least the logistics project saw results in the form tivity within Peab is of major interest for possible environmental impact, a holistic of less unnecessary work, reduced volumes both internal and external stakeholders, as perspective of logistical issues is a must. As of damaged material and a better working it creates cost efficiency and resource effithe foundations for efficient logistics are laid environment. A clear coordination of delivciency. Follow-up and evaluation is a as early as in the planning phase and in eries makes it easier for both suppliers and precondition for being able to identify and ourselves, while at the same time reducing develop the most efficient work methods, transport costs and the environmental and in Peab we work on this at several impact. We are also involved in an indusdifferent levels in the organisation. try-wide project in Sweden, run by BEAst To improve productivity, we are working (Byggsektorns Elektroniska Affärsstandard towards a standardised work method based The Construction Sector’s Electronic Busion tried and tested methods and feedback. ness Standard), which aims to develop a In the “Right from me” project, Peab has common process and information model developed methods and tools that have that will pave the way for more modern been produced and tested at our own workmethods and electronic communication places. The idea is simple, we use work between players involved. We will continue methods and tools that reduce the amount to work with logistics from a holistic of unnecessary work and make it easier for perspective and will gradually implement all of our employees to get it right from the Well-planned logistical solutions in our work procedures start. PGS (Peab Gemensamt System/Peab logistics – increased and processes. Joint System) develops prefabricated buildings, a form of standardised building that productivity INNOVATION AND DEVELOPMENT By contributing to innovation, technical results in high quality and competitive prices. January 2012 saw the opening of the Clarion Hotel Post, built by Peab for Home Properties. development and creative solutions that We work with BIM modelling to guarIts location on Drottningtorget in the centre of benefit the whole industry, we also contribute antee an efficient construction process. BIM Gothenburg, with a very limited development to the economic development of society. We Modelling, or “virtual construction”, means area, small to virtually non-existent storage areas and deliveries on average every 18 minrun and take part in a number of developthat we use a 3D model that is linked to the utes during the entire construction period, ment projects, we take part in cross-sector tools used during the construction process. placed major demands on planning logistics. Logistical work, with timed slots in which all partnerships and work in various constellaThe link can be to costing, planning, prepagoods transport providers had a pre-booked tions together with industry players, trade ration, purchasing or logistics, depending on time for unloading, was a decisive factor for and industry, stakeholder organisations and the project’s needs and level of ambition. A reliable deliveries, minimised waiting time for materials, lower stock levels and increased prothe public sector in order to contribute to BIM model is an effective means of enabling ductivity. By means of well-planned deliveries sustainable social development. everyone involved to quickly obtain a clear, and reduced idling, we estimate that carbon common view of the construction process dioxide emissions were reduced by about 19,000 kg in this project. and the finished building. This creates Direkt tillskapat ekonomiskt värde MSEK 2012 2011 2010 Revenues 47,225 43,777 38,440 Distributed financial value Operating expenses 37,892 34,491 29,820 Salaries and remuneration to 8,058 7,615 6,846 employees Payments to financiers 1,061 1,212 980 Payments to the public sector Sweden 94 221 -27 Norway 0 20 -9 Finland -2 -3 -1 Denmark 2 0 0 Group total 94 238 -37 Investments in society 19 10 9 Total distributed financial value 47,124 43,566 37,618 Retained financial value 101 211 822 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 29 Energy-smart production – The project that identifies which measures produce results Research shows that the production phase of a road accounts for 5-20 per cent of the road’s total energy consumption during its useful life (production, operation, use and decommissioning). Energy efficiency improvements in the production phase are therefore still an environmental aspect with major opportunities for development. In the civil engineering project Active Safety Test Area, a test facility where intelligent cars are to be test driven, running in parallel with production is the Energy-Smart Production project, in which Peab is testing energy-saving measures that can be applied in the production phase. The development project is focusing on identifying which measures actually produce results in practice; for example, energy-efficient setup and efficient fuel utilisation. The aim of the Energy-Smart Production project is to develop a selection of energyand cost-saving measures and methods that can then be applied in future civil engineering projects. The project, which is being run internally by Peab, is a partnership between two of Peab’s four business areas, Civil Engineering and Industry. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 30 G R I A N D U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T I N D E X GRI and UN Global Compact Index Strategy and profile Comment (e.g. Page in Scope of reportreason for UN Global Sustainability ing, full or omission of Compact Description Report partial information) Principles 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from Managing Director on the relevance of sustainable 4-5 development for the organisation and its strategy. 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. 6, 7 2.2 The most important brands, products and services. 6-7 2.3 Organisational structure, units, business areas, subsidiaries and joint ventures. 6-8 2.4 Location of organisation's head office. 6 2.5 Number of countries in which the organisation has business operations and 6 the names of counties where important operations are conducted or that are of particular relevance for sustainable development. 2.6 Ownership structure and corporate form. 6-8 2.7 Markets in which the organisation operates. 6-7 2.8 The size of the reporting organisation. 6-8 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period in terms of size, structure or 6-8 ownership. 2.10 Awards and prizes received during the reporting period. 3 3. Information about the report 3.1 The reporting period (e.g. financial year/calendar year) for the information re2 ported. 3.2 Date of publication of the most recent report (if one was produced). 2 3.3 Reporting cycle (annually/biannually, etc.). 2 3.4 Contact persons for questions relating to the report and its content. 2 3.5 Processes for defining the content of the report. 12-13 3.6 Demarcation of the report. 2 3.7 Describe any special limitations of the scope and demarcation of the report. 2 3.8 Principle for the reporting of joint ventures, subsidiaries, hired facilities, out2 sourced business operations and other units that may have a significant effect on comparability. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of and reasons for changes to information provided in 2 previous reports. 3.11 Significant changes made since the previous reporting period in terms of de2 marcation, scope or measurement methods used in the report. 3.12 GRI Index. 31-32 3.13 Policy and current application in respect of having the report attested externally. 2 4. Governance, commitments and stakeholder dialogues 4.1 Account of the organisation's corporate governance, including committees that 7-8 1-10 report to the Board of Directors and are responsible for specific tasks such as adopting strategies or exercising supervision of the organisation, and describe any direct responsibility for financial, social and environmental issues. 4.2 Describe whether the Chairman of the Board is also the Managing Director. 8 4.3 For organisations that only have one Board level, state the number of members 8 of the Board who are independent and/or are not members of company management. 4.4 Opportunities for shareholders and employees to submit recommendations or 8 guidance to the Board of Directors or company management. 4.14 List the stakeholder groups with which the organisation has contact. 12-13 4.15 Principle for identification and selection of stakeholders. 12-13 Full = Partial = PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 31 G R I O C H F N G L O B A L C O M PA C T I N D E X Comment (e.g. Page in Scope of reason for UN Global Sustainability reporting, full or omission of Compact Description Report partial information) Principles 5. Sustainability governance and result indicators EC1 Direct financial value created and delivered, including revenues, operating ex29 penses, remuneration to employees, donations and other social investments, retained earnings and payments to financiers and governments. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 22 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source. 22 8 EN5 Energy savings through saving and efficiency improvements. 18-22 8, 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient products and services as well as products 18-22, 29-30 8, 9 and services based on renewable energy, as well as reductions in the energy requirement as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption as well as reductions 18-22, 29-30 8, 9 achieved. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emission by weight. 22 8, 9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as reduction achieved. 18-22, 29-30 7-9 EN22 Total weight of waste, per type and disposal method. 20 7-9 EN26 Measures to reduce the environmental impact of products and services, and 18-22 7-9 the results. PR5 Procedures for customer satisfaction, including results from customer surveys. 28-29 CRE8 Type and number of certifications, rankings and markings for new construc19 7-9 tion, administration, operation and renovation. LA1 Total workforce, broken down by type of employment and region. 14 6 LA3 Benefits that are given to full-time employees and not to temporary or part-time 16 6 employees. LA7 Scope of injuries, work-related illnesses, days of work lost, absenteeism and 14-15 1 total number of work-related fatal accidents by region. LA10 Average number of training and education hours per employee per year, bro16 ken down by staff category. LA12 Percentage of employees who receive regular assessments of performance 16 and career development. LA13 Composition of Board of Directors and management broken down by gender, 9, 15 Membership 1, 6 age group, minority group and other diversity indicators. of minority groups is not reported in accordance with Swedish law. SO3 Proportion of employees who have been trained in the organisation's policies 26 10 and procedures against corruption. SO4 Action taken because of corruption-related incidents. 26 10 SO7 Total number of legal measures for anti-competition activities, anti-trust and 26 10 monopoly practices, as well as their outcome. Full = Partial = GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND PAGE REFERENCES Area Principles Pages Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 7-8, 23-24 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses 7-8, 14-16, 26 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 7-8 bargaining 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 7-8 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 7-8 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7-8, 14-16, 26 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 18-22 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 18-22, 29-30 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 18-22, 29-30 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 7-8, 26-27 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 32 GLOSSARY Glossary AFS 2001:1 report on the work they have carried out ISO 9001 The Swedish Work Environment Authoriin the areas of human rights, labour law, A quality management system. ty’s Code of Statutes on systematic work the environment and anti-corruption. on the working environment. LEED CO2 Leadership in Energy and Environmental BASTA Carbon dioxide. Design is a system for the environmental System of requirements for the chemical certification of buildings. content of products used in the construcE85 tion industry, based on European chemEthanol fuel. MILJÖFYRTÅRN ical legislation. A Norwegian environmental certification ENERGIMERKE scheme for businesses. BREEAM Norwegian certification of the energy-efThe Building Research Establishment ficiency of buildings. MWH Environmental Assessment Method is an Megawatt hour. environmental certification system for UN GLOBAL COMPACT buildings. The Global Compact is a UN initiative ENVIRONMENTAL BUILDING that aims to make companies aware of Certification system based on Swedish BREEAM COMMUNITIES and assume active responsibility in the construction and authority rules as well The Building Research Establishment areas of human rights, labour law, the as Swedish construction practice Environmental Assessment Method is an environment and anti-corruption. regarding energy, indoor environment environmental certification system for and materials. city districts. GJ Gigajoule. THE ENVIRONMENTAL LIGHTHOUSE BVB A Norwegian environmental and sustainThe Building Material Assessment is a GREEN BUILDING ability certification system for businesses. database of building materials that have EU-controlled environmental programme been assessed from a life cycle perspecfor buildings. SCI tive. Satisfied Customer Index. GRI BYN The Global Reporting Initiative is an OTR The Swedish Construction Industry international framework for sustainability Olycksoch TillbudsRapportering [AcciTraining Board is a representative body reporting. dent and Incident Reporting]. Peab’s whose task it is to make sure that there web-based system for reporting and are competent skilled workers in the HCS registering accidents at the workplace. Swedish construction industry. Sustainability certification of city districts is a collaborative project between SHA CEEQUAL government agencies, municipalities, Säkerhet, Hälsa och Arbetsmiljö [Safety, A certification system to promote and building proprietors, property owners, Health and Working Environment]. assess sustainability in land and civil energy companies, consultants, archiengineering projects. tects, researchers and organisations. COP ISO 14001 Communication of Progress, an annual An environmental management system. follow-up that the UN Global Compact ISO stand for International Organization requires of its members in which they for Standardization. Peab is the Nordic Community Builder with about 14,000 employees and turnover in excess of SEK 45 billion. The Group’s subsidiaries have strategically located offices in Sweden, Norway and Finland. The head office is in Förslöv, on the Bjäre Peninsula in Skåne. The share is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm Stock Exchange. Grayling Malmö Peab AB (publ) SE-260 92 Förslöv Tel. +46 (0)431-890 00 Fax +46 (0)431-45 17 00 peab.se
