Communication on Progress Year: 2013 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT At Invensys, we believe our commitment to the principles of economic success, environmental stewardship and social responsibility enhances our reputation as a business partner of choice and allows us to continue growing profitably in our chosen markets. Our Chief Executive, the Executive Leadership Team and Board of Directors continue to support our business strategy to act as a responsible global corporate citizen. In 2012-2013, we continued our commitment to support the well-being of our employees and our communities by continuing to integrate sustainability into our business. We also believe that through the application of our products and services we can achieve positive environmental benefits beyond our own footprint that enhance our customers’ sustainability performance. Further, we continue to take a proactive stance on human rights, labor rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. We believe that our commitment, business policies and practices support and embody the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Herein we have again provided a summary of our performance with cross-references to the related Global Compact principles and highlight the ongoing progress. More information and data are available throughout our Annual Report and Accounts 2013, our Sustainability Report 2013, our Invensys Code of Conduct and our Invensys Supplier Code of Conduct available at our Invensys corporate website (www.invensys.com). Steven P. Sacco Invensys plc Senior Vice President Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability 16 August 2013 33 Commercial Street, Foxboro, MA 02035 Invensys plc 40 Grosvenor Place London, SW1X 7AW United Kingdom T +44(0) 020 3155 1200 F +44(0) 020 3155 1201 www.invensys.com 16 August 2013 Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Invensys plc continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to continue to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment both to our employees, business partners, customers and to the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will report on progress made in a public manner. Please find attached general information regarding our company, our 2013 Communication on Progress, as well as the contact person responsible for interacting on behalf of Invensys plc with the office of the Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Wayne Edmunds Chief Executive Enclosures (2): Invensys plc Information Sheet 2013 Invensys Communication on Progress Cc: Steven P. Sacco, Invensys plc Company Information to the Global Compact Please type or use print capitals Type of organisation Company Labour Business Association NGO CSR Organisation City Other (please specify) __________________________ Name of the organisation: Invensys plc Address: 40 Grosvenor Place City: London State/province: N/A Zip/postal code: SW1X 7AW Country: United Kingdom Telephone: +44(0) 020 3155 1200 Fax: +44(0) 020 3155 1201 Website: www.invensys.com Number of employees: 16,553 Type of activities: Global technology, industrial automation, and controls Name and title of highest executive Mr. Wayne Edmunds, Chief Executive Name and title of contact person Mr. Steve Sacco, Senior Vice President Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability Telephone: +1 (508) 549-4285 Email: steve.sacco@invensys.com Check if applicable: Subsidiary of ___________________ Sector (please highlight only one): Aerospace & Aviation Media & Communications Automobiles & Auto Components Metals & Mining Agriculture Oil and Gas Chemical Professional, Scientific and Technical Commercial Services & Supplies Services Commerce & Distribution Pharmaceutical & Biotechnology Construction & Engineering Paper & Forest Product Containers & Packaging Personal Care & Household Products Construction Materials Real Estate Education Technology Hardware & Electrical Finance & Insurance Equipment Health Care Services & Supplies Textile, Apparel & Luxury Good Food & Drink Transportation & Storage Industrial Conglomerates Telecommunication Internet & E-commerce Tourism and Leisure IT Consulting & Software Utilities Leisure Equipment & Products Other Machinery If ‘Other’ please specify ____Technology __________________________ Pages in 2013 Annual Report (AR) Global Compact Principle Summary of Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Sustainability Report (SR) 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Pages 28-30, 32, 45, 74 (AR) rights; Pages 1, 5, 16-18, 22-23 (SR) 2: and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Pages 28-30, 32, 45, 74 (AR) Pages 1, 5, 16-18, 22-23 (SR) Respect for human rights is embedded in Invensys’ core values and culture. We subscribe to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) through the Invensys Code of Conduct where we have pledged to support certain overarching principles, including 1) support and respect for the protection of international human rights, and 2) avoidance of any complicity in human rights abuses. We continue to respect and support the principles of the European Convention on Human Rights and other equivalent legislation by ensuring we comply with the labor laws of the countries in which we operate and by creating an inclusive culture for our employees, including men and women from different nations, cultures, ethnic groups, generations and backgrounds. We also respect existing national laws in the countries where we operate, and evaluate our compliance against such laws. Further, where the Invensys Code of Conduct is more exacting than local laws or standards, the Code of Conduct must be followed. The Code of Conduct is available on our web site at: http://www.invensys.com/en/csr/CodeofConduct/ The Invensys Code of Conduct and Corporate Compliance Programme supports our efforts to communicate our commitment that our employees and suppliers are not engaged in human rights abuses. Through the Code of Conduct and associated training program, we endeavor to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. A training program to accompany the Code of Conduct is available to all employees, accompanied by dedicated training for selected employee groups in areas of legal compliance. The training programme helps our employees understand their rights and obligations as employees of Invensys, and to be aware of situations where caution needs to be exercised in their work. Our Code of Conduct training programme now includes Anti-Harassment and Anti-Bullying training. Further, Invensys has reviewed the UN Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and continues to monitor its impact relative to our Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and Group Policy compliance programs. We have not determined any further business activities or new human rights implications that would require due diligence beyond those currently considered as part of our annual strategic planning, risk assessment, annual operating plans and or Code of Conduct and Group Policy compliance programs. P 1/10 The Company’s commitment to human rights means we all have a duty to respect human dignity, safety, health and security. We continue to make progress to improve working conditions for all Invensys employees in consultation with the workers and their representatives, and we continue to administer robust health and safety management systems. Our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) and Sustainability Policies outline our commitment to doing business without harming people or the environment. Our Environmental Health Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) Induction Training is conducted for all Invensys employees, temporary workers and contractors in order to stress the importance of safety to our organization and raise awareness. We also make a variety of EHS&S training modules ranging from travel safety and security to office ergonomics available to all employees. Our EHS&S management system now includes 19 EHS&S standards which outline the requirements for our operating locations to manage and continuously improve EHS&S programs, processes, and functions. Our actions seek to avoid 1) knowingly assisting a state in violating human rights 2) any benefits from human rights abuses committed by someone else and 3) failing to raise the question of systematic or continuous human rights violations in our interactions with the appropriate authorities. Each Invensys business segment also has a designated Compliance Officer who serves as a point of contact for compliance issues in case it is inappropriate or unwelcome for an employee to report directly to one's line manager or HR function. Further, the Invensys Helpline is operated by an independent company and is publicized to employees via the Invensys Code of Conduct. As part of the Global Compliance Programme, the Helpline is promoted across the Group and has been made more accessible for employees. Any investigations are undertaken by the VP Global Compliance and any material investigations are brought to the immediate attention of the Audit Committee which determines appropriate follow-up actions. Statistics on the volume and general nature of calls are reported annually to the Audit Committee and the Board. In addition, staff can raise concerns through other means such as electronic or postal mail sent to the Board or management, with such correspondence investigated in the same manner as concerns raised through the Helpline. This past year we re-emphasized the benefits of the Invensys Helpline to employees via a series of internal communications. Lastly, Invensys has a firm policy against retaliation for raising a good-faith concern under the Code. Designated Invensys business leaders in each business segment are required to certify annually through a Management Representation Letter (MRL) that their business units are in compliance with the Code of Conduct, including an explicit certification on compliance with laws and regulations related to human rights, child labor and forced labor. The Group has also developed a Supplier Code of Conduct which is available for use by business segments to meet their unique supply chain risks and the demands of their markets. Further, the Invensys Supplier Code of Conduct is available on our web site at http://www.invensys.com/en/csr/Supplier_Code_of_Conduct/. The Invensys Supplier Code of Conduct integrates many relevant aspects of the Invensys Code of Conduct, leaving out provisions that are not necessarily relevant to suppliers but more relevant to Invensys employees. The Invensys Supplier Code of Conduct addresses several expectations regarding the protection of human rights. P 2/10 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right Pages 28-30 (AR) to collective bargaining; Pages 16-18 (SR) Invensys respects the right of workers to join associations of their own choice and does not interfere in an employee's decision to associate, or discriminate against the employee or a representative of the employee. We work in good faith with employees and their organizations within a voluntary process to determine terms and conditions of work and the regulation. The Invensys Code of Conduct and Corporate Compliance Programme support using mutual dialogue and negotiation to achieve our business objectives. The Invensys European Employees Forum, with elected employee representatives, promotes dialogue with management. We communicate with our employees globally through local communications networks, town hall meetings, ‘skip level’ meetings and employee newsletters, webchats and blogs. We conducted an Invensys-wide Employee Engagement Survey in November 2012 to capture ideas, suggestions and feedback from as many employees as possible. We achieved a response rate of 76%, down from 83% in 2010, but still within the normal response range. The results enabled us to track improvements from prior years and to compare with external norms. We were pleased to see our employee engagement levels compare positively with our global external benchmarks. Our business and functional teams implemented action plans created in response to the 2012 survey feedback to further our efforts to make Invensys a place where high-performing people choose to be, where they can enhance their lives and careers and are motivated to perform at their best. We also evaluate certain suppliers according to the Invensys Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes a provision that recognizes and respects the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Pages 28-30, 32, 45, 74 (AR) Pages 1, 5, 16-18, 22-23 (SR) The Invensys Code of Conduct prohibits all forms of forced and compulsory labor within Invensys and among its contractors and suppliers. Contract laborers who work in our facilities also meet these standards. Forced and compulsory labor is not a primary concern given the nature of our business sectors. Designated Invensys business leaders within each business segment are required to certify annually through a Management Representation Letter (MRL) that their business units are in compliance with the Code of Conduct, including an explicit certification on compliance with laws and regulations related to human rights, including forced and compulsory labor. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is available on our web site, also includes a prohibition regarding forced and compulsory labor. We also evaluate certain suppliers according to the Supplier Code of Conduct and our Supplier Self Assessment process. Suppliers are ranked and evaluated on a variety of criteria including employment status criteria. P 3/10 5: the effective abolition of child labor; Pages 28-30, 32, 45 (AR) Pages 16-18, 22-23 (SR) The Invensys Code of Conduct prohibits the employment of children or persons below the statutory minimum age in the workplace. The company is committed to work proactively with others – including suppliers – to eliminate these abuses in the labor markets related to our business supply chain. Contract laborers who work in our facilities are also required to meet these standards. Designated Invensys business leaders within each business segment are required to certify annually through a Management Representation Letter (MRL) that their business units are in compliance with the Code of Conduct, including an explicit certification on compliance with laws and regulations related to human rights, including child labor. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is available on our web site, includes a prohibition against using or employing workers younger than applicable minimum age laws. We also evaluate certain suppliers according to the Supplier Code of Conduct and our Supplier Self Assessment process. Suppliers are ranked and evaluated on a variety of criteria including employee minimum age. 6: and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pages 28-30, 32, 45 (AR) Pages 5, 16-18, 22-23 (SR) As a global company with employees across the world, Invensys seeks to recruit the best individual for every position regardless of gender, ethnic or national origin, religion, sexual orientation or any personal characteristic not relevant to their work. Invensys fosters an inclusive culture where anyone with the skills and abilities to perform is treated fairly. We embrace the diversity of our employees and the greater effectiveness a diverse workforce allows us to offer our customers. The Group seeks to ensure that fair consideration is given to applications for employment received from people with disabilities and we offer continued employment, training and advancement where possible to employees who are or become temporarily or permanently disabled. We respect and support the principles of the European Convention on Human Rights and other equivalent legislation by ensuring we comply with the labor laws of the countries in which we operate and by creating an inclusive culture for our employees, including men and women from different nations, cultures, ethnic groups, generations and backgrounds. We also respect existing national laws in the countries where we operate, and evaluate our compliance against such laws. We have in place local policies and procedures which set out our commitment to create an environment where our employees can work without concerns that they will not be treated appropriately as a result of their gender, marital status, sexual orientation, color, religion, race, nationality, ethnic origin, age or disability. The elimination of discrimination is addressed by the Code of Conduct, the Corporate Compliance Programme, and the Invensys Helpline processes described herein. Further, designated Invensys business leaders with each business segment are required to certify annually through a Management Representation Letter (MRL) that their business units are in compliance with the Code of Conduct, including an explicit certification on compliance with laws and regulations related to fairness, equal opportunity and harassment. P 4/10 We also evaluate certain key suppliers according to the Supplier Code of Conduct and our Supplier Self Assessment process. The Supplier Code of Conduct, which is available on our web site, requires our suppliers to engage in fair and non-discriminatory work practices. Further, certain suppliers are ranked and evaluated on a variety of criteria including the elimination of discriminatory employment practices. 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pages 3, 28-30 (AR) Page 1, 5, 6-7, 9-13, 26 (SR) Invensys strives to conduct its business in an environmentally sustainable manner and continues to mitigate our environmental footprint. The Invensys EHS Policy ( available at http://www.invensys.com/en/ehs/ ) states that we will employ techniques to minimize environmental impacts of operations. The Invensys Code of Conduct promotes our shared commitment to reducing the environmental impact of our activities and promoting the sustainability of the natural resources. The Invensys Sustainability Policy states that we will reduce our environmental footprint by managing and minimizing waste, and efficiently using energy, water and other resources. We promote recycling and minimization of hazardous substances in our processes/products. We also mitigate and repair environmental impacts from past handling and disposal practices through a formal remediation process to restore the soil and water back to beneficial use. We review the potential environmental and community impacts for all new or relocated operations. In all aspects of our operations, we strive to take early action to ensure that irreversible environmental damage does not occur. The Invensys EHS&S management system consists of defined goals and objectives, programmes, standards and assessments as well as management support. The Invensys EHS&S standards define and establish expectations and provide a common base for implementation and planning at all of our global locations and operations. Continuous improvement in the EHS&S management system enables us to anticipate and respond to constantly changing regulations, social, financial, economic and competitive pressures as well as EHS&S risks. In order to assess our environmental performance, audits are performed at manufacturing facilities, logistics hubs, project locations and service sites. Over the past year, we completed 32 EHS&S Compliance Audits to evaluate legal and regulatory compliance. Senior managers at the locations provide a commitment letter that outlines the corrective actions and timeframes for closing out any audit findings. All compliance findings and corrective actions are tracked until closure is achieved. 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pages 1, 3, 10, 28-30 (AR) Page 1, 5, 6-7, 9-13, 26 (SR) Sustainability is at the heart of our business in a way that it connects with our employees, our products and services, our operations, our customers, our communities and the environment. Environmental responsibility is a major component of our sustainability strategy. P 5/10 Our Sustainability Policy, which is available for download on our website outlines our commitment in the following areas:  Reducing our environmental footprint – We manage and reduce waste, and efficiently use energy, water and other resources. We promote recycling and minimization of hazardous substances in our processes/products  Designing our products and services in a sustainable fashion – We minimize environmental impacts and resource consumption for new and existing products and services.  Delivering offerings that improve the efficiencies of our customers We offer a diverse portfolio of products, services and solutions that help our customers increase productivity, operate safely and efficiently, reduce waste and operate in a sustainable manner. We invest in technology and engineering capabilities in order to address the resource improvement needs of our customers.  Supporting the well being of our employees and communities – We promote awareness of sustainability issues among all employees. We commit to creating a safe and environmentally responsible workplace. We invest time and resources in our local communities. We encourage and support employees to contribute individual skills for community benefit.  Mitigating and repairing environmental impact – We take all possible steps to prevent environmental damage from existing operations and address the impact from past handling and disposal practices.  Enhancing the sustainability performance of our suppliers – We measure and evaluate supplier sustainability performance and ensure that they adhere to common social and environmental standards.  Measuring and communicating our sustainable performance – We publicly and transparently share our goals, achievements and opportunities for further improvement with employees, customers, investors and government bodies; we measure our progress, establish goals and drive for continuous improvement. We measure, track, and report progress in incorporating sustainability principles into business practices, including reporting against globally recognized environmental key performance indicators (KPIs), including:  Total energy use;  Total CO2 emissions;  Total water consumption;  Total non-hazardous waste generated; and  Total hazardous waste generated. P 6/10 We extended our Environmental Performance Questionnaire (EPQ) for an eleventh consecutive year and collected environmental KPI data from 33 manufacturing locations and 112 office settings. We also track the CO2 impacts of our global fleet and business airline travel. For this past year, we set and exceeded a 2% absolute reduction target for each environmental KPI for manufacturing sites versus the prior year. Longer term, we will strive to achieve continuous improvement in our environmental performance and grow our business in an environmentally-sustainable manner. Our Continuous Improvement (CI) teams have continued to apply our Kaizen programme to identify and implement projects to reduce energy consumption, carbon emissions, water use and waste generation at our major manufacturing facilities. The Kaizen events typically involve a group of six to ten interdisciplinary team members who spend up to a week analysing process flows, identifying opportunities and implementing improvements. These Kaizen events are focused on identifying and implementing changes that result in immediate savings as well as generate a plan for executing longer-term projects that will result in additional savings. This past year we conducted 7 Group-led Kaizen events focused on identifying opportunities to reduce our environmental KPIs. Our safety and environmental metrics, the number of environmental releases, and the number of environmental health and safety citations are reported to the Chief Executive on a monthly basis. Our EHS&S Compliance Assurance Verification Program, Management Representation Letter process and monthly operations reviews provide both visibility and communication avenues for environmental issues with senior management. We have also focused on employee training to promote environmental responsibility. Our Code of Conduct addresses environmental responsibility and a specific EHS&S compliance training module for the Code was released in 2008 and updated in 2009. Our EHS&S Induction training promotes and establishes expectations associated with safe and healthy work practices as well as environmental responsibility. Our Sustainability Awareness Training programme ensures that all employees are aware of the importance of incorporating sustainable practices and values such as waste reduction, resource conservation and health and safety principles into daily work habits. Further, we have a dedicated EHS&S intranet site where employees can obtain information on supporting environmental responsibility and share best practices for natural resource usage and reduction. We promote and communicate our environmental performance in a transparent manner by publishing a Sustainability Report and participating in recognized stakeholder surveys such as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Questionnaire, Ethical Investment Research Services (EIRIS) Survey/FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Survey. In the UK, Invensys was again listed on the FTSE4Good Index Series, which identifies companies that meet recognized standards of corporate responsibility. For the fourth consecutive year, Invensys was listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) in recognition of our economic, environmental and social performance. Further, Invensys again reported our greenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which we have done since 2007. Lastly, our UK operations continue to be certified for our reductions in carbon emissions under the Carbon Trust Standard. P 7/10 Our supplier qualification programme includes a Supplier Code of Conduct and a Supplier Self Assessment Questionnaire which includes ranking and scoring criteria used by some of our largest suppliers. The Self Assessment Questionnaire allows for scoring and ranking on a variety of environmental criteria such as eco-efficiency benchmarking, life cycle analysis with respect to eco-efficiency, energy efficiency, eco-cost tracking, non-hazardous and hazardous waste management & minimization and water use & conservation. 9: and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Page 3, 10-14, 18-20 (AR) Pages 5, 6-8 (SR) Invensys is a global technology company that works in partnership with a broad range of industrial and commercial customers to design and supply advanced technologies that optimise their operational performance and profitability. From oil refineries and power stations to mining companies and appliance manufacturers, our market-leading software, systems and controls enable our customers to monitor, control and automate their products and processes, thereby maximising safety, efficiency, reliability and ease of use. Our technologies are used by our diverse customer base around the world, helping to give them a competitive edge by speeding up their processes, improving accuracy, saving time, cutting waste and boosting their safety and sustainability performances. With a deep understanding of our customers’ industries and their business needs, our long-term sustainable growth is driven by an absolute commitment to project and commercial execution excellence, which also drives our reputation as a partner of choice. With the disposal of our Invensys Rail business after the end of our fiscal year on 2 May 2013, we have now re-organized around four business segments outlined herein. However, please note that the energy use and GhG emissions discussed herein have been categorized in line with our Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Controls and Invensys Rail reporting structure that was in place during our fiscal year ending 31 March 2013. Our Software business segment, under the SimSciTM, Wonderware® and Avantis® brands, is one of the world’s leading developers and suppliers of industrial software with strong positions in process design, simulation and optimisation, real-time production management and asset management. Our software includes leading brands such as Wonderware, the world’s leading Human Machine Interface (HMI) and supervisory control software used to monitor and manage real-time operations in plants and facilities; SimSci, a leading supplier of industrial simulation and training software; Avantis, a leading provider of asset management software used to prevent unexpected plant downtime; and Skelta, a provider of business process management software used to automate a variety of business processes. Out software helps our end users to lower raw material use, reduce energy and water use, decrease emissions and operate more productively, profitably, reliably and safely. Our Industrial Automation Systems and Nuclear lines of business, under the Foxboro® and Triconex® brands, include control and safety systems that enable the safe and reliable operation of a variety of Industrial plants. Their engineering teams continually improve the processing capacity and reduce the physical and energy footprint of our product designs installed at their customer sites, striving to reduce raw material use and improve total life cycle equipment and operational costs. P 8/10 Our Field Devices line of business, under the Foxboro and Foxboro EckhardtTM brands, focuses on continually reducing the energy use of our flow and controls measurement devices, many of which use millivolts of electricity. Every redesign they undertake is oriented towards reducing power consumption as well as increasing processing capability. Under Energy Control, our Industrial line of business under the Eurotherm® brand delivers process control and temperature control solutions for the life sciences, heat treatment, plastics and glass sectors, where reducing our customers’ energy use is critical to their business success. Our Energy Control Commercial line of business, under the Eliwell® and Ranco® brands, designs and supplies a range of controls that optimize the refrigeration, heating, ventilation and air-conditioning capabilities of our customers’ equipment and facilities, allowing end users to use energy efficiently and improve food quality. Our Energy Control Residential line of business, under the Drayton®, Eberle® and Robertshaw® brands, designs, manufactures and distributes thermostats, thermostatic radiator valves and various controls that enable the efficient and reliable air conditioning and heating of homes. Lastly, our Monitoring lines of business include IMServTM, which provides energy data measurement, visualisation and control services for large industrial, commercial and retail energy users, enabling the more efficient use of energy across their customers’ facilities, and CenteronTM Wireless Tank Monitoring, which uses state-of-the-art radio and sensor technology to remotely monitor storage tanks to optimise the supply chain delivery and use of petroleum, propane, chemicals and agricultural products. Our Appliance business segment designs and supplies innovative components and systems that enable the safe and reliable performance of cooking, refrigeration, laundry and dishwashing appliances in residential and commercial sectors while also reducing energy and water use. Please see http://www.invensys.com for more information on our lines of business. Lastly, the Invensys Code of Conduct also supports environmental sustainability by requiring that employees notify management of potential environmental issues and offer ideas for continuous performance improvement. 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Pages 28-30, 32, 45, 74 (AR) Pages 5, 16-18, 22-23 (SR) Code of Conduct: http://www.invensys.com/en/csr/Co deofConduct/ Countering Bribery: http://www.invensys.com/en/csr/Co unteringBribery/ P 9/10 Supplier Code of Conduct: http://www.invensys.com/en/csr/Su pplier_Code_of_Conduct/ Invensys continues our commitment to achieving our business goals legitimately and, as such, we require employees to obey all relevant laws. The Invensys Code of Conduct strictly prohibits direct and 3rd party bribes and kickbacks for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or to gain an improper advantage. The prohibition applies to bribes made directly or through third parties, including attorneys, agents, consultants, advisors, suppliers, and customers. Further, to educate our employees on this important issue, training on avoiding bribery and corruption has been delivered to all Invensys employees through our ongoing Corporate Compliance Programme. The Corporate Compliance Officer and the Audit Committee monitor our programs for countering bribery. We also have an affiliation with Trace International which helps keep us up to date on new requirements/issues and assist in the due diligence process so as to help avoid doing business with bribe payers. We have a procedure and due diligence reporting programme for working with agents in order to ensure that the proper compliance mechanisms are in place, and we review all agreements in accordance with the Delegation of Authority. Further, Invensys has implemented Management Dynamics’s Restricted Party Screening (RPS) On-Demand solution to automate our Restricted Parties Screening process for our global operations across 150,000 parties in 180 countries. Invensys expects to minimize valuable time and resources required for screening, and ultimately improve compliance and reduce corporate risk. Additionally, the Management Representation Letter, which includes a section on conduct and anti-bribery, is completed by designated Invensys business leaders within our business segments in order to certify compliance with our process and procedures. The results of the Management Representation Letter are reviewed by both the Board and the Audit Committee as part of our ongoing governance and assurance processes. Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires our suppliers to not offer or provide, directly or indirectly, anything of value, including cash, gifts, entertainment, bribes or kickbacks to any Invensys employee, representative, customer, or any government official, in connection with any Invensys business or procurement activity; to not engage in any activity that shall create a conflict of interest with its obligations to Invensys; to report any conflicts of interest that come to its attention; to safeguard, respect and not use any non-public Invensys (or other) confidential information personal gain or share with others for their gain; to employ fair business practices and comply with applicable competition and antitrust laws and to respect and comply with business gifts and entertainment policies for Suppliers established by Invensys. Invensys also makes access to our 24/7 helpline available to all contractors, suppliers and agents regarding concerns or potential breaches of our Supplier and or Invensys Codes of Conduct. Further, Invensys has a policy of dismissal for any proven violations of antibribery policy. Failure to comply with the policy and procedure for appointing agents may result in disciplinary action up to including termination of employment. P 10/10
