SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 The value of local growth About SABMiller SABMiller plc is one of the world’s leading brewers with more than 200 beer brands and some 70,000 employees Latin America Europe North America 32% 12% 12% Contribution to group EBITA1 Contribution to group EBITA1 Contribution to group EBITA1 Understanding local issues Understanding local issues Understanding local issues Small and medium-sized enterprises make up According to the World Health Organization, The Environmental Systems Research Institute over 95% of firms in Latin America, providing its European region has the highest levels of estimates that, if current rates of population employment for over 60% of the population. alcohol consumption and alcohol-related harm. change continue as they have for the past 20 years, Levels of harm vary and are higher in the east by 2035 there will be more minorities than nonof the region than in the west. Hispanic whites living in the USA. Our response Our response Our response We support entrepreneurship programmes We are a founding member of the EU Alcohol and MillerCoors has invested in a range of programmes across Latin America. Since we launched the Health Forum. This year we submitted commitments to promote diversity among employees, suppliers programme six years ago 92% of the 331 new to the forum to use age verification procedures and communities. This year MillerCoors has businesses supported by Destapa Futuro in on all online brand platforms; increase the number engaged more than 700 minority and womanColombia are still trading. of brands with on-pack responsible drinking owned suppliers and increased diverse supplier messages about not drinking when pregnant; and spend by US$29 million. strengthen our practices to minimise underage exposure to advertising. Countries covered in this report Countries covered in this report Countries covered in this report Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Romania, USA (MillerCoors is a joint venture with Molson Panama, Peru. Slovakia, Spain (Canary Islands), the Netherlands. Coors Brewing Company). Africa Asia Pacific South Africa 12% 13% 19% Contribution to group EBITA1 Contribution to group EBITA1 Contribution to group EBITA1 Understanding local issues Understanding local issues Understanding local issues Agriculture employs 65% of Africa’s labour force In July 2012 unseasonably low monsoon rains South Africa faces a 17% gap between current and accounts for 32% of gross domestic product. across India not only threatened water security water supply and projected demand in 2030 from but also affected hydropower generation, leading population growth, industry and the need for more to the largest electrical blackout in history power generation. affecting roughly 10% of the world’s population. Our response Our response Our response We directly employ around 13,000 people in Africa SABMiller India has partnered with The The Strategic Water Partners Network, co‑led by and have helped create and sustain around International Crops Research Institute for the SAB (Pty) Ltd and part of the Water Resources 765,000 other jobs, many in agriculture. Semi-Arid Tropics to protect water resources, Group, has successfully brought together a variety increase crop productivity and improve the of partners to collaborate and implement water livelihoods of local farmers. projects to reduce the gap. Countries covered in this report Countries covered in this report Countries covered in this report Botswana, Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Australia, India, Vietnam. South Africa. Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 1 Excluding corporate costs. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Performance highlights Contents Strong results across the group What’s inside this report 70,000+ 2 Joint statement by the Chairman of CARAC and the Chief Executive 3 Stakeholder commentary 4 Building sustainable development into our operations employees 8 Growing sustainably in our value chains 9 Our economic contribution 12 Beer in society 242m hectolitres lager volumes 15 The water-food-energy nexus 18 Valuing and empowering our people 21 2013 assured data and Independent Assurance Report 22 Further reports and contacts US$34,487m group revenue Find out more The full online SABMiller Sustainable Development Report US$6,421m includes information on the progress we have made against each of our 10 sustainable development priorities along with additional performance data and case studies, position papers on each of the sustainable development priorities, and reports on specific issues. EBITA Both the full report and this summary can be found at www.sabmiller.com/sd 3.7 hl water/hl lager 11.1 kgCO2e/hl lager 48,000+ Annual Report SAM tool For an overview of our Learn more about our markets and operations, performance through the please refer to our Annual Sustainability Assessment Report. www.sabmiller.com/ Matrix (SAM) scorecards annualreport for our operations. employees trained in alcohol www.sabmiller.com/sam responsibility Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This report has been produced in accordance with the GRI G3 guidelines and meets the requirements of the B+ application. Our GRI content index can be found at Boundary and scope of this report www.sabmiller.com/sdreporting. This report covers the financial year ended 31 March 2013. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) This document forms our progress report against the 10 principles of the UNGC and the Operations are included in this report on the basis of management UNGC CEO Water Mandate. Further information is available at control by SABMiller entities and are listed opposite. Our US joint www.sabmiller.com/sdreporting. venture, MillerCoors LLC, is also included. Our economic interest in MillerCoors is reflected when reporting quantitative key UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) SABMiller supports environmental performance indicators. Due to the nature of the joint the MDGs and seeks to make a meaningful contribution to their venture, MillerCoors is excluded from the independent assurance achievement in the communities in which it operates. of this report (see page 21). We aim to include new acquisitions or market entries within two years. This year Carlton & United FTSE4Good and Johannesburg Stock Exchange Socially Breweries2 (CUB) in Australia is included for the first time. A full list Responsible Investment Index SABMiller is a member of the of the operations covered in this report is available on page 4. FTSE4Good and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Socially Responsible Investment Index (reflecting the listing of shares in Where we hold a minority share in an alliance or partnership, both the UK and South Africa), as well as other relevant indices we engage with our partners on sustainable development used by the investment community. issues. Information on business partners can be found at www.sabmiller.com/sd Carbon Disclosure Project SABMiller participates in the CDP Carbon, Water and Supply Chain Disclosure Projects, which provide  Carlton 2 & United Breweries is the Australian beverage business of Foster’s. insight into the risks companies face in these areas. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 – 1 Joint statement by the Chairman of CARAC and the Chief Executive Our progress and performance are overseen by the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee of the board (CARAC) A joined-up approach to water, food and energy According to the 2013 World Economic Forum Global Risks Report, water supply is one of the top five global risks in terms of likelihood and impact. SABMiller relies on high-quality water and water scarcity is already becoming a reality for some of our breweries. Water security risk cannot be tackled in Dambisa Moyo Alan Clark isolation: it needs to be addressed alongside Chairman of CARAC Chief Executive food and energy security with businesses, governments and civil society working in We’ve become a global brewer by excelling In Africa, the livelihoods of 65% of the partnership to develop practical, local locally – nurturing strong, local brands which population depend on smallholder solutions. In areas where water security suit the tastes of consumers in each of our agriculture. We’ve pioneered the use of presents a potential challenge to our markets. One of our four strategic priorities is sorghum and cassava in brewing, opening business, we’re taking a lead in creating to be constantly raising the profitability of up new markets and incomes for local these partnerships. local businesses, sustainably. We do this by farmers and helping them to increase their producing high-quality beers and soft drinks yields. For instance, we launched Impala – Our Water Futures partnership, established which are enjoyed by millions of people, and by the world’s first commercially-made cassava in 2009 to protect watersheds and boost doing so create jobs, pay taxes and build the beer – in Mozambique in 2011 and this year groundwater levels, covers local projects skills base in our local markets. This year we introduced a cassava beer in Ghana. This in eight countries. In South Africa we’re generated US$25,042 million of economic value year our African division sourced 52% of a founder member of the Strategic Water through our business activities, most of which its agricultural crops from within Africa, Partners Network – part of the global Water was distributed to employees, shareholders, achieving a year early its target of 50%. Resources Group (WRG) – which brings governments and local communities. together businesses and other organisations Reducing the harmful use of alcohol to improve water efficiency and infrastructure. Business does not operate in isolation. Our We operate over 100 programmes around success is linked to that of the communities the world to contribute to reducing the Last year water efficiency within our we serve and to how we respond to society’s harmful use of alcohol, such as drink-driving operations improved by 8%, while fossil fuel changing needs. By 2030 the middle class3 or underage drinking. Much of our work is emissions per hectolitre of lager produced is expected to rise from two billion to five in collaboration with government, local fell by 10%. From a 2008 baseline we’re on billion, with most of the increase in emerging partners and communities. track to meet our goals of reducing water and developing markets. Given that these are use per hectolitre of lager by 25% by 2015 important growth markets for SABMiller, Our approach to helping to reduce alcohol and to halve our on-site fossil fuel emissions we’re investing in their future. In the past five harm also requires regular reviews of our per hectolitre of lager by 2020. years we’ve invested more than US$1,760 commercial governance practices to reflect million in breweries and bottling plants in society’s expectations. We believe that our Consistent leadership Africa alone. policies on employee behaviour, commercial Our 10 sustainable development priorities communication and product innovation are provide a consistent framework for managing Promoting economic growth and at the leading edge of our industry, as is the sustainable development, informing how innovation across our value chain company-wide training programme that each of our operations focuses its efforts, Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) reinforces our beliefs in this area. and prioritising resources. This report are a major driver of economic growth. illustrates how sustainable development In Latin America, for example, SMEs make In October in response to the call by the is integrated into SABMiller’s regional and up over 95% of local businesses and provide World Health Organization and its member in-country business strategies, addressing employment for over 60% of the population4. states in the WHO’s Global Strategy to the issues most material to our local In our value chain, small retailers play a Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, we businesses and communities. critical role in helping hundreds of thousands signed a five-year global action plan with of families to escape poverty through their other leading beer, wine and spirits As a change in leadership occurs, our own efforts, often in just one generation. companies to help reduce the harmful use commitment remains unwavering. By sharing of alcohol5. These commitments address our local knowledge and collaborating with Around the world we’ve enabled entrepreneurs important issues like underage drinking; our stakeholders, we’re confident we can to establish thousands of new businesses. responsible marketing; consumer information continue to find innovative local solutions Many have grown from informal businesses and responsible product innovation; drinking to shared challenges. into self-sustaining companies. This year and driving; and retailer support. We have alone SABMiller – including our foundations further committed to independently audit Find out more – invested over US$6 million in programmes compliance and report annually to the Go online to watch members of our to foster entrepreneurial activity worldwide. international community. We’re confident executive committee talk about SD at of meeting these commitments according www.sabmiller.com/sdfilms to the stated timetable.  Middle 3 class is defined as having daily per capita spending of US$10 to US$100 in The emerging middle class in developing countries, Homi Kharas, OECD Development Centre Working Paper No. 285, January 2010. 4 O ECD, Latin American Economic Outlook 2013, SME Policies for Structural Change, 16 Nov 2012. 5 More information on the Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers’ commitments can be found at commitments.global-actions.org 2 – SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Stakeholder commentary Working in partnership with a wide range of stakeholders to drive progress on our three key focus areas: water, enterprise development and combating the harmful use of alcohol We believe that by building strong partnerships we can create better solutions and make a greater difference in our markets than if we “In El Salvador SABMiller partnered with worked alone. FUNDES to work with more than 600 “tiendas” (small shop owners): an example of Shared Value. The partnership aims to teach small shop owners how to improve Our businesses regularly engage with a their sales and inventory management. range of stakeholders including consumers, These retailers were very poor, and had governments, regulators, NGOs, academic never been trained in retailing. FUNDES institutions and suppliers. Listening to and taught them how to display their working with stakeholders at a global, regional At the launch of Ghana’s first cassava merchandise, control inventory, improve and local level can often provide us with the beer, Paramount Chief of the Asogli lighting and manage their stores better. additional insight and local knowledge we State and President of the Volta The result was a 38% average increase in need to address our sustainable development Regional House of Chiefs commented: sales, which had a huge impact on improving priorities more effectively. their livelihoods. SABMiller and FUNDES “I am proud to be associated with a product tackled the social problem of poverty among Stakeholders’ views, especially those of some whose major raw material, cassava, is these shop owners, and by applying their NGOs, can often be challenging, but these sourced locally. This means growth, this business skills helped them become more conversations can also be valuable as part means better living conditions for those who competitive and grow their incomes. Their of a constructive collaboration. grow cassava not only in the Volta region but combined impact also helped to grow the in every part of Ghana.” local economy.” We believe that by building strong partnerships we can create better solutions and make Togbe Afede XIV Mark R. Kramer a greater difference in our markets than if Paramount Chief of the Asogli State Managing Director, FSG and we worked alone. By working with us, our and President of the Volta Regional Senior Fellow, CSR Initiative partners can harness our scale and expertise. House of Chiefs Harvard Kennedy School of Government “SAB (Pty) Ltd is playing a leading role in At the first anniversary celebration SABMiller funded the UK-based think water stewardship within South Africa. of the launch of Impala, the first tank, Demos, on a two-year study First of all, and most importantly, SAB has cassava beer in Mozambique, the to examine youth binge-drinking made a thorough assessment of its own Dutch Ambassador commented: (see page 13). water footprint and has begun setting clear targets and making operational “The launch of Impala beer is something “There’s a great deal of concern, both in UK improvements to reduce that footprint. of which SABMiller and Cervejas de society and in Parliament, about the impact Moçambique can be proud. It was the first of drinking in our communities. This kind of Secondly it is exploring water risks within its time in Mozambique that a multinational research helps to stimulate the debate and supply chain and investing in water stewardship company managed to successfully helps to get people thinking about how we in the truest sense, by encouraging and incorporate cassava – a small-scale farmers’ can have both a healthy brewing industry enabling its suppliers to reduce their water crop – into its production process. and a healthy society. We only achieve those risk and water impacts. This is an area where two things if we share ideas and look at the WWF-SA has collaborated very closely with Without SABMiller deciding to innovate facts rather than the hype and the media SAB and we are proud of the leading work seriously and to brew Impala cassava beer, speculation. We don’t want to tell people we are achieving together with hop farmers nothing would have happened; without a how to live their lives, but there are things in the George area. Dutch company, DADTCO, coming up with an that both the industry and government can innovative technology, the AMPU mobile unit do in order to help people make the right SAB has taken great strides towards water technology, it would not have been possible; choices: healthy choices for life. stewardship since our co-operation kicked and without the knowledge of smallholder off three years ago. It is encouraging to see farmers and agricultural development of That’s why I’m pleased that SABMiller took the continued focus on improving internal smallholder farmers in southern Africa and this courageous decision to enable Demos water efficiency in the breweries and in the more specifically in Mozambique that the to undertake this research and to bring all of supply chain.” Dutch have built up during the last 50 years the parties together to debate the findings.” it would have been much more difficult to Christine Colvin build a reliable supply chain.” Andrew Griffiths MP Senior Manager, Freshwater Programmes Chair of the All-Party WWF-South Africa Her Excellency Frédérique de Man Parliamentary Beer Group Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 – 3 Building sustainable development into our operations Our 10 priorities help us to focus on what’s important locally and to integrate sustainable development into our business planning and future growth reviews local activity and strategy twice a year. The group CARAC is regularly updated The Sustainable Development Way is at on each region’s progress. the heart of our approach to sustainable development (SD). This provides a consistent Individual operations are ultimately held accountable for improving their own and transparent framework for managing SD performance. In many cases, SD performance across our operations, supported by a suite of forms part of our senior managers’ performance objectives and remuneration. policies and position papers as well as guidelines, training and tools for building capability. The Sustainability Assessment Matrix (SAM) Our businesses assess their own SD performance twice a year using a bespoke monitoring framework, the Sustainability Assessment Matrix (SAM). Each business provides qualitative and quantitative data The SD Way is focused on our 10 sustainable At a global level we focus on three priorities relating to each of the SD priorities and development priorities, which help us to material to all our operations – discouraging this is compared against clearly defined deal effectively with risks and to identify irresponsible drinking; making more beer assessment criteria or ‘stairways’. opportunities for our business and the local using less water; and encouraging enterprise communities to whom our success is linked. development in our value chains. The stairways, one for each priority, plot a They support our strategic objective of course through five levels. Level one is the constantly raising the profitability of local Robust and transparent governance minimum standard we expect all operations businesses, sustainably. Progress against our 10 priorities is overseen to achieve (or have a plan in place to do so), by the group corporate accountability and while a company scoring level five is leading It is up to our local operations to decide how risk assurance committee (CARAC), a edge with performance that represents they invest their resources, depending on sub-committee of the SABMiller plc board. genuine global leadership. We aim to their own particular issues and challenges. The CARAC is chaired by Dr Dambisa Moyo, incorporate any new business within two The 10 priorities provide them with a clear a non-executive director of SABMiller plc. years. Carlton & United Breweries, for framework for managing these issues and Each region has its own CARAC, chaired by example, is reporting this year for the articulate what SD means to SABMiller. the regional managing director, which first time, a year ahead of schedule. The average score achieved Operating companies included in this report against our Sustainability Many of our local operations publicly report their own sustainable development information: Assessment Matrix was 3.3 – Australia Carlton & United Breweries the sixth year of continual Botswana Kgalagadi Breweries (Pty) Ltd; improvement. Canary Islands Compañía Cervecera de Canarias, SA Colombia Bavaria SA Czech Republic Plzeňský Prazdroj, as Ecuador Cervecería Nacional (CN) SA This year the average score achieved by El Salvador Industrias La Constancia, SA de CV SABMiller across all priorities was 3.3, a Ghana Accra Brewery Ltd Honduras Cervecería Hondureña, SA de CV slight increase over the 2012 score of 3.2 Hungary Dreher Sörgyárak Zrt and the sixth year of continual improvement India SABMiller India Ltd since the SAM system was introduced. Italy Birra Peroni Srl Group average scores increased across nine Lesotho Maluti Mountain Brewery (Pty) Ltd out of 10 priorities, with HIV/Aids maintaining Malawi Chibuku Products Ltd a high average score of 3.8. Significant Mozambique Cervejas de Moçambique SARL Panama Cervecería Nacional SA improvements were made in alcohol, water, Peru Unión de Cervecerías Peruanas Backus y Johnston SAA enterprise development, and energy and Poland Kompania Piwowarska SA carbon scores – a reflection of the increased Romania Ursus Breweries SA focus of our businesses in these areas. Slovakia Pivovary Topvar as We saw a particularly strong performance South Africa The South African Breweries (Pty) Ltd Swaziland Swaziland Beverages Ltd on enterprise development and value chain Tanzania Tanzania Breweries Ltd management where the score increased The Netherlands Koninklijke Grolsch NV by 7% from 2.8 to 3.0, achieving a group Uganda Nile Breweries Ltd average score of level three for the first time. USA MillerCoors LLC Vietnam SABMiller Vietnam Company Ltd Zambia Zambian Breweries plc Zimbabwe Delta Corporation Ltd Regular sustainable development report Information provided online First sustainable development report published this year Included for the first time in this report. Carlton & United Breweries is the Australian beverage business of Foster’s Group Pty Ltd 4 – SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Four of our businesses – Our Sustainability Assessment Matrix (SAM) provides a consistent framework against in the Czech Republic, Peru, which our local businesses can measure their sustainable development (SD) performance, be Poland and the USA – achieved they new to the system or seasoned reporters. an average score across all Delta Corporation, our business partner in 10 priorities of four or higher. Zimbabwe, has had a strong record of managing SD for many years, particularly in supporting smallholder farmers and operating a world-class HIV/Aids programme. Delta began using the SAM system two years ago. At first, its scores Four of our businesses – in the Czech were some of the lowest in the group and did Republic, Peru, Poland and the USA – not reflect its strong local reputation. Since then achieved an average score across all 10 Delta has worked hard to align its approach with SABMiller’s standards, measuring performance priorities of four or higher, indicating that these more rigorously and broadening the scope of operations are achieving what is currently its strategy. Using the SAM system has enabled considered to be global best practice. the business to focus on areas such as energy reduction, water efficiency and waste. This year Delta’s energy and carbon score was 2.0, a Visit our online SAM portal for more detailed 70% increase on last year’s score of 0.6. Our information on our scores by priority and by deep dive found that SD is well-integrated into country (www.sabmiller.com/sam). You can day-to-day business practices and that the also find data on country progress against business engaged with local stakeholders across all 10 priorities, shaping its strategy a range of key performance indicators in response to feedback. including water to lager ratio and total CO2 emissions, as well as information In Poland, where Kompania Piwowarska on packaging types used in each of our has been part of SABMiller since 1995, the SAM framework has enabled the business local markets. SAM – a framework for growth to measure and benchmark its performance and continual improvement from year-on-year, identify opportunities for Encouraging a culture of continual Zimbabwe to Poland improvement, and demonstrate value. Over improvement the last five years the business has improved its overall score from 3.0 to 4.2, marking it out Most of our local businesses have been as the best performing of all our businesses. using SAM for several years and have high It has achieved level five for three of the 10 levels of expertise in collecting and analysing priorities (discouraging irresponsible drinking, SD data. This year we established a new HIV/Aids and transparency and ethics). This year Kompania Piwowarska was also SD expert group, bringing together experts recognised by Forbes magazine as one of from each of our regions to share insights Poland’s Sustainable Development Leaders. and best practice and to discuss emerging issues and priorities. Regular SAM reviews or ‘deep dives’ help us to assess the quality of data provided, ensuring that our reporting and monitoring practices are consistent and reliable. These deep dives usually run over three days, looking in depth at the local strategy and data quality, and enabling us to work with each business to identify areas for improvement. This year we conducted deep dives in El Salvador, the Canary Islands, Lesotho, Malawi, Poland and Zimbabwe. Visit our online SAM portal for more detailed information on our scores by priority and by country (www.sabmiller.com/sam). SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 – 5 Building sustainable development into our operations continued Each of our local operations is held accountable for improving its own SD performance, supported by a consistent and transparent SD framework: our 10 sustainable development priorities. Discouraging irresponsible drinking Making more beer using less water Reducing our energy and We know that most consumers enjoy We rely on large quantities of highcarbon footprint beer in moderation with friends and quality water in order to make our beer, The use of fossil fuels and the associated family, but there is a minority who drink so water quality and availability are of greenhouse gas emissions contribute too much, putting themselves and others at risk vital concern. Our approach to water management to climate change, as do certain refrigerants. By of harm. Six core principles (see page 12) guide starts with making our breweries as water-efficient limiting water availability and reducing agricultural the decisions we make every day, helping us to as we can. production in some regions, climate change can promote responsible behaviour. We are training our potentially threaten our business. employees in these principles and we have robust By 2015 we aim to have reduced our water use alcohol policies restricting the type of products per hectolitre of beer by 25% compared with 2008. By 2020 we aim to halve our fossil fuel emissions we develop and the way we market and sell them. We’re making good progress as we improve our from on-site energy use per hectolitre of lager manufacturing processes. Many of the water produced, compared with 2008. Wherever we can, But this is not enough: the challenge is complex supply risks we face affect not just our breweries we aim to use alternative and renewable energy and needs multilateral action. We engage with but local communities as well. To protect our sources. We also engage with partners across the stakeholders globally and locally, working shared watersheds, we’re working through local value chain to reduce emissions from transport, collaboratively to combat the harmful use of alcohol partnerships with experts, NGOs and governments packaging and refrigeration. on many fronts. This year we have joined other to address specific challenges. leading beer, wine and spirits producers to take How we are performing: 2.8 (up from 2.5) action to reduce the harmful use of alcohol. How we are performing: 2.8 (up from 2.6) Our business used 8% less energy per hectolitre How we are performing: 3.7 (up from 3.5) Our water efficiency in beer production has of lager produced this year compared to 2012. improved by 20% since 2008 to 3.7hl/hl this year. Our continual focus on efficiency means our CO2e We have more than 100 programmes around Our Water Futures partnership has expanded with emissions are now 26% less per hectolitre than in the world to combat alcohol abuse and 76% of a new project in Zambia. Find out more on page 17. 2008. Find out more on page 16. employees have been trained in our approach. Find out more on page 12. Go online www.sabmiller.com/water Go online www.sabmiller.com/energy Go online www.sabmiller.com/ responsibledrinking Encouraging enterprise Benefiting communities Contributing to the reduction development in our value chains Investing in local communities helps us of HIV/Aids As a global business whose success to build strong relationships with those HIV/Aids has the potential to affect depends on thriving local communities, communities, as well as with consumers our workforce, consumers and the we play a key role in the social and economic and our employees. communities in which we operate, impacting social development of the areas in which we operate. and economic development. This, in turn, can Our agricultural programmes, for example, help We also recognise that micro, small and mediumdamage our business. Reducing the prevalence of farmers to improve their practices, generate better sized enterprises are critical to economic growth HIV/Aids is particularly important for our operations yields from their crops and boost their incomes. in many of the communities and markets in which in Africa and in regions with emerging epidemics Higher incomes, in turn, can lead to improvements we operate. It is in our interest to nurture and such as parts of Latin America. in community food security, health and other areas support these businesses as we seek to help of social development. create thriving and prosperous local economies. In regions with high HIV/Aids prevalence (more We do this in many ways, including investing in than 5% of the population) we work proactively In countries such as Ghana, Mozambique, Tanzania, new ideas, promoting entrepreneurship and by offering education, awareness training and Uganda and Zambia, we have introduced new fostering skills-development through our treatment for all our employees, their spouses beers brewed from traditional local crops such programmes around the world. and immediate dependants. as sorghum and cassava, which gives farmers the opportunity to transform their businesses Our Corporate Social Investment (CSI) programmes As our approach to HIV/Aids has become from subsistence agriculture to commercial also support a range of local projects that benefit established, we have built on the lessons learned enterprises while at the same time creating communities in other ways, from providing clean to implement a broader Wellness Development market-leading products. water to communities near our Dar es Salaam and Programme covering other harmful diseases such Arusha breweries in Tanzania to supporting people as malaria, sexually transmitted infections, hepatitis How we are performing: 3.0 (up from 2.8) with disabilities in the Czech Republic. B and C, and tuberculosis. Our African division sourced 52% of its agricultural How we are performing: 3.9 (up from 3.7) How we are performing: 3.8 (2012: 3.8) raw materials from within Africa, achieving its target of 50% a year early. Find out more on page 10. This year we invested US$37.5 million in CSI In high-prevalence countries 54% of our employees programmes6 (2012: US$34 million), which equates received voluntary counselling and testing Go online www.sabmiller.com/ to 0.7% of pre-tax profit (2012: 0.8%). (2012: 62%), with one peer educator for every 12 employees (2012: 13). Find out more on page 18. enterprisedevelopment Go online www.sabmiller.com/ communities Go online www.sabmiller.com/hivaids 6 – SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Stairway level assessment criteria Group average level assessment scores 5 Leading edge: performance that represents genuine global leadership on an issue. 4 Best practice: achieving what is currently considered to be global best practice in a particular field. 2013 average 2012 average 3 Developing leadership: applying a 2011 average comprehensive approach including innovative tools and widespread engagement. 2 Progressing: ensuring consistent performance is achieved in a particular field. 2007 average 1 Minimum standard: all operations must achieve level one, or have a plan in place to do so, as it represents management of our key sustainable development risks. 2013 2012 2011 Discouraging Making more beer Reducing our energy Packaging, reuse Working towards Encouraging enterprise Benefiting Contributing to the Respecting Transparency communities human rights and ethics development in our and recycling Packaging, reuse and recycling Working towards zero-waste using less water irresponsible drinking and carbon footprint reduction of HIV/Aids zero-waste operations The packaging we use is important operations for the quality and safe enjoyment Most of the waste produced by our Our bespoke management value chains of our beer and is integral to product business is organic matter resulting from branding. That said, it is also a source of waste the brewing process. By using resources efficiently, system, the Sustainability and, through its manufacture, distribution and disposal, it generates carbon emissions that we aim to reduce the waste we generate and to reuse and recycle waste products where we can, Assessment Matrix (SAM), contribute to climate change. limiting the amount sent to landfill. Where possible, enables us to monitor our our waste is reused to generate energy, to create We make extensive use of returnable packaging new products or for fertilisers or animal feed. performance against each of around the world. We work with suppliers to reduce the weight and environmental impact of We aim for our breweries to become zero-waste these priorities. Every country both returnable and one-way packaging. We also operations. Some have already achieved this encourage consumers – through clear labelling ambitious goal. For example, four of MillerCoors’ is assessed against five levels and supporting local recycling projects – to think about how they dispose of packaging and to breweries in the USA now send no waste at all to landfill. of performance from a recycle it if they can. How we are performing: 3.4 (up from 3.3) minimum standard (level one) How we are performing: 2.9 (up from 2.8) 94.4% of the waste we produced last year was to leading edge (level five). 52% of the beer we produced this year was sold in reused or recycled. Find out more on page 15. returnable packaging. Find out more on page 15. Go online www.sabmiller.com/waste Go online www.sabmiller.com/packaging Respecting human rights Transparency and ethics We aim to uphold fundamental human We place a high value on reporting and rights principles across our business communicating in an open and honest and within our supply chain while at the way with our stakeholders. Our Code same time respecting local cultures, national laws of Business Conduct and Ethics and Anti-Bribery and the norms and traditions that exist in our Policy apply to all employees and we expect our different markets. suppliers to abide by the principles laid out in both documents. We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact and recognise the UN Guiding Principles on business We produced our first sustainable development and human rights. We support the UN Millennium report in 1998 and many of our businesses Development Goals and we work proactively to produce their own local reports. Increasingly we prevent discrimination and breaches of human use new ways of communicating – examples this rights within our sphere of influence. We recently year include an accessible animation to explain rolled out a revised approach to managing human the economic impact of our African division and rights risks, helping our businesses to identify and organising live online debates on the interconnected mitigate any significant risks within their operations issues of water, food and energy. and value chains. How we are performing: 3.8 (up from 3.6) How we are performing: 3.3 (up from 3.2) 16 of our local businesses produced their own This year we provided training on our strengthened sustainable development reports this year. minimum standard on human rights, which helped Find out more on page 4. achieve 100% compliance. Go online www.sabmiller.com/ Go online www.sabmiller.com/ transparency humanrights 6 Includes cash donations, value of gifts in kind and time donated, and management costs of CSI activity. Excludes all alcohol responsibility programmes, the provision of HIV/Aids testing or managed healthcare for our employees and programmes to support smallholder farmers and entrepreneurship within our value chain. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 – 7 Growing sustainably in our value chains When we talk about ‘local value chains’, we mean the suppliers and businesses – both large and small – that contribute to our success in the markets where we operate Beer is a local product typically brewed, sold and consumed within the same community. We seek opportunities to drive economic growth and stimulate social development in these communities, while using scarce natural resources efficiently. Most of our brewery waste is organic: Beer creates jobs within local spent grain and yeast are often used communities: in Africa and South Africa as animal feed on nearby farms. In we employ more than 24,000 people some markets, including India, we use and support more than a million jobs agricultural waste – such as rice husks indirectly through our supply chain and – to fuel our brewery boilers. the distribution and retail of our beers. Brewing The basic recipe and process we use to brew beer can be traced back 6,000 years: technology has changed since then, improving quality and allowing us to be much more energy and water efficient In Colombia, Bavaria’s Marketing, Farming super-returnable buying and enjoying We work closely with smallholder bottles are used, We work with small and large retailers and commercial farmers, sourcing on average, 44 and the on-trade so our products crops locally where we can times. can be enjoyed responsibly in pubs, bars and restaurants, and at home Packaging We include messages on our product labels about not drinking More than half of our beer is sold when underage or pregnant and in returnable bottles and kegs provide health information at www.TalkingAlcohol.com 8 – SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Our economic contribution Building value chains that drive economic growth and stimulate social development Building value chains that drive economic growth and stimulate social development not only generates long-term returns for our business but also creates wealth for the countries and communities in which we work. The multiplier effect – the jobs and multinational companies is of major interest employment created through our investments to many stakeholders. and operations – can be a powerful force for development. Our operations in Africa We work closely with revenue authorities and South Africa employ more than 24,000 around the world to ensure our tax returns people, indirectly support a further million and related disclosures meet their jobs and contribute over US$9,000 million requirements and this is underpinned by of added value to the economy7. a robust governance structure. This year, we were recognised as Best Taxpayer Almost three-quarters of our global revenues of the Year for the third year running by are generated in emerging markets, so we Mozambique’s Tax Authority. have an interest in their social and economic development. Business has an important role The total taxes borne and collected by to play in ending poverty, providing access to SABMiller plc during the year amounted to services such as clean water and promoting US$9,900 million compared with US$9,400 For every person we employ across gender equality – all essential for creating million last year. These include excise taxes, sub-Saharan Africa (excluding South Africa), an estimated 56 additional jobs are supported stable, thriving communities and markets. corporate taxes, transactional taxes and in the value chain, adding up to 765,000 jobs. Building on our support of the UN Millennium taxes borne by employees, as well as a share Watch our animation to find out more at Development Goals, we’re now taking an of our US joint venture’s taxes. Of this total, www.sabmiller.com/sdfilms active role in contributing to the global debate 73% was paid in developing countries. The on a new set of post-2015 development goals. corporate tax charge during the year was US$1,201 million compared with US$1,126 A fair approach to taxation million last year, giving us an effective tax rate Given its important contribution to local of 27.0% (2012: 27.5%). public services, the level of tax paid by 7 For more information watch our animation, SABMiller: Our economic impact in Africa, and read SAB (Pty) Ltd’s report, Working for South Africa: the contribution of SAB to the South African Economy, both available at www.sabmiller.com Over the past 10 years our beer volumes we introduced a cassava beer in Ghana in this region have more than doubled and, and expect to work with as many as 1,500 over the past five years we have invested farmers in the first year. By using local crops more than US$1,760 million in breweries we are able to sell cassava beer at a lower and bottling plants. price – typically 70% of the price of a mainstream beer. In Africa, beer is an Agriculture is a core element of our African aspirational, premium product: lowering the business strategy: this year we sourced price attracts consumers away from informal, half of our agricultural raw materials locally, unregulated alcohol, creating a new income meeting our target to do so a year early. stream for previously subsistence farmers By localising our supply chain we can build and revenue for governments. local relationships, reduce our costs, and boost local economies. The single biggest opportunity for Africa is to develop its agricultural capability: there The launch of the world’s first commercialis land and plenty of human resource. What scale cassava beer in Mozambique last year we need are better approaches to farming. was a real breakthrough. Cassava is one of This will lead to increased exports, higher Africa offers great the most widely grown crops in Africa, but levels of food security and local development. opportunities for business: it is traditionally seen as a subsistence or SABMiller Africa is pleased to play its role it’s home to 12 of the 25 emergency crop, with almost no commercial in delivering on this vision. development. In Ghana, for instance, there fastest growing economies is an estimated 40% surplus each year, partly Mark Bowman in the world. because there is little opportunity for farmers Managing Director, SABMiller Africa to sell cassava in commercial markets. Following our success in Mozambique, SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 – 9 Our economic contribution continued Supporting growth and sustainable In 2011 we set a goal to increase local agriculture sourcing of our agricultural raw materials Agricultural production provides in Africa to 50% by 2014, including malting employment for approximately one-third barley, maize, sorghum and cassava sourced of the world’s population. from farmers. For the year ended 31 March 2013 our African business sourced 52% of The local sourcing of crops is an important agricultural crops from within Africa, reaching part of our business model in developed and this target a year early. developing countries alike. Several decades ago Birra Peroni pioneered the barley Using local suppliers, however, is not the only industry in Italy, supporting the development route to resource-efficient and sustainable of varieties suited to the local climate. We sourcing. Where local production is not viable now use Italian barley to make Peroni, much or competitive, we use imported crops in of it grown on farms that have supplied us our beers. In all our crop sourcing decisions, for at least two generations. We continue to we carefully consider the trade-offs that face source locally in countries as diverse as India, us between cost, productivity, the use of Italy, the Netherlands and South Africa. resources and our contribution to local growth. Encouraging entrepreneurship Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) Empowering innovative urban Our African division sourced are critical to economic growth: they create businesses 52% of its agricultural crops jobs quickly, stimulate innovation and support Miller Lite’s Tap the Future programme, formerly known as the MillerCoors Urban from within Africa this year, the needs of local communities. Entrepreneurs Series, has awarded nearly achieving its target of 50% This year SABMiller – including our US$2 million in grants and given hundreds of aspiring urban entrepreneurs the tools to a year early. foundations – invested US$6.1 million in grow their businesses since 1999. programmes to foster entrepreneurial activity worldwide. Our programmes have helped For the first time this year we gave consumers the chance to vote for their favourite urban thousands of smalland micro-scale In Africa we’re creating completely new beer entrepreneur. The new Consumer’s Choice entrepreneurs to build new businesses brands brewed with locally grown crops. Award allowed finalists to use their social and transition from informal business models networks to win a business development grant Across the continent, SABMiller works with to self-sustaining, growing companies. of US$10,000. The winners were Gabriel Muñoz a spectrum of farmers from large-scale and Raul Duran who run Hispanic Employee commercial growers to near-subsistence Recruiting Online, an innovative website bringing smallholder farmers to boost yields, incomes together diversity-friendly companies with good quality, bilingual candidates in the Midwest. and economic growth. By pioneering the use of traditional crops such as sorghum and For more information, see mltapthefuture.com cassava in brewing, we’re opening up new opportunities, markets and incomes for local Larry Waters Senior Director of Community Commerce farmers and communities (read more from and Partnerships, MillerCoors Mark Bowman on page 9). Direct economic Economic value Economic value value generateda distributed retained Revenue plus interest and Operating Employee Payments to Payments Community Value retained for corporate dividend receipts, royalty costs remunerationb providers of to tax investments d and operational purposes, income and proceeds of capitalc authorities including funding future capital sales of assets expenditure and acquisitions Cost of Cost of All financial Tax paid, Voluntary materials, employees’ payments including contributions services and salaries and made to the remittance and investment facilities benefits providers of the taxes and of funds in the company’s excise taxes broader capital economy US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ 25,042m 8,901m 2,492m 2,886m 6,438m 38m 4,288m This a  table is constructed based on data contained in the SABMiller 2013 Annual Report and follows guidance recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI EC1). Excludes b  share option charges, includes employer taxes and social security contributions. Excludes c  VAT, indirect taxes and taxes borne by employees. Includes cash donations, value of gifts in kind and time donated, and management costs of CSI activity. d  10 – SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Malaria test kit wins SAB Foundation’s Social Innovation Award An innovative and potentially life-saving malaria test kit, designed by two young entrepreneurs, Ashley Uys (pictured) and Lyndon Munger, won the ZAR1 million (US$117,487) (US$112,700) first prize in the SAB Foundation’s second annualSocial Innovation Social Innovation Awards. Awards. The awards recognise innovative new products that address addresschallenges challengesfaced facedbybythe theFoundation’s target Foundation’s beneficiaries target –beneficiaries low-income –women, women, youth, people with disabilities and people living in rural areas. Costing US$0.45, US$45, the thekitkit is is a rapid, a cost-effective rapid, cost-effective medicalmedical diagnostic diagnostic tool thattool that detects all strains of malaria within 30 minutes and determines whether any treatment to cure the disease has been effective. The SAB Foundation is a beneficiary of SAB’s Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment deal, SAB Zenzele. Since 2010 it has invested in in 106106 micro andand microsmall-scale small-scale businesses businesses andand created 372 direct and indirect jobs. NicolaRamaphosa, Cyril Jowell Chairman Manager, SAB Foundation SAB Foundation This year we’ve worked with experts to small suppliers or retailers become more Responsible procurement analyse what makes an entrepreneurship competitive, our business also benefits: We’re committed to raising ethical and programme successful. Building on our suppliers can provide higher quality environmental standards in our supply experience around the world, we’re products at better prices, and retailers chain and working with suppliers to improve developing a new best practice approach will sell more of our products in a safer, working practices – all of which fosters better that focuses on five key areas: more controlled environment. Bavaria, relationships and reduces our risks. for instance, supports entrepreneurs within • Addressing the entrepreneurship its own supply chain in one of the largest This year SABMiller Procurement launched ecosystem: to help entrepreneurs such programmes in Colombia: in the a new Supplier Code of Conduct and address the systemic challenges they last five years 500 small suppliers have Sustainable Development Standards face, our support needs to be holistic and benefited from more than 32,000 hours covering the protection of human rights multifaceted. In South Africa, for instance, of training in areas such as procurement, and labour standards, transparency and KickStart offers a range of services strategic planning, financial management, business ethics and environmental impact. such as grants, access to finance and ethics and corporate governance. These are aligned to the International Labour markets, capacity building, mentoring Organisation’s core conventions and the and monitoring. • Catalysing social innovation: United Nations Global Compact. entrepreneurship can stimulate creative • Leveraging scale: many of the solutions to social and environmental As a member of SEDEX, the Supplier Ethical challenges faced by entrepreneurs are the challenges. In South Africa, for example, Data Exchange, and AIM-PROGRESS, a same across the world. By using our global the SAB Foundation’s Social Innovation cross-sector forum that promotes responsible reach to share learning between regions Awards recognise innovative new products sourcing, we work collaboratively to improve or develop initiatives across regions, that improve life for the Foundation’s target supplier standards and share best practices. we can involve more entrepreneurs and beneficiaries – low-income women, youth, Two-thirds of our global suppliers’ sites have attract other global, multilateral partners to people with disabilities and those in rural been self-assessed against our standards work with us. We will be launching a new areas (see case study above). using SEDEX. programme to help small shopkeepers across six countries in Latin America. • Gathering data and quantifying Find out more success: our programmes should  Go online for more information at • Sharing core business expertise: offer tangible and measurable benefits www.sabmiller.com/sd we can use our expertise across the value and use data to demonstrate success. chain to help small businesses access In Botswana, for instance, 80% of the formal markets – with access to finance, entrepreneurs supported by our KickStart formal contracts and regulated standards programme were still trading after three – and avoid some of the barriers they years, while 40% of other new businesses may otherwise encounter. And as our failed in year one. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 – 11 Beer in society Engaging with stakeholders to combat the harmful use of alcohol and ensuring strong, transparent commercial governance we and other industry leaders have committed to a five-year global action plan. This requires We know that most consumers enjoy beer in us to strengthen and expand marketing codes moderation, with friends and families. However, of practice; provide consumer information there is a minority who drink too much, putting and innovate products responsibly; reduce underage drinking; reduce drinking and themselves and people around them at risk of harm. driving; and enlist the support of retailers to reduce harmful drinking. We’re confident we can meet these commitments according to the stated timetable. Combating the harmful use of alcohol and related issues, such as drink-driving, What we believe underage drinking and the effect on We support the World Health SABMiller has six core principles on consumer health is a core priority for alcohol that guide the decisions we SABMiller. We work closely with our Organization’s Global Strategy make every day: stakeholders to understand the key issues to Reduce the Harmful Use in our local markets and develop tailored 1 Our beers add to the enjoyment programmes to address them. of Alcohol. of life for the overwhelming majority of our consumers A strong and shared commitment 2 We care about the harmful effects Our approach to promoting responsible In 2013 the UN prepared a draft action of irresponsible alcohol consumption drinking is underpinned by local knowledge, plan for the global strategy for the prevention 3 We engage stakeholders and work robust governance and training. We believe and control of non-communicable diseases collectively with them to address our policies on employee behaviour, product (NCDs). This sets out an inclusive, multiirresponsible consumption innovation and marketing practices are stakeholder plan for tackling NCDs and 4 Alcohol consumption is for adults among the most comprehensive in the associated risk factors including the harmful and is a matter of individual industry. We tailor our work to local markets, use of alcohol. We fully support the inclusive judgement and accountability taking account of cultural differences that approach and are part of the World 5 Information provided to consumers influence drinking habits. Around the world, Economic Forum’s Consultative Panel about alcohol consumption should we run over 100 programmes addressing for the Healthy Living Initiative. be accurate and balanced specific local issues. 6 We expect our employees to aspire Strengthening and expanding marketing to high levels of conduct in relation We support the World Health Organization’s codes of practice to alcohol consumption Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful Use Our Policy on Commercial Communication of Alcohol. In response to the call by the governs how and where we market our WHO and its member states in this strategy, brands. We do not target our brands at We continue to work to prevent underage Latin America. It found illegal alcohol to be drinking and improve road safety by reducing roughly a quarter of the total alcohol market the incidence of drinking and driving. But our – rising to almost a third in countries such as two biggest concerns are the pattern of Peru and Ecuador. It also showed that where consumption in the region – typically more beer is more affordable – as in Panama – skewed towards high intensity and low the illegal market tends to be small. frequency – and the presence of a large illegal alcohol market. These studies allow us to take more targeted action. For instance in Peru we are working Tackling the complex factors that lead to the with local authorities to understand the harmful use of alcohol requires a targeted, reasons for the existence of the illegal alcohol evidence-based approach. This past year we market. In Colombia our media campaign, asked FLACSO, a well-respected association Licores Adulterados de Colombia (LACRA), of university sociology faculties in Latin a caricature of a fictional illegal alcohol America, to look at alcohol consumption company, seeks to change consumer patterns across the region. Among other attitudes towards illegal alcohol by exposing interesting findings, they found that in its dangers. In Latin America, our countries with lower per capita levels of beer most important sustainable consumption there is likely to be a higher Through this evidence-based approach, development priority is proportion of the population prone to harmful and working in partnership with governments, consumption of alcohol, mostly cheap and NGOs and other stakeholders to develop a to reduce the harmful use often illegal spirits. targeted response, we are helping to reduce of alcohol. the harmful use of alcohol. A second study, with Euromonitor International, helped us to determine the size Karl Lippert and shape of the illegal alcohol market in President, SABMiller Latin America 12 – SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 underage people, nor do we encourage by reviewing evidence involving product programmes on the popular Ultimate FM irresponsible drinking by adults of legal innovation and aims to address stakeholders’ radio station, incorporating information from drinking age. For example, we require that current and emerging concerns. For TalkingAlcohol.com. Topics covered included commercial communication only be placed example, in recognition of the scientific underage drinking, drink-driving, alcohol and where at least 70% of the audience is debate surrounding the combination of pregnancy and HIV/Aids. reasonably expected to be of legal drinking caffeine and alcohol beverages, the Product age (or 18 if no legal drinking age exists). Portfolio Policy prohibits caffeinated alcohol Reducing underage drinking In Africa, where independent audience beverages across the SABMiller group. For many years we’ve worked with local demographic data is more sporadic, we’re partners to reduce underage drinking working with interested stakeholders to through tailored, multifaceted campaigns. address the issue. 76% of employees received In Peru, the Sólo +18 (‘Only 18+’) campaign As more of our messaging moves online, alcohol responsibility training run by Backus used a combination of celebrity we make sure we engage only legal drinking endorsement, advertising, social media and age consumers by setting up age controls in the past three years. point of sale materials to reach over 12,000 and consumer age affirmation mechanisms. young people. It was recognised as the most effective marketing communications All our companies have a Sales and As well as producing quality products our campaign for non-commercial purposes Marketing Compliance Committee (SMCC) consumers can trust, it’s also important to at the Peruvian Effie Awards. which reviews all proposed marketing provide accurate and balanced information materials for compliance with the Policy on about those products to enable them to For two years we worked with the UK-based Commercial Communication along with local make informed choices. We take a holistic think tank, Demos, to examine youth laws and national self-regulatory approach to communicating with consumers: binge-drinking. A study of 30,000 children requirements. Where materials fail to comply, where it’s not already required, for example, – Under the influence – found that some the SMCC has the authority to reject them we include messages on our product labels parenting styles make a child more than eight or require modification. Over half of our about not drinking when underage, driving times more likely to drink excessively by the businesses have an independently chaired or or pregnant. Our TalkingAlcohol.com website age of 16 and highlighted the role we can audited SMCC and the number is increasing. provides ingredient and nutrition information play in educating parents. for each of our brands along with videos, Responsible product innovation and webinars, interviews and fact sheets on the consumer information effects of alcohol on the body and in society. Our Product Portfolio Policy governs how The website and its local language sites we develop new products or acquire new attract more than 400,000 visitors annually. brands and sets out principles for evaluating Find out more the appropriateness of our products. In Lesotho, we worked with the government  Go online www.demos.co.uk/ Publicly available, this policy was developed and NGOs to produce 12 weekly radio publications/undertheinfluence A day in the life of a Sales and Marketing Compliance Committee (SMCC): an interview with the independent chairman of the Plzeňský Prazdroj SMCC “As the independent chairman of the SMCC, my role is to assess all of Plzeňský Prazdroj’s commercial communication to check it complies with internal policies as well as national and EU advertising codes. In a typical meeting we analyse our most recent marketing approvals, discuss proposed marketing executions and learn about wider trends and developments in ethical advertising. Committee members review not just final designs but also early drafts. The committee meets on a quarterly basis. Between meetings we use an electronic system to assess new communication proposals remotely. I believe the company’s decision to have an independent SMCC chairman enhances transparency, adds credibility and sets a high benchmark for responsible alcohol communication in the Czech Republic.” Ladislav Št’astný Chairman of the Czech Advertising Council and Chairman of Plzeňský Prazdroj’s Sales and Marketing Compliance Committee SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 – 13 Beer in society continued Addressing underage drinking in South Africa Last year we launched our You Decide programme to tackle one of the alcohol-related issues that most affects South African society – underage drinking. The programme – run in partnership with the National Youth Development Agency and the Department of Trade and Industry – works with parents and teachers to teach teenagers about the impact their choices can have on their future. Through road shows, competitions, lesson plans, a Facebook campaign and 650 school visits, the programme reached nearly half a million teenagers. The campaign also ran workshops for parents, teachers and the community, and provides online tools and a toll-free number to receive advice on how to deal with problems linked to underage drinking. Initial research shows that the programme is making an impact: during the pilot we saw a 3% decrease in alcohol consumption among teenagers exposed to the programme. For more information see www.youdecide.org.za Vincent Maphai Executive Director Corporate Affairs and Transformation, SAB (Pty) Ltd At You Decide events, teenagers added their fingerprints to the poster opposite to say ‘I’ve decided’. Reducing drink-driving In the USA, MillerCoors has helped more than In Ghana, our Responsible Retailing We work with a range of stakeholders, 3.2 million people with free rides, taxicab programme works with experts from the including law enforcement agencies, to services or other opportunities to drink Health and Work Environment Agency on develop locally relevant programmes aimed responsibly and participate in a safe-rideissues such as alcohol’s effect on the body, at consumers who choose to ignore national home programme since it established its underage drinking, excessive drinking and laws on drinking and driving. Free Rides™ programme 25 years ago. alcohol and pregnancy. In India, our Respect The Road campaign Enlisting the support of retailers In Uganda, Nile Breweries received the works with taxi drivers in Delhi to encourage to reduce harmful drinking best road safety campaign award, organised consumers not to drink and drive, while a Retailers and staff at licensed premises are vital by MUNK Communications Ltd with the local radio station urges listeners to take an in preventing underage sales and excessive Ugandan police, in recognition of their on-air pledge. Social media has also played drinking and in protecting communities from campaigns discouraging drink-driving. a part: the campaign’s Facebook page has alcohol-related antisocial behaviour. Our more than 20,000 fans. close relationship with retailers enables us to In Colombia, as part of the Alianza +18 (‘18+ work effectively with them on these issues. Alliance’) campaign, we work with key trading Plzeňský Prazdroj in the Czech Republic has associations, large supermarket chains and promoted the message by creating chill-out In the UK our Scholars programme has retailers and other sites where alcohol is sold zones at summer festivals and offering advice provided an Award in Responsible Alcohol to encourage retailers to request legal ID to potential drivers about alcohol consumption Retailing (ARAR) to over 3,000 licensees and before selling alcohol. and drink-driving. Piloted at three festivals bar and counter staff covering licensing law during the year the concept will be extended and strategies for dealing with underage Find out more to a further 10 festivals during 2013, reaching sales or intoxicated customers.  Go online for more information at around 150,000 people. www.sabmiller.com/responsibledrinking 14 – SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 The water-food-energy nexus Recognising the importance of resource efficiency for long-term growth and integrating nexus thinking into our supply chain 94.4% is reused or recycled. In South Africa, for example, spent grain is sold to farmers By 2050, the world will need to grow and for cattle feed and spent yeast goes to food process 70% more food in order to feed manufacturers for use in savoury spreads. a global population of nine billion8. This year Compañía Cervecera de Canarias in the Canary Islands sent over 13,000 tonnes of its organic waste to 176 farmers and cattle breeders to use as fertiliser or animal feed. In the USA, four of MillerCoors’ Agriculture accounts for 70% of freshwater we need to place nexus thinking at the eight major breweries do not send any waste consumption today and by 2030 demand heart of how we operate, addressing the to landfill at all. for water is predicted to outstrip supply by relationship between water, food and approximately 40%9. In a world with a finite energy on a daily basis. As well as finding outlets for our own waste, amount of land and water and a changing some of our businesses use the by-products climate, it’s clear that businesses must adapt, This year we used 667 million hectolitres (hl) of food production to generate energy – rice and soon. of water, which equates to 3.7 hectolitres of husks, for example – so providing additional water per hectolitre of lager produced, an income to local farmers. Water, food and energy are interconnected. 8% improvement on 2012. We are on track We need water to grow food and to generate to meet our 2015 target of a group average Over half of our beer is packaged in energy; we need energy to grow food and of 3.5hl/hl, with 25 of our plants already returnable bottles and kegs which have a to treat and move water; and we need land achieving an efficiency of 3.5hl/hl and six lower carbon and waste impact than single(and in the case of biofuels, crops) for energy plants below 3.0 hl/hl, including our Yatala use types of packaging. In South Africa, over production. We cannot manage these three brewery in Australia (read more on page 16). 80% of SAB (Pty) Ltd’s beers are packaged resources in isolation as the availability of in returnable bottles. In Colombia, Bavaria’s each affects the availability of the others. Using less water requires less energy to super-returnable bottles are used, on This interconnectedness is often called the pump, heat and treat it. This year we used average, 44 times. We work with suppliers to water-food-energy nexus. 127 MJ/hl – a reduction of 8% compared with reduce the weight and environmental impact the previous year – and our CO2e emissions of both returnable and one-way packaging. Applying nexus thinking to our fell by 10% to 11.1 kgCO2e per hl. In absolute For example, this year, Grolsch changed its operations terms, we have reduced water use by 16% iconic swing-top bottle for a lighter version, We rely on large quantities of high-quality and carbon emissions by 26% between 2008 saving over 100 tonnes of steel a year. water and agricultural crops to make beer, and 2013. and the brewing process requires energy. 8 U N FAO, High Level Expert Forum – How to Feed the To continue to make high-quality beers in Brewing more efficiently also reduces waste. World in 2050. an increasingly resource-constrained world, The waste we produce is mainly organic and 9 McKinsey and Company, Charting our Water Future, 2009. Reaching these targets will yield major The most important factor in improving environmental benefits and bring us closer resource efficiency is, without doubt, our to resource security for our breweries, many people. This is clearly visible across Latin of which already operate in areas of water America, where our breweries are not the scarcity. They also bring significant cost most modern and face hot, humid savings; to date, we estimate that resource conditions, often with water quality and efficiencies have generated annual savings energy issues. Yet the region dominates of around US$90 million. SABMiller’s global list of top performing breweries. El Salvador’s Industrias La A 25% reduction in water use by 2015 means Constancia has been the top performing reaching a water ratio of 3.5hl/hl. I’m pleased brewery each month for over two years. to say that we are on track (this chapter This extraordinary achievement is due to provides details on our performance). our people, starting with our leaders, who have created a culture of learning and This progress has been driven by clear improvement and driven exceptional and stretching targets at a brewery level, operational standards. benchmarked globally each month. We’ve set ourselves Breweries have clear accountability; this Sharing knowledge, expertise and best two stretching targets: year we introduced a ‘user pays’ philosophy, practice across the entire business will to achieve a 25% reduction which assigns responsibility for resource help all of our breweries reach these levels efficiency within a brewery at each step of of performance. in water use by 2015; and to the manufacturing process from brewing cut on-site emissions from to packaging. We have also invested in Tony van Kralingen technology and brewing innovation. Director: Supply Chain & Human Resources fossil fuels in half by 2020, SABMiller plc both against a 2008 baseline. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 – 15 The water-food-energy nexus continued Water to lager ratio (hl water/hl lager) The World Economic Forum’s 4.6 4.5 New Vision for Agriculture 4.3 4.2 4.0 3.7 describes sustainable agriculture as agricultural growth that provides food security for all, in an environmentally sustainable way, while generating economic growth and opportunity. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total energy consumption (PJ) 26 24 24 24 23 23 We also encourage our consumers to recycle support smallholder farmers in improving their and we work with retailers and municipalities cultivation practices so they can increase to help ensure that recycling facilities are yields and adapt to changes in climate. available. In Zimbabwe, Delta Corporation joined forces with the local municipality, a local In South Africa, we’re working in partnership NGO and a local entrepreneur to introduce a with WWF to improve the sustainability of scheme whereby people in the Victoria Falls barley farming through our Better Barley, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 area were paid for collecting 80 tonnes of Better Beer initiative. The programme helps cans, 60 tonnes of glass and five tonnes of barley farmers to become more resilient by PET which could then be processed and sold. considering all aspects of their operations, Total CO 2 e emissions from fossil from minimising environmental impacts to fuel energy used on site Sustainable agriculture and food security the management of labour and finances. (million tonnes) Our direct operations are only a small part of 2.6 2.5 2.4 2.4 our overall resource footprint. In India, where we take a similar approach, 2.2 our Progress through Partnership initiative 2.0 Within our supply chain, we have strong has helped over 7,400 farmers to improve relationships with farmers – smalland their barley yields by 35% and increase their large-scale alike – and work with them to incomes by 11%. Advising farmers on how improve land, water and energy efficiency. to irrigate their fields more efficiently and Agriculture is essential to nexus thinking. improve cultivation practices is bringing us We work with large-scale commercial farmers closer to our goal of sourcing locally 100% to improve their resource efficiency, and of the barley we need in India. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 CO 2 e emissions from fossil fuel energy used on site World-class brewing – (kgCO 2e/hl lager) water efficiency at Yatala 14.9 14.3 14.2 13.8 In Australia, Carlton & United Breweries’ 12.4 Yatala brewery in water-stressed South East 11.1 Queensland is one of the world’s most efficient breweries, using just 2.3 hectolitres (hl) of water to produce 1 hl of beer. When the brewery was built about 15 years ago, it used 6 hl of water per hectolitre of beer. As we’ve grown, we’ve put water conservation at the heart of our operations and invested in new technology so we can use high-quality 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 recycled water in our non-brewing processes, such as cleaning. Today the brewery produces about a quarter of all the beer consumed in Australia in a way that is three times more efficient than the beer we brewed in 1998. Charlie Foxall Health Safety and Environment Manager, Carlton & United Breweries 16 – SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Expanding the Water Futures partnership “The Water Futures partnership was established in 2009 to facilitate local action to address some of the most pressing shared water risks facing SABMiller and surrounding communities and ecosystems. It set out to prove the business case for private sector action. This has been done through local partnerships in eight countries with projects to protect watersheds, upgrade the infrastructure and strengthen local water management institutions. For instance, in George, South Africa, SAB (Pty) Ltd is working with the Department of Environmental Affairs, WWF and local hop farmers to clear alien vegetation. This will help to improve water run-off in the area and relieve stress to the region. This year a new project in Zambia joined the partnership: Zambian Breweries is working with stakeholders to rehabilitate a local spring used by both its Ndola facility and the local community. To open up the knowledge, experience and benefits of the partnership to more participants, we have agreed to scale it up into a broader Water Futures initiative. This will expand our reach, increase our global network of local partnerships and encourage new partners to join us in collaborative action.” For more information, see www.water-futures.org Stuart Orr Head, Water Stewardship, WWF International Leading a connected debate businesses and other organisations including Grow Africa and in WRG, we hope to Many of the resource challenges we face can the Development Bank of Southern Africa, contribute to new policies that take into only be addressed by working with a broad the South African Water Research account the interconnections between water coalition of partners to create practical, local Commission and the South African Local and agricultural issues. solutions to the risks we all share. Government Association to improve water efficiency and infrastructure. This year we participated in the CDP Carbon, In recent years we have played an active role Water and Supply Chain Disclosure Projects in shaping the nexus debate. We believe the This year, building on our commitment to which provide insight into the risks private sector must encourage governments sustainable agriculture and our work with companies face in these areas. This year to set resource policy in an integrated way farmers, we became members of Grow we also joined the Cambridge Natural Capital so as to maximise economic and social value Africa, which is part of the World Economic Leadership Compact, a collaboration to and manage the inevitable trade-offs. Forum’s New Vision for Agriculture. put a monetary value on the earth’s natural To this end, in South Africa we’re a founder Grow Africa is developing partnerships in resources which should lead to much better member of the Strategic Water Partners eight countries in Asia, Latin America and resource pricing and incentives for efficiency. Network – part of the global Water Resources Africa to help achieve sustainable agricultural Group (WRG) – which brings together growth. By playing an active role both in Find out more  Go online for more information at www.sabmiller.com/nexus Leading the debate on the nexus In February SABMiller linked up with The Guardian to hold a day of broadcasts and live, online debates on how to achieve interconnected action on water, food and energy security. The debates were viewed online by over 3,000 people from 101 countries. We estimate that through social media we reached over 1.5 million people. Watch our animation to find out more about the water-food-energy nexus at www.sabmiller.com/nexus SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 – 17 Valuing and empowering our people Being an employer of choice around the world safety management and reporting structures across all of our operational functions. This We believe that better business decisions review has a high priority within the business come from groups of competent, high-calibre and we aim to implement any changes in the individuals with a mix of skills, experience coming financial year. and backgrounds. Encouraging the wellbeing of employees We know that absent or unmotivated employees can damage productivity. We want to create a healthy and positive SABMiller employs over 70,000 people It is with regret that we report 14 employee work environment. Employers are well around the world. Our success is driven and contractor fatalities this year. Two of positioned to help improve the health of their by each individual’s contribution and we these related to accidents while undertaking workforces and help reduce the likelihood of recognise the advantages of a diverse maintenance or repair activities, nine related certain non-communicable diseases (NCDs). workforce with the right skills, commitment to accidents involving vehicles10, and three We support the World Economic Forum’s and motivation. related to robberies or assaults on our staff alliance on workplace wellness and share while on sales or trade visits. In each case we information about our programmes with We seek to treat all our employees and have undertaken an investigation and, where other members – one example being our contractors equitably and with respect and applicable, implemented measures to minimise Employee Alcohol Policy. to provide a safe working environment. the likelihood of such an incident recurring. We reward them fairly by providing a variety Following successful pilots in Botswana, of benefits, along with opportunities to During the year we recorded 15,695 days South Africa, Swaziland and Tanzania, we’re reach their potential and enjoy long, fulfilling lost through injury – a 12% decrease on 2012. rolling out our new Wellness Development careers with us. However, we recorded 1,788 industrial Programme which focuses on HIV/Aids, injuries, which represents a slight increase malaria, sexually transmitted infections, Creating a safe place to work on last year (2012: 1,713). hepatitis B and C, and tuberculosis. Under First and foremost, we aim to ensure that the programme, we train employees to our employees, contractors and visitors to This year we’ve undertaken a detailed review become peer educators engaging with their our breweries, bottling plants and offices of our global health and safety practices, colleagues and the surrounding community are safe. Systems to minimise risks include the results of which have been shared with to promote prevention, testing and treatment. regular audits and the robust monitoring the group CARAC. A working group is now and reporting of incidents. looking at strengthening our health and 10 Includes one fatality in our Kenyan operations, which are not otherwise included in this report. That’s why we have an unwavering by the end of 2014. With more than 65% commitment to diversity and inclusion. of our salaried workforce completing the We recognise and appreciate that our course since 2012, we are well on our way similarities and differences are a source for to achieving our goal. new perspectives, creativity and innovation. • We seek suppliers with the best quality Our brands are sold into a diverse products and services, and we firmly marketplace and it’s important for our believe the best suppliers know and organisation to reflect that diversity. represent the diversity in the communities where we live, work and play. That’s why Here are just a few examples of how we’re we engaged more than 700 minorityand winning with our people: woman-owned suppliers in 2012. We also increased our diverse supplier spend by • We foster Employee Resource Groups US$29 million over 2011. (ERGs). These self-governed employee • We choose investments that will make an networks increase cultural and intellectual impact in the diverse communities where awareness by aligning our focus on diversity we operate through signature programmes and inclusion with our overall business like the Thurgood Marshall College Fund, At MillerCoors, our ability objectives. These groups are open to all Tap the Future and ¡Adelante! to innovate and gain employees and promote collaboration and a competitive edge in community involvement while helping us Through our commitment to diversity and build a workplace where everyone is valued. inclusion, we will continue to empower our the rapidly changing • We invested US$500,000 in our cultural employees and build a winning team culture beer industry is driven competence programme which helps that drives growth and advances our vision everyone at MillerCoors learn how to to create America’s best beer company. by the diversity of our leverage differences to achieve business great people. results. Our goal is 100% employee Tom Long participation in the day-long course Chief Executive Officer, MillerCoors 18 – SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Vida Saludable – creating a healthier workforce In Peru, we have introduced our Vida Saludable (‘Healthy Living’) programme to improve the health of employees and increase productivity. The programme focuses on nutrition, physical activity and education. Employees are offered monthly consultations with a nutritionist, either online or at regular brewery visits. Nutritional information has also been added to canteen menus. The scheme encourages people to take exercise and offers an annual medical examination, with follow-up monitoring if required. As a result, the incidence of poor health factors, such as high cholesterol or obesity, has fallen and we’ve seen a high level of satisfaction among those taking part. Manuel Villafana Ramirez Director of Organisational Development, Backus As we tackle HIV/Aids in countries of high Secondly, we offer continuous development Training days per employee prevalence (defined as greater than 5% of to our employees, whether in their current (number of days) the population), this approach has proved role or to prepare them for a new one. This 4.4 4.2 4.0 effective in reducing the associated stigma, year we introduced more functional training, 3.9 3.8 3.7 and increasing voluntary counselling and particularly in technical areas such as testing for employees and their dependants. engineering and brewing, so as to boost our On 31 March 2013 we had 1,733 HIV/Aids capabilities and guard against potential skills peer educators – one for every 12 employees shortages. In the year ended 31 March 2013 – in high prevalence countries. In countries we provided an average of 3.7 training days with prevalence greater than 1%, we provide for every employee (2012: 4.0). access to voluntary counselling and testing and managed healthcare programmes for Finally, we seek to ensure that the talent 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 our employees and their immediate we need to protect our growth and provide dependants if they need it. tomorrow’s leaders is identified early and properly nurtured. The roles most critical to Employees trained in ethics within the last three years Attracting and retaining talent delivering business strategy within SABMiller (thousand employees) The global workforce is predicted to change have been identified, as have potential 47 dramatically over the next 20 years. A recent candidates for these roles across all regions. 42 report11 cited two challenges faced by global This helps us to get the right people quickly 36 organisations – a blocking of the talent into position. In the past year we made 36 33 29 pipeline in developed markets as older key appointments from this global talent pool 23 employees work longer; and a potential global with experienced executives taking up senior shortage of skilled workers, because growing posts groupwide. Any moves by these labour markets in developing countries will individuals need to be approved by be mostly unskilled12. We’re responding in SABMiller’s executive committee to ensure three ways: the best deployment of talent in accordance with both individual skills and aspirations, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 First, we’ve introduced a new career and organisational needs. framework to identify the skills, experience and competencies required for roles. This Valuing diversity and equality way, we can match employees’ own needs We treat all employees equally, respecting to those of the business and develop more and promoting diversity in our workforce. effective Individual Development Plans. We have clear policies and processes in place to ensure that we recruit and treat people fairly and on merit, regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, religion, disability or ethnic origin. We believe that better business 11 M cKinsey & Company, The world at work: Jobs, pay, and decisions come from groups of competent, skills for 3.5 billion people, June 2012. 12 T hose without college training in advanced economies or high-calibre individuals with a mix of skills, without secondary education in developing economies. experience and backgrounds. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 – 19 Valuing and empowering our people continued Project Sangam – improving employee retention In recent years in India we’ve seen high employee turnover rates of around 20%. In a competitive labour market we’ve faced a particular challenge in attracting and retaining employees with the talent and skills to support the growth of our business. To tackle the issue, we’ve run a comprehensive employee engagement campaign, Project Sangam (‘Bringing Together’ in Sanskrit), which communicates our strategy and ensures consistent execution across the business. Greater alignment has resulted in greater engagement and has, among other things, reduced turnover to about 8% this year. We’ve also built clear frameworks to show how employees can progress and enjoy a fulfilling career with SABMiller India. We’re doing more to communicate our aspirations – including holding regular ‘town hall’ meetings with our senior leaders – so that all employees feel part of our future success. Alok Ranjan Human Resources Director, SABMiller India We are signatories of the UN Global For many years in South Africa we have Female executives and managers Compact and have recently rolled out a supported Broad-Based Black Economic (percentage of total executive and manager workforce) revised approach to managing human rights Empowerment (BBBEE) initiatives aimed at risks, taking account of the UN’s Universal growing the economy by including and 27% 28% 28% 26% 26% 25% Declaration of Human Rights and Guiding empowering previously disadvantaged South Principles on Business and Human Rights. Africans. More than 78% of SAB (Pty) Ltd’s This approach helps our local businesses to workers are from previously disadvantaged identify and mitigate any significant risks groups and 61% of the company’s workers within their operations and value chains. are black. This year in the annual BBBEE verification, SAB achieved 73.11 (2012: 72.9) In an industry traditionally perceived as and is therefore a Level 4 contributor to male-dominated, we have various initiatives BBBEE. Through its BBBEE ownership for ensuring better representation for women. programme, SAB Zenzele, the business has 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 For instance, MillerCoors’ Building created almost 40,000 shareholders among Relationships and Empowering Women staff and retailers. Trade union membership (BREW) mentoring programme in the USA, (percentage of employees who are members which is supported by a female executive Our employees play a crucial role in our of a trade union) sponsor. In South Africa, SAB (Pty) Ltd has success and it’s important that we solicit 42% seen rapid growth in the numbers of women their views and listen to their ideas and 38% 39% 38% 38% 36% employed at all grades with a 77% increase opinions. This is done in almost all of our in female middle executives since 2008. operations through employee engagement As at 31 March 2013 18.8% of our workforce surveys. We also respect the right to union was female (2012: 19.0%) and 28.1% of our representation and 37.8% of employees are executives and managers were women union members. Many of our businesses (2012: 27.8%). Although only two of the have developed productive partnerships 12 members of the executive committee are with trade unions on collective bargaining female, 19% of SABMiller’s plc board are and other issues. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 women, which is higher than the FTSE100 average13 and three of our eight independent Find out more non-executive directors are female.  Go online for more information at www.sabmiller.com/people 13 T he Female FTSE board report 2012, International Centre for Women Leaders, Cranfield University. 20 – SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 2013 assured data and Independent Assurance Report The Directors of SABMiller plc engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below and set out in SABMiller’s Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 for the year ended 31 March 2013 What we are assuring • carried out limited substantive testing on a 2013 for the year ended 31 March 2013, (“Selected Information”) selective basis of the Selected Information to enable the Directors to show they have The selected Sustainable Development (SD) at corporate head office and at operating addressed their governance responsibilities data for the year ended 31 March 2013 that company level in relation to five of the by obtaining an independent assurance we are assuring (see panel below) excludes operating companies mentioned above to report in connection with the Selected data relating to MillerCoors LLC. The scope assure that data had been appropriately Information. To the fullest extent permitted of our work was restricted to the Selected measured, recorded, collated and by law, we do not accept or assume Information for the year ended 31 March reported; and responsibility to anyone other than the 2013 and does not extend to information • assessed the disclosure and presentation Directors as a body and SABMiller for our in respect of earlier periods or to any other of the Selected Information. work or this report except where terms are information in the Sustainable Development expressly agreed between us in writing. Summary Report 2013. SABMiller’s responsibilities SABMiller management are responsible for: PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP How the information is assessed Chartered Accountants, London (“Reporting Criteria”)i • designing, implementing and maintaining We assessed the Selected Information using internal controls over information relevant to 11 June 2013 SABMiller’s Reporting Criteria (Reporting the preparation of the Selected Information Principles and Methodology) as set out at that is free from material misstatement, www.sabmiller.com/sdassurance whether due to fraud or error; i The maintenance and integrity of SABMiller’s website is the responsibility of SABMiller management; the work • establishing objective Reporting Criteria carried out by us does not involve consideration of these Professional standards appliedii for preparing the Selected Information; matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the reported and level of assuranceiii • measuring SABMiller’s performance Selected Information or Reporting Criteria when We have used ISAE 3000 (limited level of based on the Reporting Criteria; and presented on SABMiller’s website. assurance) and we have complied with the • the content of the Sustainable ii We have complied with International Standard ICAEW Code of Ethics. Development Summary Report 2013. on Assurance Engagements 3000 – ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Understanding reporting and The corporate accountability and risk Financial Information’ issued by the IAASB, and with the applicable independence and competency requirements measurement methodologies assurance committee of the board (CARAC) of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and There are no globally recognised and have reviewed the procedures established by Wales (ICAEW) Code of Ethics. To comply with those standards, our work was carried out by an independent established practices for evaluating and management to prepare the Sustainable and multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and measuring the Selected Information. The Development Summary Report 2013, and the assurance specialists. range of different, but acceptable, techniques Chairman of CARAC has reviewed that report iii Assurance, defined by the International Auditing and can result in materially different reporting on behalf of the board of directors of SABMiller. Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), gives the user outcomes that may affect comparability with confidence about the subject matter assessed against other organisations. The Reporting Criteria Our responsibilities the Reporting Criteria. Reasonable assurance gives more confidence than limited assurance, as a limited assurance used as the basis of SABMiller’s reporting We are responsible for: engagement is substantially less in scope in relation to should therefore be read in conjunction with both the assessment of risks of material misstatement and the procedures performed in response to the the Selected Information and associated • planning and performing the engagement assessed risks. statements reported at www.sabmiller.com/ to obtain limited assurance about whether sdassurance the Selected Information is free from material misstatement, whether due Work done to fraud or error; SABMiller selected information Considering the risk of material misstatement • forming an independent conclusion, subject to independent limited of the Selected Information, we: based on the procedures we have assurance performed and the evidence we have The information below consists of the • made enquiries of SABMiller’s obtained; and selected 2013 data, which has been management, including the SD team • reporting our conclusion to the Directors prepared in accordance with our and those with responsibility for SD of SABMiller. reporting principles and methodology management and group SD reporting; (see www.sabmiller.com/sdassurance) • evaluated the design of the key structures, Our conclusions and subject to assurance by systems, processes and controls for As a result of our procedures nothing PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. managing, recording and reporting the has come to our attention that indicates Selected Information. This included visiting the Selected Information for the year • Total water consumption (million hl): 505 three operating companies to perform ended 31 March 2013 has not been • Water to beer ratio (hl/hl beer): 3.7 walkthroughs on the indicators and prepared in all material respects with • Total CO2e emissions from fossil fuel obtaining supporting information, and at a the Reporting Criteria. energy used on site (million tonnes): 1.4 further six operating companies, selected • CO2e emissions from fossil energy on the basis of their inherent risk and This report, including our conclusions, used on site (kgCO2e/hl beer): 10.4 materiality to the group, holding interviews has been prepared solely for the Directors • Percentage of employees trained in and obtaining supporting evidence of SABMiller as a body in accordance with alcohol responsibility: 75% to understand the key processes and the agreement between us, to assist the • Sales and Marketing Compliance controls for reporting operating company Directors in reporting SABMiller’s Sustainable Committees (SMCC) had been performance data to the group SD team; Development performance and activities. established in accordance with • performed analytical reviews over all 28 We permit this report to be disclosed in the SABMiller’s Policy on Commercial operating companies in scope; Sustainable Development Summary Report Communication, in relevant companies SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 – 21 Further reports and contacts The following key publications are available at www.sabmiller.com/sd Find out more You can watch the animations featured in this report, along with videos of executive committee members talking about sustainable development at www.sabmiller.com/sdfilms Water-food-energy nexus The economic impact of our African division  ou can download these reports, Y along with country sustainable development reports, at www.sabmiller.com/sdreports Water Futures: beyond 2012 Responsible drinking messages South African Breweries: European Beer Pledge: in packaging and advertising water stewardship in the hops a package of responsibility industry initiatives from Europe’s brewers Please note This report contains certain forward-looking The paper used in the report contains 75% statements including those that relate to water recycled content, all of which is sourced from Registered office management, the implementation of certain de-inked post-consumer waste. All of the Church Street West Woking, Surrey, England GU21 6HS reuse and recycling measures, investments in pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine Telephone +44 1483 264000 alternative energy, local sourcing of agricultural free process (ECF). Printed in the UK by raw materials and expenditure at operational CPI Colour, a CarbonNeutral® company. Head office level. Such statements involve a number of Both manufacturing mill and the printer are One Stanhope Gate uncertainties because they relate to events registered to the Environmental Management London, England W1K 1AF Telephone +44 20 7659 0100 and depend on circumstances that will or System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship may occur in the future. As a result, actual Council (FSC®) chain-of-custody certified. Investor relations results may differ from those anticipated in Telephone +44 20 7659 0100 this report depending on a wide range of Designed by Further™ investor.relations@sabmiller.com factors, including, for example, crop yields, furthercreative.co.uk consumer demand, excise duties and taxation Sustainable development Telephone+44 1483 264134 policies, worldwide as well as local economic sustainable.development@sabmiller.com conditions, changes in laws and regulations and the development of new technology. SABMiller plc This report deals with activities of group (Registration No. 3528416) companies around the world. References in this report to ‘SABMiller’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer collectively to the group of operating companies.
