sustainable Sustainable development report 2013 Our performance in 2013: Summary Variance 2013 2012 2011 %  Production data Tonnes milled (000t) 18 399 17 788 20 974 3  Refined platinum (000oz) 1 581 1 448 1 836 9  PGMs (000oz) 3 232 3 016 3 772 7  Revenue (Rm) 30 032 27 593 33 132 9  Operating cost (Rm) 17 341 14 234 13 941 22  Capital invested (Rm) 6 372 8 142 5 540 22  Taxes (Rm) 1 476 1 951 2 751 24  Unit cost* per oz Pt (Rand) 16 570 13 450 10 867 23  People EMPLOYEES IN SERVICE Own Number 40 237 39 621 39 624 1.6  Contractors Number 17 130 22 483 17 504 25  Turnover % 6 10 8 43  HDSA in management % 48 48 48 – SAFETY RATES FIFR Pmmhw 0.065 0.087 0.053 25  LTIFR Pmmhw 4.21 4.96 4.94 15  TIFR Pmmhw 10.91 11.19 13.47 3  RIFR 3.06 3.13 3.23 2  EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH People on wellness programmes Number 6 014 5 179 5 121 16  People on ART Number 4 039 3 566 2 773 13  TB cases Number 334 389 350 14  Medical incapacitation Number 588 699 388 16  The environment Energy consumed (000GJ) 17 574 17 542 18 222 –  Energy intensity (GJ/tonne milled) 0.955 0.986 0.869 3  Total CO 2 emissions (000t) 3 788 3 707 4 022 2  Total direct SO2 emissions (t) 18 536 18 463 18 881 –  Total water consumed (mℓ) 40 711 40 114 41 868 1  Water withdrawn (mℓ) 25 440 25 274 25 721 1  Water intensity (Mℓ/tonne milled) 0.0022 0.0023 0.0020 2  Total water recycled (mℓ) 15 271 14 839 14 823 3  Social capital SED expenditure (RSA) (Rm) 102 90 130 13  SED expenditure (Zimbabwe) (US$m) 8.9 9.1 4.1 2  Housing and living condition expenditure (Rm) 445 430 277 3  Housing and living condition expenditure (Zimbabwe) (US$m) 24 66 17 64   Improvement.  Deterioration. * Excluding share based payments.  Neutral  Neutral / OUR PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS / 1 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Welcome to our 2013 sustainability report... Table of contents 2 Our approach to reporting 3 Our vision, mission and values 4 Organisational overview 4 Who we are 5 What we do 6 Our business strategy 8 CEO letter 14 Our sustainability strategy 14 The challenging business context 18 Identifying our material sustainability issues 22 Our sustainability strategy 25 Our governance and management approach 26 Our sustainability management approach 28 Promoting good governance 31 Developing safe and effective people 32 Safety 38 Employee health and wellbeing 41 Employee relations 44 Recruitment, retention and skills 47 Promoting diversity 50 Social capital investments 52 Our economic and social value-added 54 Investing in our communities 58 Accommodation and living conditions 60 Mining Charter 64 Enterprise development and procurement 68 Respecting human rights 69 Preserving natural resources and mitigating impacts 72 Water stewardship 74 Climate change and energy management 76 Air quality management 77 Managing our waste 77 Land management and biodiversity 78 Appendix 80 Our Performance Data 86 The GRI and UNGC 87 Independent Assurance report 90 Glossary of terms and acronyms / 2 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our approach to reporting Boundary and scope Reporting standards This report provides information relating to our sustainable Our sustainability reporting criteria has been informed by development policies, practices, performance and the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Implats’ prospects for the period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013, for internally developed reporting guidelines, and the Mining operations over which we have direct control and for Sector Supplement, of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In addition to this report, we have provided a response which we set and implement policy and standards. to some of the criteria of the GRI G4 Guidelines in an online GRI response table as we transition towards the Materiality and target audience new reporting guidelines. As a signatory to the United The report reviews our approach to addressing those Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we have also used social, economic and environmental issues that have a the UNGC’s Advanced Level reporting criteria in our material impact on the long-term success of the business, communication on progress, and we declare that we the sustainability of the economy, environment and the meet the 24 advanced criteria. communities in which we operate, or that are important to key stakeholders. While the report is of potential interest to Independent assurance all our existing and prospective stakeholders, it is focused Selected performance information has been independently primarily on addressing the interests of socially responsible assured by a third-party assurance provider, KPMG. The scope of the assurance, the selected performance investment (SRI) analysts and investors, as well as information and the independent statement of assurance sustainability professionals. Our approach to identifying the are provided on page 87. issues we regard as being most material to Implats in 2013 is described on page 18. Contacts Please address any queries or comments on this report to: Cindy Mogotsi, Group sustainable development manager. E-mail: Cindy.Mogotsi@implats.co.za. sustainable integrated Sustainable Development Report Integrated Annual Report Our sustainable development report This was prepared in line with the forms part of a suite of reports that recommendations of the South African comprise our annual integrated reporting Code of Corporate Practice and sustainable process; all of these reports are available integrated Conduct (King III), and draws on the at www.implats.co.za. This has been guidance provided in the Discussion developed in line with the G3 Paper, Towards Integrated Reporting, Sustainable Development Report 2013 Sustainability reporting initiative Integrated Annual report 2013 issued by the International Integrated guidelines and in accordance to the Reporting Council (IIRC). principles of the UN Global Compact. transparent resources Annual Financial Statements Mineral Resource and Mineral These were prepared according to Reserve Statement International Financial Reporting This conforms to South African Code for Standards (IFRS), the requirements of the Reporting of Exploration Results, transparent the South African Companies Act, the resources Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves regulations of the JSE and (SAMREC Code) and the Australasian recommendations of King III Code for the Reporting of Exploration Annual Financial Statements 2013 Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Statement 2013 Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (JORC Code) and has been signed off by the competent persons, as defined by these codes / OUR PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS / 3 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our vision, mission and values Our vision To be the world’s best platinum-producing company, delivering superior returns to stakeholders relative to our peers. Our mission To safely mine, process, refine, recycle and market our products at the best possible cost ensuring sustainable value creation for all our stakeholders. Our values We respect wwAll our stakeholders, including: • Shareholders • Employees and their representative bodies • Communities within which we operate • Regulatory bodies • Suppliers and customers • Directors and management • All other interested and affected parties wwThe principles of the UN Global Compact wwThe laws of the countries within which we operate wwCompany policies and procedures wwOur place and way of work wwOpen and honest communication wwDiversity of all our stakeholders wwRisk management and continuous improvement philosophies We care wwFor the health and safety of all our stakeholders wwFor the preservation of natural resources wwFor the environment in which we operate wwFor the socio-economic well-being of the communities within which we operate We strive to deliver wwA safe, productive and conducive working environment wwA fair working environment through equitable and competitive human capital practices wwOn the development of our employees wwPositive returns to our stakeholders through an operational excellence model wwOn our commitments to all stakeholders wwOn our capital projects wwQuality products that meet or exceed our customers’ expectations / 4 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Who we are Impala Platinum Holdings (Implats), one of the world’s foremost producers of platinum and associated platinum group metals (PGMs), has its primary listing on the JSE Limited (JSE) in South Africa, and a level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme in the United States of America. Implats is structured around six main operations with a total of 25 underground shafts. Our operations are located on the Bushveld Complex in South Africa and the Great Dyke in Zimbabwe. These are the two most significant PGM-bearing ore bodies in the world. Our headquarters are in Johannesburg and we have six main operations: Impala, Zimplats, Marula, Mimosa, Two Rivers and Impala Refining Services. The structure of our operating framework allows for each of our operations to establish and maintain close relationships with their stakeholders while operating within a Group-wide approach to managing the economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainability. Our major shareholders are the Royal Bafokeng Nation (RBN) and the Public Investment Corporation (PIC), who own 13.2% and 13.3% respectively with a balance of the shares being held by various public entities. (Refer to page 14 of the IR report.) Marula South Africa Key features • 53% improvement LTIFR • 31% improvement TIFR • 85% increase in VCT uptake • 1% reduction in water withdrawn • ISO 14000 accreditation obtained • 4% improvement in Pt oz produced in concentrate • Polokwane Marula Impala Two Rivers Impala Rustenburg • Impala Refineries Key features • Johannesburg • 9 fatalities • 25% improvement FIFR • 14% improvement LTIFR • 13% improvement in ART uptake • 5% reduction in total water consumed • 2% increase in water recycled • Sunrise View Village completed with approximately 1 700 houses delivered • 5% reduction in Pt oz produced IRS Two Rivers Attributable mineral resources of 230Moz Pt as at 30 June 2013 Key features Key features ● Zimplats 42% ● Impala 32% • 80% increase in third-party and toll • 2% increase in tonnes milled ● Tamboti 10% ● Afplats 6% treatment material • 8% increase in Pt oz produced ● Imbasa and Inkosi 4% ● Marula 3% in concentrate ● Mimosa 2% ● Two Rivers 1% / ORGANISATIONAL OVERVIEW / 5 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 What we do We produce around 22% of the world’s primary platinum supply with a workforce of approximately 57 000, including 17 000 contractors. In the financial year ending 30 June 2013, the Group produced 3.233 million ounces of PGMs, which included 1.581 million ounces of platinum. PGMs are primarily platinum and its associated by-products palladium, rhodium, ruthenium and iridium, which usually occur in association with nickel and copper. While PGMs are a relatively rare commodity (only about 500 tonnes are produced annually, of which less than 200 tonnes are platinum), they are playing a progressively important role in everyday life, whether it is in goods we use daily, or in the processes required to produce these goods, as well as in auto-catalytic converters for emission control. Zimbabwe Zimplats Mimosa Bulawayo • Mimosa Zimplats Key features Key features • 78% improvement in LTIFR • 1% improvement in TIFR • 39% improvement in TIFR • 5% improvement in ART uptake • 2% increase in water consumed • 30% increase in water recycled • US$4.7 million spend on community • Continued investigation being done to install SO2 abatement system development • US$4.2 million spent on community development • 3% increase in tonnes milled and 5% • 7% improvement in tonnes milled to 4.6 million tonnes and 6% improvement in Pt oz decrease in Pt oz produced in produced in matte concentrate / 6 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our business strategy Our vision is to become the world’s best platinum-producing company, delivering superior returns to stakeholders relative to our peers. To achieve this vision, the Group remains focused on the following four strategic objectives. These objectives are responsive to the material risks that impact on our capacity to create value. In this report we address our strategic objectives 1, 3 and 4, while objective 2 is detailed in the integrated report. • Cultural transformation framework • Operations and logistics • Effective supervision management • Technical initiatives • Mineral resources management • Remuneration, recognition and • Quality mining rewards • Ore reserve flexibility • Talent management • Improved systems • Team mobilisation • New technology 1 2 • Training of employees Safe and effective people Operational with respect excellence and care Preserving natural resources and Social capital 3 4 mitigating investments impacts • Building effective relationships with key stakeholders • Collaborating with social partners • Energy and water management to make positive investment in • Climate change and emission control communities surrounding our • Land and biodiversity management operations / ORGANISATIONAL OVERVIEW / 7 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Classification of Group strategic risks – June 2013 The Group risk profile identified the following key risks: Group strategic risk Our response measure Strategic objective Reference Platinum group metal Understanding the future demand for our products, Consistently IR (pg 26) (PGM) price and the corresponding industry supply-side profile. delivering superior fluctuations Scanning the environment for technological advances returns that may affect the demand for Implats’ products (substitution), and instituting appropriate responses where possible. Volatility of the rand/ Closely monitoring the rand/dollar exchange rate as a Consistently IR (pg 26) US$ exchange rate source of significant volatility for our business, and delivering superior where prudent, will mitigate its impact. returns Non-delivery of Maintaining reliable and effective production Consistently IR (pg 64) production and processes and delivering product on time and to delivering superior productivity targets at specification. Improving delivery on development and returns Impala Rustenburg increasing face availability. Potential labour Striving to provide an enabling work environment that Developing safe and (Pg 31) unrest – wage fosters open, honest and effective relations between effective people negotiations and management, employees and elected union Social capital (Pg 50) employee relations representatives. investment climate Working with Chamber of Mines, government and labour representatives to find sustainable solutions to industrial relations challenges in the country. Poor safety Aiming to achieve continuous improvement in safety Developing safe and (Pg 31) performance and an performance towards the vision of ‘zero harm’. effective people increase in safety Adoption of the transformational cultural framework. Social capital (Pg 56) stoppages investment Delayed capital Maintaining effective project management processes Consistently IR (pg 64) project delivery and skills to ensure successful project implementation delivering superior and delivery over the short, medium and long term. returns Staff turnover and Developing an employee value proposition that Developing safe and (Pg 31) demotivated prioritises safe production, and that offers attractive effective people employees career advancement and development opportunities Social capital (Pg 50) as well as competitive remuneration. investment Uncertainty regarding Maintaining regular contact with government officials. Social capital (Pg 50) political and Ensuring full legal and regulatory compliance in a investment regulatory risk in continuously changing environment. South Africa and Investing in relevant community and social Zimbabwe development initiatives. Maintaining a social Addressing relevant issues regarding sustainability, Social capital (Pg 50) licence to operate in corporate responsibility, and being recognised as a investment South Africa and good corporate citizen. Zimbabwe Maintaining sound and mutually beneficial relationships with communities and the general public. Striving to retain permission to operate, and ensuring full legal and regulatory compliance in a continuously changing environment. The supply and cost Ensuring we minimise our consumption of energy and Preserving natural (Pg 69) of electricity in water by promoting efficient processes, and adopting resources South Africa appropriate technologies. / 8 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Chief executive officer’s letter Dear Stakeholder Reporting on our commitment to This past year could be described as one of the most respect, care and deliver difficult in the history of Implats, and indeed for the In this 2013 Sustainable Development Report we review platinum mining sector as a whole. It is a year in which we what Implats has been doing, and what we plan to do, in have seen falling platinum group metals prices, rising response to the societal challenges that we face. The costs, reduced productivity, and continuing uncertainty in report seeks to provide a balanced and accurate account industrial relations in South Africa and the political climate of our performance over the past year and it describes our in Zimbabwe. strategic commitments for the years ahead. In many respects the industry is rapidly approaching a In the report we focus on those issues that we see as tipping point. Unless we see some systemic shifts in the most relevant to our business and where we have the global platinum group metals market, in the nature of greatest potential impact. We have identified these issues some of the sector’s mining practices, and in the quality of on the basis of our assessment of the risks and our relationships with government, labour and local opportunities presented by the changing business context, communities, then I believe the viability of the sector is at and informed by feedback from our stakeholders. risk. The success or failure of the platinum business in South Africa and Zimbabwe has huge implications for the Underpinning all of our initiatives reviewed in this report is economy, both locally and internationally. our commitment to respect, care and deliver, a new values system and leadership framework that we are in the Without a viable platinum sector it will not be possible for process of developing following a review of our corporate the sector to deliver jobs and tax revenue, nor will we be culture. We are in the process of implementing this able to deliver on our commitments regarding the framework for the Company in terms of which each provision of housing, to comply with the requirements of worker, manager and board member is committing to our social and labour plans, or to ensure that local engage in a different way, treating all people with respect communities are fairly included in the benefits that mining and care. I believe that this commitment is critical if we are brings. Equally, without a successful local community or a to achieve our goal of ensuring sustained value creation healthy local economy, it will not be possible to sustain a for all stakeholders. viable platinum business and meet our commitments to deliver returns to our shareholders. Finding solutions to the Investing in safety and health challenges we face is in our collective interest. It is deeply regrettable that eight employees and one contractor suffered fatal injuries while working on our Delivering a new model for platinum mining in southern mines this year. My sincere condolences go out to the Africa will not be easy. It will require business, government families and friends of those who lost their lives. If we are and labour to work together, building on our previous to give real meaning to our commitment to respect and successes such as the Mining Industry Growth, care, then we will clearly need to see significant further Development and Employment Task Team (MIGDETT). It improvements in our safety and health. I know that we can will require that each of us has the resolve to challenge operate mines without a fatality. Under my watch I am some of our traditional assumptions, and that we are determined to see a further step change in our safety and prepared to acknowledge the extent of change that is health performance. needed. Most importantly, it will require that we address one of the fundamental constraints that is impeding our During the year we have seen a significantly renewed ability to make progress: the breakdown in trust between focus on safety. Following a detailed review of our current key parties in business, government and labour. We safety systems and culture, we have approved a new continue to engage with the Zimbabwean government occupational health and safety policy, and have updated regarding the indigenisation plan. Further details are our safety strategy. Our safety strategy has three main contained in our integrated report. pillars: changing our safety culture from dependence to independence, ensuring more effective supervision and The events of the past year have made it clear that if training, and implementing strategic technical initiatives to Implats is to realise its vision of being the world’s best minimise exposure to safety risks in our mines. To fully platinum-producing company that delivers superior returns participate in and benefit from sector-wide safety to stakeholders, then we will need to anticipate and be initiatives, we have become a full member of the Chamber responsive to societal issues. The pursuit of sustainable of Mines. development and zero harm are competitive imperatives, and should be recognised as fundamental elements of a mining company’s fiduciary responsibility. / ORGANISATIONAL OVERVIEW / 9 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Terence Goodlace “The events of the past year have made it clear that if Implats is to realise its vision of being the world’s best platinumproducing company that delivers superior returns to stakeholders, then we will need to anticipate and be responsive to societal issues.” For more information on employee and contractor safety see page 32 of our sustainable development report As part of our leadership initiatives I underwent a 360º increased by 59% to 39 820 and alcohol breathalyser Health and Safety assessment. During 2014 all Implats tests by 192% to 662 152. We have achieved 91% Exco and all “E” level production managers will also compliance to road behaviour. undergo the 360º health and safety leadership assessment utilising the Health and Safety Leadership Assessment tool We are working to implement the Chamber’s five-pillar developed from the Mining Charter. This assessment culture transformation framework, as well as the mining allows leadership to gain an understanding of how their industry’s occupational safety and health (MOSH) leading individual safety behaviour is viewed by their peers and to practice adoption system. Recognising the critical advance behaviours that will ultimately influence positive importance of effective supervision and team motivation, outcomes to safety performance. we have placed significant effort in providing technical and leadership training to miners, shift supervisors and mine Our quest to install a culture of visibly felt leadership overseers. A total of 2 100 safety representatives have has also yielded positive outcomes with increased now been retrained as part of the Mining Charter performance in leading indicators. A total of 71 545 requirements. STOP® observations conducted by front line managers have increased by 43% when compared to the previous Unfortunately our ability to make further progress in year. In addition an internal safety stoppage system was changing the safety culture continues to be constrained by fully developed and formalised in the year and a total of the tense industrial relations climate, which is not 3 528 proactive stoppages were made in the work place. conducive to applying effective supervision. Given this This is an increase of 50%. Road behaviour checks were context, we invested R300 million in numerous technical / 10 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Chief executive officer’s letter continued initiatives to address high safety risks in our mines that Next year we will be investing further effort into training cannot currently be mitigated through supervision. This and team mobilisation to embed the right safety culture at has included significant investment in roof-bolting and all levels in the Company. I am committed to doing what it netting, proximity detection systems, winch-signalling takes to achieve a positive change in safety performance, devices, new centralised blasting systems as well as not only in our Company, but also across the sector. fail-safe devices to prevent rolling stock from going down shafts. The health of our employees is extremely important to me. All of our operations are located in southern Africa which During 2013 large nets with temporary cam-lock jacks in has high HIV infection and associated tuberculosis rates addition to bolting were rolled out onto 90% of all the and these are the two major health challenges facing our Merensky panels at Rustenburg. The UG2 stoping panels employees. The uptake and roll out of antiretroviral therapy lagged behind due to a total change which introduced provided through our Company medical facilities has bolts as well as netting into the panels. During 2013, bolts improved by 13.5% over the past year and we now have with nets and cam-lock jacks were rolled out to 45% of all over 6 000 employees enrolled on our Company HIV the UG2 panels at Rustenburg. We have also achieved a wellness programme which includes 4 039 employees 100% roll out of bolts and nets onto all development ends taking antiretroviral therapy. across the Rustenburg and Marula operations. Changing the safety culture remains our overriding objective, This has had a very positive impact on the lives of our I believe that these substantial investments are employees living with HIV. I am however saddened that, in absolutely necessary in minimising safety risks. spite of the treatment programmes, 69 employees passed away from Aids related illnesses during the year. This was Through our renewed focus on safety this year we have however a 38% improvement from the 112 deaths in the begun to see some improvements in performance. The previous year. Group fatality rate improved by 25% and was 0. 065 per million man hours worked (0.087 in 2012), while our lost Against the background of a tuberculosis epidemic, time injury frequency rate improved by 15% and was 4.21 pulmonary tuberculosis infection among our employees per million man hours worked (4.96 in 2012). and contractor employees has been controlled at an incident rate of 830/100 000 which is below the rate of There has been particular progress arising from our strong TB of the general South African population. We are also focus on presenting fall of ground incidents, with no such providing funding and resources to the STOP TB incidents reported this year. We have similarly seen some campaign which aims at improving education, contact progress in our efforts on improving employee health, with training and treatment within the communities. a reduction in the number of noise-induced hearing loss cases (cases diagnosed at 50 in the current year, down Our employees and contractors are also screened from 63 last year). No new cases of noise induced hearing annually for any occupation related ill health and during the loss have been diagnosed in terms of the 2008 industry year, over 90 000 occupational examinations were noise milestones. While these are important initial performed by our medical staff. Although good progress improvements in health and safety, our current has been made with silencing of machines to below performance is still not acceptable. 110dB, noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) remains a health risk for our employees and all at risk individuals are During the year a total of 104 Section 54 and Section 55 provided with hearing protection devices made to custom safety-related stoppage instructions were issued, resulting fit the individual. All employees who show signs of early in approximately 360 000 tons of lost production at NIHL are investigated, educated and counselled on the Rustenburg. While we support the principle of work importance of wearing their custom hearing protection stoppages where a condition or behaviour has been devices and any employee found to have noise-induced identified that poses a danger to safety, we are concerned hearing loss is referred to third party insurers for that some of these stoppages have been extended assessment of disability compensation. beyond the scope of the risk and in certain instances have had a potentially negative impact on safety performance. We have continued to engage constructively with government on these instructions; this year we have taken under review the legality of two stoppages, which we felt were not justified by the circumstances. / ORGANISATIONAL OVERVIEW / 11 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Rebuilding trust on industrial relations It is imperative that we engage with our employees at a A critical focus area throughout the year has been the more personal level in order to understand and address energy we have invested in finding sustainable solutions to their concerns at the lowest possible level as quickly as the industrial relations challenges facing our Company and possible. We have initiated informal meetings with the industry. This process has followed a two-pronged employees at all shafts. The next phase of the roll out will approach: a review of our employee engagement see a ramp up in training for our employees, a critical part processes, followed by a cultural values assessment that of engaging their hearts and minds. Team building, is currently underway. Through these activities we are technical mining and safety will form the focus and these seeking to redefine behaviour and embed a culture of initiatives will increase productivity and improve safety. tolerance, transparency, respect and care, informed by a Shift supervisors, mine overseers and mine managers will well-defined process of identifying barriers to the receive additional training in life skills in order to relate advancement of a healthy industrial relations climate. more closely to employees. In an effort to rebuild trust between all the affected parties Investing in our communities in business, government and labour, we have been In addition to working with our employees we have been meeting regularly with key representatives from all parties, active in engaging with the community. The events of both as a Company as well as through the Chamber of Marikana, and the ensuing industrial unrest in the past Mines, which we joined early in the year. A key outcome of year, brought into sharp focus the need to improve our these engagements has been the conclusion of the understanding of community needs and prompted us to Framework Agreement for a Sustainable Mining Industry, review our approach to identifying these needs. We have developed under the leadership of Deputy President thus initiated a process to conduct a social impact Kgalema Motlanthe, himself a former mineworker and assessment and baseline survey in our areas of operation union leader. This agreement lays a vital foundation for the in South Africa. This is the first step towards developing a critical work that lies ahead. Despite the fact that AMCU coherent social strategy for the organisation that will guide did not sign the agreement, this highlights the importance our medium and long-term interventions in neighbouring of the rule of law and zero tolerance to violence and mine communities. The process, which is being conducted intimidation, it provides a clear roadmap of activities and together with our social partners and community commitments by all parties. These commitments aim to representatives in our areas of operation, will culminate in a address the root causes and the more immediate review of our current approach to social investment. manifestations of the labour-related challenges facing the South African mining sector. Our most significant contribution to the wellbeing of our communities is our investment in housing. These activities Implats is committed to working with its partners in have included the conversion of single gender residences ensuring the effective delivery of these commitments. to one person-per-room and family units, facilitating I believe that this commitment is reflected in the work that individual home ownership, and upgrading existing we are doing on transformation, employee and union Company housing. Our housing initiatives have had engagement, workplace safety, community security, and several spin-offs leading to the establishment of the new on housing and skills development, all of which is reviewed Sunrise View village, consisting of 1 700 family housing in more detail in this report. units a new Sunrise View school which registered some 800 learners in 2013 and a planned secondary school A significant development this year was the conclusion of planned to open in 2014. Through these investments we a recognition agreement with AMCU, following the earlier are not only helping to create viable local communities, but withdrawal of our recognition agreement with NUM. In we are also building a sustainable competitive advantage terms of our relationship with unions, it is our firm belief among current and prospective employees and other that the majoritarian approach of the past cannot be the stakeholders. We are also supporting several community model of the future. We are working with our employees to health initiatives and in South Africa we are supporting the develop a new employee engagement model, driven by South African National Health Insurance through health line management, that fosters open, honest and effective partnerships with government. During the year, we relations between management, employees and elected constructed and equipped a new neonatal intensive care union representatives. and a high care unit at the Job Shimakane Tabane Hospital in Rustenburg and a primary care clinic at Freedom Park which were handed over to the Department of Health. / 12 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Chief executive officer’s letter continued I am also pleased to report that almost all of our housing completed, in the year under review, the rehabilitation, project targets for 2013 have been achieved and that we extension and equipment of a community clinic with an are on track to deliver on our objectives for 2020 which is investment of US$670 000 and the launch of two to have at least 50% of employees residing with their community enterprise development projects in Chegutu families. Since the implementation of our housing and and Ngezi based on market needs, with the aim of accommodation strategy in 2007 we have developed and supplying Zimplats’ catering suppliers with vegetables. sold just under 2 000 housing units and converted four of our hostels into approximately 5 400 single units and Managing our environmental impacts 260 family units. While I believe that Implats has done well Mining inherently has a high impact on the natural in the provision of housing, particularly when compared environment. To ensure effective management of these with our peers in the sector, I recognise that more still impacts, and with our goal to achieve world-class needs to be done. environmental performance, this year we renewed our environmental policy. In addition to managing our direct Our investments in housing are supported by our environmental impacts, all our operations are expected to expenditure on community development projects. During develop and support a flagship environmental project the year under review, through our social programmes we within their neighbouring communities. were able to create approximately 1 000 jobs. Further details of these can be found in this report in our social Arguably our most significant environmental issue relates investment section. Overall Group expenditure on socioto managing and maintaining access to water, a vital input economic development projects in South Africa this year for our mining, processing and refining operations. During amounted to R102 million, up from R90 million in the the year we have implemented various projects to reduce previous reporting period and in Zimbabwe US$4.2 million our consumption of potable water, optimise industrial down from US$5.7 million in 2012. Through these water use and increase water recycling. We have investments in infrastructure, health, education, continued our engagements with the Department of Water community empowerment and income-generating Affairs to resolve ongoing concerns that we have regarding projects, we are helping to address urgent needs in mine some of the requirements in these licences. We have also communities, while also contributing to longer-term made progress during the year in our efforts to reduce economic development. These investments have been carbon emissions through various energy efficiency supported by our enterprise development and initiatives; we have been continuing with our investigations procurement activities, which have focused on into the feasibility of a coal-to-biomass fuel-switching encouraging entrepreneurship in our mine communities, project. particularly among historically disadvantaged South Africans. On air quality issues, the most significant risk for the Group relates to the sulphur dioxide emissions from our Our community initiatives extended to our Zimbabwean smelting and refining operations in Rustenburg, Springs operations. In the year under review we have constructed and Zimplats. We have been investigating the a secondary school in Zimbabwe benefiting nearly implementation of SO2 abatement technology at our 100 students at a cost of US$250 000; and constructed Zimplats operations, the source of the majority of our classroom blocks, boarding hostels, a library and related SO2 emissions. Pending board approval, this project is facilities at various primary and secondary schools at an planned to commence in 2017, at an estimated cost investment of more than US$850 000. We have also of US$60 million. / ORGANISATIONAL OVERVIEW / 13 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Looking to the future In conclusion Despite the profound challenges currently facing the It has been a most challenging year for us all, and I know platinum industry, I firmly believe in the fundamentals of the that more challenges lie in the year ahead. I thank all our sector. I am confident that there will be a sustained future employees, and our partners, shareholders, contractors demand for platinum group metals, due to their inherent and suppliers, for their substantial contributions in value as catalysts for chemical processes. Informed by this supporting our efforts to create sustained value. In reading belief, we will continue to sink new shafts and invest in this report, I urge you please to give us your feedback on projects for the long term, albeit at a slower rate than our performance and on our disclosure. It is only by previously planned. working collaboratively that we can address the challenges we face. I look forward to communicating further To ensure our long-term viability it is critical that we take sustainability-related performance updates throughout the on the challenges that we are facing, and that we invest year. meaningfully in improving the quality of the relationships that we have with our employees, with unions, with government and with local communities. As this report shows, I believe that Implats has done some good work in building these relationships through our investments in Terence Goodlace safety, employee development, union engagement, Chief executive officer community housing, enterprise development and environmental management. If we look to the long-run, then I believe that ultimately we will need to transform our business away from our historic dependence on labour-intensive deep-level mining. If we consider the composition of our ore-bodies and the market dynamics in the sector, and if we are to deliver on our commitments to safety, productivity and employee development, then it is clear that the labour-intensive model we currently use will not be sustainable into the future. Managing this transformation successfully will be a complex process, involving active engagement with all affected stakeholders. / 14 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 The challenging business context The past year has been a watershed year for the South African mining industry in general, and for the platinum sector in particular. The tragic events at Marikana characterised a year that saw unprecedented levels of violent strike action in the industry and a seismic shift in the industrial relations landscape. This came amidst a downturn in the global platinum The events of 2012 have highlighted the complex macromarket, with weaker metal prices and continued economic and societal landscape in which the mining cost pressures. It was a year that threw into sharp sector in southern Africa operates, and have underlined relief the critical importance – and the apparent fragility – the need to rethink some of the fundamental assumptions in maintaining trusted relationships between mining that have been informing mining practice in the region. companies, government, trade unions and More than anything, these events have demonstrated the local communities. critical importance of having a considered strategic and operational response to sustainable development. / OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY / 15 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 The changing context of mining: that are significantly reducing profitability. Framing all of globally and in South Africa these challenges has been the context of a breakdown in The challenges facing the sector over the year have been trust between business, government and labour. both global and national. Globally, net profit for the top 40 mining companies was down almost 50% in 2012, as a Addressing the systemic societal challenges will require a result of decreasing commodity prices, an escalating cost collective effort, with business, government and labour base and declining productivity.1 As a business, mining is working together, each party acknowledging the role that generally becoming more challenging and more costly due they play in the social dynamic. to declining ore grades, the need for deeper mines, the riskier countries in which to do business, and the Understanding the context increasing cost of capital. It is an industry that has been To respond effectively to these profound operational described as facing a “crisis in confidence”, particularly challenges we need to identify the underlying causes, among investors and governments. and seek to address those issues that lie within our influence. At face value, an immediate cause of the Investors’ call for change has been responsible (at least labour unrest permeating the platinum mining sector last partially) for five of the top 10 mining companies replacing year was a failure in communication – between their CEOs since April 2012. The skill set and experience management and mine employees at mine level, between of the new leadership shows a greater emphasis on union members and their leaders, and between union, operational knowledge and mining experience than on government and business leaders. This breakdown was deal-making and growth through acquisition, highlighting itself a result of the exposed weaknesses in the the industry’s shift in focus to cost improvements and majoritarian labour system, as well as the impact of rivalry improved project delivery. The nature of investor demands between the established and emergent trade unions. reflects a challenge facing CEOs in other industries with These issues were further fuelled by the poor work and long investment cycles: the need to take long-term living conditions of many mining employees, their families decisions that are responsive to the changing societal and their communities. content, while at the same time being held to account on quarterly or six-monthly returns, and responding to But the causes run deeper than this. They are deeply calls for increased dividends. At times these are very rooted in the country’s history and in the social problems conflicting demands. that are a legacy of the migrant labour system: the poor housing conditions in the mining areas, the poor education The difficulties facing the global mining sector have been and illiteracy among mine workers and the high-level of magnified in the South African platinum industry, which indebtedness associated with supporting multiple has seen rising costs, declining margins, and significantly households. All of these challenges are exacerbated by reduced levels of production due to industrial action. The the inequality between rich and poor, by the increasing industry also faces ongoing challenges around access to costs of food, energy and water, and by the growing debt skills and infrastructure (such as electricity, water and burden compounded by the exploitation of miners by transport), an increasingly stringent regulatory regime, unscrupulous credit providers. The combination of continuing uncertainty on resource nationalism, and profound economic hardship and high levels of social and pressure for quicker progress on black economic economic inequality, has given rise to communities and empowerment. In a country with one of the highest levels individuals who understandably feel increasingly helpless, of inequality globally, where unemployment and poverty frustrated and angry. remains high, and where service delivery by local government has been slow, mining companies are facing Transforming an unsustainable heightened expectations from neighbouring communities business model for jobs and the provision of services. Given the nature and extent of these societal challenges, it is clear that business cannot focus narrowly on meeting Companies’ capacity to deliver on these often-competing short-term shareholder interests alone. For the Company expectations of communities, government, labour and to survive and prosper, our corporate strategy should seek investors are constrained by the tough market conditions value creation for all our stakeholders. 1 PWC Mine: A Confidence Crisis – Review of global trends in the mining industry (2013) www.pwc.com/mining. / 16 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 The challenging business context continued The future viability of the South African mining and added difficulty of ensuring that local recruits are in fact platinum sectors depends on our collective ability to genuinely from the local community. transform the way in which we have traditionally done business. Historically, success in the mining industry has On top of this, there is the concern that abandoning the tended to be defined as being the lowest cost producer, migrant labour system will have a severe impact on the with the business objective being to use our assets to local economies of the labour-sending areas, where maximise returns. The clear message from Marikana – to unemployment levels are generally in excess of 80% and business, labour and government – is that this business where there has been a reliance on the mining sector to model is unsustainable and that it needs to change. The provide much needed employment. This has resulted in an era of high margins through mining and exporting precious influx of job seekers into local mining communities. While metals, within the lowest possible cost environment, is this does inadvertently put additional pressure on service coming to an end. delivery, migrant workers can contribute positively to the local economy through the generation of income from In seeking to adjust to the changing context we need to mines. Historically, mines in the platinum industry have recognise that while some things have changed, there is offered employees who become sick or who retire after much that has not yet changed. The industry is still long service the option to nominate a family member to predominantly using labour-intensive manual mining replace them at the mine. This laudable practice to care methods. It remains reliant on a migrant labour workforce, for the extended family is another reason as to why the mainly comprised of poorly educated men who perform sector continues to be reliant on migrant workers. While manual tasks that offer limited opportunities for personal the migrant labour system has its own challenges, what is development and career progression. Across the industry, of importance is to ensure that those who choose to many of these workers still do not reside with their families migrate to mining communities have the option of bringing in decent formal accommodation; and many of these their families to live with them. This is possible by providing workers remain reluctant to break their traditional links with accommodation and housing options that promote the rural areas from which they originate. And when it co-habitation. comes to people, the reality is that not enough has changed in the industry: most mining companies still Building more sustainable mining operate in a closed system, with not enough focus on operations people development. In ensuring the long-term viability of the platinum sector, we need to play an active role in implementing solutions The challenge of reducing reliance on that are responsive to the complex societal challenges migrant labour within communities, countries and markets in which we Underpinning much of the current context is the issue of operate. Given the realities of the global platinum market, migrant labour. Addressing this issue will not be easy. our efforts should focus on those issues where we can Doing so raises its own challenges and potentially creates make the most meaningful contribution to enhancing the its own set of unintended socio-economic problems. resources and relationships upon which we depend. Despite the fact that most mines in the Rustenburg area A critical initial focus must be our employees. Our have prioritised local recruitment, the dependency on business will only prosper if we are able to recapture the migrant labour has not ended. The reality is that the best hearts and minds of our employees, adopting an mining skills in South Africa have traditionally come from employee value proposition that prioritises safe production Lesotho, Mozambique and the Eastern Cape. Overcoming and that offers attractive career advancement and this issue will require investment in up-skilling members development opportunities, as well as competitive from the local community. An important challenge, remuneration. We aim to institutionalise a new, more open, however, is that local community members are often more democratic, industrial relations dispensation, with reluctant to take up this work, the perception being that direct line management engagement where employees are underground mining jobs are dangerous, physically recognised and respected as equals, based on a culture demanding and poorly remunerated. There is also the of trust, respect and care. / OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY / 17 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 In addition to working with employees, we will need to intensive deep-level mining. Moving people away from the continue our efforts in working with our communities. rock face and automating our mining methods will provide We will need to practise fair recruitment processes that some significant benefits – for our operations, the people prioritise local communities without discriminating unfairly we employ and the economies we serve. It will lead to against migrant workers, striving to select the best skills fewer, safer and better paid jobs, offer improved and attributes available, while seeking to develop skills development and career advancement prospects for our through training initiatives in our neighbouring employees, allow more women to be employed, and communities. We will need an ongoing emphasis on how ensure the sustainability of our business, with significant we house our employees and improve their living economic benefits that this provides. conditions, partnering with government to ensure that our housing projects are constructed within a broader Making these changes, however, will not be easy. In many integrated spatial development framework contributing to instances it will challenge much of what business, fully functional communities. government, labour and investors may have taken for granted. To minimise the potential for another Marikana tragedy, we will need to prioritise the proper management of mine In looking for solutions, it is important to recognise the security and human rights practice, informed by crucial role the mining sector plays within the broader international best practice such as that proposed in the economy. Efforts to constrain its ability to survive – for Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. We example by inhibiting any necessary job losses – will will need to evaluate how we use contractors, employing significantly undermine our broader contribution. But we them for specific tasks and ensuring that they meet the must also recognise that protecting the mining sector same minimum employment and transformation standards cannot come at any cost. While it is true, for example, that that we set for ourselves. And we will need to explore the without a viable platinum sector there will be no economic introduction of different work patterns that allow our activity in Rustenburg, it is similarly the case that without a employees to return home to labour-sending areas on a viable local community and a robust social fabric it will not more frequent basis. be possible to mine platinum. Towards business transformation The importance for us as a Company to have an effective To achieve our aspirations on safety, productivity and strategic response to societal issues, and to engage employee development, ultimately we will need to meaningfully with our key stakeholders, has never completely transform our historic dependence on labourbeen clearer. / 18 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Identifying our material business risks and opportunities We identify our strategic business objectives, and our ww Evaluating the risk: We determine the risk rating (by material sustainability focus areas, through our structured severity, exposure and frequency), identify the controls internal risk management process, and with consideration (both existing or new), and prioritise the risks to the views and interests of our key stakeholders. ww Treating the risk: We consider all options to establish the most appropriate response for each identified risk. Our risk assessment and management process Arising from this process we identify a set of objectiveImplats’ risk management process sets out to achieve an based risk assessments (ORAs) that cover approximately appropriate balance between minimising the risks 60 of the most important aspects of the Implats business. associated with any business activity and maximising the Each identified risk, as well as its associated controls, has potential reward. This process enables the board and a clearly defined line management owner. This process is senior managers to take decisions regarding the possible repeated and reviewed regularly, ensuring that the trade-off between risk and reward, and assists them to information remains relevant. All information is captured identify and pursue appropriate strategic growth into the Group risk repository system that informs the opportunities informed by the Group’s risk appetite and Group risk profile. The Group risk profile is presented on a risk tolerance levels. monthly basis to the Exco and quarterly to the board risk committee, which has been separated from the The structured risk management process comprises the audit committee. following steps: ww Establishing the context: We consider the nature of the This process culminates in the identification of a prioritised external operating context (pages 14 to 17), and the set of Group strategic risks (see page 7). Collectively, views and interests of our stakeholders (pages 20) these risks, along with the outcomes of our internal and ww Identifying the risk: We establish both the source and external stakeholder engagement activities, and our cause of the risk, and evaluate all possible assessment of market fundamentals, are used to identify consequences our material sustainability-related issues. These issues are ww Analysing the risk: We identify and assess what this prioritised in terms of their impact both on the organisation means for the achievement of our objectives and on our key stakeholders. They inform the nature of our strategic sustainability objectives (page 6), as well as the performance issues for monitoring and reporting. Internal stakeholders issues Risk External Macro-economic identification stakeholders issues and materiality issues Exco deliberation Board and ratification confirmation / OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY / 19 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Implats Sustainability Policy Statement Implats is a PGE-focused mining company involved in exploring, mining, processing and refining operations and is committed to sustainable development principles such that the Company’s: ww Investments are commercially sound and financially profitable ww Practices are technically appropriate and socially responsible ww Processes and practices are inherently safe and environmentally sound. To this end Implats is committed to: ww Developing policies in line with these principles, supported by sound systems and processes ww Complying with the governance of risk principles included in the King III Report ww Recognising that risk management is a systematic way of protecting business resources and income against losses such that strategic and operational objectives can be achieved ww Preventing all incidents and accidents at its operations in a reasonably practicable manner and strives to minimise hazards inherent in the working environment ww Safeguarding the health and safety of all stakeholders, and striving for zero harm ww Responsible stewardship of natural resources and the ecological environment ww Striving to minimise potential negative social impacts while promoting opportunities and benefits for host communities ww Upholding the human rights of employees and communities in line with legislation and the United Nations Global Compact ww Engaging with stakeholders in a transparent and timely manner through formal and informal engagement structures ww Continuous improvement of its business processes by accurately measuring, monitoring, evaluating and reporting in a transparent manner to stakeholders on performance ww Sustainable development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. / 20 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Identifying our material sustainability risks and opportunities continued Responding to our stakeholders’ material concerns Implats has a range of stakeholders, with varying degrees of influence on the Company and on our ability to create value. Recent events in the South African mining sector have led us to reconsider and update our stakeholder engagement processes that were initiated in 2011. It is imperative that we understand and respond to the needs and expectations of our key stakeholders. Whilst we recognise that all stakeholders are important, we have prioritised strategic relationships with employees, government, shareholders, BEE partners, customers, communities and unions, each of which is critical for the long-term sustainability of our business. Our stakeholders Nature of engagement Material issues raised Our response Employees Internal communication Conditions of employment Collaborative engagements to find Engagement with trade Safety and health initiatives solutions to health and safety unions Progress with matters Workplace forums transformation Review of bonus system to Production and motivate productivity performance Trade unions Internal communication Conditions of employment Investigate any issues relating to Collective bargaining units Discrimination conditions of employment. Branch committees Union recognition Recognition agreement signed Chamber of Mines Safety Transformation progress report Progress with given transformation Union issues Shareholders, Road-shows Market view Investor concerns and queries analysts and Results presentations Cost of production relating to the ongoing volatility in investors Investor conferences Capital delivery the PGM markets, and on more One-on-one appointments Nationalisation and Company-specific issues (such as indigenisation Zimplats) are addressed in our ESG performance (SRI regular investor engagements investors) Government Meetings with officials from Labour relations Implats engages constructively with local, provincial and Safety (accidents and government at all levels, both as a national government stoppages) Company and through industry Compliance visits from Progress with representative bodies (such as the government transformation Chamber of Mines) to address Chamber of Mines Progress with social and issues relating to industrial relations, Parliament Portfolio labour plans transformation, social development, committee Community investments skills and the environment. Mining Industry Growth, and engagement In the current year engagement in Development and Environmental compliance South Africa focused on the Employment Task Team declining economic viability of the (MIGDETT) mining sector and finding solutions to ensure peace and stability with government and labour. Local government was engaged with the view of conducting a social impact assessment in partnership with them in our mine communities. / OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY / 21 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our stakeholders Nature of engagement Material issues raised Our response Traditional council, Community engagement Employment opportunities The responsible executive at each land owners and meetings Procurement opportunities operation addresses issues of communities Community trust meetings HIV and Aids in concern to the community. Future forum meetings communities Information on our performance on One-on-one meetings Enterprise development material issues is provided at community forums, particularly on employment, procurement, environmental issues and health. Held an Aids day at the operations to educate the communities Suppliers Supplier forums Conditions of contracts Modified engagements with One-on-one meetings Review of contractor contractors, developed clear operating standards in line principles that will guide the with Implats policy and selection and use of reputable standard contractors with the right skills and values systems to do specific tasks that the business is not able to do Customers Industry forums Effective delivery against Track and respond to customer One-on-one meetings terms feedback. Keeping customers Customer feedback informed of any possible supply Reputation surveys disruptions due to industrial action Chamber of Mines Contribute to CoM Contribution to industry Joined the Chamber in July 2012 (CoM) meetings (at CEO and positioning and lobbying and have contributed actively to working group level) activities various initiatives including in particular the drafting of the framework agreement for a sustainable mining industry BEE or indigenous Operational meetings Cost of production Questions and concerns relating to partners Board meetings Capital delivery safety, health, production and skills One-on-one meetings Safety development and labour relations Progress with are discussed with partners. transformation, and labour Regular updates on progress on and social plans employee relations is provided Labour relations Producer and Strategy meetings All of the above Ongoing cost pressures within the industry forums Industry interest group PGM sector industry resulted in the meetings formation of a platinum CEO’s forum. This is being handled through the CoM Media Press releases All of the above Media releases are released One-on-one interviews throughout the year, updating the (radio, TV and print media) public on all material issues affecting the Company Advocacy groups Stakeholder liaison All of the above Engage with and respond to meetings various stakeholder groups as One-on-one meetings appropriate. This year this included Surveys, hotlines and (for example) engaging with the publications Benchmarks Foundation regarding community issues in Rustenburg / 22 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our sustainability strategy Our sustainability strategy informs our response to those contributing to the broader health of their family societal issues that have an impact on our business, and members and communities, is critical to our ability over which we have some influence. The strategy is to create value. Our health strategy addresses regularly reviewed and revised to provide for the changing both occupational and non-occupational health social context, and to ensure that there is a focus on the accompanied by the necessary counselling. In the most material issues. workplace our strategy is to ensure that all occupational health risks are identified, mitigation controls are in The sustainability strategy is premised upon three pillars place and that any ill health is detected and treated and is developed in line with the Group’s risk profile, which early and efficiently. On non-occupational health, we includes potential impacts and likely occurrence of the risk seek to ensure that all employees have access to and the ultimate impact this may have on the bottom line. affordable healthcare so that health stressors can be identified, managed and treated. We recognise these three pillars as paramount to our wwEmployee relations – Last year’s strike action, and ability to succeed as a business and to create value. the ongoing labour volatility in the platinum sector, has underscored the critical importance of maintaining a Developing safe and effective people positive relationship with employees. Our ability to ww Safety – Respecting the fundamental rights of all who maintain productivity and retain scarce talent is work with us (employees and contractors) is critical to dependent on the quality of the relations between our licence to operate. Ensuring a safe and healthy management and employees. We are committed to workforce has obvious implications for productivity and finding effective solutions for working in a multi-union efficiency, and contributes to the well-being of the environment, and to moving to a more open system broader neighbouring community. Achieving significant where all employees are recognised and respected as improvements in mine safety remains a top priority in all equals, based on a culture of trust, respect and care. that we do. In addition to our continuing commitment wwRecruitment, retention and skills – Attracting, to change the safety culture, we are making substantial retaining and developing skilled employees is critical to investments in technical initiatives aimed at minimising the long-term viability of our Company. As a mining the human element of risk within our operations. We company we are facing increasing competition for are committed to implementing the South African certain critical and scarce skills; this is compounded by mining industry’s Cultural Transformation Framework. a relatively high employee turnover rate due to an ww Employee health and well-being – Promoting the ageing and ailing workforce, inadequate education in health and well-being of our employees, and our semi-skilled talent pool, and the increased difficulty Maintaining our licence to operate Developing safe and effective people Managing strategic resources and minimising impacts / OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY / 23 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 in attracting talent due to the poor image of the mining ww Accommodation and living conditions – One of our sector. Adopting an employee value proposition that most effective contributions to the well-being of our offers attractive development opportunities and communities and employees is our investment in competitive remuneration, that prioritises safe improving accommodation and living conditions. production, and that invests in housing and community Through this investment we have facilitated the creation development are critical in maintaining our ability to of viable local communities in which employees can attract talent. reside with their families in a stable, healthy and secure Transformation and diversity – Not only is this an ww environment within commuting distance of their place important legislative imperative, but we believe strongly of work. In addition to the valuable social contribution, that a transformed and more diverse organisation is by offering a differentiated strategy on accommodation more resilient and better positioned to be competitive in and living conditions we build a sustainable competitive the country and region. Our employment equity advantage among current and prospective employees. strategy focuses on two main strategic areas: ww Enterprise development and procurement – Our integrating transformation and employment equity social investment commitments are supplemented considerations within our talent management and by sustainable procurement practices and our support people processes; and accelerating the recruitment, for small enterprises in the communities in which we development and promotion of designated groups into operate. occupational levels where they are under-represented. ww Respecting human rights – Respect for human rights is an integral part of our Code of Ethics and values. Maintaining our licence to operate Following last year’s tragic events at Marikana, the Maintaining effective stakeholder relations – As a ww response of mining companies to addressing security business we recognise the importance of building and issues has been recognised as a significant risk factor. maintaining trusted relationships with our stakeholders, To mitigate this risk we have committed to and are particularly those who influence the success of our implementing the Voluntary Principles on Security and business. Structured engagement processes are in Human Rights. place both at a corporate and operational level, through various Company-level forums and industry bodies. Preserving natural resources and Regulatory compliance and influencing policy – ww mitigating impacts Underpinning all our activities is the need to ensure By its nature, the exploration, extraction and processing compliance with government legislation, as well as of mineral resources inherently has an impact on the with some of the changing societal expectations natural environment. Ensuring effective management of reflected in various “soft law” and governance our environmental impacts, and promoting responsible initiatives. In our policy interactions with government and efficient use of key resources such as water and in South Africa and Zimbabwe, we seek to find the energy, have significant strategic benefits. Managing right balance between protecting business interests environmental resources effectively contributes to cost with those of the greater economy. savings through enhanced efficiencies and reduced Investing in communities – The business licence to ww liabilities, and is critical in maintaining positive relationships operate is critically dependent on the level of support with essential stakeholders. we enjoy from our local communities and their representatives, which in turn is informed by how we Our management of the environmental impacts of manage our social and environmental impacts, and our operations and processes involves the following how responsive we are to their concerns. The positive focus areas: contribution to socio-economic development in South ww Promoting responsible water stewardship by minimising Africa and Zimbabwe that we provide by accessing and water use and water pollution beneficiating minerals, is further enhanced by our ww Minimising our negative impacts on air quality strategic social investment activities. In our South ww Responding to climate change risks and opportunities African operations our investment strategy focuses and promoting responsible energy management primarily on infrastructure, health, education, ww Managing our waste streams community empowerment and poverty alleviation ww Promoting responsible land management and projects, while at Zimplats, our community engagement biodiversity practices. strategy is informed by the outcome of ongoing consultations with community leaders. Our approach Our management approach and sustainability strategy informs our response to those societal issues that have an impact on our business, and over which we have some influence. Our strategy is regularly reviewed and revised to provide for changing social context, and to ensure that we are focusing on the most material issues. Our sustainability strategy is premised upon three pillars and is developed in line with the Group’s risk profile, which includes potential impacts and likely occurrence of the risk and the ultimate impact this may have on the bottom line. We recognise these three pillars as paramount to our ability to succeed and create value, these being: ww Developing safe and effective people ww Maintaining our licence to operate ww Preserving natural resources and mitigating impacts / 26 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our sustainable development management approach Our commitment to sound safety, health and environmental performance is reflected in our structures and support functions at an executive and operational level. Our management approach opportunities, with particular emphasis within our South At the board level, sustainability issues are addressed African operations on historically disadvantaged South through the social, ethics and transformation (SET) Africans (HDSAs). Each operation has a transformation committee (established in 2012), and the health, safety committee comprising representatives from management, and environmental (HSE) committee (in place since 1988). unions, women and people with disabilities, as well as various other stakeholder groups who contribute to ww The SET committee, chaired by Thandi Orleyn, an overseeing and advancing transformation at each independent non-executive director, is responsible for operation. The operational committees report to the Group the Group’s activities relating to social and economic SET committee. Our operations also have community development, good corporate citizenship, the future forums, at which issues of concern to local environment, health and public safety, consumer communities – such as employment opportunities, relationships, and labour and employment issues procurement, and health, safety and environmental ww The HSE committee, chaired by Alastair McFarlane, an performance – are discussed. Key issues arising from independent non-executive director, guides strategy, community forums are relayed to the operational assesses the adequacy and appropriateness of HSE committee and, ultimately, to the Excom and board, policies, standards and procedures, and reviews as required. Group-wide performance on a quarterly basis. Managing health, safety and At an executive level, sustainable development falls under environmental (HSE) issues the responsibility of the executive committee and looks at Groupand site-specific HSE policies, procedures and the performance of the Group’s non-financial indicators. standards are in place to ensure that we comply with The Exco lends support to the board’s HSE committee, legislative requirements and support our vision of zero the SET committee, and the audit and risk committees. harm. In the year under review our Health, Safety and Environmental policies were reviewed in line with changing Sustainability objectives form part of the key business context and best practices. Responsibility for performance indicators against which the performance implementing HSE policies and procedures rests with line of Implats’ management and executives is measured management. All operations submit quarterly performance and remunerated. Details on these KPIs and their reports to the board-appointed HSE committee. Group implications for the executive is provided in our and operational level HSE specialists support line integrated annual report. management in implementing the strategy and in monitoring and managing performance. The Group HSE People management executive is a member of Excom. The people management function is headed up by a dedicated Group executive reporting to the CEO. The The Group’s environmental team has close links with scope of work includes remuneration, human resource operational and project management and is involved development, talent management, employment equity, in due diligence exercises undertaken in connection stakeholder engagement and sustainable development. with acquisitions and the development of strategic initiatives. Implementation of our policies is enhanced Group policies and procedures on people management by our commitment to maintaining certification to issues are established at corporate level and apply at our ISO 14001-certified environmental management systems. operations. Our policies and procedures are aimed at Regular compliance audits are conducted at our ensuring the continuous development of our employees, operations by the Group’s internal auditors, as well as while at the same time offering career progression by the external auditor. All of the Group’s operations are now ISO 14001 certified; Marula Platinum received its first / OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH / 27 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 certification this year, while all the other operations retained Managing contractors their certifications. As a result of concerns with contractor behaviour not reflecting our value systems, and to minimise any potential In addition to the ISO 14001 certification, the refineries are liability, this year we have reviewed our contractor strategy. signatories to Responsible Care® and retained their A key objective of this strategy is to ensure that we certification. Responsible Care® is the chemical industry’s develop clear principles that will guide the use of reputable global voluntary initiative under which companies, through contractor companies with the right skills and value national associations (such as the Chemical and Allied systems to do specific tasks that we are not able to do Industries Association in South Africa), work together ourselves. The strategy has been structured into two to continuously improve and communicate on their phases. The first phase entails using our training and HSE performance. recruitment resources to ensure that all contracting employees are vetted and assessed according to our own Managing our investments in internal standards. The second phase specifically socio‑economic development interrogates each contracting company and the work they The sustainable development department based at our do for us. The aim is to complete the detailed Rustenburg operations manages our socio-economic assessments with the assistance of an outside specialist development initiatives in our South African operations. and then, over time, effect the required change. A technical team is responsible for implementing the projects, working together with the stakeholder We will also be focusing our attention on suppliers’ engagement department. The identification of community B‑BBEE certificates and prompting suppliers well in projects is an ongoing process based on a needs analysis, advance of their expiry dates. No annual increases will be in consultation with stakeholder representatives from granted where certificates have expired or where communities, local government and employees. The transformation commitments have not been met. During sustainable development project steering committee is the year we terminated the services of 21 suppliers who responsible for reviewing the proposed projects after due contravened our standards. diligence. Once approved by the project steering committee, the projects are recommended to the Group’s executive committee, a multi-disciplinary executive-level management team that evaluates the merits of investing in each project. In Zimbabwe, sustainable development initiatives are implemented and managed by the stakeholder engagement executive supported by technical personnel from the operations. / 28 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Promoting good governance We are committed to promoting the highest standard of This year 139 allegations were reported across the Group. corporate governance, and to ensuring that our practices This represents a significant shift from previous years, with are materially aligned with the expectations of the King more allegations reported and a higher percentage of Code of Governance for South Africa 2009 (King III). The these founded. Implats board assumes overall responsibility for the effectiveness of the internal controls, risk management Overall there was a 140% increase in the number of and governance and to ensure that overall business fraudulent cases in the year. This dramatic increase can be objectives will be met. attributed to the following interventions: • Increased fraud awareness initiatives directed at Corruption and fraud facilitating the reporting of suspected fraud and irregular We have a zero tolerance stance on fraud and corruption. activities in the Group, all this encouraged and We expect our employees, business partners, contractors supported by the leadership of the organisation; and associates to conduct themselves in accordance with • The launch of a new whistle-blower hotline which was the Implats Code of Ethics and our fraud policy. The code communicated across the Group; and and policy are both fully compliant with the Prevention and • The training of all procurement personnel on identifying Combating of Corrupt Activities Act of 2004. and reporting potential cases of corruption and fraud. The fraud policy outlines conflict of interest, the prevention In terms of our fraud policy,the forensic section of Group of dissemination of Company information, the acceptance internal audit investigates all reported allegations and of donations and gifts, and the protection of the intellectual maintains a register for tracking purposes. Of the 139 property and patent rights of the Company. The policy allegations reported and investigated this year, four were outlines the disciplinary action (including dismissal or classified as BEE fronting; 23 were conflict of interest and prosecution) that will be taken in the event of any corruption; 39 were relating to misconduct and contravention. A “whistle-blowing” toll-free helpline is in irregularities and 73 were fraud and theft. place to facilitate the confidential reporting of alleged incidents that are reported to the Group head of internal The table below provides the classification of the audit and the board chairman. Executives and line allegations and outcomes in each category. management are responsible and accountable for the implementation of the fraud policy, Code of Ethics and resultant procedures. / OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH / 29 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Fraudulent irregular activity and theft reported Group-wide by internal audit in 2013 Investigation Allegations Allegations pending unfounded founded Total Nature of allegation BEE fronting 2 2 0 4 Conflict of interest and corruption 12 4 7 23 Fraud and theft 13 18 42 73 Misconduct and other 2 20 17 39 Total 29 44 66 139 At the SA operations 29 allegations were founded, 11 unfounded and 25 are pending investigation. Of the 29 founded cases, 14 were found guilty and the individuals received sanction ranging from employee counselling to dismissals, four were found not guilty and the remaining 11 are still pending. At the Zimbabwe operations there were 74 reported allegations, 82% of which relate to the Zimplats operation and the remaining 18% were reported from the Mimosa operation. All allegations were investigated resulting in 37 cases founded, 33 unfounded and four are still pending. Of the 37 founded cases, 29 were found guilty and the individuals received sanction ranging from written warning to dismissals, six were not guilty and the remaining two are still pending. Developing safe and effective people In ensuring the long-term viability of the platinum sector, we need to play an active role in implementing solutions that are responsive to the complex societal challenges within the communities, countries and markets in which we operate. Given the realities of the global platinum market, our efforts should focus on those issues where we can make the most meaningful contribution to enhancing the resources and relationships upon which we depend. A critical initial focus must be our employees. Our business will only prosper if we are able to recapture the hearts and minds of our employees, adopting an employee value proposition that prioritises safe production and that offers attractive career advancement and development opportunities, as well as competitive remuneration. We aim to institutionalise a new, more open, more democratic, industrial relations dispensation, with direct line management engagement where employees are recognised and respected as equals, based on a culture of trust and respect. / 32 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Safety Our management approach to safety Changing the safety culture: ww Our safety strategy seeks to develop a culture of safety • Implementing the industry’s Mine Health and Safety within the organisation such that we can achieve our vision Council’s (MHSC) cultural transformation framework of zero harm. During the year, safety has received greater • Embedding the Mining Charter’s health and safety executive focus under the new chief executive officer. In commitments August 2012 the board approved a revised occupational • Actively participate and support the CEO’s elimination health and safety policy covering all of our operations. of fatalities task team initiative Ensuring effective supervision: ww Our safety strategy was developed following external • Training miners (1 504), shift supervisors (424) and (DuPont) and internal reviews of our safety systems mine overseers (73) and culture, and an analysis of the root causes of fatal, • Normalising the industrial relations environment reportable and lost-time incidents. The strategy seeks • Implementing the Implats safe production rules to change the safety culture through the Group from • The Triggered Action Response Plan (TARP), which the current measured culture of dependence to formally elevates hazards up the supervisory chain independence, and ultimately to interdependence. In our has also been developed and rolled out by the dependent culture, although there is an acceptance of the MOSH learning hub and corresponds with our FOG need for safe practices, these are generally only followed Major hazard Management Plan. TARP consists of a when effective supervision is present and demands it. set of documented and known hazards that must be In an independent culture, every employee is committed checked for in the working place. The level of risk is to safe working practices, taking clear responsibility for also pre-identified and the responsible person, doing their own actions. In an interdependent culture there the inspection has to react according to this plan. is the added focus of helping others to adopt good Once the risk is “Triggered” the remedial process is safety practice. escalated to the level of responsibility that is required to deal with that risk in terms of the defined process The safety strategy has three main pillars, each of which is underpinned by an accompanying set of action plans: Leadership Cultural Risk management transformation Accident investigations framework  Zero harm incentives      Adopting leading practices    Eliminating discrimination             Nets and bolts  Safety    Proximity detection systems strategy Self contained self rescuers      Modern shaft safety devices    Fire retardent conveyor belts   Technical  Effective  Electronic winch signalling devices  Skills and training initiatives  supervision Modern centralised blasting systems   Effective leadership   Methane detection systems Triggered action response plan / DEVELOPING SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE / 33 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 wwImplementing technical initiatives including: – The development of a mockup facility at the • Roof bolts and nets, fire retardant conveyor belts, 9 Shaft training facility which was commissioned self-contained self-rescuers and electronic winch during 2013 signalling devices – Conducting a methane awareness campaign for • Proximity detection systems (PDS) for trackless and Rustenburg and Marula which was completed in track bound equipment August 2013, as part of the strategy implemented • Vertical shaft bank and station safety devices by in 2013. 2014 • Installing Locomotives speedometers Following the recent changes in the industrial relations • Installing new winch return rigs landscape we are in the process of establishing a revised • As part of the Flammable gas management process health and safety agreement with all employee a Methane gas strategy has been developed which representative groups, inclusive of AMCU, the new involves: representative union. In the interim all health and safety – Methane gas sampling at the Rustenburg and structures have been put in place in accordance with the Marula underground shafts requirement of the Mine Health and Safety Act. – The purchase of two Gas Chromatographs for determining long term flammable gas emissions at While we recognise the fundamental importance of developing the right culture, our ability to make further 11 Shaft in Rustenburg progress in this area has been constrained by the tense – The installation of a barometer to determine the industrial relations climate in the platinum sector. Given influence of barometric pressure on gas release this context, we have focused our efforts on making risks and a system to communicate “gas alerts” substantial investments in technical initiatives aimed at commissioned at 11 Shaft minimising the human element of risk within our operations. Technical safety interventions 100 90 80 —–— New winch return rigs 70 —–— New winch signalling devices 60 —–— New shaft safety devices —–— Locomotive speedometers % 50 —–— Nets and bolts on Merensky 40 —–— Nets and bolts on UG2 30 —–— Self Contained Self Rescuers 20 —–— PDS 10 0 July 2012 July 2013 / 34 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Safety continued Over the year we invested R210 million in various technical solutions aimed at protecting all those who work in our mines and these are reflected in the graph and table below. Safety technical initiatives Expenditure Total estimated to date expenditure Estimated Initiative R’000 R’000 completion date Sasol safe blast system R4 603 R25 000 Jun-14 Fire detection system R4 031 R12 020 Dec-13 WPD signalling devices for scraper winches R8 063 R8 869 Jan-14 Self contained self rescuers R65 371 R85 000 Nov-13 Methane management R4 750 R26 860 Dec-15 Fire retardant conveyor belting R18 500 R24 000 Jun-14 Shaft station safety devices R24 689 R60 000 Jun-14 Roof bolt and netting R25 558 R32 140 Jun-14 Personnel detection systems on trackless machinery R45 411 R61 880 Jun-13 Speed monitoring on rail bound equipment R9 500 R16 000 Dec-13 Although we have made some progress this year in Our 2013 safety performance implementing our safety strategy, it is evident from our It is with regret that we report that eight of our employees Group performance (reviewed below) that we are still and one contractor died at our operations during 2013. All some way from meeting our targets. Regrettably we also nine fatalities occurred at Impala’s Rustenburg operation. fell short of the 2013 Mining Charter target for FIFR of Three of these fatalities were explosion related, three were 0.03 per million man-hours, an industry-wide concern. scraper related and there was one incident in each of the An important contributing factor is that we have not been following: inundation, equipment handling and trucks/ able to achieve the level of operational discipline and tramming. We have undertaken investigations into the root compliance required to meet the targets in all of the causes of these fatal incidents and have implemented operational areas. remedial actions. In memoriam The following employees died at Impala ww Mr Joel Gaoretelewe Selebogo on 10 December during the course of work during 2013. We 2012 extend our sincere condolences to their ww Mr Daniel Makibiti Motenalapi on 25 March families, friends and colleagues: 2013 ww Mr Gwebindlala Bhola on 3 April 2013 Our employees ww Mr Gaopelo Stephen Moalusi on 12 April 2013. ww Mr Albert Kgauta Mlamleli on 29 October Contractor employees 2012 ww Mr Jospeh Daemane Matatiele on ww Mr Gaoagiwe France Wesi on 2 August 2012 11 November 2012 ww Mr Sonwabile Sidinana and Mr Tembekile Trueman Nomvethe on 4 December 2012 / DEVELOPING SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE / 35 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 ww We conducted 662 152 breathalyser tests throughout The decrease in the fatalities from 12 last year and the our operations in line with Company policy of zero reduction in the fatality rate from 0.087 to 0.065, reflects alcohol in the work place. As a result 853 tested our renewed focus on safety during the year. There has positive; disciplinary action has been taken against all been particular progress arising from our strong focus on employees testing positive. preventing fall-of-ground incidents, with no such fatal incidents reported this year. While we have shown some During the year one non-work-related fatality occurred on welcome improvement in our performance, we surface at Rustenburg’s number 7 Shaft. Our sincere acknowledge that there is still much work to be done. condolences and deepest sympathies go out to the family affected by this incident. ww The fatality rate improved to 0.065 per million manhours worked from 0.087 in 2012. Our safety focus for 2014 and beyond ww The lost-time injury frequency rate per million man We have prioritised the following focus areas for safety in hours (LTIFR) improved to 4.21 from 4.96 in 2012. the year ahead: ww The total injury frequency rate (TIFR) – a measure of all ww Leadership: We will continue to focus on ensuring that recorded injuries, including fatalities, lost-time injuries, all operations have behaviour-based safety restricted work cases and medical treatment cases programmes in place, that the DuPont STOP process is – was 10.91 from 11.19 in 2012. fully implemented at Rustenburg and Marula, and that ww The serious injury frequency rate improved by 2% to all E level employees attend safety leadership training. 3.06 per million man hours from 3.13 in 2012. ww Culture shift: As part of our efforts to change the culture of safety within the mining industry, we will use In addition to tracking these important lagging indicators, the Chamber of Mines Five Pillar Cultural we are continuing to focus on refining and monitoring a set Transformation Framework (CTF). This includes a focus of leading indicators of performance. These include the on the following elements: leadership; risk management number of internal safety stoppages, the results of alcohol and accident investigation; bonus incentives; adopting testing and road behaviour checks, and the number of leading practice; and eliminating discrimination. To safety meetings, induction programmes and safety support these five pillars we will strive to implement the representative training initiatives. We saw improvements following initiatives: during the year in each of these indicators: • Undertaking a gap analysis of how we have ww A total of 65 stoppage2 instructions (excluding section progressed against the CTF 55’s) were issued in 2013, resulting in approximately • Training 3 200 safety representatives by 2014 261 days of lost production at our Rustenburg • Implementing leading practice on the adoption of operations, and 21 days at Marula (compared with 292 new technology and zero days respectively in 2012); we continue to • Investigating and accessing at least three of the Mine engage actively with the authorities on these stoppage Health and Safety Council’s research projects. instructions, including challenging them legally where ww Supervision: We will continue to focus on providing we feel this to be justified. While we support all safety technical and managerial training for miners, shift work stoppages where its condition or behaviour has supervisors and overseers, in the belief that inadequate been identified that poses a direct danger to safety, supervision remains a major safety concern. extending these stoppages beyond the scope of the ww Normalising the industrial relations environment: risk is problematic. In certain instances a stoppage may This issue underpins the successful delivery of all our in fact have a negative impact on safety performance. strategic objectives. From a safety perspective we will Although the absolute number of instructions ensure that senior management engages with decreased this year, the duration of stoppages has supervisors to contextualise the current challenges and increased. We have also been levied with two fines provide support for effective supervision, and we will be from the DMR relating to stoppage instructions. We pursuing interactions with senior union leadership to have requested a formal review of these fines. In gain commitment for safety initiatives. addition an internal safety stoppage system was fully ww Communication: Building on the initiatives we have developed and formalised in the year and a total of implemented this year, Implats-branded safety 3 528 proactive stoppages were made in workings. communication messages will be further extended into ww We achieved 91% compliance in our road behaviour our immediate communities with the assistance of testing, as compared with 35% three years ago external communication agencies. 2 In South Africa the DMR issues section 54 or 55 stoppage orders; in Zimbabwe the state inspectorate issues a stoppage instruction. / 36 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Safety continued ww Safety reward systems: We have reviewed our identification and rectification system will be incentive schemes at all levels to include leading and implemented across the Group utilising the lagging safety indicators. ISOMETRIX system. ww Safe production rules: A list of safety-specific rules Targets: Each operation is expected to achieve at least ww have been developed and used to train employees. a 20% improvement in their LTIFR performance. In ww Risk management review: We intend to develop a addition, we will strive to achieve: 100% compliance fully integrated health, safety and risk management plan with road behaviour; 100% compliance with platinum rule or 100% disciplinary action for non-compliance, to to increase risk awareness and mitigation at all levels in these rules. the organisation; the introduction of major hazard standards will be assessed and an online hazard Fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) Per million hours worked 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Impala Rustenburg 0.091 0.115 0.061 0.166 0.107 Impala Springs – – – – – Marula – 0.130 – – 0.134 Mimosa – – 0.100 – – Zimplats – – – – – Group 0.065 0.087 0.053 0.122 0.082 FIFR (per million hours worked) TIFR (per million hours worked) 2009 0.082 FY09 13.95 2010 0.122 FY10 15.21 2011 0.053 FY11 13.47 2012 0.087 FY12 11.19 2013 0.065 FY13 10.91 FY13: 0.065 FY13: 10.91 A 5% improvement A 3% improvement LTIFR (per million hours worked) RIFR (per million man-hours worked) 2009 2.92 2009 2.06 2010 4.61 2010 3.21 2011 4.94 2011 3.23 2012 4.96 2012 3.13 2013 4.21 2013 3.06 FY13: 4.21 FY13: 3.06 A 15% improvement A 2% improvement / DEVELOPING SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE / 37 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 NOTABLE SAFETY ACHIEVEMENTS Zimplats 10 million fatality free shifts on 26 March 2013 ww Impala refineries 9 million fatality free shifts 9 November 2012 ww Impala 1 Shaft 6 million fatality free shifts on 13 December 2012 ww Impala 12 Shaft 4 million fatality free shifts on 9 May 2013 ww Mimosa 3 million fatality free shifts on 22 April 2013 ww Impala 16 Shaft 2 million fatality free shifts on 1 March 2013 ww Impala 10, 14, 20, 6 Shafts and Marula each achieved 1 million fatality free shifts during the year ww Mimosa improved its lost time injury rate by 78% for the year ww Marula improved its lost time injury rate by 53% for the year ww Comparison of fatality rates (6 month 2013) across the South African Platinum Industry 0.400 0.350 (per million man-hours) 0.300 0.250 0.200 0.150 0.100 0.050 0.000 ANGLO LONPLATS NORTHAM IMPLATS AQUARIUS EASTPLATS ROYAL XTRATA Pt PLATINUM PLATS BAFOKENG INDUSTRY Pt ● 2007 ● 2008 ● 2009 ● 2010 ● 2011 ● 2012 ● 2013 / 38 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Employee health and well-being Our management approach to health Our 2013 health performance Promoting the health and well-being of our employees, The principal occupational health risk associated with and contributing to the broader health of their family our mining activities is noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL). members and communities, is critical to Implats’ ability to The main health risk facing all employees is the human create value. Poor health has severe consequences immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and infection with pulmonary across a range of interrelated issues including safety, tuberculosis (TB). Both of these are of epidemic staffing practices, absenteeism, efficiencies and skills proportions in southern Africa. retention. Our health strategy addresses both occupational and non-occupational health. The key health trends and our performance during 2013 are summarised below; a more detailed review of our On occupational health, our strategy is to ensure that all health performance at an operational level is provided on occupational health risks are identified, mitigation controls page 81. are in place and that any ill health is detected and treated early and efficiently. Any resulting disability is referred to ww General health indicators: During the course of the independent third parties for assessment and possible year we conducted over 90 000 medical screening compensation. Our strategy on non-occupational health examinations on employees to ensure that they are fit focuses on ensuring that all employees have access to to perform their specific duties. affordable healthcare so that all health stressors can be ww Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL): In 2013, identified, managed and treated. The delivery and funding 50 cases of NIHL were diagnosed and submitted for arrangements depend on local facilities and conditions, assessment for compensation, as compared with and differ between our operations in South Africa 63 in 2012. NIHL remains a major occupational health and Zimbabwe. risk and the number of employees showing early loss of hearing remains a concern. To combat this we have The Impala Medical Plan (IMP) is a registered medical made further progress on the silencing of individual scheme that was formed to provide private care to machines to below 110dB and all new equipment is employees and their dependants through Companypurchased in terms of the buy quiet policy to ensure owned and operated facilities at Rustenburg, Marula and that no machines emit noise levels above 110dB. In Refineries. In addition, we provide access to external addition to these initiatives, exposed individuals are medical schemes to those employees who prefer provided with custom made hearing-protection alternative private arrangements. The IMP currently has a devices (HPD). membership of over 20 000 people. A significant current ww Pneumoconiosis: The risk of contracting silicosis on development that will impact our non-occupational health our operations is extremely low due to the very low strategy is the South African Government’s commitment to levels of Alpha Quartz in the rock that is being mined. National Health Insurance (NHI). We are supporting the Altogether 20 new cases of silicosis were diagnosed at NHI through partnerships with the Department of Health. our Rustenburg operation all of these cases have Two partnership projects – the Job Shimakane Tabane proven historic gold mine exposure. All cases have Neonatal Unit and the Freedom Park Clinic – were been submitted for assessment and compensation to successfully completed this year. the Department of Health’s Medical Bureau of Occupational Diseases. Recognising the critical role of nutrition in maintaining our ww HIV/Aids: We have an HIV/Aids policy that covers health strategy, we use the advice of dieticians in choosing activities across all our operations. The policy ensures all food provided in Company accommodation. The patient confidentiality, non-discrimination and highlights provision of mid-shift feeding is being investigated and a our commitment to ARV treatment programmes. During trial to establish the most effective methods of distribution, the year, we undertook 11 782 HIV tests on employees control and formal mid-shift feeding is being conducted at (2012: 9 820). Over the year a total of 6 014 employees 1 Shaft and will be extended to 14 Shaft Impala participated in the wellness programme (2012: 5 179), Rustenburg operations. of whom 4 039 (2012: 3 566) received antiretroviral / DEVELOPING SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE / 39 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 therapy (ART). Altogether 1 075 of those on ART joined the ART programme during the year. The number of TB employees receiving ART through external medical aids 2009 487 or government health facilities is not known and so 2010 399 these figures may be underestimated. Regrettably 2011 350 69 employees passed away due to HIV-related 2012 389 illness during the year (compared with 112 in 2012), 2013 334 while an additional 588 patients applied for medical FY13: 334 A 14% decrease incapacity and left the Group. In our Zimplats operations we have engaged sex workers in the informal settlements around the mine area to involve them in our programmes on HIV/Aids and sexually VCT transmitted diseases. This has resulted in a reduction in 2009 6 101 the incidence of sexually transmitted infections 2010 6 837 among mine employees and dependants. 2011 14 072 Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB): TB remains a ww 2012 9 820 significant health risk for our employees, due mainly to 2013 11 782 co-infection with HIV. A total of 87% of newly FY13: 11 782 diagnosed TB patients in 2013 are HIV-positive. A 20% increase During the year, 334 new cases of pulmonary TB were detected (2012: 389), equating to a rate of 830 per 100 000 employees. ART Diesel particulate matter: All diesel has now been ww 2009 1 006 changed to low sulphur diesel; this has resulted in a 2010 1 905 reduction in particulate matter exposure of 15%. 2011 2 773 Malaria: In 2013, 56 cases of malaria were diagnosed ww 2012 3 566 at Impala Rustenburg and nine at Ngezi Zimplats. All of 2013 4 039 these patients had recently travelled to malaria endemic FY13: 4 039 areas. All cases were successfully treated. We will be A 13% increase conducting further malaria vector surveys at the Ngezi operations in November 2013 to determine if there are adult female anopheles mosquitoes present during the rainy season. Medical incapacity 2009 116 National Health Insurance: Two projects (Neonatal ww 2010 281 ICU and Freedom Park Clinic) were completed at a 2011 388 cost of R8.5 million and were handed over to the 2012 699 Department of Health during 2013. 2013 588 FY13: 588 A 16% decrease NIHL Aids deaths in service 2009 44 2009 122 2010 107 2010 134 2011 57 2011 131 2012 63 2012 112 2013 50 2013 69 FY13: 50 FY13: 69 A 21% decrease A 38% decrease / 40 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Employee health and well-being continued Our health focus for 2014 and beyond HIV/Aids: We will strive to ensure a further uptake of at ww We have prioritised the following key focus areas for health least 10% of known HIV-infected employees onto our in the year ahead: wellness and ART programmes, as well as carefully ww Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL): Employees will monitoring and driving compliance of the existing continue to have annual audiometric screening 4 039 patients on ART treatment. examinations to detect deterioration of hearing early Employee wellness: Our wellness programme ww and before permanent NIHL develops. Any employee extends care and guidance to approximately who shows signs of early hearing loss of between 5% 6 014 employees, with 4 039 employees receiving and 10% will undergo a formal evaluation and safety antiretroviral treatment; we anticipate that the ARV investigation. We will continue to track and investigate uptake will grow by 5% per year. We will be placing all cases of early NIHL. Employees showing an early stronger emphasis on monitoring and promoting hearing loss shift of between 2.5 and 5% will undergo employee fitness throughout the Group, and we will formal counselling on the risks of noise, the importance undertake further work during the year to identify the of wearing HPD and the implications of NIHL. Action most effective means for the distribution of subsidised will be taken against employees who have been nutritional feeding to underground employees. counselled and are found without HPD in the Medical Aid and non-occupational medical care: ww designated areas. The Impala Medical Plan currently has a membership ww Diesel particulate matter (DPM): The monitoring of over 20 000; our aim for next year is to increase of personal exposures to DPM will continue into membership by a further 5% while maintaining the future. The risk of exposure to DPM will be affordable contribution levels. mitigated by adequate ventilation, low sulphur diesel National Health Insurance: Ensuring that our health ww replacement and exhaust filters in underground diesel strategy is fully aligned with the NHI remains a key combustion engines. We will continue with our focus for 2014. In accordance with our MoU with the programme of silencing machine across the Group and Department of Health, we intend to enter into a further with our buy quiet policy of only purchasing machine MoU regarding the establishment or refurbishment of and equipment that emits noise below 110dB. primary care clinics in and around the lease areas. ww Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB): We will strive to ensure that there is no further increase in our current incident rate (which is currently 830 per 100 000 employees), and that we at least maintain our in-house cure rate of above 90%. We will also assess the TB risk in contractors and investigate contact tracing in communities and mitigate the risk of exporting active TB to our labour sending areas. / DEVELOPING SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE / 41 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Employee relations Our management approach to Our employee relations strategy is based on the following employee relations key principles: The events of the past year have underscored the critical ww Encouraging the involvement, as far as possible, of all importance of maintaining effective relationship with stakeholders in crafting a future dispensation in a employees and stakeholders. process where dialogue and problem solving become the primary means of dealing with issues Implats is committed to providing an enabling work ww Establishing a multi-union dispensation with a lower environment that fosters open, honest and effective threshold and the avoidance of a “winner takes all” relations between management, employees and elected majoritarian system as far as possible union representatives. Our labour relations policy deals ww Building sound and sustainable direct relationships with with freedom of association, recognition of trade unions, employees, without undermining our union relationships discrimination and the rights of employees and and/or their relationship with the workers contractors. We monitor labour relations in our operations, ww Transforming the relationships between frontline with monthly reports submitted from the operations to the managers and employees to a culture of collaboration Exco. An independent third party conducts biannual and problem solving surveys on the effectiveness of our labour relations. ww Inculcating the new Impala values of respect and care. Currently on average 81.3% of our South African Our 2013 performance on employees and 35% of our employees in Zimbabwe are employee relations covered by collective bargaining agreements with labour The industrial relations landscape within the South African unions. Issues addressed within these agreements include platinum mining sector continues to evolve. During the salary and benefit reviews, the participation of unions in year the Association of Mineworkers and Construction decision-making at different forums, and consultation and Union (AMCU) increased its representation across the notice periods regarding any significant organisational mining sector and has begun to receive recognition at changes. The minimum notice period for any some of the platinum companies. During the reporting organisational change or activity at Implats’ operations is period we withdrew recognition with National Union of 30 days. Mineworkers (NUM) at the Impala Rustenburg operations, and later in the year signed a recognition agreement with Following the recent tumultuous events in the sector, we AMCU for this operation. Continued rivalry between AMCU have recognised that we had previously over invested in and the NUM has remained a challenge. the institution of the union to identify and resolve peoplerelated problems, rather than empowering our line A key development this year has been the tripartite managers to get more directly involved in overseeing process between government, industry and labour that people-related issues. To address this concern our has most recently been chaired by the South African strategy on employee relations has focused firstly on the Deputy President. This process has resulted in the Peace short-term need to normalise the operating environment and Stability Accord, promoting non-violence, tolerance as quickly as possible, and secondly on the longer-term and stability. Implementation of this Accord is proving a goal of recapturing the hearts and minds of our challenge at the grassroots level, where our approach employees. Our aim is to create a new employee of face-to-face engagement with employees to take engagement model driven by line management, and to the pledge has been met with some initial resistance. establish an industrial relations dispensation in which all stakeholders commit to a common set of values that extend the current boundaries of what constitutes the ‘common interest’. / 42 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Employee relations We are determined to progress this further and engage We have taken a harder line on discipline, especially with weekly with all labour stakeholders. Efforts to set up respect to reported cases of assault and violence in line a central bargaining forum within the sector have not with the Peace and Stability Accord. This action needs to materialised this year. However this will continue to be continue to send a consistent message that workers who advanced through the Chamber of Mines, in coming year misconduct themselves will face severe consequences, once wage negotiations have been concluded. even if this action elevates the risk of illegal work stoppages. During 2013 our South African operations did not suffer any significant work stoppages with only minor stoppages Our focus on employee relations translating into 20 000 tonnes of lost production at for 2014 and beyond individual shafts and at operational level. The current employee relations environment is characterised by high levels of employee disengagement. At Zimplats we have generally enjoyed cordial industrial The intense union rivalry has exacerbated the situation. relations, with no industrial action experienced throughout The lack of a direct relationship between management and the year. Collective bargaining for the Zimbabwean mining the employee has been exposed. The challenge facing the industry went smoothly and was concluded in February organisation is to regain control, normalise and win back 2013. The major industrial relations issue was the utilities the hearts and minds of our employees. We have therefore dispute that has since been resolved. Early in the year developed a revised approach to industrial and employee there was some trade union activity at Ngezi, where the relations that seek to resolve people issues at the source two unions, Associated Mine Workers Union of Zimbabwe as quickly as possible. This revised approach will include a (AMWUZ) and National Mine Workers Union of Zimbabwe range of activities over the short and medium term. (NMWUZ) were jostling for membership, capitalising on the utilities dispute. This has since subsided. ww The plan is to implement an inclusive and credible externally facilitated process aimed at maximising the Across the Group we are communicating more directly quality of the outcomes and the buy-in of all with employees. Employee opinions have been surveyed stakeholders. This new approach will be driven within a rights-based framework, with the focus on creating and feedback will be used to ensure we meet their opportunities for participation that should exclude expectations concerning the Respect, Care and Deliver winner-takes-all options and that sets lower thresholds initiative of the CEO. Other initiatives include videos, to gain recognition and negotiating rights as far as briefings, CEO addresses, general manager feedback and possible. daily, weekly and monthly meetings at shafts across all ww We are currently ensuring that our supervisors and different forums within operations. These interactions are mine management are up-skilled. This will enable the over and above the conversations between Implats and fostering of stronger relationships between Implats and the unions. employees. The solution is threefold: firstly, a week of team building that addresses our key issues and fosters / DEVELOPING SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE / 43 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 problem-solving capabilities; secondly, supervisors and mine managers will start a six-day technical training on all aspects of their job; and thirdly, we will conduct people leadership skills training, equipping supervisors and mine managers with skills to combat the current climate. There is currently an investigation into means of ww ensuring the appropriate representation for all employees, including considering how non-unionised employees are appropriately catered for and represented. There is a plan to engage government and unions through the Chamber of Mines (CoM) and to focus on rebuilding relationships with all unions. There is also renewed efforts to rebuilding centralised bargaining at the CoM. For the Zimbabwean operation, our focus will be on ww striving to resolve IR issues swiftly in-house, strengthening internal communication structures to enhance the effectiveness of the Company’s work councils and building trust at all levels of the organisation. / 44 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Recruitment, retention and skills Our management approach to people Our approach to people management continuously focuses on ensuring that our employees operate in a safe environment supported by organisational programmes that enhance productivity and efficiency. As such our people strategy focuses on ensuring that employees are motivated, have the ability and requisite skills to carry out their duties and operate in fair and ethical work environment. Primarily the organisation aims to ensure that it has the right people, at the right place doing the right things. Value of respect and care Fair, Diversity and transformation ethical and Sound corporate governance sustainable  organisation                                  Effective     people          People People  A learning model with      who are Remuneration     Talent management ability    motivated Recognition Team mobilisation Reward Attracting and retaining talent is an increasingly significant To address these challenges our strategy is focused upon challenge, not only for Implats but also for the mining attracting, retaining and rewarding the right people, and industry as a whole, both locally and globally. providing the right skills to the right people. There are various factors that are contributing to this With this in mind, the following strategic initiatives are challenge, including: in place: wwEmployee turnover, as a result of an ageing/sick ww Recruitment: The principal aim of our recruitment workforce strategy is to ensure we get the right people: younger, wwHigh turnover of critical mining skills, as a result of healthier, better educated, locally based and more intense competition for these skills women. wwA depleted national skills pool for core mining skills ww Reward: A critical part of our talent strategy is to offer wwPoor education levels in our semi-skilled talent pool fair remuneration, consisting of a market-related basic wwIneffective primary and further education and training wage, appropriate employment benefits and effective institutional capacity incentives linked to our safety and production wwHigh unemployment among the youth and in efficiencies. The amounts have decreased substantially mining communities over the past few years due to lower productivity and wwThe general poor image of the mining industry as a increased safety stoppages, which has placed potential employer. additional pressure on our fixed pay elements and employees’ disposable income. We offer maternity / DEVELOPING SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE / 45 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 leave of four months, and paternity leave of four days. Our 2013 performance on people At our Zimbabwean operations the philosophy is to pay management rewards that fall into the upper quartile of the market Our performance on employee-related issues was rate. This has placed these operations in a position dominated by the aftermath of Marikana. A summary of where they are able to attract good talent. The last our performance on key issues over the year is presented three years has seen an increase in mining activities below; additional detail at an operational level over the within the country, particularly within the diamond past four years is presented in the performance table on mining, consequently placing a greater demand for page 80. critical skills and talent. At the beginning of this year Zimplats carried out a survey on remuneration to ww Skills turnover: Total workforce turnover for 2013 was benchmark with peer companies, as a result of which 5.7%, down from 10% in 2012. The turnover of our salary adjustments were provided for critical skills in miners at the South African operations was 8.8% for grades C3 and C4. The latest survey indicates that the the year, decreasing from 20% last year due to current Company remains competitive. job market conditions and the marked salary increases Skills development: Skills development activities ww granted in the year 2012 bringing some stability to focus on three main areas: technical skills, general employee skills migration. Turnover of rock drill education and people management skills. All three are operators was 4.4%, down from 12% last year; the critical enablers for us to increase intellectual capacity decrease again attributable to the strike action in 2012. within the Group and facilitate succession planning and At the Zimplats operations turnover remained stable at advancement activities, thus reducing our reliance on 3.9% (4.2%: 2012).. the external market for these skills. ww Performance and talent management: Our Succession plans and talent identification: ww performance management system has been reviewed Historically we focused efforts only on D and E level for and amendments made to the system and process. In succession planning. The scope has more recently this financial year we have successfully implemented been expanded to include identification of talent within discipline-specific talent management forums and semi-skilled and supervisory level positions. We focus area-specific talent identification forums. These forums on ensuring that talent pools are identified for all critical identify, develop and assess talent at various levels occupations. The talent pools are reviewed quarterly within the organisation as a line management function and assessed to ensure that identified talent is with the support and assistance of the talent considered for promotional and developmental department. Succession planning, performance opportunities. assessments, developmental priorities and ensuring Leadership development: Our leadership ww potential candidates move within/toward the relevant development initiative focuses not only on developing career paths are outcomes of this process to ensure the technical ability of managers, but also on ensuring upward mobility and successful talent management of that they have the critical people leadership skills. This our internal talent. has become more important in the post-Marikana ww Skills development: During the year we implemented operating environment. The successful leadership of various initiatives aimed at promoting skills employees in the current labour environment clearly development: requires a particular set of skills and values. We have • In our South African operations we commenced mobilised our senior mining leadership around these implementation of our new training programme, issues with the assistance of an independent expert to developed in partnership with the mining recruitment engage and empower our leadership with the company, TEBA, and the Royal Bafokeng Nation to necessary attributes to deal with people challenges. train young people with grade 12 qualifications as winch operators and rock drill operators. We have registered this programme with the Government Jobs Fund, with the goal of training more than 1 000 people per year (or approximately 60% of our indicated requirement) / 46 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Recruitment, retention and skills continued • Group skills development expenditure for our South investing in various skills development initiatives in our African operations was R428 million, a 20.8% local communities, as well as seeking to promote local increase year on year (2012: R354 million). Of this, employment through our local procurement practices 3.1% (R13 million) went towards ABET training. We (see page 65). have maintained our skills development expenditure at the targeted level of 5.5% of payroll. For the Our focus on people management for Zimplats operations US$2.7 million was spent on 2014 and beyond skills development, unchanged from the previous Retention of key talent (mine overseers, shift supervisors, year miners, engineers, foremen and artisans) remains vital to • Over the year we provided an average of maintain continuity and improve safety and productivity. 105.91 hours of training per employee for all our To this end, we will review all aspects of our selection, employees, while our contractors received an retention and reward processes to ensure we improve average of 32.55 hours each of training at our South our turnover rate to achieve our targeted rate of 7.5%. African operations • During 2013, our South African operations had The performance-related part of our employees’ salaries 110 full-time bursary holders (88.2% are HDSA) at has decreased over the last few years. Recognising this, university studying primarily in the engineering and it is clear from recent developments in the industry that mining-related disciplines, while we had a new remuneration system will evolve over time. The approximately 10 full-time bursaries from our mechanics and implementation of a new system is not a Zimbabwe operations. In addition, a total of simple matter. In the coming year we be implementing our 675 individuals benefited from our apprenticeship recently amended performance management system and learnership programmes (54.7% are HDSA) through various communication methods involving all across the South African operations. stakeholders. We aim to optimise our reward philosophy, ww Adult basic education and training (ABET): The specifically looking at market position, job evaluation, level of basic literacy (ABET3) at our mining operations critical jobs and wage/benefit differentiation. We will review has improved over the past five years, up from 30% in the bonus system specifically looking at incentives to 2008 to 80% in 2013. In 2013, 805 employees were restore productivity and zero harm. enrolled for ABET, in both full-time and part-time classes, representing a 24% decrease on 2012 (907 In terms of succession planning and talent identification students). The major challenge confronting us; is that we will focus on ensuring that talent pools are identified the majority of illiterate employees are over 55 and have for all critical occupations. The talent pools will be little desire for further education. On average 59% of reviewed quarterly and assessed to ensure that those who wrote exams successfully completed their identified talent is considered for promotional and programmes, while 23% dropped out or were developmental opportunities. unsuccessful in their examinations. ww Leadership development: Altogether 15 members of It is anticipated that our annual employee turnover rate our management team at the South African operations coupled with our business initiatives will require participated in our senior management and executive approximately 3 000 new hires every year for the next five development programmes, presented by GIBS; 6.6% years. of those who participated in the programme were women and 53.3% were HDSAs. At our Zimplats Recruitment plans include employing the right people: operation, a total of 379 people underwent leadership younger, healthier, better-educated and locally based development courses, comprising a total of 2 661 talent. This is pivotal to our success, as is increasing the training days. Courses include management proportion of women in identified positions. We will also development, industrial relations, supervisory aim to recruit directly from our local communities. development and report writing. These programmes have been put on hold due to low profitability. We have a three-pronged approach to improving the skill ww Promoting local employment: Despite efforts to hire base of our employees, comprising technical skills training, more local people, migrant workers continue to play an education and people leadership skills. Our technical skills important role in the industry, particularly for rock drill training include the skills development academy, the operators and winch operators, who come principally mining academy and the engineering academy, as well as from the Eastern Cape, Northern Cape and Lesotho. our bursaries, learnerships, internships and study These two job categories constitute more than 38% of assistance programmes. In terms of education, we will our South African workforce. As outlined above we are continue to provide education within our neighbouring communities by working with local schools and other education stakeholders. / DEVELOPING SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE / 47 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Promoting diversity Our management approach to diversity there is no legislation in Zimplats to enforce gender equity, Informed by our goal of meeting and exceeding the the operation aligns itself to the overall Group policy on expectations of the revised Mining Charter, our diversity. It has set a target of at least 10% of all surface employment equity strategy focuses on two main strategic engagements being females. areas: integrating transformation and employment equity considerations within our talent management and people Our 2013 performance on diversity processes; and accelerating the recruitment, development Given the challenges presented by the operating context and promotion of designated groups into occupational over the last 18 months, we have directed our efforts levels where they are underrepresented. towards retaining talent. Our efforts are directed towards the executive and senior management levels, a challenge To assist in driving this strategy throughout the Group, shared across the industry. Our shortand longer-term during the year we put in place a common framework for transformational objectives have been reviewed in line with the Group transformation committee and Implats’ business requirements ensuring they are placed as a Operational Employment Equity structures. At Zimplats we business imperative and also taking account of the current are committed to promoting gender equity at all levels of operating challenges. the organisation, particularly at managerial level. While HDSA in management (South Africa) 2013 2012 Mining Mining Charter Total Charter Total target number of HDSA target number of HDSA 2013 HDSA employees/ employees/ 2012 HDSA employees/ employees/ % % members members % % members members Board 35 67 12 8 25 58 12 7 Exco 35 22 9 2 25 25 8 2 Senior management 35 36 108 39 25 39 108 42 Middle management 40 43 206 89 35 43 202 86 Junior management 40 54 444 240 40 53 433 231 Total management 48 779 378 48 763 368 Note: Excluding non-executive directors, HDSA in management is 370 which represents 48% of management. Following the restructuring process in September 2013, HDSAs in EXCO now represent 33%. / 48 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Notwithstanding the fact that the new Mining Charter does We are shifting away from focusing on greater female not address the role of women and their representation representation globally towards considering specific job within mining, we continue to encourage female categories that benefit from greater female representation. representation at all levels of the organisation. During the Given the current environment we would find it difficult to year our approach has changed and we have classified progress our women in mining figures, without changing women into two specific groups: women at all levels and our mining practice. Our strategy is to automate where women in mining (specifically those working in possible, starting with mine development which advances underground conditions). women representation in the long term. At our South African operations we have 142 women represented in management translating into 19% of total management. Implats Lonmin Anglo Platinum In HDSA In HDSA In HDSA Level service % service % service % F – Top management 4 25 15 20 2 50 E – Senior management 114 38 182 39 366 41 D – Professional qualified 635 50 423 54 2 261 57 C – Skilled technical 4 967 73 3 535 66 7 256 72 A/B – Semi-skilled and discretionary decisionmaking/unskilled 30 132 85 23 740 81 41 006 86 Total 35 852 83 27 895 78 50 891 82 Source: 2012 Employment Equity Reports At Zimplats this year we surpassed our target of at least ww Promoting talent from within, aiming for 80% HDSAs at 10% of all surface engagements being females, when we D level and 70% at E level reached 17% of all surface engagements. Females ww Recruiting scarce skills where necessary, aiming for currently constitute 6% of the total Zimplats workforce. 80% HDSAs at D level and 70% at E level ww Using graduate and skills development programmes to Our focus on diversity for 2014 advance transformation in targeted occupations (90% and beyond HDSAs and 50% women) Overall we aim to achieve 80% and 65% HDSA ww Aiming for the following representations of HDSA: 75% representation at D and E level respectively by the year at C level; 55% at D level; and 40% at E level 2020. To achieve these goals, our employment equity ww Aiming for the following representations of women: strategy focuses on the following issues: 25% women at all levels and 10% women in mining ww Retaining key talent as far as possible, aiming for ww Aiming to have 44% HDSA representation on Exco by turnover of 7.5% per annum 2014 ww Inculcating a corporate culture and value system to advance transformation. / DEVELOPING SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE / 49 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 CASE STUDY Promoting gender equality at Implats: Women inspiring others Women at our Rustenburg operations. The mining industry has historically been characterised by a gender imbalance in favour of men, but in recent years we have seen encouraging progress towards greater gender equality in the mining workforce. At Implats we have seen the rise of inspiring women within the organisation, both at the rock face as well as in management positions at our mine sites. There are several leading examples of women at our operations who have embraced the challenge of working in the mining sector and who are inspiring other women to do the same. ww At Impala Rustenburg, Vuyisile Sithole from KwaZulu-Natal has progressed from graduate to shift supervisor. Vuyi graduated in 2007 from the University of the Witwatersrand with a Bachelor of Science degree in Mining Engineering, assisted with an Impala Platinum bursary. She joined the Company as a mining engineer in training and obtained her Blasting Certificate and Mine Manager’s Certificate (MMC) for Metalliferous Mines in 2010. She has worked as a miner in both mechanised and conventional sections, acquiring diverse experience in mining projects. Currently a development shift supervisor and acting mine overseer, Vuyi aims to be become a mine manager. ww Tobey Sithole, originally from Witbank, is the first woman head of department at Marula platinum mine, in the instrumentation department. Tobey joined Marula mine in May 2008 as an instrument technician after four years at Highveld Steel and Vanadium Corporation based at Emalahleni. In 2010 she was promoted to senior instrument technician. She holds a certificate in B-Tech Electrical Engineering, National Diploma Instrumentation, and a trade assessment certificate. ww At Zimplats, Milan Hamadziripi is the first female shift-boss at our Zimplats operations at Bimha mine. Raised in Lalapanzi Zimbabwe, she attended the Zimbabwe School of Mines in Zimbabwe and hopes to obtain her mining degree within the next five years. Milan has been mentored by Mr Segula, the chief operating officer at Zimplats mines. ww At our Mimosa operation, Inviolata Mashoko has risen above stereotypes to venture into the field as a rig operator. She entered the mining sector in 2005 and joined Mimosa in 2009. She was trained by Bindura Nickel Company where she obtained her mine blasting licence. Previously she was a borehole driller. We believe that the success demonstrated by these women will inspire other women to pursue a career in the mining sector in general, and with Implats in particular. Social capital investments The challenging social context in which we operate has highlighted the strategic importance of investing in social development. It is clear the long-term success of our business is closely linked to the success and well-being of the communities in which we operate. In our South African operations our investment strategy focuses primarily on infrastructure, health, education, community empowerment and poverty alleviation projects. The strategy aims to complement our accommodation and living conditions initiatives, through the provision of schools, clinics and other amenities. Our investments during the reporting period reflected our specific focus on promoting local economic development by contributing to establishing basic infrastructure, education, community empowerment and healthcare. Our goal is to establish infrastructure that will address urgent needs in mine communities with the focus on longer-term impacts. We support the endeavours of our employees by encouraging them to participate in community projects. / 52 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our economic and social value added Implats makes a significant positive contribution to ww Taxation and royalties paid to government – socio-economic development in both South Africa and R1 909 million Zimbabwe: we provide employment, skills and training, we ww Dividends paid to shareholders – R580 million pay taxes and royalties to governments and dividends to ww Payments to providers of capital – R1 015 million our shareholders, we purchase goods and services from ww Investments in socio-economic development initiatives local businesses, and we invest in the development and in our communities – South Africa R102 million and in improvement of infrastructure and other social services in Zimbabwe US$9 million the communities that are home to our employees. ww Payments to suppliers and contractors – South Africa R9 800 million and in Zimbabwe US$388 million During 2013, significant value was created for our various ww Reinvestment in the Group to sustain value creation for stakeholders in the form of: stakeholders – R3 193 million. ww Employee wages and benefits – R8 783 million ww Skills and training spend – R428 million A detailed breakdown of the economic value added throughout 2013 is provided in the following table: Direct economic value added from Group operations For the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Rm Rm Rm Rm Rm Revenue 30 032 27 593 33 132 25 446 26 121 Net cost of products and services (15 762) (12 689) (14 031) (10 681) (11 745) Value added by operations 14 270 14 904 18 174 14 765 14 376 Other net (expenditure)/income 630 907 581 416 1 004 Total value added 14 900 15 811 18 755 15 181 15 380 Applied as follows to: Employee benefits 8 783 6 940 6 732 6 158 4 426 Labour and other 8 881 7 313 6 783 5 773 5 143 Share-based payments (98) (373) (51) 385 (717) The state as direct taxes 1 145 1 207 1 897 1 584 1 733 Royalty recipients 764 664 901 536 442 Providers of capital 1 015 3 731 2 881 2 178 7 946 Financing costs 382 248 190 179 140 Non-controlling interest 53 119 172 79 (16) Dividends 580 3 364 2 519 1 920 7 822 Total value distributed 11 707 12 542 12 411 10 456 14 547 Reinvested in the Group 3 193 3 268 6 344 4 725 833 Depreciation 2 424 1 708 1 372 1 083 979 Reserves retained 769 1 560 4 972 3 642 (146) 14 900 15 811 18 755 15 181 15 380 Implats supports the principles of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative on the disclosure to stakeholders on taxes paid to governments in the countries in which we operate. In the years under review R2 122 million was paid to the South African government as taxes and US$157 million was paid to the Zimbabwean government. / Social capital investments / 53 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Taxes paid directly to government by category and country* South Africa Zimbabwe (Rm) (US$m) Profits 557 68 140 Labour 1 188 44 Royalties and environmental liabilities** 371 44 Capital gains 5 Total 2 122 157 * Reporting in line with the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). ** Includes royalties paid to other third parties. / 54 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Investing in our communities Our management approach to accommodation and living conditions of our employees social investment through the upgrading of employee housing, home The challenging social context in which we operate has ownership facilitation, completing conversion of singlehighlighted the strategic importance of investing in social gender residences to one man per room and family units development. It is clear the long-term success of our (see pages 58 and 59). Zimplats’ social investment business is closely linked to the success and well-being decreased by 26% from US$ 5.7 million in 2012 to of the communities in which we operate. US$4.2 million in 2013. A detailed breakdown of our community investments is presented in the tables on In our South African operations our investment strategy pages 56 and 57. focuses primarily on infrastructure, health, education, community empowerment and poverty alleviation projects. An external consultant has undertaken an independent The strategy aims to complement our accommodation review and assessment of the socio-economic impacts of and living conditions initiatives, through the provision of these investments. Based on the findings of this review, schools, clinics and other amenities. Our investments the following is a brief summary of the identified during the reporting period reflected our specific focus on contribution associated with our investments: promoting local economic development by contributing to ww Our socio-economic development expenditure for 2013 establishing basic infrastructure, education, community benefited more than 100 000 people in South Africa empowerment and healthcare. Our goal is to establish and over 12 000 in Zimbabwe. More than 28 000 were infrastructure that will address urgent needs in mine community members that benefited from new communities with the focus on longer-term impacts. We and improved infrastructure, including hospital support the endeavours of our employees by encouraging upgrades, water infrastructure and new primary them to participate in community projects. and secondary schools ww We also completed the construction of the Sunrise View At Zimplats, our community engagement strategy has primary school, which was officially opened in January been informed by the outcome of the perception and 2013 by the Minister of Mineral Resources, Minister of baseline studies and ongoing consultations with Basic Education, Chairman of Implats Board, Premier community leaders. Key perceptions from the study of North West Province, Impala Bafokeng Trust highlight the need for greater engagement directly with the representative and the CEO of Implats. The secondary community on community development initiatives, as well school will be completed in August 2013 and officially as further requests to invest in more infrastructural projects open in January 2014. This school building project is a not related to the Company’s operations. The community result of a partnership between Implats, Impala also identified and ranked their key development needs, Bafokeng Trust, North West Department of Education including the need for the promotion of livelihood incomeand the provincial government at a cost of R86 million. generating activities to avert household poverty. A ww Our flagship accommodation project, the development community development plan has been crafted with the of homeownership houses for our Rustenburg and aim of addressing community concerns, promoting Refineries (in Springs) employees, delivered 392 home poverty alleviation through local enterprise development, ownership units providing infrastructure relating to education and health, ww Our infrastructure projects (excluding housing) created and improving neighbourliness between Zimplats and the 400 jobs and a further 470 jobs were created through surrounding communities. The plan focuses on education, our accommodation and living conditions initiatives health and income-generating projects and will assist in during the review period narrowing the gap is terms of expectations relating to ww A further 103 jobs were created or sustained through development needs such as clinics, agricultural activity, our enterprise development initiatives. This year we employment, construction of secondary and primary funded the provision of training and mentoring for schools, clean water and sanitation, and food availability. 20 small local businesses around our Rustenburg operations Our 2013 performance and ww More than 90 000 people benefited from our social achievements for social investment projects in the areas of education, health, sports Group expenditure on socio-economic development development and general community welfare. projects in South Africa this year amounted to Beneficiaries in this category include bursary recipients, R102 million, up from R90 million in the previous reporting home-based care patients, and learners involved in period. An additional R445 million was spent on improving literacy and sports programme. In many of these / Social capital investments / 55 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 programmes Implats is not the sole funder and US$670 000; and the launch of two community therefore the total benefit may not be attributable to enterprise development projects in Chegutu and Ngezi Implats, even though all the beneficiaries are counted based on market gardening, with the aim of supplying We contributed R10 million to the Impala Bafokeng ww Zimplats’ catering suppliers with vegetables. Zimplats Trust (IBT), which was established in 2007 by the Royal also donated textbooks, food, agricultural inputs and Bafokeng Nation and ourselves, to augment the CSI equipment to the community, and sponsored two commitments of both organisations. To date community sporting events involving more than 30 R104 million has been invested through the trust, since schools its inception. Its projects benefited over 43 000 people ww As part of the Company’s indigenisation implementation and included health, education and sport interventions plan, the Zimplats Mhondoro Ngezi Chegutu Zvimba in the year under review Community Share Ownership Trust was formed in Our Skills Development Centre in Rustenburg trained ww October 2011. The Trust is now operational and has 128 learners in Mining Qualifications Authority (MQA) implemented projects valued at more than US$2 million certified modules so that they can become artisans. from the donation of US$10 million pledged to the Trust The centre received accreditation with the MERSETA by the Company. Projects embarked upon in the during the year under review three districts include: the rehabilitation of schools, We invested R8 million in upgrading the neonatal ww the construction of classroom blocks at more than ICU at the Job Shimakane Tabane Hospital in 20 schools, sinking boreholes, and the provision of Rustenburg. The four-bed unit supports almost infrastructure for income-generating projects. 900 births per week and was upgraded to a 14-bed unit with alterations made to the building as well as A total of 55 socio-economic development projects were new equipment purchased externally reviewed during the year, covering most of the The demographic of beneficiaries shows that over 99% ww projects that were funded in South Africa during 2013, as of the beneficiaries of our socio-economic development well as five projects in Zimbabwe. Each of the projects projects were black. Almost 62% of these were youth was reviewed using one of three templates: infrastructure, (35 years of age and under), making them the greatest enterprise development or social development. The pool of beneficiaries. Geographically, most of the templates cover 22 criteria against which the projects beneficiaries (58%) were in and around our Rustenburg are reviewed in the following categories: use of Implats operations. In addition, over 15 000 people in Gauteng funds, project design, implementation, results, benefited from projects in the region, while a further sustainability and risk. 24 000 in Limpopo benefited from projects around Marula Platinum Some 68% of the stated project objectives were fully Our projects in Zimbabwe included: the construction ww achieved, with 30% partially achieved. The categories in of a secondary school in Zimbabwe benefiting nearly which projects scored best included use of funds, project 100 students at a cost of US$250 000; the design and implementation. Those with weaker scores construction of classroom blocks, boarding hostels, a included sustainability of projects and dependency risks. library and related facilities at various primary and Overall 79% of the reviewed projects were rated good, secondary schools at an investment of more than 20% rated adequate and 2% were found to be poor or US$850 000; the rehabilitation, extension and defective. Recommendations for all the projects rated equipment of a community clinic with an investment of adequate will be taken into account so that the performance and rating can improve in the coming years. Overall project ratings Demographics of beneficiaries ● Examplary 0% ● Black males youth 32% ● Good 79% ● Black females youth 30% ● Adequate 21% ● Black males adult 20% ● Poor 0% ● Black females adult 18% ● Defective 0% ● Disabled 0% ● Other 0% / 56 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Investing in our communities continued Despite these achievements, there were some important Due to budget constraints and competing priorities we ww challenges and disappointments: have had to discontinue funding the ABET programme ww In 2013, we spent R12 million on a water supply that was running successfully for 16 years in the and reticulation project to provide water infrastructure Springs region. This project supported adult education to almost 4 000 people in the Greater Tubatse in three informal settlements and was well attended Municipality. The infrastructure was completed in March over the period of its existence 2013, however, the district municipality has not As part of our Rustenburg community project ww supplied any water since then and as a result the strategy, we invested R4.2 million in the upgrade of communities still have no water. This will be addressed the sports facilities. in the coming year. South African operations socio-economic development expenditure Rm Programme 2013 2012 2011 2010 Empowerment of community structures 17 31 21 Health, safety and environment 2 2 2 1 Education 18 15 17 16 Government and municipality support infrastructure 45 34 38 12 Sport development 10 10 11 15 Enterprise development 5 9 28 19 Community welfare, arts and culture 22 3 3 4 Total socio-economic development 102 90 130 88 Housing and living conditions 445 430 277 552 Total sustainable development 547 520 407 640 Zimbabwean operations socio-economic development expenditure US$000 Programme 2013 2012 2011 Zimplats’ socio-economic development expenditure Education 3 062 3 283 755 Health 668 873 223 Infrastructure 942 41 Government and municipality support infrastructure 469 0 Enterprise development 80 47 303 Sport development 54 35 27 Other 340 60 0 Total socio-economic development 4 204 5 709 1 349 Housing and living conditions 20 548 49 000 0 Total sustainable development 24 752 54 709 1 349 / Social capital investments / 57 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Zimbabwean operations socio-economic development expenditure US$000 continued Programme 2013 2012 2011 Mimosa’s socio-economic development expenditure Empowerment of community structures 698 213 Health, safety and environment 3 912 16 65 Education 422 1 120 2 049 Government and municipality support infrastructure 450 40 Sport development 1 125 32 Enterprise development 2 12 Community welfare, arts and culture 336 10 401 Total socio-economic development 4 670 3 421 2 812 Housing and living conditions 3 031 16 560 15 500 Total sustainable development 7 801 19 981 18 312 Our focus on social investment for 2014 and beyond wwComplete our social impact assessment wwComplete and submit our social and labour plans for Rustenburg operations wwContinue to deliver on our social investment projects wwTake corrective action to ensure water supply for Marula communities. / 58 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Accommodation and living conditions Our management approach to ww Hostel conversion has been completed, with one accommodation and living conditions person per room meaning that we now comply with the Our most significant contribution to the well-being of 2014 Mining Charter requirements our communities and employees is our investment in ww We concluded a land swap agreement with Rustenburg improving accommodation and living conditions. Through Local Municipality, making land available for the this investment we seek to create viable local communities municipality to relocate the Yizo Yizo informal in which employees can reside with their families in a settlement and formally provide 1 000 housing units. stable, healthy and secure environment within commuting distance of their place of work. In addition to the A study conducted in conjunction with the North West significant social contribution, we believe that by offering University during 2013 found that Implats employees are a differentiated accommodation and living conditions generally satisfied with their living conditions. Perhaps strategy we build a sustainable competitive advantage more interestingly the study revealed that our employees’ among current and prospective employees and psychological, emotional and social well-being is above other stakeholders. the South African average and most are satisfied with their lives. The study also highlighted areas where we can The housing projects we initiate extend into other improve and we will consider these recommendations in community projects, including roads, lighting, water, our strategic response to housing going forward. health, sewerage and schools as we seek to collaborate with local government to eradicate the informal In our Zimbabwean operations, as at the end of the settlements surrounding our operations. We are aiming reporting period, Zimplats had 532 core houses and to accelerate our accommodation and living conditions 1 117 Company houses at Turf Village in Ngezi; these projects through continued partnership with government numbers fell short by 148 core and 32 Company houses to ensure that the broader local community also benefit of our target for the financial year. Construction of the from our investments. 2013 housing deficit and those planned for 2014 is in progress. In the meantime employees are residing in Our 2013 performance and camps that have been acquired by the Company to achievements on accommodation ensure employees have somewhere decent to stay while and living conditions coming to work and while houses are under construction. We are pleased to report that our accommodation and Construction of employee houses will be phased due living conditions project targets for 2013 have been to financial constraints. At Zimplats the Company has achieved and that we are on track to deliver on our 151 Company houses in Chegutu and Norton. It requires objectives for 2020. an additional 255 core and 50 Company houses. The Company is in discussions with potential partners on an In our South African operations: employee housing scheme for SMC-based employees ww The Sunrise View home ownership development was in Chegutu. completed with 1 717 houses being built and sold ww The Tswelopele home ownership project, which During the year 40 families were relocated in Zimbabwe to consists of 108 units for our Springs Refineries make way for the construction of employee houses and a employees, will be completed in August 2013 dam. Relocated families received compensation in the ww Impala’s second flagship project on home ownership form of new houses with ablution facilities, granaries and named Platinum Village has commenced and should boreholes, as well as cash to compensate for other deliver approximately 300 units by the end of structures such as fowl runs and gardens. The process of December 2013. This development will be executed in closing the Silverstar cemetery, which will be affected by phases, with a target of 2 420 units. Phase one is the dam, is still ongoing. The Department of Health has currently under way and should deliver 557 units given its approval and MNRDC has passed a full council ww We are currently building an additional 122 houses in resolution that the cemetery be closed. Burgersfort (Limpopo province) for Marula Platinum employees / Social capital investments / 59 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our accommodation and living ww Ensure occupation of Tswelopele home ownership conditions focus for 2014 and beyond project at Refineries in Springs at a cost of R36 million Our long-term goal is to have at least 50% of our ww Complete 122 units at our Marula operation at a cost workforce at the mines residing with family by 2020. of R58 million In achieving this goal, we will look to promote home ww Securing additional land and services for further ownership by developing further integrated residential housing projects, and further expanding our suburbs, in addition to providing quality single-person accommodation options and improving value and and family accommodation in line with the expectations affordability as far as possible. of the Mining Charter. We will enhance home ownership opportunities, particularly for miners and artisans, and we We will be seeking as far as possible to partner with will find mechanisms to further optimise accommodation government to ensure that our housing projects contribute cost per employee. to fully functional communities with all the required amenities, and that they are constructed within a broader We have set ourselves the following commitments for our integrated spatial development framework. We will also South African operations in 2014: partner with government and the Bafokeng Nation ww Building 557 units in Platinum Village with the long-term to provide bulk infrastructure and services to mine goal of completing 2 420 units within this development communities in line with our own developmental needs. at a total cost of R1 billion CASE STUDY Sunrise View housing survey The Sunrise View housing development, consisting of over 1 500 new homes, was completed in 2012. A small sample of home owners was surveyed in 2012 and 2013 on the quality, pricing and amenities of the housing development. Of those surveyed in 2013, 74% were first-time home owners, while the remaining 26% now own two properties. All of them were Implats employees. The majority of owners (80%) expressed being satisfied with the building and design of their new homes. Almost all owners (96%) found the bond affordable, and 71% of them were pleased with the price of the property, which is in keeping with our aim of providing affordable housing. A comparison between last year and this year revealed that owners were more satisfied with the value of their purchase this year. Although all the home owners mentioned that there were not enough leisure facilities in the area, 60% of them were pleased with the access to schools and public transport. The Sunrise View school was well received by the community with 82% of home owners recognising its positive impact. / 60 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Implementing the Mining Charter Implats seeks to comply with or exceed all elements of the Mining Charter. Our transformation strategy is informed by the seven elements of the Mining Charter with housing and living conditions playing a pivotal role in five of these elements. We leverage each element of the Mining Charter in terms of our business performance and therefore increase our value creation potential. The following table provides a summary of our performance in terms of the Mining Charter requirements and reporting period: Element Description Measure Reporting Has Implats reported a level of compliance for Proof of receipt from Department of Mineral calendar year 2012? Resources (DMR) Ownership Minimum target for HDSA ownership Meaningful economic participation Full shareholder rights Housing and Conversion and upgrading of hostels to attain Percentage reduction of occupancy rate living conditions the occupancy rate of one person per room towards 2014 target Conversion and upgrading of hostels into Percentage conversion of hostels into family family units units Facilitate home ownership options for A, B and Providing housing is the cornerstone to our C bands mine employees in consultation with strategic response to the charter organised labour Procurement Procurement from BEE entities Capital and enterprise development Consumables Services Multinational suppliers’ contribution to Annual spend on procurement from social fund multinational suppliers and recovery of 0.5% contribution to social fund Employment Diversification of the workforce to reflect the Top management (board) equity country’s demographics to attain competitiveness Senior management (Exco) Middle management Junior management Core and critical skills Human Developing requisite skills, including support for HRD spend as percentage of payroll on HDSA resources South African-based research and development development initiatives intended to develop solutions in exploration, mining, processing, technology efficiency (energy and water use in mining), beneficiation as well as environmental conservation Mine community Mining communities form an integral part of Consultation process development mining development; there has to be meaningful Expenditure on mine community development contribution towards community development, projects as per the agreed SLP for 2012 both in terms of size and impact, in keeping with the principles of the social licence to operate *These figures are for calendar year 2012 and not financial year-end. N/A = Not applicable. / Social capital investments / 61 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 2014 2012 Impala Marula Afplats compliance compliance performperformperformtarget target ance ance ance Commentary Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Confirmation of receipt by DMR. 26% 15% 26% 27% 26% 26% 15% 26% 27% 26% 100% 50% 79% N/A N/A Afplats and Marula have no hostels. improvement improvement Impala has 100% conversion and on 2012 on 2012 allocation is currently in progress. N/A N/A 100% N/A N/A Currently the Mining Charter does not set specific targets for family accommodation. Our full response can be found on page 58. N/A N/A Currently the Mining Charter does not set specific targets. Our strategic response can be found on page 58. 40% 20% 37% 62% Implats has a revised enterprise development and procurement strategy. See page 65 for further information. 50% 25% 62% 59% 70% 50% 63% 70% Afplats does not purchase consumable goods. 0.50% 0.50% 0.1% 0% 0% *Letters have been sent to all multinationals. Some multinational companies have contributed. These funds have yet to be utilised. 40% 30% 31% 100% N/A Afplats does not report on this element as the operation is managed under Impala Platinum and is still a shaft sinking project. 40% 30% 45% 50% N/A 40% 40% 42% 58% N/A 40% 40% 55% 58% N/A 40% 30% 74% 67% N/A 5% 4% 6% 3% N/A Afplats does not report on this element as the operation is managed under Impala Platinum. 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% As per As per >100% >100% >100% The expenditure of all three operations the SLP the SLP was in excess of the agreed SLP for 2012. / 62 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Implementing the Mining Charter continued Element Description Measure Sustainable Mineral resources are non-renewable in nature, Implementation of approved EMPs development forthwith exploitation of such resources must Implementation of approved rehabilitation plan and growth emphasise the importance of balancing concomitant economic benefits with social and Progress towards implementation of the closure environmental needs without compromising plan future generations in line with Constitutional FIFR per million hours – target set against provisions for ecological, sustainable international best practice development and use of resources Silicosis – zero new cases in previously unexposed individuals NIHL – individual pieces of equipment must not have a sound pressure of greater than 110dB Implementation of Culture Transformation Framework Percentage of employees embarking on OHS representative training Percentage of leading practices from MOSH Learning Hub investigated for implementation Percentage of research findings from MHSC investigated for implementation Health: Percentage of mandatory occupational health reports submitted Health: Adherence to HIV/Aids and TB guidelines Percentage of samples analysed in South African facilities Beneficiation Beneficiation seeks to translate competitive Added production volume contributory to local advantage in mineral resources endowment into value addition beyond the baseline competitive advantage as a fulcrum to enhance industrialisation in line with state developmental priorities. In this regard mining companies must facilitate local beneficiation of mineral commodities in line with section 26 of the MPRDA and the mineral beneficiation strategy N/A = Not applicable. / Social capital investments / 63 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 2014 2012 Impala Marula Afplats compliance compliance performperformperformtarget target ance ance ance Commentary 100% 100% 90% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 0% This has not been considered for Afplats; the project is still at a very early stage. Continuous 0.030 0.104 0.000 0.000 The Impala performance improved; a improvement number of initiatives are in place to in line with improve safety. See page 32 for a full international response. best practice 100% 95% of all No cases of No cases of No cases of No risk of exposure within the Merensky exposure silicosis silicosis silicosis or UG2 Reef. There are very low levels in results below the mine rock. 0.1mg/m3 of 100% 100% 100% respirable crystalline silica 100% 97% 99% 67% 91% Good progress on silencing of silencing of achieved achieved achieved equipment equipment to below 110dB 100% 50% 50% 50% 25% For further information on implementation of the CTF, see page 32. 8% 4% 1.6% 9.5% 100.0% For further information on implementation of OHS training, see page 32. 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% For further information on leading practices investigated by Implats, see page 32. 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% For further information on MHSC implementation, see page 32. 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Annual medical reports, particulates exposure report, thermal stress report, personal noise exposure reports have all been submitted. See See Yes Yes Yes commentary commentary 100% 50% 100% 100% N/A Afplats has not reported on this measure due to the early stage of development of this operation. Section 26 of The Current beneficiation of PGM’s is at 22% the MPRDA beneficiation for the Group. (percentage strategy above the and its baseline) modalities of implementation outline the beneficiation requirements per commodity extracted in South Africa / 64 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Enterprise development and procurement Encouraging enterprise development development programme started in January 2013 and and responsible supply chains will end in December 2014, and includes businessInvesting in the development of small and medium-sized specific training with bi-weekly on-site meetings with enterprises, and encouraging entrepreneurship, forms an the owner/manager. Our objective is to double the important part of our contribution to the longer-term revenue of these ten service providers within a year. viability of our neighbouring communities. ww The Business Assistance Programme: Our enterprise development (ED) department is mandated In 2012 we revised our enterprise development strategy, in to intervene between Implats and the SMMEs to ensure which we identified various interventions aimed at they meet their contracted obligations. The department enhancing the market competitiveness and participation of is able to conduct a diagnostic analysis to determine SMMEs in our supply chain, with a particular focus on intervention or development needs as required. We local and black-owned businesses. This year we focused then assist these companies to implement corrective on driving implementation of this strategy. Our enterprise action, provide mentoring and practical training where development and procurement departments are working required. External expertise or specialised services are together with external consultants to carry out intervention sourced in when the need arises under the guidance projects to assist SMMEs. We have been working closely of the ED team. with the Royal Bafokeng enterprise development unit in ww Business advisory and development service: We Rustenburg, and the Marula community development have partnered with an external service provider with agency in Burgersfort. the aim of integrating selected local entrepreneurs to become active in supplying the mining industry. We In 2012, we revised our enterprise development strategy, started a programme to develop, up-skill, train and in which we identified various interventions aimed at assist aspiring businesses to establish themselves as enhancing the market competitiveness and participation start-up companies. In October 2012 we advertised the of SMMEs in our supply chain, with a particular focus on project and received 50 applications, from which ten women-owned and black-owned or empowered were selected to participate. The programme businesses. This year we focused on driving commenced in January 2013 and will run for implementation of this strategy. Through our new 12 months. These start-ups ranged from garden Enterprise Development (ED) strategy we supported service providers to construction companies. 20 small to medium local black businesses with training and mentorship provided by specialists in the industry. In addition to these initiatives, our enterprise development SMMEs have limited access to these services as the cost office at 6 Shaft started to function as a walk-in centre to of business incubation in South Africa is very high. give guidance in business registration, preparing business plans, funding and complying with regulatory and Impala We have been working closely with the Royal Bafokeng procurement requirements for start-up entrepreneurs. Enterprise Development unit in Rustenburg, and the Implats will continue with these initiatives once proven that Marula Community Development Agency in Burgersfort. they are yielding the required results. Our activities focus on three main initiatives: ww The Supplier Development Programme: In 2013, Managing contractors we established a programme to develop ten local small, In addition to encouraging the development of enterprises, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) and blackwe have reviewed the nature of our contractor strategy. owned businesses that were already part of the We are concerned with the number of instances when Implats supply chain. The programme was launched contractor behaviour is not reflecting our value systems, in October 2012 with the main objective of elevating as well as with the potential risks of liability. these SMMEs to become competitive suppliers. The / Social capital investments / 65 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 A key objective of this strategy is to ensure that we ww Sustainably improving year on year BEE spend develop clear principles that will guide the use of reputable performance relative to the requirements of the Mining contractor companies with the right skills and value Charter and reporting in parallel on B-BBEE system to do specific tasks that we are not able to do performance as per the DTI Codes of Good Practice. ourselves. The strategy has been structured into two phases. The first phase entails using our training and We have also focused our attention more on suppliers’ recruitment resources to ensure that all contracting B-BBEE certificates and systems have been put in place employees are vetted and assessed according to our own to remind suppliers 90 days in advance of their expiry internal standards. The second phase specifically dates. Annual increases are not being granted to suppliers interrogates each contracting company and the work they with contracts where B-BBEE certificates have expired or do for us. The aim is to complete the detailed where transformation commitments have not been met. assessments with the assistance of an outside specialist During the year we terminated the services of 21 suppliers and then, over time, effect the required change. who contravened our standards. Promoting transformation through Included in the cost of sales is total discretionary spend of procurement R6.4 billion, of which 64% was spent with suppliers having As part of our drive to promote transformation in South HDSA ownership of greater than 25% in the consumables Africa, and to ensure compliance with the requirements of category, and 60% on services (2012: R5.3 billion, 55% on the South African Mining Charter, we have the following consumables and 61% on services). strategy: ww Continuously seeking, identifying, supporting and The total South African operations’ discretionary promoting suitable historically disadvantaged suppliers procurement for 2013 was R9.9 billion of which 55%, or through sustainable procurement practices. R5.5 billion, was from companies in which HDSA ww Interviewing existing untransformed suppliers that are ownership was greater than 25% (2012: R4.8 billion or difficult to substitute through formal interviews in an 51%). Although economic conditions in the market to attempt to transform. acquire loans for investments remain tough, while few ww Creating opportunities for economic growth through HDSA company shareholders still sell off shareholdings preferential procurement from local communities. resulting in HDSA companies becoming non-compliant in ww Leveraging our existing supplier base to unlock terms of Mining Charter requirements (>25%), spend has opportunities for local employment, mentorship and improved by R0.7 billion to 55%. (2012: 51%). investment in the greater value chain of Implats. ww Nurturing an environment through the enterprise Though the 2014 Mining Charter targets for consumables development department for partnerships and joint and capital categories have already been achieved, plans ventures between our existing supplier base and local remain in place to improve the services category to entrepreneurs. achieve the 2014 target which remains a huge challenge. / 66 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Enterprise development and procurement continued Percentage HDSA procurement (>25%) of category’s discretionary procurement (SA operations) Mining Charter target 2013 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Category (%) R billion % R billion % R billion % R billion % R billion % Capital 30 1.5 42 1.6 41 2.2 57 1.6 46 2.0 42 Consumables 40 2.0 64 1.5 55 1.3 48 1.1 45 0.9 41 Services 60 2.0 60 1.7 61 1.4 59 1.1 59 1.2 54 Total operations 44 5.5 55 4.8 51 4.9 55 3.8 50 4.1 45 Note: Capital goods have been reported based on IFRS and Implats’ accounting policies recognition criteria for capital expenditure. Suppliers with a valid broad-based black economic empowerment (B-BBEE) certificate at one point in the financial year under review, contributed to HDSA spend. Promoting development through local procurement Implats has recognised that there is scope to increase local procurement spend as a means of encouraging development in surrounding communities. This approach is viewed as a business imperative in order to create sustainable communities, improve community relations, and to advance local economic development. This year R2.4 billion was spent on procurement from local tiered suppliers, constituting 24% of the total procurement spend (2012: R2.1 billion or 22%). The number of local HDSA suppliers from which Implats procured increased to 301 (2012: 288), while the number of national HDSA vendors decreased due to vendor rationalisation by 4% to 795. Local tiered areas classified as tiers 1, 2 and 3 Category Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Mine lease area Impala Rustenburg (Bafokeng Village) Rustenburg Municipality Bojanala district Marula Platinum Mine lease area (four farms) Greater Tubatse Municipality Greater Sekhukhune district / Social capital investments / 67 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Local (tiers 1, 2 and 3) HDSA procurement (>25%) as a percentage of total discretionary procurement 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Category R billion % R billion % R billion % R billion % R billion % Impala Rustenburg 2 195 27 1 911 25 1 557 22 1 067 17 n/a n/a Marula Platinum 157 22 130 21 103 13 103 13 n/a n/a n/a – not available At our Zimplats operations we have set a target of 60% of the Company’s annual supplier spend to be on local suppliers. Zimplats has continued with its strategy of local supplier development to further assist in the broader economic recovery of the country. During the year local suppliers contributed 64% of the Company’s annual spend on goods and services, up from 57% in 2012. Mechanisms have been put in place to encourage and continuously monitor the growth of local supplier partnerships. In accordance with the Company’s transparency procedures, a cross-functional internal team reviews and approves the award of tenders. In addition, a tip-offs anonymous system, in partnership with an independent audit company, is in place so that suppliers, employees and other stakeholders can report on any incidents of corruption of any nature, including the award of tenders. New Neonatal ICU at Job Shimakane Tabane Hospital in Rustenburg / 68 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Respecting human rights Our 2013 human rights achievements representatives. These agreements cover the following and performance human rights-related aspects: Respect for human rights is an integral part of the ww Minimum employment age Company’s Code of Ethics and values. During 2013 we ww Disciplinary and grievance processes approved a new Human Rights policy. In addition to ww Rights to freedom of association and collective striving for full compliance with applicable legislation in the bargaining regions in which we operate, we have also committed to ww Prevention of forced or compulsory labour the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. ww Equality and fair treatment of all individuals free from Employees are trained on the Code of Ethics through our discrimination, irrespective of race, gender, creed or intranet and all new employees are trained as part of the place of origin induction process. ww The need for security personnel to uphold these human rights. Following last year’s tragic events at Marikana, the response of mining companies to addressing security We track implementation of human rights issues through issues has been recognised as a significant risk factor. monthly reports submitted to the Exco. In addition, The interface between the South African Police Service surveys are conducted twice a year by an independent (SAPS) and our own security response is critical in third party. Procedures are in place to ensure that avoiding any escalation of conflict. To mitigate this risk channels are available to deal with unfair practices. we have committed to and are implementing the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. While contractor agreements do not specifically contain The principles focus on three spheres of security human rights clauses, contractors are expected to abide management: risk assessment, interactions with the by our Company policies, practices, standards and the South African Police Service, and interactions with constitution of the countries in which they are operating. private security. We will be using this framework to During the year under review, our policies were amended guide and train our security contingent. To formulate to include the obligation by contractors to respect and appropriate security responses, early identification of abide by our human rights principles as stipulated in the the potential for violence is critical, which requires UN Global Compact. We have undertaken to improve our regularly updated and credible information on security monitoring of contracted labour on human rights issues threats. and are continuing to focus on this area. Through stakeholder engagement processes, material community All policies and procedures at an operational level are issues pertaining to human rights are addressed in supported by formal agreements with employee union community forums. No claims of human rights abuse were made against the Company in the year under review. FOCUS TOPIC Our contribution to the National Development Plan Marula Road project The South African National Development Plan, published by the National Planning Commission in November 2011, outlines a set of development priorities aimed at “charting a new path for the country”. These development priorities provide a useful yardstick against which to assess the nature of Implats’ contribution to the growth, development and well-being of South Africa and the region. Following is a brief self-assessment of how Implats is playing its role in addressing some of these developmental priorities. An economy that will create more jobs: In 2030, the economy should be close to full employment, equip people with the necessary skills, ensure that ownership of production is more diverse and be able to grow rapidly, providing the resources to pay for investment in human and physical capital. wwAs a labour-intensive industry we make a important contribution to this critical objective through the provision of more than 54 000 direct jobs in South Africa and more than 7 000 in Zimbabwe (page 5). We stimulate significant employment opportunities throughout our value chain, including through our procurement practices targeted at encouraging local economic development and transformation (page 65) wwWe have invested significant resources in enhancing employment opportunities through our skills development and training initiatives (page 45). These investments have been complemented through our tax revenues (page 52) facilitating public investment in developing human capital wwIn response to the labour unrest throughout the mining sector over the past year, we have been actively engaged in consultation with government and labour representatives in finding an approach to collective bargaining that takes account of a multi-union environment. We are also exploring opportunities for linking wages to productivity, an issue the NPC has identified as a priority. / Social capital investments / 69 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Improving infrastructure: To grow in a more inclusive manner, the country needs higher levels of investment in economic infrastructure, as well as infrastructure that supports human settlements. wwWe have contributed to infrastructure development through our significant investments in mining projects, as well as through our social investment initiatives in the communities that are home to our employees. Our capital investments have enhanced export opportunities, while our investments in health, education, basic infrastructure and community empowerment (page 56) and in housing (page 58) have contributed directly to the development of human settlements wwLast year we refocused our social investment strategy to move away from income-generating projects towards establishing infrastructure that will address urgent needs in mine communities with the focus on longer-term impacts. Typical projects will include: multipurpose information centres; school upgrades and maintenance; educational support systems; the provision of roads, water, electricity and renewable energy projects; and upgrading of clinics and investments in healthcare support infrastructure and systems. Transition to a low-carbon economy: The country needs a coherent plan to use water more sustainably and to emit less carbon. wwWe share the government’s objective of reducing energy and water usage, as these are both rising cost areas for us in a sector that has been facing significantly declining margins. In addition to being transparent in our energy and water usage, we have implemented various efficiency initiatives (page 74) and are assessing the feasibility of using biomass as an energy source at our Rustenburg smelter wwAddressing the carbon intensity of the South African economy, while meeting other development priorities, presents a profound challenge. We will work with industry bodies and government in seeking an appropriate policy response to climate change that does not compromise the competitiveness of our sector, noting both our important developmental contribution as well as the role of platinum group metals in the transition to a lower carbon economy. An inclusive and integrated rural economy: South Africa’s rural communities should have greater opportunities to participate fully in the economic, social and political life of the country through access to good quality education, healthcare, transport and other basic services. wwIn addition to the economic value added from our core activities (page 52), our independently evaluated social investment activities have consistently made an important contribution to improving the well-being of communities in the rural and peri-urban areas around our mines, and in those rural regions of the Eastern Cape that are home to some of our employees (page 55). This year alone our socio-economic development expenditure benefited more than 100 000 people in South Africa and over 12 000 in Zimbabwe through investments in infrastructure, education, health, housing, and enterprise and sports development (page 56). The demographic of beneficiaries shows that over 99% of these beneficiaries were black, while more than 62% were youth (35 years of age and under). Reversing the spatial effects of apartheid: Settlement patterns should meet the needs and preferences of citizens taking into account broader social, environmental and economic interests. wwThe spatial impact of apartheid is one of its most visible legacies. Our flagship investment in the well-being of our local communities is our commitment to the provision of accommodation and improved living conditions for our employees and their families. Through this investment we strive to create viable local communities in which employees are able to reside with their families in a stable, healthy and secure environment. Improving education, training and innovation, and providing quality healthcare: Poor education and health significantly reduce opportunities for a productive life and undermines the dynamism of the South African economy. wwWe have invested more than 427 million in various skills development programmes at all levels in the past year. These skills development initiatives have been supplemented by our investments in various education-related infrastructure, including the construction and/or upgrading of schools and libraries in neighbouring communities wwIn addition to our occupational health measures, we have been active in addressing non-occupational health risks, most notably HIV and TB (page 38). We have partnered with the Department of Health in addressing community health issues, including through our contribution to the establishment of healthcare facilities in and around the lease areas. Fighting corruption: High corruption levels frustrate the state’s ability to deliver on its development mandate. wwBy promoting high standards of ethical behaviour throughout our activities this will contribute to combating corruption more broadly. We have a zero-tolerance stance on fraud and corruption, with all employees, business partners, contractors and associates required to conduct themselves in accordance with the Implats Code of Ethics and our fraud policy. Adherence to this Code is facilitated by a “whistle-blowing” helpline that enables the confidential reporting of alleged incidents (page 28). Transforming society and uniting the country: A more cohesive society is fundamental to eradicating poverty and inequality, and encouraging a more stable economy. wwOur investments in employment opportunities, education, health, housing and infrastructure collectively provide a significant contribution to building social cohesion. These are supplemented by our commitment to promoting broad-based transformation (page 60) evidenced, for example, by the nature of our initiatives relating to ownership (where we are acknowledged as a leader), employment equity, skills development, procurement and housing. Preserving natural resources and mitigating impacts By its nature, the exploration, extraction and processing of mineral resources inherently has an impact on the natural environment. In addition to depleting a non-renewable resource, there are environmental impacts in terms of energy and water use, waste generation, land disturbance, and atmospheric and water pollution. Despite the environmental impacts associated with our processes, we believe that as a result of our responsible environmental management practices, the nature of our investments in social and human capital, and the role that PGMs play in the move to a greener economy, we have a net positive environmental impact on society. During the year a new environmental policy was proposed by the CEO and accepted by the board. The policy commits the Company to running our exploration, mining, processing and refining operations in an environmentally responsible manner and to ensure the well-being of our stakeholders. The policy also commits integrating environmental management into all aspects of the business in order to achieve world-class environmental performance in a sustainable manner. Our management of the environmental impacts of our operations and processes involves the following focus areas: ww Promoting responsible water stewardship by minimising water use and water pollution ww Minimising our negative impacts on air quality ww Responding to climate change risks and opportunities and promoting responsible energy management ww Managing our waste streams ww Promoting responsible land management and biodiversity practices. In addition to managing our direct environmental impacts, all operations are expected to develop or fund a flagship local community environmental project to visibly demonstrate that we have moved beyond just compliance on environmental issues. Impala Rustenburg has continued with an environmental project in the Kgaswane Mountain Reserve at an estimated value of R1.5 million. / 72 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Water stewardship Our management approach to water regarding some of the requirements in these licences. At stewardship the Zimbabwe operations, the required permit process for We are highly reliant on water for our mining, processing water use has been followed; water extracted from dams and refining operations. Our approach to water and rivers is all within the set allocation limits. management is guided by our water conservation strategy. The strategy focuses on water consumption and quality In fulfilment of our commitment to transparency on management, proposes a framework for operationperformance, we have once again participated in the specific water strategies, and defines a water consumption CDP Water Disclosure Project. baseline for the period to 2020. In fulfilment of this strategy we are implementing various projects to reduce potable Our 2013 performance on water water consumption, optimise industrial use and increase This year total water consumption for the Group was water recycling. 40 711 megalitres. This includes both water withdrawn and water recycled. This represents an increase of 1% on All operations have been tasked to review and improve water consumption in 2012. The increased water use their current water balances. Overall objectives and targets could be attributed to a number of factors including have been set predominantly for the short term. We are increased production levels, improved data accuracy, formalising operational implementation plans to ensure unaccounted for losses and additional water required for further progress. We work closely with different new activities. The exact cause is under investigation and stakeholders to ensure security of supply for our remains a priority. operations and the surrounding communities. This year we have been engaging in particular with the community Unit consumption rate of water (kilolitres per tonne ore surrounding our Marula operations, specifically concerning milled) increased over the 2012 levels. Continued focus water quality concerns that have been raised by on recycling initiatives has, over the year, resulted in neighbouring farmers. 15 271 megalitres of water being recycled, which equates to 38% of all the water consumed improving from 37% in An ongoing risk for our South African operations remains 2012 and 35% in 2011. the terms of our water use licences. Although all three South African operations have now received their water Further details on the total water withdrawn, consumed use licences, we are still engaging with the Department of and recycled at each of our operations are provided in the Water Affairs (DWA) to resolve concerns we have performance table on page 83. Consumption Units (mℓ) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 1) Water from water service providers or municipalities 8 851 10 722 12 636 11 970 13 151 2) Waste water from other organisations 2 598 2 767 3 769 3 668 3 829 3) Water from rivers 2 344 2 124 2 337 2 659 2 328 4) Water from dams 8 777 7 891 7 016 7 506 5 816 5) Water from groundwater 2 870 1 770 1 287 1 276 658 Water withdrawn (1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5) 25 440 25 274 27 045 27 079 25 783 Water internally recycled 15 271 14 840 14 823 9 981 11 652 Total water consumption 40 711 40 114 41 868 37 060 37 435 Notes: Note 1: From 2011 the Zimplats and Mimosa water withdrawn from rivers and dams excludes water provided to communities (in line with the SA operations). Note 2: At Marula and Zimplats, fissure water is included as groundwater from 2011. Our Zimplats operation uses a potentially significant amount of fissure water in one of its mining operations that has not as yet been quantified. Note 3: From 2011 the Refineries water withdrawn includes domestic water (offices, stores etc.). This is in line with Group reporting. Note 4: Unit consumption is in kl/tonne ore milled except for Refineries which is kl/tonne matte milled. / preserving natural resources and mitigating impacts / 73 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our water focus for 2014 and beyond We have prioritised various activities in the year ahead. These include: wwContinuing our engagement with the South African Department of Water Affairs regarding changing water legislation and the issuing of water-use licences for our South African operations wwIncreasing the percentage of water that we recycle, reducing our water withdrawn, which includes potable water wwContinuing to drive our water conservation strategy at operational level wwInvestigating the feasibility of water treatment alternatives. Withdrawn and recyled 45 000 000 40 000 000 35 000 000 Baseline – Total water withdrawn 30 000 000 Future initiatives – Total water withdrawn 25 000 000 Baseline – recycled Future initiatives– recycled 20 000 000 15 000 000 10 000 000 5 000 000 0 FY01 FY20 / 74 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Climate change and energy management Our management approach to climate Our 2013 carbon and energy change and energy management performance We recognise that climate change presents Implats with Total CO2 emissions for 2013 amounted to 3.8 million significant challenges, resulting from both the physical tonnes, as compared with 3.7 million tonnes in 2012. This impacts of a changing climate as well as governmental increase is attributable largely to the increased production policy changes. A detailed review and assessment of the following resolution of the strike action in 2012. The bulk climate change risks and opportunities can be found in our of our emissions (3.4 million tonnes) are associated with submission to the CDP’s Climate Change Programme, Eskom electricity usage, with the balance (0.4 million available at www.cdproject.net. tonnes) arising from burning fossil fuels such as coal, diesel, petrol and industrial burning oil. Emissions intensity We have a carbon management strategy in place, and (tonnes of CO2 per tonne of ore milled) in 2013 was 0.206, as compared with 0.208 in 2012. Additional details on our have set short-term objectives and implementation direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by operation targets. Security of energy supply and pricing are for each of the past three years are provided in the significant material risks. Our projected expansion into performance table on page 84. deeper operations that are more energy intensive, coupled with the proposed introduction of a carbon tax, has led to Efforts to reduce carbon emissions are being driven largely the Group placing renewed focus on energy-efficiency through energy-efficiency initiatives and a fuel-switching projects. Our scope for further energy efficiency at the project. smelters and refineries is minimal and we therefore focus our initiatives on the mining operations. The challenges are ww Several energy-efficiency projects were completed in similar in Zimbabwe with power outages and price inflation the past year and others are nearing completion. We providing incentives to reduce consumption. are installing power factor correction equipment at Rustenburg, which is expected to deliver 2.5% in In May 2013, the National Treasury published the Carbon annual savings. Fibreglass reinforced plastic fan blades Tax Discussion paper, which outlines a tax proposal for are being trialled for performance testing to confirm the South Africa due for implementation in January 2015. purported energy savings. Business Unity South Africa (BUSA) has submitted ww Our coal-to-biomass fuel switch project aims to utilise comments to government on the proposed tax on behalf bamboo as an alternate fuel source to coal and of industry. Our exposure to the tax is primarily with qualifies for carbon credits through the Clean our scope 1 emissions. In addition, electricity prices Development Mechanism (CDM). Although we have could rise further due to a level of pass-through of the shown that the biomass can be used as an alternative tax from Eskom. The Chamber of Mines estimates an to coal the calorific content and durability of the additional 8% cost to the current electricity pricing due to bamboo briquettes was of concern during both the first the carbon tax proposed. and second phases of testing. The other challenge has been in cultivating the bamboo; bamboo requires more management and farming expertise than originally envisaged. Climate change indicators Units 2013 2012 2011 2010 Direct CO2 emissions (t000) 401 418 436 395 Indirect CO2 emissions (t000) 3 387 3 289 3 587 3 359 Electricity purchased (MWh 000) 3 395 3 322 3 469 3 267 Direct energy (GJ 000) 5 350 5 584 5 661 5 250 Indirect energy (GJ 000) 12 224 11 958 12 561 11 763 Total energy (GJ 000) 17 574 17 542 18 222 17 013 / preserving natural resources and mitigating impacts / 75 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 In 2013, around 70% of our total energy consumption was electrical energy, comprising almost 11% of our overall Total CO2 emission (t000) cash cost base; this compares with 10% in 2012 and 9% in 2011, reflecting the continued rise in electricity costs. FY09 3 391 Further details on the total energy consumed at each of FY10 3 755 our operations are provided in the performance table on FY11 4 022 page 83. FY12 3 707 FY13 3 788 Our carbon and energy management FY13: 3 788 A 2% increase focus for 2014 and beyond We have prioritised the following climate change and energy management activities for the year ahead: ww Updating the Group carbon footprint and setting Total energy consumption (GJ000) realistic reduction targets for each operation in line with our carbon management strategy FY09 16 388 ww Continuing work with government and academic FY10 17 013 FY11 18 222 institutions on the development of fuel-cell technologies FY12 17 542 that will utilise PGMs as alternative energy sources. An FY13 17 574 amount of R2 million a year has been committed for this work with a total budget of R6 million allocated to FY13: 17 574 Stable the project. ww Ensuring that we have the internal systems in place to meet the regulations in terms of the National Energy Act, 2008, requiring the mandatory reporting of energy data to the Department of Energy. While all of our operations currently report fossil fuel consumption figures and electricity usage, and we annually calculate and report our greenhouse gas emissions via the Carbon Disclosure Project, there is scope to improve our data on our energy-efficiency initiatives. / 76 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Air quality management Our management approach Our 2013 performance on air quality to air quality At Impala Rustenburg and Zimplats, average daily SO2 The most significant air quality emission for the Group emissions are calculated through a mass balance, while at relates to the sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions from our the Refineries operation isokinetic sampling reports enable smelting and refining operations in Rustenburg, Springs monthly calculation. This year, total direct Group emissions of SO2 were 18 536 tonnes, up from our emissions of 18 and Zimplats. The South African operations are subject to 464 tonnes in 2012. Our Zimplats operations contributed the Air Quality Act, which has set a new ambient air quality 65% of total direct SO2 emissions, while Rustenburg and standard as well as point source emissions limits that Refineries operations contributed 31% and 4% operations must adhere to in 2015 and 2020. In respectively. Indirect SOx amounted 21 363 tonnes and Zimbabwe, legislation for air quality was introduced in indirect Nox amounted to 14 261 tonnes. Further details 2009, governing the issuing of emission licences. Our on the SO2 emissions at each of our operations over the objective is to ensure that we comply with all these licence past five years are provided in the performance table on requirements. page 84. Ambient air quality is monitored at our operations via a A focus next year will be to continue with the preparatory network of ambient monitoring stations. These monitoring work relating to the implementation of the SO2 abatement technology at our Zimplats operations. The estimated cost stations – measure SO2, NO2 and particulate matter of the scrubber is US$60 million. Pending board approval, provide an indication of ambient air quality levels and this project is planned to commence in 2017. associated trends. Total direct SO2 emitted (t) FY09 21 152 FY10 16 926 FY11 18 881 FY12 18 464 FY13 18 536 FY13: 18 536 Stable / preserving natural resources and mitigating impacts / 77 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Managing our waste The approach to waste management across the Group authorised to conduct waste management activities from seeks as a minimum, to ensure compliance with the its newly constructed waste management facility. emerging legislative requirements relating to waste. Both Marula and Refineries have also commenced their During the year there were some significant regulatory waste licence applications and these should be finalised developments in South Africa on waste management. during 2014. These included, a proposal to introduce a waste discharge system based on waste discharge load, a revised The hazardous waste situation remains challenging in standard on contaminated land, soil quality & remediation, Zimbabwe, with no facilities in line with South African or and the implementation of the National Waste Information international best practices being available. Implats will be Regulation. This requires waste generators and waste investigating the export of hazardous waste under the managers to register on the South African Waste Basel Convention to a neighbouring country. Reuse and Information System (SAWIS). recycling opportunities are constantly being investigated. During the reporting period the Department of The recycling rate for 2013 was 67.9% versus 68.7% in Environmental Affairs issued a waste licence for the 2012. Our activities for the coming year centre on Rustenburg operation. As a result, this site is now formally regulatory proposals for the reclassification of waste. Land management and biodiversity During the year the South African Department of represents 5% more than the project plan. We aim to Environmental Affairs published new standards on backfill all the voids with waste rock and re-establish the remediation of contaminated land in terms of the indigenous grass and tree species by 2016 at a cost of Waste Act. These standards inform the soil remediation, US$7.9 million. rehabilitation and closure plans for all mining operations. The Zimplats and Refineries operations are within close There has been ongoing rehabilitation at our Rustenburg proximity to areas of high biodiversity. The refining operations, with a total of 18.4ha rehabilitated over the operation is in close proximity to the Cowles dam that reporting period. Revegetation of the tailings dam side feeds into the Blesbokspruit, which is deemed an slopes has been completed with a total of 5.1ha ecosystem under threat and appears on the Montreux composted and regrassed during the year. Future record. Although the Refinery is deemed to have no direct rehabilitation activities will focus mainly on maintaining impact on this ecosystem, it is represented on the previously rehabilitated side slopes as well as grassing Blesbokspruit forum and is involved with environmental new risings. We have also continued with the education and conservation at the Blesbokspruit Grootvlei phytoremediation (vegetation) project on the enhanced Trust. In Zimbabwe, a total of 276ha of the Zimplats evaporation spray system (EESS) at our Refineries. The operation is located within the Ngezi National Park. This remediation of the area surrounding the ponds at the area, which was associated with historic opencast mining, Refinery are monitored by the University of Witwatersrand. has subsequently been rehabilitated and is thus deemed Research into the phytoremediation and rehabilitation of non-operational. mine sites is expanding, with benefits shown for integrated ecological solutions over rigid engineering design. The Following extensive biodiversity studies that unscheduled closure costs for Marula and Rustenburg were conducted for both the Rustenburg and Marula amount to R996.5 million; financial provisions for this operations, we have recently completed a revised amount are in place as per DMR requirements. biodiversity management plan, which incorporates the revised guidelines from the South African National Following the cessation of all opencast mining at Zimplats Biodiversity Institute (SANBI) and Minister and Members in 2008, an opencast rehabilitation programme was of the Executive Council (MINMEC Biodiversity). The developed and implementation commenced in January Marula’s biodiversity plan was completed towards the end 2011. Ongoing open-pit rehabilitation is progressing, with of 2010 with Rustenburg’s completed in June 2013. 989 446m3 of waste rock material backfilled. This Appendix Sunrise View School – Rustenburg / 80 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our performance data PEOPLE Units 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Total in service Impala Rustenburg Own employees Number 31 998 31 920 31 681 30 791 29 462 Contractor employees Number 16 304 14 381 13 541 13 443 11 862 Impala Springs Own employees Number 1 068 1 053 1 053 1 004 1 006 Contractor employees Number 303 1 106 282 260 904 Marula Own employees Number 3 165 2 982 3 272 3 241 2 512 Contractor employees Number 857 726 937 727 998 Zimplats Own employees Number 2 929 2 791 2 757 2 418 2 136 Contractor employees Number 2 775 6 412 2 610 1 262 3 323 Mimosa Own employees Number 776 786 784 788 812 Contractor employees Number 65 100 115 113 20 Corporate Own employees Number 64 89 77 75 72 Contractor employees Number – – 19 14 20 Group employees Number 40 237 39 621 39 624 38 317 36 000 Group contractor employees Number 17 130 22 725 17 504 15 819 17 127 Turnover Impala Rustenburg Percentage 6.0 10.1 8.4 6.1 7.3 Impala Springs Percentage 7.5 5.3 5.4 6.7 8.6 Marula Percentage 4.2 11.0 21.7 4.8 10.0 Zimplats Percentage 3.9 4.2 4.4 5.3 10.7 Mimosa Percentage 3.5 4.2 3.4 6.2 6.2 Corporate Percentage 9.4 7.7 11.3 18.7 11.1 Group Percentage 5.7 10.0 8.3 6.0 7.8 Women turnover Impala Rustenburg Percentage 4 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.3 Impala Springs Percentage 2 1.7 0.7 2.0 1.4 Marula Percentage 5 0.7 0.9 0.3 0.4 Zimplats Percentage 6 6.0 – 5.2 – Mimosa Percentage 4 0 0.4 – – Corporate Percentage 50 2.2 5.2 12.0 16.9 Group Percentage 5 0.8 0.4 0.6 0.4 Unionised workforce Impala Rustenburg Percentage 72.6 58.3 72.9 73.1 70.3 Impala Springs Percentage 69.5 69.5 61.8 84.3 59.9 Marula Percentage 74.8 65.0 70.0 65.0 70.0 Zimplats Percentage 46 52.0 37.0 26.5 25.3 Mimosa Percentage 24 24.0 24.8 25.5 25.4 / APPENDIX / 81 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 SAFETY Unit 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 FIFR Impala Rustenburg Pmmhw 0.091 0.115 0.061 0.166 0.107 Impala Springs Pmmhw 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Marula Pmmhw 0.000 0.130 0.000 0.000 0.134 Zimplats Pmmhw 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Mimosa Pmmhw 0.000 0.000 0.100 0.000 0.000 Group Pmmhw 0.065 0.087 0.053 0.122 0.082 LTIFR Impala Rustenburg Pmmhw 5.13 5.99 5.68 5.35 3.63 Impala Springs Pmmhw 0.42 0.22 0.60 0.00 0.40 Marula Pmmhw 5.42 11.46 9.19 9.39 5.35 Zimplats Pmmhw 0.70 0.21 0.75 0.69 0.45 Mimosa Pmmhw 0.26 1.19 0.20 0.35 0.52 Group Pmmhw 4.21 4.96 4.94 4.61 2.92 TIFR Impala Rustenburg Pmmhw 11.13 11.22 12.60 15.41 15.16 Impala Springs Pmmhw 16.85 18.86 26.92 20.60 20.01 Marula Pmmhw 24.81 36.08 34.15 41.25 28.88 Zimplats Pmmhw 2.20 2.22 3.39 3.61 5.49 Mimosa Pmmhw 2.83 4.65 5.70 3.74 5.45 Group Pmmhw 10.91 11.19 13.47 15.21 13.95 MTCFR Impala Rustenburg Pmmhw 4.63 4.61 6.03 8.32 9.92 Impala Springs Pmmhw 16.43 18.41 26.12 20.38 19.00 Marula Pmmhw 10.84 17.06 17.99 20.15 17.25 Zimplats Pmmhw 1.10 1.70 1.79 1.98 4.20 Mimosa Pmmhw 2.19 2.59 4.15 2.92 4.40 Group Pmmhw 5.11 5.28 7.10 8.49 9.41 RIFR Impala Rustenburg Pmmhw 3.65 3.77 3.79 3.76 2.68 Impala Springs Pmmhw 0.42 0.22 0.40 – 0.40 Marula Pmmhw 4.34 7.81 5.05 6.13 2.27 Zimplats Pmmhw 0.70 0.21 0.75 0.69 0.45 Mimosa Pmmhw – 0.22 0.10 – – Group Pmmhw 3.06 3.13 3.23 3.21 2.06 HEALTH Unit 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 VCT Impala Rustenburg Number 10 316 7 792 12 647 6 236 5 595 Impala Springs Number 9 14 19 24 34 Marula Number 540 292 275 130 119 Zimplats Number 714 1 424 889 204 401 Mimosa Number 203 298 242 243 114 Group Number 11 782 9 820 14 072 6 837 6 263 People on ART Impala Rustenburg Number 3 639 3 222 2 488 1 709 872 Impala Springs Number 28 26 19 14 10 Marula Number 101 65 51 29 19 Zimplats Number 120 114 92 63 51 Mimosa Number 151 139 123 90 54 Group Number 4 039 3 566 2 773 1 905 1 006 / 82 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our performance data continued HEALTH continued Unit 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 TB cases Impala Rustenburg Number 311 352 318 352 380 Impala Springs Number 1 0 0 0 5 Marula Number 15 21 19 25 12 Zimplats Number 1 6 5 11 14 Mimosa Number 6 10 8 11 15 Group Number 334 389 350 399 426 NIHL Impala Rustenburg Number 36 53 52 92 44 Impala Springs Number 0 0 0 0 0 Marula Number 12 10 4 14 1 Zimplats Number 2 0 0 0 0 Mimosa Number 0 0 1 1 0 Group Number 50 63 57 107 45 SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Unit 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Expenditure Impala Rustenburg (R million) 387 313 312 233 229 Impala Springs (R million) 16 21 21 20 39 Marula (R million) 24 19 24 19 12 SA operations total (6% of wagebill) (R million) 428 353 357 272 280 Employee literacy (ABET III and above) Impala Rustenburg Percentage 80 74 57 55 51 Impala Springs Percentage 94 93 92 90 90 Marula Percentage 90 92 88 88 88 Zimplats Percentage 99 99 99 99 99 Mimosa Percentage 99 99 96 96 95 Average Group literacy Percentage 92 86 86 85 85 ABET training employees Impala Rustenburg Number 794 900 804 851 939 Impala Springs Number 5 7 13 58 61 Marula Number 6 0 25 32 42 SA operations total Number 805 907 842 941 1 042 Total number of employees trained (including ABET) Impala Rustenburg Number 29 299 23 477 24 178 24 751 22 042 Impala Springs Number 1 053 1 091 1 127 1 039 1 063 Marula Number 1 874 1 117 1 421 1 210 533 SA operations total Number 32 226 25 685 26 726 27 000 23 638 Value of ABET training Impala Rustenburg (R000) 12 769 10 220 11 157 10 002 11 315 Impala Springs (R000) 486 578 1 600 4 161 5 862 Marula (R000) 2 0 1 260 1 012 900 SA operations total (R000) 13 257 10 798 14 017 15 175 18 077 Hours of ABET training Impala Rustenburg Hours 148 728 134 842 190 525 165 840 194 184 Impala Springs Hours 11 064 13 433 15 136 27 808 39 088 Marula Hours 4 032 0 14 450 24 422 13 920 SA operations total Hours 163 824 148 275 220 111 218 070 247 192 / APPENDIX / 83 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Environment KEY PRODUCTION FIGURES Units 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Ore milled (tonnes) 18 399 17 788 20 974 20 309 20 083 Tailings disposed on tailing dam (000 tonnes) 20 770 20 619 23 163 21 809 20 333 Dump slag treated (000 tonnes) 172 175 250 179 235 Furnace and converter slag generated and treated (000 tonnes) 783 772 880 844 842 Total slag treated (000 tonnes) 955 947 1 130 1 023 1 026 Platinum produced (000oz) 1 581 1 448 1 836 1 741 1 704 GROUP MATERIAL CONSUMPTION Diesel (000 litres) 25 247 27 875 26 000 23 466 29 262 Petrol (000 litres) 1 137 1 237 1 666 1 250 1 621 Coal (tonnes) 158 732 161 563 170 000 159 240 164 378 Industrial burning oil (000 litres) 1 730 2 660 2 453 2 034 1 728 ENERGY Impala Rustenburg (GJ 000) 11 453 11 360 12 220 11 295 11 138 Impala Springs (GJ 000) 2 727 2 688 2 695 2 530 2 554 Marula (GJ 000) 729 713 694 674 637 Zimplats (GJ 000) 1 940 2 100 1 865 1 826 1 413 Mimosa (GJ 000) 725 701 747 688 646 Group (GJ 000) 17 574 17 542 18 221 17 013 16 388 WATER Total water withdrawn Impala Rustenburg (Mℓ) 14 514 15 961 18 115 17 482 18 843 Impala Springs (Mℓ) 838 792 769 715 758 Marula (Mℓ) 1 969 1 989 1 817 1 494 1 169 Zimplats (Mℓ) 5 775 4 408 4 007 4 729 2 685 Mimosa (Mℓ) 2 344 2 214 2 337 2 659 2 328 Group (Mℓ) 25 440 25 274 27 045 27 079 25 783 Total water consumed* Impala Rustenburg (Mℓ) 24 735 26 012 28 044 22 859 26 401 Impala Springs (Mℓ) 1 244 1 251 1 244 1 125 1 195 Marula (Mℓ) 3 544 3 585 3 355 2 841 2 160 Zimplats (Mℓ) 7 852 6 003 5 528 6 172 3 793 Mimosa (Mℓ) 3 336 3 263 3 697 4 063 3 885 Group (Mℓ) 40 711 40 114 41 868 37 060 37 434 Total water recycled Impala Rustenburg (Mℓ) 10 220 10 051 9 928 5 376 7 557 Impala Springs (Mℓ) 406 459 474 411 438 Marula (Mℓ) 1 574 1 596 1 541 1 347 991 Zimplats (Mℓ) 2 078 1 595 1 521 1 443 1 109 Mimosa (Mℓ) 993 1 139 1 359 1 404 1 557 Group (Mℓ) 15 271 14 840 14 823 9 981 11 652 *Total water consumed = total water withdrawn and total water recycled. / 84 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Our performance data continued Environment continued EMISSIONS Units 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Total direct CO2 Impala Rustenburg (tonnes) 182 406 193 317 208 463 186 199 203 541 Impala Springs (tonnes) 158 553 154 077 166 267 149 707 150 992 Marula (tonnes) 6 331 6 450 7 157 6 959 6 571 Zimplats (tonnes) 43 864 53 697 41 190 42 371 48 272 Mimosa (tonnes) 9 815 10 362 12 528 9 673 11 034 Group (tonnes) 400 969 417 903 435 605 394 909 420 410 Total indirect CO2 Impala Rustenburg (tonnes) 2 534 307 2 444 347 2 725 366 2 532 798 2 347 267 Impala Springs (tonnes) 149 223 147 166 155 388 150 433 138 343 Marula (tonnes) 175 914 170 958 168 970 163 747 149 570 Zimplats (tonnes) 366 492 374 016 375 408 355 287 201 849 Mimosa (tonnes) 160 876 152 087 161 491 156 493 133 757 Group (tonnes) 3 386 812 3 288 574 3 586 623 3 358 758 2 970 786 Total direct SO2 Impala Rustenburg (tonnes) 5 832 4 736 6 319 3 638 14 223 Impala Springs (tonnes) 687 256 462 839 455 Marula (tonnes) – – – – – Zimplats (tonnes) 12 017 13 471 12 100 12 449 6 474 Mimosa (tonnes) – – – – – Group (tonnes) 18 536 18 463 18 881 16 926 21 152 LAND MANAGEMENT Units 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Disturbed areas rehabilitated Impala Rustenburg (ha) 18.4 23.4 40.2 56 51 Impala Springs (ha) – 0 0 0 0 Marula (ha) 3.3 0 0 61 0 Zimplats (ha) 2.5 0 0 0 305 Mimosa (ha) 4 0 0 0 0 Group (ha) 28.2 23.4 40.2 117 356 Rehabilitation liabilities/current costs* Impala Rustenburg (R million) 761 712 708 768 520 Impala Springs (R million) 63 60 – – – Marula (R million) 94 82 70 80 66 Zimplats (R million) 247 216 164 166 122 Mimosa (R million) 98 77 63 67 64 Group (R million) 1 263 1 147 1 004 1 081 722 Rehabilitation provisions Impala Rustenburg (R million) 523 520 455 432 289 Impala Springs (R million) 37 38 – – – Marula (R million) 54 57 41 35 33 Zimplats (R million) 154 117 99 111 99 Mimosa (R million) 47 52 40 42 17 Group (R million) 815 784 636 620 438 *In line with financial accounting principles and not DMR requirements. / APPENDIX / 85 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Total Total Group Group WASTE MANAGEMENT Units 2013 2012 Non-mineral/non-hazardous waste Reused (Tonnes) 1 405 7 051 Recycled (Tonnes) 15 026 11 864 Recovered (Tonnes) – 0 Treatment (Tonnes) – 0 Disposal (Tonnes) 5 324 8 044 On-site storage (Tonnes) – 0 Non-mineral/hazardous waste Reused (Tonnes) 3.5 0 Recycled (Tonnes) 27 991 40 756 Recovered (Tonnes) – 0 Treatment (Tonnes) 6 433 7 703 Disposal (Tonnes) 9 194 11 413 On-site storage (Tonnes) 12 28 Mineral waste Units 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Accumulated tailings (000 tonnes) 20 770 20 619 22 878 21 809 20 333 Accumulated waste rock (on surface) (000 tonnes) 1 484 1 323 1 388 1 202 6 405 / 86 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 GRI and UN Global Compact Implats has followed the guidance provided by principles and criteria provided in the GRI’s G3.1 guidelines. A brief review of our application of the GRI reporting principles is provided below. A detailed response to each of the GRI reporting criteria (with hyperlinks to the corresponding sections of the report) is provided on our website, along with our Communication on Progress in terms of the UN Global Compact. Part of our reporting criteria has incorporated some of the G4 guidelines, as we prepare to transition to this new reporting framework. Principles relating to the quality of this report ww Materiality: As outlined on pages 18 to 22 the issues covered in this report have been guided by a combination of feedback from stakeholders, the identification of material issues by the sustainable development forum, and matters identified through the Group’s risk management process. ww Stakeholder inclusiveness: The views and concerns of stakeholders have been considered in this report. Following the appointment of a stakeholder engagement manager in 2009, this process has been formalised. ww Sustainability context: The content of the report is informed by the nature of our products and markets, and with consideration to the social, economic and environmental context in which we operate. See for example page 68 where we provide a detailed review of our contribution to addressing national developmental priorities of South Africa. ww Completeness: The Group’s revised approach to sustainability management was reported extensively in 2009; only material changes from that basis were covered in this report. ww Balance: The Group has endeavoured to report in a balanced manner, reflecting both achievements and challenges during the year. ww Comparability: In almost all performance areas, comparisons with 2011 have been made. Where possible and where the information is available, data has been provided over a period of five years. ww Accuracy: Implats believes data has been provided in a format that is broadly acceptable and comparable against industry norms. Where necessary definitions have been provided. ww Timeliness: This integrated report is published annually, combining financial and non-financial performance. ww Clarity: The Group has adopted a reporting style that is concise, but comprehensive enough to be understandable to the lay person. ww Reliability: In 2009, Implats implemented a sustainability toolkit to collate and verify data, and to ensure greater accuracy and reliability. Certain performance indicators have been verified by the external assurance provider. Principles relating to the boundaries of this report ww This report includes operations that are wholly owned or managed by the Group, as well as Mimosa Mine, in which Implats has a 50% interest. The Two Rivers operation, in which the Group has a 45% interest and does not directly manage, is not directly covered. ww Mass balance: Mass balance accounting is used to calculate all sulphur emissions at our smelters. In this case, sulphur mass balance is a systematic manner in which the mass of inputs containing sulphur balances with the mass of outputs containing sulphur as products, waste, change in material stocks and emissions. The sulphur dioxide emissions are accounted for by using this technique. ww Particulate matter: Particulate matter is tiny pieces of solid or liquid matter released to the atmosphere. At Implats, particulate matter refers to the mass of particulates measured at ambient monitoring stations. Particulate matter smaller than 2.5 microns (μm) in size is called PM2.5 and particulate matter bigger than 2.5 microns (μm) and smaller than 10 microns (μm) in size is called PM10. ww Isokinetic sampling: Isokinetic sampling is a sampling method which is used for monitoring pollution from the stacks. The samples are taken in a duct or stack. The sampling collects particles at a rate where the velocity and the direction of the gas entering the sampling nozzle is the same as that of the gas in the duct or stack and elsewhere in the stream. The results are therefore more accurate and reliable. / APPENDIX / 87 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Independent assurance report on selected sustainability information to the directors of Impala Platinum Holdings Limited We have undertaken an assurance engagement on selected sustainability information as described below and presented in the 2013 sustainable development report of Impala Platinum Holdings Limited (Implats) for the year ended 30 June 2013 (the report). This engagement was conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of health, safety, social, environmental and assurance specialists with extensive experience in sustainability reporting. Subject matter and related assurance We are required to provide: 1. Reasonable assurance on the following key performance indicators: Description Assured value Page Boundary Health and safety indicators Contractor and employee fatalities 9 fatalities 4 Implats Group* Contractor and employee lost-time incident frequency rate 4.21 81 Implats Group* (LTIFR) Total injury frequency rate 10.91 81 Implats Group* New cases of noise induced hearing loss (NIHL) 50 cases 82 Implats Group* New cases of pulmonary tuberculosis diagnosed and treated 334 cases 82 Implats Group* Employees on antiretroviral treatment (ART) – net enrolment 4 039 employees on 81 Implats Group* at year-end ART Employee voluntary counselling and testing programme 11 782 VCT tested 81 Implats Group* uptake (VCT) – tested cases cases Environmental indicators Total energy consumed 17 574 (000 GJ) 83 Implats Group* Total water withdrawn 25 440 (Mℓ) 83 Implats Group* Total water consumed 40 711 (Mℓ) 83 Implats Group* Total indirect carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) 3 386 812 tonnes 84 Implats Group* Total indirect nitrogen oxide(s) emissions (NOx) 14 261 tonnes 76 Implats Group* Total indirect sulphur oxide(s) emissions (SOx) 27 363 tonnes 76 Implats Group* 2. Limited assurance on the following key performance indicators: Description Assured value Page Boundary Social and labour indicators Number of employees who are classified as historically 370 employees 47 South African operations only disadvantaged South Africans (HDSA) and who are employed at management levels (excluding non-executive directors ) Number of women employees in management 142 employees 48 South African operations only Total socio-economic development (SED) expenditure R102 million 56 South African operations only HDSA procurement (>25%) as a percentage of total Total – 55% 66 South African operations only discretionary procurement HDSA procurement (>25%) as a percentage per category Capital – 42% 66 South African operations only Consumable – 64% 66 Services – 60% 66 Environmental indicators Total direct carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) 400 969 tonnes 84 Implats Group* Total direct sulphur dioxide emissions (SO2) (only Zimplats, 18 536 tonnes 84 Rustenburg, Springs and Springs and Rustenburg operations) Zimplats only * The Implats Group boundary for the purpose of the report and our engagement is defined on page 86 of the report. / 88 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Independent assurance report on selected sustainability information to the directors of Impala Platinum Holdings Limited continued Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for the selection, preparation and presentation of the selected sustainability information in accordance with the GRI G3.1 guidelines. This responsibility includes the identification of stakeholders and stakeholder requirements, material issues, for commitments with respect to sustainability performance and for the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of the report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our independence and quality control We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. In accordance with International Standard on Quality Control 1, KPMG Services (Pty) Limited maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our responsibility Our responsibility is to express assurance conclusions on the selected sustainability information based on our work performed. We have conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000), Assurance Engagements other than the Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That standard requires that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain assurance about whether the selected sustainability information is free from material misstatement. An assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the quantification of the selected sustainability information and related disclosures. The nature, timing and extent of procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments we considered internal control relevant to Implats’ preparation of the selected key performance indicators. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures listed above we: ww Interviewed management and senior executives to obtain an understanding of the internal control environment, risk assessment process and information systems relevant to the sustainability reporting process; ww Inspected documentation to corroborate the statements of management and senior executives in our interviews; ww Tested the processes and systems to generate, collate, aggregate, monitor and report the selected sustainability information; ww Performed control walkthroughs ww Inspected supporting documentation and performing analytical procedures on a sample basis to evaluate the data generation and reporting processes against the reporting criteria ww Undertook site visits to a selection (risk based selection) of four operations sites, including Rustenburg (mining, concentration and smelting), Springs (refineries), Marula (mining and concentrating) and Zimplats (mining and concentration) ww Evaluated whether the selected sustainability information presented in the report is consistent with our overall knowledge and experience of sustainability management and performance at Implats. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. As a result, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance / APPENDIX / 89 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether the selected sustainability information set out in 2 has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with GRI G3.1 guidelines. Conclusions 1. On the selected key performance indicators on which we are required to express reasonable assurance In our opinion, the selected sustainability information set out in 1 above for the year ended 30 June 2013 is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with GRI G3.1 guidelines. 2. On the selected key performance indicators on which we are required to express limited assurance Based on our work performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected sustainability information set out in 2 above for the year ended 30 June 2013 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with GRI G3.1 guidelines. Other matters The maintenance and integrity of the Implats’ website is the responsibility of Implats’ management. Our procedures did not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to either the information in the report or our independent assurance report that may have occurred since the initial date of presentation on the Implats’ website. Our report does not extend to any disclosures or assertions relating to future performance plans and/or strategies disclosed in the report. Restriction of liability Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express the conclusions on the selected sustainability information to the directors of Implats in accordance with the terms of our engagement, and for no other purpose. We do not accept or assume liability to any party other than Implats, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have reached. KPMG Services (Pty) Limited Per PD Naidoo Director Johannesburg 29 August 2013 / 90 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Glossary of terms and acronyms ABET Adult Basic Education and Training Aids Acquired immune deficiency syndrome AMCU Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union ART Antiretroviral therapy, provided for the treatment of HIV and Aids (excluding state and private medical aid) BEE Black economic empowerment BUSA Business Unity South Africa CO2 Carbon dioxide CDM Clean Development Mechanism CPDP Carbon Disclosure Project dB Decibels. Unit of measurement for sound pressure DMR Department of Mineral Resources, South Africa DSM Demand-side management ESOP Employee Share Ownership Programme Executive director Director employed by the Company and is involved in the day-to-day running of the organisation FIFR A rate expressed per million man-hours worked of any Impala employee, contractor or contractor employee or visitor who is involved in an incident while performing his/her duties at work and who sustains terminal injuries shall constitute a fatal accident. Any road-related fatal incident where the Company is in full control of the vehicle, the driver and conditions related to the road injury of an employee shall constitute a fatal incident. A fatal injury may occur when an employee is incapacitated for a period of time prior to expiration, thus requiring a revision of injury status from LTI to a fatality GHG Greenhouse gases GJ Gigajoules. Unit of measure for energy GRI Global Reporting Initiative HDSA Historically disadvantaged South African HIV Human immunodeficiency virus HSE Health Safety and Environment IBT Impala Bafokeng Trust, socio-economic development vehicle jointly funded by Implats and RBH ILO International Labour Organisation Impala Platinum Impala Platinum Limited, comprising the Rustenburg operations and the Refineries in Springs Implats Impala Platinum Holdings Limited Independent Directors who, apart from receiving directors’ remuneration, do not have any other material pecuniary directors relationship or transactions with the Company, its management or its subsidiaries, which in the judgement of the board may affect their independence ISO International Organisation for Standardisation Isokinetic Isokinetic sampling is a sampling method which is used for monitoring pollution from the stacks. The sampling samples are taken in a duct or stack. The sampling collects particles at a rate where the velocity and the direction of the gas entering the sampling nozzle is the same as that of the gas in the duct or stack and elsewhere in the stream. The results are therefore more accurate and reliable LED Local Economic Development Local community Communities that are directly impacted by our mining operations and are on or near the mine property Lost time injury A work-related injury resulting in the employee being unable to attend work at his/her place of work, performing his/her assigned duties, on the next calendar day (whether a scheduled workday or not) after the day of the injury. If the appointed medical professional advises that the injured person is unable to attend work on the next calendar day after the injury, regardless of the injured person’s next roster shift, a lost-time injury is deemed to have occurred / APPENDIX / 91 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 LTIFR Number of lost-time injuries expressed as a rate per million hours worked and excludes restricted work cases Mass balance Mass balance accounting is used to calculate all sulphur emissions at our smelters. In this case, sulphur mass balance is a systematic manner in which the mass of inputs containing sulphur balances with the mass of outputs containing sulphur as products, waste, change in material stocks and emissions. The sulphur dioxide emissions are accounted for by using this technique Marula Marula Platinum (Pty) Limited Materiality and Issues of materiality are those aspects that may have a significant impact on the organisation’s material issues reputation and may carry a financial and/or legal cost. These aspects are identified internally through the risk process and externally through ad hoc or routine engagements with a range of stakeholders Medical treatment A medical treatment case is defined as a one-time treatment and subsequent observation of minor cases (MTCs) injuries by an appointed medical professional. Such minor injuries may include treatment by the application of bandages, antiseptic, ointment, irrigation of the eye to remove non-embedded foreign objects or the removal of foreign objects from the wound. MTCs never involve a loss of one or more calendar days after the injury, regardless of the injured person’s next rostered shift or where the injured is unable to perform one or more of routine functions normally connected with his/her work due to a restriction applied by an appointed medical professional Mimosa Mimosa Platinum (Private) Limited Mining Charter Broad-based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining Industry MINMEC Minister and Members of the Executive Council (Biodiversity) MPRDA Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, No 28 of 2002, which came into effect in South Africa on 11 May 2004 MW Megawatt, a measure of electric power NGO Non-governmental organisation NIHL Noise-induced hearing loss Non-executive A director who is not involved in the day-to-day running of the organisation but is a nominee director director of a material shareholder NOx Nitrogen oxides NUM National Union of Mineworkers, South Africa ORAs Objective-based risk assessments Particulate matter Particulate matter is tiny pieces of solid or liquid matter released to the atmosphere. At Implats, particulate matter refers to the mass of particulates measured at ambient monitoring stations. Particulate matter smaller than 2.5 microns (μm) in size is called PM2.5 and particulate matter bigger than 2.5 microns (µm) and smaller than 10 microns (µm) in size is called PM10 PBC PGM beneficiation committee established PGI Platinum Guild International PGMs Platinum group metals, being the metals derived from PGE Pmmhw Per million man hours worked PPM Parts per million RBH Royal Bafokeng Holdings RBN Royal Bafokeng Nation / 92 / IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2013 Glossary of terms and acronyms continued RIFR Reportable or serious injury frequency rate. A reportable injury is an injury which results in: a) The death of the employee b) An injury, to any employee, likely to be fatal c) Unconsciousness, incapacitation from heatstroke or heat exhaustion, oxygen deficiency, the inhalation of fumes or poisonous gas, or electric short or electric burning accidents of or by any employee and which is not reportable in terms of paragraph (d), or as required by the OHS Act where applicable d) An injury which either incapacitates the injured employee from performing that employee’s normal occupation for a period totalling 14 days or more, or which causes the injured employee to suffer the loss of a joint, or a part of a joint, or sustain a permanent disability. Restricted work A restricted work injury is a work-related injury which results in the employee being able to return injuries (RWI) to his/her permanently assigned workplace, to perform his/her permanently assigned work on the next calendar day, but where the injured is unable to perform one or more of their routine functions normally connected with his/her work due to a restriction applied by an appointed medical professional RLM Rustenburg Local Municipality SANBI South African National Biodiversity Institute SHEQ Safety, Health and Environment Quality SLP Social and Labour Plan SMMEs Small, medium and micro enterprises SO2 Sulphur dioxide TB Pulmonary tuberculosis, which in South Africa is considered an occupational illness when it is associated with the presence of dust in the workplace Traditional council Elected/appointed members of a community according to customs and practices. The tenure of leadership these leaders differ among communities. The chief King/Kgoshi/Kgosi or inKhosi is the head of the traditional council leadership and the chairman of the council UNGC United Nations Global Compact VCT Voluntary counselling and testing, in respect of HIV and Aids Indicator Basic calculation Indirect energy 2013 DEFRA guidelines Indirect CO2 Eskom Integrated Report 2013 (generated factor) Direct energy from diesel, petrol and IBO 2013 DEFRA Guidelines Direct energy from Sasol Gas From Sasol Gas supplier Direct CO2 from Sasol Gas From Sasol Gas supplier Direct energy from coal consumption Supplier analysis Direct CO2 from coal consumption Supplier analysis Contact details and administration Registered office Impala Platinum Japan Limited 2 Fricker Road Uchisaiwaicho Daibiru, room number 702 Illovo, 2196 3-3 Uchisaiwaicho Private Bag X18 1-Chome, Chiyoda-ku Northlands, 2116 Tokyo Telephone: +27 (11) 731 9000 Japan Telefax: +27 (11) 731 9254 Telephone: +81 (3) 3504 0712 Email: investor@implats.co.za Telefax: +81 (3) 3508 9199 Registration number: 1957/001979/06 Share codes: Company Secretary JSE: IMP Avanthi Parboosing ADRs: IMPUY Email: avanthi.parboosing@implats.co.za ISIN: ZAE000083648 Website: http://www.implats.co.za United Kingdom secretaries St James’s Corporate Services Limited Impala Platinum Limited and Suite 31, Second Floor Impala Refining Services 107 Cheapside Head office London 2 Fricker Road EC2V 6DN Illovo, 2196 United Kingdom Private Bag X18 Telephone: +44 (020) 7796 8644 Northlands, 2116 Telefax: +44 (020) 7796 8645 Telephone: +27 (11) 731 9000 Email: phil.dexter@corpserv.co.uk Telefax: +27 (11) 731 9254 Public Officer Impala Platinum (Rustenburg) François Naudé PO Box 5683 Email: francois.naude@implats.co.za Rustenburg, 0300 Telephone: +27 (14) 569 0000 Transfer secretaries Telefax: +27 (14) 569 6548 South Africa Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Limited Impala Platinum Refineries 70 Marshall Street PO Box 222 Johannesburg, 2001 Springs,1560 PO Box 61051 Telephone: +27 (11) 360 3111 Marshalltown, 2107 Telefax: +27 (11) 360 3680 Telephone: +27 (11) 370 5000 Telefax: +27 (11) 688 5200 Marula Platinum 2 Fricker Road United Kingdom Illovo, 2196 Computershare Investor Services plc Private Bag X18 The Pavilions Northlands, 2116 Bridgwater Road Telephone: +27 (11) 731 9000 Bristol Telefax: +27 (11) 731 9254 BS13 8AE Zimplats Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc Block B 2 Eglin Road Emerald Park Sunninghill 30 The Chase (West) Johannesburg Emerald Hill 2157 Harare, Zimbabwe PO Box 6380 Harare Corporate relations Johan Theron Zimbabwe Investor queries may be directed to: Telephone: +26 (34) 332 590/3 Email: investor@implats.co.za Fax: +26 (34) 332 496/7 Email: info@zimplats.com Bastion Graphics BASTION GRAPHICS www.implats.co.za
