UN GLOBAL COMPACT DIETSMANN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 www.dietsmann.com LEADERS IN OIL, GAS AND POWER PLANT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN & PRESIDENT In this second Dietsmann annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions in respect of the integration of the Global Compact’s ten principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations in 2013. I am, therefore, pleased to confirm that Dietsmann has reaffirmed its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption. Since the signing of our commitment to the UNGC in 2011 we have been working on our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy by structuring our responsibility actions and formulating our global approach. This continued throughout 2013. We also shared this information with our stakeholders via our primary channels of communication. Dietsmann complies with the legislation of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the principles and best practices of good Corporate Governance and the ethics and anti-corruption legislation and regulations. Dietsmann’s first Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy was drawn-up more than ten years ago and has been reviewed and updated on a regular basis since then. As we are expanding our operations to include new sites it becomes increasingly important that our Corporate Social Responsibility approach is clearly formulated and communicated. Towards this end Dietsmann has now published a more detailed version of its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy in the Corporate section of Dietsmann’s website in addition to the HSE Charters & Policies and Ethics Charter in which its commitments are formalized. As Dietsmann’s Founder and Chairman, I am personally involved in bringing, upholding and communicating Dietsmann’s long term vision and strategy to all our employees in all the countries in which we operate. This vision and strategy together form the basis of our single corporate culture that includes our ethics values of integrity, respect, loyalty, efficiency and transparency. Dietsmann’s Corporate Social Responsibility approach promotes these ethics values as well as mutual respect and correct behavior. This approach incorporates our compliance with the applicable legislation in every country in which we operate as well as all the measures that have been included in Dietsmann’s overall strategy in order to ensure we achieve the highest standards of corporate responsibility and integrate the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact into our day-to-day work. Peter R.G. Kütemann Chairman & President 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Statement from the Chairman & President 2 I Profile disclosure 4 Company profile 4 Commitments to our main Stakeholders 6 Scope of the report 7 II Sustainability Management approach 8 Involvement of Top Management 8 Dietsmann Sustainability Project 9 III Human Rights Principles 12 Overall strategy 12 Implementation and Outcomes 12 IV Labor Rights principles 15 Overall strategy 15 Implementation and Outcomes 15 V Environment principles 29 Overall strategy 29 Implementation and Outcomes 29 VI Anti-corruption principle 33 Overall Strategy 33 Implementation and Outcomes 33 VII Dietsmann’s involvement in local communities 36 Group 36 Monaco 37 Angola Sonadiets 39 Republic of Congo 40 Gabon 41 Kazakhstan 42 Libya 43 Nigeria Netco Dietsmann (NTD) 44 France Dietsmann Technologies SA 45 VIII Map of Dietsmann’s involvement in local communities 46 IX Continuous progress 47 X Informing stakeholders of Dietsmann’s implementation of the UNGC principles 50 External communication 49 Internal communication 50 3 I PROFILE DISCLOSURE COMPANY PROFILE n Name of the organization: Dietsmann N.V. n Dietsmann N.V., the Company’s holding company, is a privately held company with its registered office in Breda, the Netherlands. n Company size: Dietsmann has offices and operations in 15 countries. The total workforce is 5933 employees. n Certification: French sites are ISO14001 certificated. Dietsmann France has been ISO 9001 certificated since 1996 Dietsmann Monaco and Dietsmann Italy have been ISO 9001 certificated since 1999. In 2013 Dietsmann Congo also achieved ISO 9001 certification. n HSE awards received during the reporting period: Shell Gabon OGEC : 4 years without Lost Time Incident ( August 2013) n Significant changes during the reporting period: acquisition of 100% of REP Engineering Company (Russia). n Organizational structure: n Corporate Seat: Breda, the Netherlands. n International Support and Coordination Office: Monaco. n Offices and operations worldwide: France, Italy, Republic of Congo, Gabon, Nigeria, Angola, Mozambique, Libya, Iraq, South Sudan, Kazakhstan, Russia and Switzerland. Dietsmann was founded in the Netherlands by Chairman & President Peter Kütemann and is now the leading independent Operation & Maintenance (O&M) specialist for the Oil, Gas, LNG and power industry with over 35 years of accumulated plant and equipment expertise. Dietsmann’s core business is planning and managing the O&M of oil, gas and power plants in a way that optimizes safe operational performance, maximizes availability and minimizes costs. The planning, engineering and ongoing execution of maintenance is a complex task in which experienced professionals analyze the requirements, engineer the maintenance, plan the operations and manage continuous plant optimization. Major international and national oil and gas companies entrust Dietsmann with the O&M of their production facilities. 4 I PROFILE DISCLOSURE Professional maintenance not only increases operating revenue, it also extends the productive life of the assets and, as a result, contributes towards a more sustainable use of equipment and premises. Dietsmann’s core management has always focused on delivering safe and efficient Operation & Maintenance by working closely with its clients at all levels. The Company has accumulated a wealth of experience in operating and maintaining hundreds of production installations around the world. Currently the Company maintains a database of tens of thousands of different pieces of equipment as well as spare parts for all the production facility components of multiple configurations. Dietsmann remains independent and, therefore, free of conflicts of interest with regard to construction companies or original equipment manufacturers and this important principle will remain unchanged. As well as being the largest independent provider of specialized Operation & Maintenance services, Dietsmann is also the market leader in maintenance engineering and inspection (MEI). The Company’s worldwide Operation & Maintenance activities are supported by Dietsmann Technologies – a Dietsmann subsidiary that provides a wide range of electrical, instrumentation, engineering and construction services. As a substantial employer in the countries in which it operates Dietsmann takes its social responsibilities extremely seriously. The company has been active in Nigeria, Angola, the Republic of Congo and Gabon for more than 25 years and in Kazakhstan and Russia since the early 1990s. In the countries in which it operates Dietsmann strives for 100 percent local employment in its maintenance organization. On June 20 2012 Dietsmann acquired a 51% stake in REP Engineering – a Russian Global Maintenance Services Company providing repair and maintenance services to power stations, including four large plants. On May 15 2013, Dietsmann acquired the remaining 49% of the shares in REP Engineering, bringing its holding to the total 100%. When REP Engineering became a fully-owned subsidiary of Dietsmann it was decided to change REP Engineering’s name to Dietsmann (Дитсманн in Cyrillic). Headquartered in Moscow, REP Enginneering had over 1,700 employees. This means Dietsmann’s total workforce in Russia is now of 1804 employees, almost all of whom are Russian, and the Company maintains more than 12 Gigawatts of both gas and steam turbine-driven power units. In South Sudan a new joint venture between Dietsmann Technologies International and Nile Petroleum Corporation, called DietsmannNile, was set up in November 2013. During the year Dietsmann also opened an office in Mozambique with a view to launching new operations. 5 I PROFILE DISCLOSURE In December 2013 Dietsmann’s quality-system management processes will be audited by the ISO 9001:2008 certification organization LRQA (Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance) for the renewal of certification. TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 6.000 4.500 3.000 1.500 0 2010 2011 2012 (Sept.) 2013 (Oct.) It should be noted that during 2013 the total number of employees rose by 60% compared to 2012 (from 3541 to 5933) in part due to the integration of REP Engineering. COMMITMENTS TO OUR MAIN STAKEHOLDERS We strive to take our stakeholders’ expectations into account in our business decisions and overall strategy. We maintain close relationships with our clients and regularly assess their satisfaction and, to enable us to improve our performance, their further expectations. We commit to our clients that we will: n always listen to and learn from them; n tailor our services to their specific requirements; n offer effective industrial Operation & Maintenance solutions; n employ state-of-the-art but field-tested technology and cutting-edge working practices; n continuously improve in everything we do; n meet or exceed their expectations under optimal cost/benefit conditions; n be truthful in all advertising and communications. We commit to our employees that we will: n provide a safe and rewarding working environment; n ensure equal opportunities; n foster an atmosphere of teamwork and mutual respect; n motivate, empower and foster creativity and innovation; n facilitate and manage local and international career opportunities. We commit to society at large that we will: n strictly apply the highest ethical standards; n respect and care for the environment; n strive to be a good corporate citizen. 6 I PROFILE DISCLOSURE SCOPE OF THE REPORT The reporting period for the information provided is from December 2012 to December 2013. This Communication On Progress (COP) presents a description of our company’s sustainable development approach. The content describes Dietsmann’s strategy and progress regarding the implementation of the ten UNGC principles arranged in accordance with the four main topics: Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment, and Ethics. This year two specific sections have been added: one dealing with Dietsmann’s sustainability management approach and the other dedicated to its involvement in local communities. The contacts for questions regarding this Report or its contents are: n the Group Communications Officer; n the Sustainable Development Group Coordinator. 7 II SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Compliance with its Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment protection and Ethics commitments are monitored by Dietsmann’s Management Board and the Company’s performance is regularly assessed by the Executive Committee (EXCO). INVOLVEMENT OF TOP MANAGEMENT The African Achievers Awards (AAA) Nairobi, Saturday 23 February, 2013 – Dietsmann Chairman & President Peter Kütemann joined dignitaries and prominent citizens from more than 20 African countries as a guest at the 2013 African Achievers Awards Gala Night. The African Achievers Awards (AAA) (africanachieversawards.org) is an annual event, established in 2012, to recognize individuals and organizations that have made a significant contribution towards Africa’s growth and development. The 30 different awards cover a wide range of activities including Excellence in Leadership, Peace Keeping, Youth Empowerment, Literature, Humanitarianism, Agriculture and Creativity. Mr. Kütemann, an active contributor through his private Kütemann Foundation in African Agricultural Development, was called to the podium and given the honor of presenting an African Achievers Award to the First Lady of Benue State (Nigeria), H.E. Arc. (Mrs.) Yemisi Dooshima Suswam, for her establishment of and work with the SEV-AV FOUNDATION. The winner of the 2013 LIFETIME AFRICAN ACHIEVERS AWARD was Dr. Rilwanu Lukman who has been a member of Dietsmann NV’s Supervisory Board since 2007. We congratulate him for being awarded this well-deserved recognition of his immense service to Africa in general and his country, Nigeria, in particular. 8 II SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH The United Nations Global Compact Leaders’ Summit New York, Friday 20 September – Dietsmann Chairman & President Peter Kütemann attended the 2013 United Nations Global Compact Leaders’ Summit where he gave a presentation during the United Nations Private Leader session. Peter Kütemann explained Dietsmann’s commitment to establishing comprehensive training and technology transfer programs focusing on a number of skill areas including electrical and instrumentation, mechanics, HVAC, maintenance and HSE. Between 2013 and 2015, Dietsmann will hire 29 trainers in the seven countries in which the program is in place (Angola, Republic of Congo, Gabon, Libya, Mozambique, Nigeria and South Sudan). By 2015 Dietsmann will have trained a total of 699 employees. Peter Kütemann also attended the Africa Leaders’ Summit Lunch as a moderator on Education issues. The participation in these events was an opportunity to exchange information about Dietsmann’s activities and hands-on experience in Africa in a constructive way. DIETSMANN SUSTAINABILITY PROJECT In line with the Company’s commitment to integrating the UNGC principles into its operations and business strategy, in 2012 a new specific department was established to coordinate Dietsmann’s sustainable development. By working closely with all departments the Sustainable Development Group Coordinator supports the continuous reinforcement of the Company’s corporate responsibility strategy. During 2013 Dietsmann’s subsidiaries in nearly all the Company’s main countries of operations were visited and their level of compliance and performances regarding corporate responsibility was assessed. In those countries, a specific report was compiled covering six main topics: n Social approach n Ethics commitments n Environment protection n Stakeholders’ engagement n Sustainability management n Respect of legality principle The countries were assessed using a checklist of 59 items and appraised regarding the consistency of actions conducted, which means the extent to which an action goes beyond the regulatory requirements and is in-line with Dietsmann’s core business & know-how. It should be noted that Russia has not yet been assessed, but the translation of the checklist is being worked on and the reporting will be completed during 2014. 9 II SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH The aim of the consultation visits was to identify successful good practices and evaluate the opportunities for duplicating these practices elsewhere. The consultation with subsidiaries generated a snapshot of each subsidiary’s performance and opportunities related to sustainability. A common thread on which to focus has emerged: knowledge sharing. For this reason, in addition to the scheduled fundamental rights and ethics awareness-building based on a video explaining Dietsmann’s Business Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy, we are going to base the development of the sustainability project on the sharing of know-how, related to all Dietsmann’s competence areas. This know-how transfer is aimed at employees, as well as our partners (including the promotion of Dietsmann’s Ethics commitments) and local communities (increasing awareness of environmental & health issues and apprenticeships). The approach will be implemented in-line with the key work topics identified below and on the basis of Dietsmann’s main strategic axis: knowledge sharing. CORPORATE SPIRIT ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS PROTECTION PARTNERS SHARED KNOWLEDGE SOCIAL HEALTH AT COHESION WORK CITIZENSHIP INITIATIVES 10 II SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Studies of each country of operations in order to gain an accurate understanding of the local context for a social, economic, political and environmental plan are also scheduled. The objective of the studies is to highlight the specific challenges regarding fundamental rights, ethics and environment protection in each country. During 2013 the study of Kazakhstan and Angola was carried out based on information available on international databases (World Health Organization, Amnesty International, Transparency International, Doing business, Human Rights Watch, etc.). In each of the main countries visited by the Sustainable Development Group Coordinator the Country Manager has designated a focal person who will be the relay for developing the sustainability project. It should be noted that as of 2013 the sustainable development process has been included and monitored within the Group Quality Management System. 11 III HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. UNGC Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. OVERALL STRATEGY Dietsmann actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights through updated relevant published and publically available documents. Dietsmann is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Dietsmann does not tolerate victimization, bullying or harassment. The Company also encourages its business partners to respect Human Rights and expects them to observe its “Business Partners Policy”. Dietsmann’s Human Rights practices are fully in line with UNGC expectations and include an involvement in local communities focused on knowledge sharing and also involving the participation of Dietsmann’s employees. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Dietsmann Corporate Shared Responsibility Dietsmann has always been deeply concerned about the well-being of its employees and the mutual respect which is a constituent component of its corporate culture. The Company’s core values are encapsulated in the Dietsmann Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy. This reference document provides practical examples to explain the implications of these commitments in the day-to-day working environment. To ensure all employees understand the content of the Code, during 2013 a training module – Corporate Shared Responsibility – was issued. This video-based training module explains on the one hand Dietsmann’s corporate responsibility commitments and, on the other hand, how employees are required to comply with these commitments and be personally involved. In addition, an abridged version of the Business Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy has been produced in the seven languages most commonly used within Dietsmann and will be distributed during the training. Employees will be expected to read this Code. They will then sign and return a declaration slip confirming they have read and understood the document, which includes the UNGC principles and Dietsmann’s commitment to these principles. The acceptance of the Code by each employee will be monitored in order to ensure a progressive increase of the awareness of all employees is achieved. 12 III HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Ensuring business partners’ compliance Dietsmann is committed to applying UNGC principles at all operating sites and is striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles and encourage them to implement good practices. A procedure has been implemented that will provide all subsidiaries with an evaluation form for current and potential suppliers and/or sub-contractors. The form includes an assessment of compliance with Human Rights, Labor Rights, environment protection and ethics. The form has been completed for the main suppliers in the Republic of Congo. The assessment of local suppliers is being implemented in other countries. Service agreements have also been amended to include specific clauses in new and on-going agreements and now oblige cosigners to apply corporate responsibility commitments as part of the agreement. Dietsmann upline email To protect its employees Dietsmann is implementing a Grievance Mechanism, the “Upline email”, which can be used to obtain advice regarding or to report any sensitive concern relating to Human Rights. The responsibility for this mechanism rests with the Ethics Committee appointed in 2012. To ensure the confidentiality and reliability of the Upline email a dedicated and customized IT tool has been developed by Dietsmann’s IT department. This tool will also enable the Ethics Committee to identify and analyze recurring issues and implement appropriate preventive actions. The procedure to be followed in order to use the Upline email is explained in the Upstream Communication procedure as well as in the Corporate Shared Responsibility training video. HELP HR or HSE Officer Written statement upon your request. Ethics Committee HELP! upline@dietsmann.com investigation 10 DAYS 60 DAYS CONFIDENTIALITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT FEEDBACK 13 III HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Data protection A flexible information system infrastructure is essential and has been one of Dietsmann’s strengths over the years. In a challenging and changing world, retaining this flexibility and ensuring the safety and reliability of the system for all users and subsidiaries is crucial. In 2012 it was decided to relocate the data center from the office in Monaco to a more secure site and to opt for Tier III compliance as this provides a more professional solution offering a high level of service guarantees. Before the installation of this new system, a breakdown in the building where the data center was located meant the system was down everywhere in the world. With Tier III this is very unlikely to happen because the data is stored offsite and securely backed up. Tier III does, by definition, mean virtually 100% availability. A centralized backup has also been incorporated so that if a subsidiary has a major problem locally its data will not be lost. Monaco Data Center With the installation of the new system Dietsmann has taken a further step to guarantee the protection of clients’ data and the individual’s privacy. 14 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES UNGC Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. UNGC Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. UNGC Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. UNGC Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. OVERALL STRATEGY Dietsmann respects the Labor Rights as stated in the International Labor Organization’s Declaration as well as all relevant legislation and regulations, including the local content of the countries in which it operates. Dietsmann expects its business partners to do the same. As stated in its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy, Dietsmann: n respects freedom of association and supports collective bargaining. n does not tolerate forced or child labor and discrimination. n has always been committed to maintaining the highest level of HSE standards n values the personal development of its employees and focuses on dynamic career management, supports internal promotion, invests in training and strives to take employees’ expectations into account. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Dietsmann’s Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy publically states its commitment to supporting Labor Rights, including safe and healthy working conditions, freedom of association, non-discrimination in human resources management and access to basic health and education. Dietsmann is developing tools and processes to implement these commitments. HSE performances are strictly monitored. HR performances are also monitored in terms of individual development, equal opportunities, diversity and training. Dietsmann also works continuously to improve welfare schemes for all its employees. As a global company, Dietsmann relies heavily on mutual respect and individual dignity and believes that diversity enhances shared knowledge. Wherever applicable Dietsmann allows the observance of national or religious traditions and customs with respect to weekly leisure time. 15 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Ensuring Business partners’ compliance As specified in Dietsmann’s Business Partners Policy, business partners are expected to respect Labor Rights. Dietsmann is committed to applying UNGC principles at all operating sites and is striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles and encourage them to implement good practices. As described in section III, a Group procedure for the selection of suppliers and subcontractors has been issued and service agreements have been amended to include specific related clauses. Conditions of employment All Dietsmann’s employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly defines their terms and conditions including pay rates, working hours and overtime compensation arrangements. All contracts specify employees are free to resign after a notice period defined according to the type of contact. Dietsmann does not have any employees under 18 years old. Information about standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures is handed to all employees when they join the Company. All expatriate employees receive a country information sheet before taking up their duties. To ensure HR employees have a clear framework that enables them to put Dietsmann’s commitments into practice, a Human Resources Management System is being developed. The system will ensure HR teams are kept fully up-to-date with the Company’s regulations on Human Rights and Labor Rights issues, including non-discrimination procedures and the equal opportunity standards to apply in day-to-day work. Collective bargaining & dialogue with employees The Company endorses collective bargaining: employees’ representatives are active at all operating sites and are also provided with the necessary meeting facilities and appropriate time off duty to organize work sessions with the managers concerned. In Monaco a specific anonymous email allows employees to send any question they may have to the employees’ representatives. At all sites Dietsmann promotes an open dialogue between employees and managers. Dietsmann Gabon recently implemented a dialogue box system which allows open dialogue (open topics/ nominative or not). The outcomes of this initiative will be followed-up. 16 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Focus on ‘Open door’ communication on any topic at any time is also formalized suggestion: at the Morro Bento training center in Angola. “An Idea?” At the Training Center short meetings (no longer than 15 minutes) are held on a weekly basis. The meetings are scheduled on open topics. A written meeting report includes action plans related to the issues discussed and these actions are monitored. It is planned to utilize the opportunity offered by these meetings to provide feedback on anomaly cards (1 mandatory card per week/ available in three languages Portuguese, English and French), particularly for ideas and suggestions. This is a major strength of this tool: the anomaly cards enable employees and students at the Training Center to submit suggestions in addition to reporting any issue. Upline email The ongoing implementation of the Upline email grievance mechanism allows employees to request advice on Labor Rights, Human Rights and Ethics matters and to report any deviance from the Code including, of course, any violation of these fundamental Rights and non-compliant behavior. The responsibility for carrying out investigations rests with the Ethics Committee. Confidentiality is ensured and all the members of the Ethics Committee are subject to a stringent privacy commitment. Requests and reports are recorded and analyzed in order to attempt to avoid the situation recurring in the future and to gain an insight into the topics concerned with a view to implementing any preventive actions deemed necessary. The Upstream Communication procedure to be followed for the use of the Upline email is described in section III. Health and safety The eight HSE policies are Safety & Security, Health & Industrial Hygiene, Decent Working Conditions, Vehicle Driving, Substance Abuse, HIV/AIDS, Sustainable Development and Environment Protection. The essence of these policies is contained within the HSE Charter included in the Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy. The full text of each policy can also be read in the Corporate section of Dietsmann’s website www.dietsmann.com. 17 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Dietsmann issues an annual HSE risks assessment in an HRA report (Health Risks Assessment) for the main operating sites and monitors risk management progress through regular HSE audits. Dietsmann ensures employees are aware of the Company’s rules and HSE procedures by giving all new employees a copy of the Safety Handbook. HSE Charter & Safety Handbook HeaLtH safety enVirOnMent CHarter in aLL its actiVities, dietsMann’s Hse OBJectiVes are cLear: ■ ensure the safety of our employees and contractors ■ Zero accidents ■ Protect the environment Our COmmitments: ■ ensure that Hse requirements come before all ■ Openly communicate, both internally and externally, economic considerations the results and monitoring of Hse objectives ■ adopt a proactive approach to guarantee a safe, ■ respect the standards and requirements of international healthy working environment for all its employees rules and the application of laws and local regulations ■ identify the risks stemming from its activities and ■ ensure that its human rights policy is implemented and reduce them to the lowest possible level respected ■ ensure that each of its employees continues to have ■ require that all employees, whatever their level in the the necessary technical knowledge regarding safety hierarchy, are made responsible for their behaviour in by professional training and on the job training the application of this policy improvement of safety at ■ Promote its employees’ initiatives in the improvement the work station of safety at the work station ■ support a precautionary approach to sustainability and environmental challenges ■ reduce negative impacts on the environment by using energy efficiently ■ minimize and eliminate discharges of hazardous peter r.G. Kütemann products for humans and the environment Chairman & President Leaders in Oil, Gas and POwer Plant OperatiOn & Maintenance Every employee arriving for his/her first day of working at a site must follow a safety induction path during which the HSE Officer covers all the relevant HSE guidelines, general rules and site-specific operational rules. At the end of the induction path every employee is given a copy of the Safety Handbook, which must be signed by both the employee and the HSE Officer. Thanks to this comprehensive HSE management system, work related injuries have remained close to the target of zero fatalities and incidents that harm or injure employees. 18 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES HSE PERFORMANCE 2009 TO JULY 2013 DIETSMANN GROUP SAFETY INDICATORS 2.0 TRIR 1.5 LTIF FAT 1.0 0.5 0.31 0 0.00 2009 2010 2011 2012 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Dietsmann’s comprehensive Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) policies and procedures ensure a continuous process of combined prevention and protection measures. The HSE Management System provides a framework for all teams at operating sites. Continuous consultation with employees regarding HSE issues contributes towards the improvement of safety & security at all sites. Dietsmann complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and the HSE knowledge of every employee is improved through regular training and presentations geared to their function and activities. Dietsmann’s HSE management is also continuously improving its policies. Every employee is expected to comply with all Dietsmann’s HSE policies and to make an active contribution towards their improvement by: n Taking all necessary precautions. n Reporting any witnessed near-misses, incidents or accidents. DIETSMANN SAFETY CAMPAIGN Contributing towards the identification and assessment of risks. MUSCULOSKELETAL n n Participating in HSE training courses. DISORDERS SYMPTOMS: All employees are covered by medical insurance and throughout ■ MUSCULAR PAIN IN WRISTS, SHOULDERS, ELBOWS, KNEES, BACK ■ STRESS, NERVOUS DISORDERS the year information campaigns increase employees’ awareness of MINIMIZE THE RISKS BY BEING AWARE OF YOUR POSTURE AND MOVEMENTS specific health issues. AT WORK: ■ POSITION SCREEN AND CHAIR AT CORRECT HEIGHT For example, in 2013 a healthy life campaign was displayed in all the ■ SIT UP STRAIGHT, THIGHS HORIZONTAL ■ DO NOT SIT WITH LEGS CROSSED languages spoken within the Company: all employees were informed ■ MAKE SURE YOU HAVE ENOUGH LIGHT about musculoskeletal disorders prevention. YOU ONLY HAVE ONE LIFE. KEEP IT HEALTHY! Previous health & safety campaigns remain available in the HSE Dietsmann section of Dietsmann’s website. www.dietsmann.com/healthy-life Maintaining Energy HSE communication campaign 19 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES In addition to safety & security, employees’ good health is also a major concern for Dietsmann. This is why regular medical check-ups are provided to employees: in 2013, 92% of employees benefited from a medical check-up (2012: 86%). The check-ups are carried out every one or two years depending on the local context and the individual context (the employee’s age and type of work). RATE OF MEDICAL VISITS JAN. 2013 TO NOV. 2013 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Angola Congo France Gabon Iraq Italy Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Other Russia Saudi Arabia South Sudan On sites A useful tool called the ‘Return on experience’ sheet has been implemented in Gabon. A Safety Alerts document is issued to prevent the same incident occuring again. It is an illustrated document explaining the risk (including any existing related regulatory references) and how to avoid it. This sheet is then laminated and displayed to increase awareness. In Dietsmann’s subsidiary in the Republic of Congo, senior employees can participate, on a voluntary basis, in a new training course on occupational health & safety (OHS) during which qualified HSE managers provide first aid instruction. An Automatic Defibrillator has also been installed in the Pointe Noire office. Another successful initiative at the Republic of Congo’s CEC site is the provision of bikes to employees so they can cycle from one point to another inside the CEC power plant, on the SAS site and in Djeno Terminal. Supporting personal development One of Dietsmann’s objectives is to provide national and expatriate employees with career opportunities and training programs. The Human Resources department has, therefore, developed several successful tools: ICMS, TACT, KMP and PARS. Dietsmann has also developed a new training management module for EBD – its in-house HR management software – for the entire Company. The aim of this module, which has recently been completed, is to assist training management in each country and in the International Support and Coordination Office in Monaco by automating many tasks, such as training plan editing, training request management and training processing and reporting. 20 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES n  ICMS “Integrated Career Management System” Dietsmann operates an annual review process for employees: the number of scheduled interviews is increasing each year. The process identifies the employee’s personal development needs and training requirements for his/her current job position and expected career path. In 2013 69% of the scheduled ICMS interviews were conducted. This is a lower percentage than in 2012 (73%). This year the target was increased by 6.4% although the company is still managing the recent human resources increase related to the REP integration. NUMBER OF ICMS INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED 3,000 2,250 1,500 750 0 2011 2012 2013 It should be noted that, although the overall situation in Libya remains complex, in 2013 the ICMS interviews were reinstigated progressively in-line with the gradual remobilization. The rate in Nigeria is quite low due to the fact that, although almost all the employees were scheduled to be interviewed, this proved impossible due to manpower limitations. The rate of planned ICMS in Russia does not include former REP Engineering employees. RATE OF ICMS INTERVIEWS CARRIED OUT BY MAIN OPERATING COUNTRIES IN 2013 (EDB November 2013) 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% Angola Congo France Gabon Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Other Russia In addition to the review process, employees’ representatives are consulted regularly in all countries and their views and expectations are taken into account. 21 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES BREAKDOWN Expatriates 15% OF TOTAL TRAININGS DELIVERED FROM JAN. TO SEPT. 2013 (several trainings for a single employee possible) Nationals 85% The investment in training remained at a high level with 10,096 training days between January and September 2013. The opportunity to follow training courses appropriate to their specific job needs or projected career path is available for all employees. Training can cover technical, administration, languages or management courses and training sessions are also provided for mandatory HSE and IT topics. The focus is on transferring know-how and enhancing national employees’ skills. BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL TRAININGS DELIVERED FROM JAN. TO SEPT. 2013 6,000 Nbr of days Nbr of employees 4,500 3,000 1,500 0 HSE Technical Management Languages Data Processing/IT Administration n  TACT: “Technical Assessment Campaign and Training” The aim of this training program is to align the skills of national employees with the technical and safety requirements of their positions. This tool takes into account the assessment, training, mentoring and acquired knowledge measurement. TACT is applicable for four disciplines mechanics, instrumentation, electricity and HVAC – and differentiates three levels of skill – junior technician, senior technician and foreman. The program is aimed at both national and expatriate employees. A personalized training & tutoring program is implemented based on the results of the assessment and lasts for approximately two years. The ongoing Tact 2 session involves 508 participants. 22 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES TACT 2: BREAKDOWN OF TRAINEES BY COUNTRIES IN 2013 300 Hvac Instrumentation 200 Electrical Mechanical 100 0 Angola Congo Gabon n KMP: “Key Managers Path” The objective of this project management training program is to prepare the key managers Dietsmann needs for its future operational development. This program is spread over several years and divided into two parts: n A training program focused primarily on management, finance, communication and specific group modules provided by managers. n An individual professional path which allows each candidate to gain the necessary competencies step by step. The candidates fulfill different positions involving an increasing level of responsibility. The total number of participants since the launch of KMP training program is 24. n PARS: “Pro Active Recruitment System” The PARS has been implemented since 2006 and is aimed at talented potential candidates not necessarily experienced in the oil & gas sector. The main purpose of the PARS is to hire young technicians with a minimum of five years’ experience in the industrial sector and train them to meet the Company’s potential future needs. The recruits spend one month in the maintenance engineering department in order to gain a general overview of oil and gas projects before being assigned to one of Dietsmann’s subsidiaries for onthe-job training in different positions by experienced technicians. During periods of training in France or abroad, Dietsmann covers the costs and PARS participants agree not to benefit from expatriation premiums. This recruiting process enables regular needs for technicians (mechanical, electrical, instrumentation, automation, turbines) to be met and also represents an effort by the Company to train candidates who may not necessarily be hired at the end of the training. Since its launch the PARS has attracted 38 potential employees all of whom have since been hired. This program is available to only a limited number of candidates as it involves experienced employees’ contributing by transferring their knowledge. The 3 participants in 2013 have been confirmed in operational positions. 23 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Valorization of diversity Whenever possible the Company promotes national employment. As a result the Company is continuously increasing the diversity of its employees. A total of 58 different nationalities were represented in 2012, this year there are 66 different nationalities. Dietsmann is present in 15 countries and in every one of these countries recruits employees by publishing vacancies worldwide on its website. EMPLOYEE Russian 31.5% Serbian 0.4% NATIONALITY Romanian 2.1% South African 1.1% OCT. 2013 Nigerian 7.7% Tunisian 0.6% Libyan 1.7% Other 3.6% Kazakh 5.6% Algerian 0.6% Italian 2.4% Angolan 9.2% Indian 1.8% British 0.8% Other: Gabonese 6.8% Congolese 13.1% 49 different nationalities French 9.7% Filipino 1.5% The diversity of Dietsmann’s workforce reflects its rejection of any form of discrimination. Dietsmann’s non-discrimination principle includes any explicit or implicit distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of color, gender, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, which has the effect of nullifying or spoiling equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation, including access to vocational training. Dietsmann’s recruitment criteria are based solely on skills and are not related to ethnic or religious origins, age, gender or any other form of discrimination. NATIONALS VERSUS EXPATRIATES COMPARISON 20122013 6,000 Nationals Expatriates 4,500 3,000 1,500 0 2012 2013 24 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES The nationalization of expatriate positions is also a priority in terms of career management. Typically, over 99% of administrative staff positions and over 72% of management positions are filled by nationals of the countries in which Dietsmann operates. The Company remains focused on increasing the proportion of nationals employed in all categories. Dietsmann’s HR policy is reflected in the proportion of national employees across the Company overall, which is now over 80%. EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY OF WORK OCT. 2013 2,000 Nationals Expatriates 1,500 1,000 500 0 Angola Congo France Gabon Iraq Italy Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Other Russia Saudi Arabia South Sudan As a result, Dietsmann is proud to work with thousands of highly motivated and well-trained local staff, some of whom have been promoted to senior management positions including in Nigeria, Angola, the Republic of Congo and Gabon where the Company has been present for more than 25 years. Dietsmann strives for the maximum local employment at every level of its organization. This benefits the economy and local communities in the countries in which it operates. Nationalization is, however, one of Dietsmann’s greatest HR challenges because the success of nationalization plans depends on a whole range of parameters, such as the level of education of the local staff, the quality of the local training centers and the mix of specific Human Resources skills required to manage this kind of project. Generally the nationalization of a position involves a substantial financial investment. To support the implementation of an increasing number of nationalization plans and to make these plans more successful, in 2012 Dietsmann developed a Nationalization Tool Box. This tool box comprises a set of training courses, tests and support material that enables the local HR department to formulate and implement a nationalization plan fitted and adapted to the specific local situation. The main tools are technical, reasoning and psychological tests, general, technical and management training course support, cost evaluation software and all the additional information that will enable the Country HR Manager to implement a training plan. The beta version has been adjusted as a result of the trials in Gabon where the tool has been successfully implemented. Trials are currently under consideration in other subsidiaries where nationalization plans are ongoing. 25 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES In Gabon this program will result in 25 positions previously held by expatriates being nationalized before October 2015. In January 2013 Dietsmann Gabon was proud to hold a ceremony to celebrate the first five Gabon nationals to be promoted to supervisor or coordinator positions previously held by expatriates as part of this new program launched in 2012. NATIONALIZATION CEREMONY IN GABON On 18 January 2013 five new Dietsmann officers were formally introduced during an induction ceremony in Port-Gentil. What made this ceremony special was that the five officers were the first Gabon nationals to be promoted to supervisor or coordinator positions until then held by expatriates as part of the new, official, program established in 2012. The five new officers have been congratulated by François Javerzac – Country Manager, and Jérôme Barbe SBU Manager. Dietsmann fully supports this official nationalization program in Gabon. Several candidates, all of them existing Dietsmann employees, are shortlisted for each of the positions to be nationalized. The candidates The five new officers Rodrigue BOUNDA (promoted Turbines shortlisted for the program participate in a course of specific technician, Supervisor), Jean de Dieu MBOULA (promoted Mechanic Supervisor), management and on the job training. The aim of the program, is to Pierre D’Alex BAVINGOULA (promoted HVAC Supervisor), Thierry nationalize 25 positions previously held by expatriates before 1 October MBOUMBA (promoted Logistics Supervisor) and Hervé OBIANG ELLA 2015. (promoted Coordinator/Supervisor) are congratulated by François Javerzac Country Manager, Jérôme Barbe SBU Manager, Debora RODRIGUE MAGNOUMBA Human Resources Coordinator NDONG Personnel Manager and Rodrigue MAGNOUMBA Human Resources Coordinator. Extract of Dietsmann Newsletter 2013 Since 2012 the proportion of national employees has increased from 78% to 81% of the total employees. It should be noted that this increase is also applicable for management positions. THE RATE OF EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY POSITION (Comparison between 2012 and 2013) 100% Nationals Sept 12 Expatriates Sept 12 75% Nationals Oct 13 50% Expatriates Oct 13 25% 0% Administrative Management Operational The specific nature of working on-site in extreme environments has to be taken into account as it requires a robust condition of health and quite often involves a rotating work schedule which is not convenient for everyone. Office positions obviously do not involve the same constraints as operational positions and the gender ratio is significant for these positions: women represent 50% of employees working in office positions. This rate has increased by 7% since 2012 (43%). 26 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES GENDER RATE ON ADMINISTRATIVE POSITION (by country of work in main countries of operations) 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Angola Congo France Gabon Iraq Italy Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Russia SaudiArabia South Sudan Total Rates of women 2012 Rates of women 2013 As far as administrative positions are concerned the “best-in-class” are Kazakhstan and Russia. The overall percentage of women (all positions) at Diestmann remains low (11%) in part due to the lack of adequate candidates for operational positions. Gender diversity is, however, effective in Monaco and at an encouraging level in France, Kazakhstan and Russia. It should be noted that in Kazakhstan the percentage of women in management positions is one of the best (23%). GENDER RATE OCT. 2013 (ALL POSITIONS) (by country of work in main countries of operations) 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Angola Congo France Gabon Iraq Italy Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Russia Saudi Arabia South Sudan The breakdown of employees by age is well balanced: the average age is 40. The percentage of young (under the age of 35) employees is 34%. This high percentage highlights Dietsmann’s ambition to recruit and give opportunities to young talent. Despite the large number of positions involving working in extreme conditions positions, the overall number of employees over 55 years old represents 12% of all employees, which is quite significant. 27 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Compared to last year, the trend is towards a slight ageing: the average age has risen from 39 to 40 and the number of employees over 55 has increased by 3%. AGE GROUP BREAKDOWN (Comparison 2012 2013) 20% September 2012 October 2013 15% 10% 5% 0% -20 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 28 V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES UNGC Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. UNGC Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. UNGC Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. OVERALL STRATEGY Protection of the environment is supported by a specific HSE policy based on ISO 14001 standards and is included in the HSE charter. As Dietsmann’s main activity involves the provision of services, its impact on the environment is more indirect than direct. Even so, to strengthen its approach to environment protection the Company is working on defining good-practices related to resource consumption, waste management and global environmentfriendly behavior. When Dietsmann operates on clients’ premises, the Company observes the client’s environmental standards. Dietsmann also focuses on preventive maintenance to increase equipment lifetime and avoid spills. Furthermore, the Company encourages its business partners’ active protection of the environment through the Business Partners Policy. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Dietsmann complies with all relevant environmental legislation and regulations, and official documents publically state the Company’s precautionary approach in terms of the environment. In order to remain fully compliant the HSE department maintains an up to date legislation and regulations database. Remaining objectives related to the environment are to draw up a series of environmental good practices that should help to reduce the environmental impact (resource consumption, waste and pollution), increase employee training in respect of environmental matters, implement a more accurate auditing system and improve Dietsmann’s ability to respond effectively to any issues that could arise. Certification The Company’s French site has been ISO14001 certificated since 2007. 29 V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Waste sorting Dietsmann develops and implements training and education programs on the environmental protection good practices for all employees. To date these programs have focused primarily on raising awareness regarding reducing waste production, promoting and maximizing recycling and the traceability of ultimate waste products. Afam VI Nigeria As a result, Dietsmann employs licensed waste companies to dispose of waste wherever available. Waste is sorted at 75% of the Company’s sites and this waste management is supported by specific procedures. At these sites, waste is sorted and transferred to waste collection companies or, in the case of industrial waste, to the client. Where available local facilities are used for the separate disposal of obsolete electrical and electronic equipment and for batteries and the weight of waste material is monitored and measured on a regular basis. Consumption reduction Dietsmann is campaigning for switching off lights and computers. “Reducing Energy” messages are displayed in almost all subsidiaries. In Gabon, for instance, little memos are stuck near all main switch. In various countries, including the Republic of Congo, the use of central printers is enabling the consumption of supplies to be reduced. In Gabon Dietsmann has been monitoring power consumption in the Port-Gentil office since January 2013. Monitoring is not, however, possible at all operating sites because this is often handled by the client. The last one who leaves switches off lights Gabon 30 V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES In Angola, in addition to the reduction of electricity consumption, a poster campaign is aimed at reducing water consumption. At the Training Centre Power consumption is monitored. The consumption of electricity from generators has been reduced in favor of town electricity. This has reduced the consumption of generator-generated electricity by about 98%, which translates into an estimated reduction in diesel use of around 7000 liters. Environmental training & promotion The HSE Inductions of all employees generally include environment protection. In Gabon, for instance, the subsidiary goes further and requires employees, in each job description, to respect & implement HSE guidelines related to the environment in accordance with the ISO14001 standard. Dietsmann Gabon has also implemented a very interesting initiative called the “Tour de terrain environnemental” (environmental walk around). Each week at the Port-Gentil office the HSE Manager walks around checking that HSE rules are being respected and the cleanness of work spaces including workshops. A written report is issued and communicated to the people concerned so they implement corrective actions. Once a month the Country Manager accompanies the HSE Manager on the walk and checks that preventive and corrective actions have been implemented efficiently. Reducing Environmental impact On sites where it is possible, for instance in Nigeria on the Afam VI & Okpai sites, an effort to plant grass, flowers and trees is in progress. This local approach is called “beautification”. The gas turbines at Afam and Okpai have CEMS (Continuous Environmental Monitoring System) which ensures that emissions are in-line with current European and Nigerian guidelines. In addition, in Okpai, NetcoDietsmann (Nigeria) has launched the Green Day initiative: one day per month the use of vehicles on site is forbidden (except for emergencies). Afam VI Nigeria 31 V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Rainwater harvesting To reduce water consumption in the Republic of Congo, rainwater is harvested for the equipment cleaning activities. When rain has filled the tank the harvested water is used in the washing area to clean all the equipment. The local climate allows the tank to be filled during 60% of the year. In Angola a system to collect rainwater is being installed at the training center Sonadiets Angola New classrooms where the rain Water tank collecting rain water Republic of Congo harvesting is planned to be implemented thanks to the installation of gutters on the roof 32 VI ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE UNGC Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. OVERALL STRATEGY Dietsmann endorses the United Nations Convention against Corruption and is committed to combating all forms of corruption. The Company has a long-term commitment to ethics and transparency and uses the stipulations of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code as a basis for the development and implementation of good Corporate Governance for Dietsmann’s overall management. Although the Dutch Corporate Governance Code only applies to Dutch companies listed on a stock exchange recognized by the government, Dietsmann voluntarily complies with the Dutch Code’s stipulations and best practices including audits, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards and the Management Board and Supervisory Board use the Code as a management framework. Dietsmann‘s ethics principles and guidelines are encapsulated in Dietsmann’s Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy, the first version of which was published in 2004. Dietsmann also encourages its business partners to respect its Ethics commitments through the Business Partners Policy and the Business Ethics Charter. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Dietsmann complies with all legislation and regulations related to ethics, Corporate Governance and anticorruption. Dietsmann’s Ethics standards will be explained to employees through the Corporate Shared Responsibility training. Dietsmann takes every opportunity to promote Ethics commitments among its business partners. Corporate Shared Responsibility training & Upline email The Upline email which is being implemented enables employees to seek further advice should they have concerns regarding sensitive situations. The Ethics Committee is responsible for answering, analyzing and recording requests for advice and reports of grievances and concerns. The Upline email, the terms of use of which are explained in the Upstream Procedure, enables any deviations from the Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy to be recorded and analyzed so attempts can be made to prevent similar deviations recurring in the future. Both the Upline email and the Upstream communication procedure will be accurately explained to all employees in The Corporate Shared Responsibility training as described in section III. 33 VI ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Ensuring Business Partners’ compliance Dietsmann is committed to applying UNGC principles at all its operating sites and is striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles and encourage them to implement good practices. As stated in section III, a Group procedure for the selection of suppliers and subcontractors has been issued. Involvement in anti-corruption initiatives Dietsmann’s top management attended the Anti-corruption Compliance Forum for major suppliers organized by TOTAL E&P on 21 November in Paris and was involved in round-table workshops. The aim of this meeting was to “share experiences and to enable participants to compile a proposal of collective actions to push compliance further in our business dealings”. Promotion of Ethics Commitments At a Group level Dietsmann has updated the service agreement template in order to include detailed clauses on ethics requirement. Dietsmann’s Legal and Tax department has also issued an amendment for existing agreements. In order to take this opportunity to promote the Company’s commitments in respect of the Global Compact initiative, this amendment was sent with the explanation below: In 2011 Dietsmann was formally accepted as a participant of the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative. The UN Global Compact is both a corporate responsibility initiative and a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. In line with its own business principles and corporate values, Dietsmann is fully committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of its strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. As part of the formalization of its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, Dietsmann has issued the present heads of agreement’s amendment that includes clauses related to its commitments within UNGC. Dietsmann asks its business partners to comply with its Business Partners Policy. The Policy is available in the Corporate section of Dietsmann’s website www.dietsmann.com. For more information on the United Nations Global Compact initiative, please refer to the UNGC website http://www.unglobalcompact.org. We ask you to return a signed copy of the amendment in acceptance of these universal values and principles. We remain at your disposal should you have further questions. 34 VI ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE The Human Resources Insurance department has ensured all current human resources subcontractors (100%) have signed and returned the amendment. Dietsmann’s Nigerian joint-venture, NetcoDietsmann (NTD), has already launched an anti-corruption campaign. In September a letter was sent to all suppliers and vendors explaining NTD’s efforts to ensure transparency and proposing a dedicated email address for confidential feedback on any instance of bribery. The letter stated that all suppliers and vendors would be given an amnesty period of one month in which to provide information relating to past payments and that after October any supplier or vendor who offered any kind of bribe would be removed from NetcoDietsmann’s list of accepted suppliers. In addition to this letter, a poster campaign was displayed. This campaign promotes the terms and conditions related to conflict of interest & commission payment stated in the service contract, non-compliance with which would constitute a material breach of contract. This campaign also promotes principles that are stated in the collective agreement requiring employees to respect NTD’s rules, which include the fight against corruption. Respect of legality principle During the reporting period Dietsmann was not the subject of any investigation, legal proceedings or incident involving Human Rights, Labor Rights or Ethics deviances. Dietsmann’s audited financial statements are published in the Company’s annual report. Compliance with all relevant legislation and regulations is monitored by internal and external auditors. Dietsmann has neither experienced any reportable environmental incidents during the past year or been subject to any statutory notice or prosecution. In order to remain fully compliant the HSE department maintains an up to date legislation and regulations database. 35 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES Dietsmann has built-up close relations with the communities that host its operations through long-term local initiatives and actions involving knowledge sharing. THE DIETSMANN COMPANY Typhoon Yolanda crisis unit After Typhoon Yolanda (also known as Typhoon Haiyan) ripped across the central Philippines on November 8, the Company’s Chairman & President, Peter Kütemann, decided to create a fund to help Dietsmann’s Filipino employees (2% of total employees) who are coping with material problems or human tragedy. As a result, only four days after the disaster, managers were mobilized to identify employees who needed help and to find out how Dietsmann could provide them efficient assistance. The Filipino employees at home at the time were immediately contacted by the Logistics department to ascertain whether they were facing problems and, if so, what kind of problems. The Logistics department also double checked through the employee data base to ensure that all Filipino employees were located. Due to the emergency everyone was required to treat this request as a priority in order to enable the implementation of an action plan to provide timely help where needed. By the end of November funds had been raised and support had been provided to help the employees affected by the typhoon rebuild their houses and cover the costs related to losing family members. Chauncy Maples Malawi Trust In 2013 Dietsmann made a financial contribution towards the Big Row event, which raised funds for converting Africa’s oldest motor ship, the MV Chauncy Maples, into a floating clinic. The Chauncy Maples was built in Glasgow in 1898 and named after a remarkable Anglican missionary who drowned in Lake Malawi in 1895. Since 1901 the Chauncy Maples has served as a missionary ship, slave refuge, clinic, troop carrier and gunboat (during the First World War), and a passenger and cargo vessel. In 1993 the ship was moored at Monkey Bay, where she served as a local bar. Currently more than half of the £2 million needed to renovate the ship has already been raised. The team in Monkey Bay is on course to complete the work in 2014. The MV Chauncy Maples clinic-ship will be able to reach villages to which there are currently no roads and which have no access to health services. The qualified team will provide primary health care, such as the prevention and treatment of bilharzia, malaria, TB and HIV/AIDS, child immunization; reproductive health care and nutritional programs. 36 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES Promotion of local purchasing Dietsmann’s policy is to maximise purchasing from local suppliers and to help them achieve the required performance standards. As a result, in most of the countries in which it operates Dietsmann exceeds local regulations related to local purchase. In countries in which high technology equipment is not manufactured locally such equipment is purchased through Dietsmann’s French procurement department. MONACO In Monaco Dietsmann has a long-standing involvement in the activities of local and neighboring municipalities, mainly through sponsoring or contributions to local organizations. No Finish Line This year Dietsmann was once again proud to be one of the official sponsors of the 14th ‘No Finish Line’ eightdays run organized by The Children & Future Association to Over 10 000 participants & 271 251 help disadvantaged and sick children. Dietsmann and the other ran kms Total amount raised 300k€ companies involved sponsor this event by donating one euro per http://www.nofinishline.com kilometer run or walked by each employee. This year Dietsmann donated over 10,000 euros to this significant event, which makes it official third-level sponsor. During the 14th ‘No Finish Line’ held at the Port Hercules Circuit in Monaco in November 2013 the Dietsmann team of 169 participants completed a total of 6,009 kilometers. Dietsmann participants Monaco 37 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES The total of € 6,009 they raised will be used by the Association to fund major projects, such as the provision of comprehensive support to foreign sick children undergoing humanitarian surgery in the Monaco CardioThoracic Center, or to continue supporting the initiatives dedicated to helping children suffering from HIV/AIDS led by the Fight Aids Association Chaired by H.S.H. Princess Stéphanie. This sponsorship gives Monaco employees the opportunity to be involved collectively in a humanitarian activity in the name of Dietsmann. It should be mentioned that the participation of Dietsmann’s employees is thanks to the initiative of the Manager of Dietsmann’s tendering department who, every year, voluntarily takes on the recruiting, entire organization and coaching of the Dietsmann team and does his utmost to encourage as many employees as possible to participate. Cap d’Ail Triathlon Dietsmann was, for the first time, an official sponsor of the 12th Cap d’Ail (neighbouring municipality of Monaco) Triathlon on 8 September 2012. Four Dietsmann employees took part in the trialthon which consisted of a 600 metre swim, a 16.7 km cycle ride and a 6.7 km run. Les Enfants de Frankie In line with the Company’s concerns regarding Human Rights, Dietsmann continues to make an annual donation to “Les Enfants de Frankie”. Over the past 16 years this Association has assisted about 20,000 children in great difficulty in Monaco and the PACA Region by supporting projects linked with hospitals, social services, orphanages and over 210 other aid associations. Federation Monegasque de Volleyball (FMVB) Monaco September 19 2013 President of Fédération Monegasque de Volleyball, Christian Palmaro, and Dietsmann Chairman & President, Peter Kütemann, have signed a two year partnership agreement. The resources provided by Dietsmann will enable the teams to receive coaching, sports training and technology in addition to the activities offered to members of ASM Volleyball. Dietsmann, as a partner of the Fédération Monegasque de Volleyball, supports the development of the volleyball and beach volley teams representing the colors of Monaco at the highest level. In addition, by partnering the Federation, Dietsmann is supporting and sharing common values and contributing towards the harmonious development of social life in the Principality of Monaco. President of Fédération Monegasque de Volleyball, Christian Palmaro, and Dietsmann Chairman & President Peter Kütemann 38 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES ANGOLA SONADIETS In Angola Dietsmann, through its joint-venture Sonadiets, is focusing on transferring know-how to communities through the Morro Bento Training Center. Know-how transfer to communities, Morro Bento Training Center Sonadiets runs a Training Center dedicated to potential future employees. In line with clients’ requirements the Center offers several job-skills related modules (electricity, mechanics, instrumentation & HVAC) as well as general courses (Mathmatics, Physics and English language) and HSE certification courses. Around 30% of the courses are theoretical and the remaining courses involve practical workshops in real working conditions. During 2013 the Center provided a total of 62,088 hours of training to 85 trainees. A specific English course tailored to Dietsmann’s needs and comprising 72 learning files on the English used in Operation & Maintenance has been developed by the Center’s English teacher. This new module is being standardized to enable it to be used by other subsidiaries. It should be mentioned that the Training Center operates in accordance with ISO 9001 standards. Contribution to communities’ infrastructure Sonadiets focuses its involvement with local communities on developing the Training Center in Morro Bento, a growing suburb a few miles outside Luanda. The Training Center is in a 1000m² field. Its two, recently modernized training buildings, which can host 50 trainees, include six fully-equipped classrooms, a rest area (kitchen and Wi-Fi), a large workshop containing the same technical equipment as is used on operating sites (instrumentation, mechanics, electricity) and an e-learning room (11 computers and monitored internet access), sanitary facilities and the Center’s administrative office. All classrooms and workshops are equipped with air-conditioning & video projection equipment. Training Center: workshop Morro Bento 39 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES REPUBLIC OF CONGO In the Republic of Congo, Dietsmann’s long-term focus has been on sharing knowledge with communities including the support of local organizations. Supporting local organizations Dietsmann is proud of its employees who involve DIETSMANN NEWSLETTER-JUNE 2013 themselves voluntarily in solidarity initiatives. In 2009 Michel Blanck, Dietsmann’s HSE Officer in the Republic DieTsmaNN suPPorTs of Congo, founded the Formaide association in Pointelocal commuNiTies iN coNgo Noire. Formaide (www.formaide-pointenoire.com) is Dietsmann builds-up close relations with the communities that host its operations through a recognized humanitarian NGO that cares for and long-term local initiatives and actions including sponsorships. In the Republic of the Congo we have a long history of extensive involvement in helps local communities. Its main goal is to improve community activities. the lives of children in Pointe-Noire by providing the Pediatric Service at the Tié-Tié hospital with small equipment, by funding the construction of water points for children and the planting of trees at local schools to create shaded areas, and by providing school Dietsmann makes an annual donation to the local West African Rotary Club, which is continuing the fight against malaria by building a of the trainees are employed by and integrated into the Company. supplies and clothing for children on a regular basis. District Health Center and distributing mosquito nets impregnated with Dietsmann employees are also personally involved with helping the mosquito repellent, and also supports the ‘Petits sœurs des pauvres’ to Formaide association in Pointe-Noire which was formed in 2009 by help retired people. Dietsmann HSE Officer Michel Blanck. Formaide (www.formaide-pointenoire.com) is a recognized humanitarian In the environmental area donations help the Renatura Association NGO that cares for and helps local communities. Its main goal is to All the Association’s members are volunteers and more promote responsible environmental practices (Saving Sea Turtles). Other main actions include annual donations to l’ISTAC – Institut Supérieur de Technologie d’Afrique Centrale – which organizes training courses improve the lives of children in Pointe-Noire by providing the Pediatric Service at the Tié-Tié hospital with small equipment, by funding the construction of water points for children and planting trees to create aimed at providing local residents with the knowledge they need to shaded areas at local schools, and by providing school supplies and than 95% of donations are used for activities in the become technicians and engineers in Africa and for Africa. Books and dictionaries are purchased for local schools; Dietsmann also clothing for children on a regular basis. All the Association’s members are volunteers and more than 95% of donations are used for the actions in the local communities. provides internships and sponsors students on alternating cycles. Each local communities. This year Dietsmann Congo gave year we take on trainees destined for Technician, Industrial Maintenance and Maintenance Engineers positions. On completing their training most micHel PersoNNaz Country Manager Congo 15 Formaide funds to build an orphanage one of several projects conducted by this organization. Extract from Dietsmann 2013 Newsletter Dietsmann Congo is also a regular sponsor of the local Rotary organization, which supports several local organizations, and each year Dietsmann Congo makes donations to small associations. In 2013 these associations included an organization for the deaf. A contribution was also provided to Unicongo for the world day for occupational health and safety. The subsidiary also supports education: it arranged and equipped classrooms at a Congolese technical school ISTAC (Institut superieur de technologie d’Afrique Centrale) and also provided the Institute a generator and books and dictionaries. Books, dictionaries and toys were also provided to schools in Djeno village (near the Terminal site). 40 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES Sharing knowledge with communities In the Republic of Congo Dietsmann continuously hosts trainees and has been mentoring seven ISTAC students who have been participating in a three/four years’ apprenticeship. The subsidiary has also hosted young trainees from Djeno village, which is next to one of Dietsmann’s operating sites, who participate in a six-months course. This initiative has been successful: some of the trainees have been hired. Dietsmann Congo is also involved in informing young students about careers in maintenance and, towards this end, participated in a dedicated forum In Pointe-Noire. Dietsmann Congo has also addressed the issue of increasing the health awareness of employees’ families. Employees and their families were invited to the Pointe-Noire office for awareness raising sessions on HIV/ AIDS and malaria, they were also given mosquito nets. Dietsmann Congo, as a participant in the “Collectif Sécurité Routière” Road safety organization, also organised road safety awareness campaigns in schools in Djeno Village. GABON Dietsmann is also focusing on knowledge sharing in Gabon through a partnership with a local technical training center and through a malaria prevention campaign aimed at employees’ families. Dietsmann Gabon is also involved in environment protection through the sponsoring of a local organization. Awareness Raising programs on local health issues All employees receive information regarding malaria & HIV prevention via Group HSE campaigns. In addition there is a permanent awareness raising campaign aimed at families through the provision of mosquito nets to employees when they have new-born children (10 mosquito nets provided since the beginning of 2013 = 10 births). Knowledge sharing Dietsmann in Gabon has its own trainers CSP ‘Centre de (instrumentation; mechanics & electricity sharing their Spécialisation working time with Dietsmann Congo) and a dedicated Professionnelle’ space (workshop) containing the equipment for three Port Gentil modules is planned. Through an agreement with the local “Lycée Technique”, Dietsmann hosts at least two trainees per year and the Dietsmann Gabon HR Manager is involved in the end of year examination. Depending on the available work load Dietsmann also hosts one or two trainees from the local business school. On average, 10 short-term placement trainees (less than two months) are hosted each year. When the opportunity is available some of the trainees hosted are hired. In 2013 four trainees were hired. 41 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES Dietsmann in Gabon is deeply involved with the CSP (Centre de Spécialisation Professionnelle of Port-Gentil) and, via a partnership with the CSP, participated in the building of premises and the implementation of a professional training program on electricity. This involved: n The construction of a classroom; n The construction of a workshop; n The issuing of a specific module; n The selection and procurement of all the equipment needed for theoretical and practical training. Each year a dozen students are selected for this training. The diploma they receive on successfully completing the course ensures them a good opportunity to start a career in local industry. CSP: Construction of and equipment in the electrics section workshop Sponsoring a local NGO In 2013 Dietsmann Gabon sponsored a local NGO called “Animal’s World”. The NGO focuses on providing the infrastructure needed for introducing new animals into and catering for visitors to the 400 hectare Parc Assengo. The NGO’s mission is to preserve fauna and flora by caring for different species before reintroducing them to their natural environment and by informing young people about the need for protecting the environment and wildlife. Through this sponsoring Dietsmann Gabon contributes towards environment protection in Gabon KAZAKHSTAN This year the focus of the management team in Atyrau has been on using Dietsmann’s know-how to contribute towards infrastructure renovation. Contribution towards communities’ infrastructures Thanks to regular contact with local authorities, Dietsmann was presented with opportunities to contribute towards the modernization of local infrastructures. Dietsmann’s management in Kazakhstan decided that a concrete involvement in a project would be more effective than a monetary contribution. That was how the Sarayshyk project was selected: the idea was to use Dietsmann’s knowledge and contract a local company to carry out the engineering construction work under Dietsmann’s direct supervision. 42 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES The objective, which was achieved successfully, was the renovation of the Sarayshyk Psychoneurological School’s sanitation facilities. This contribution was all the more meaningful because it drew on Dietsmann’s expertise. Renovation of the Sarayshyk Psychoneurological School’s sanitation facilities LIBYA Activities have restarted in Libya and the Dietsmann joint-venture is investing heavily in know-how transfer and local workforce training. Transferring know-how to communities Dietsmann’s main efforts in Libya are focused on the creation of a Training Center. There is a 5-year plan to train about 250 young graduates. Training is open to any community member fitting the defined criteria. Dedicated infrastructures are provided by Dietsmann and the classrooms are currently being equipped. The Training Center has successfully opened in June 2013. The first intake of 20 young graduates are following a one-year extensive technical training course related to oil & gas. Training Center: two classrooms 43 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES NIGERIA NETCODIETSMANN In Nigeria relations with local communities are formalized through tools implemented by the clients. For example, at the Afam VI operating site NetcoDietsmann – Dietsmann’s Nigerian JV – follows the Shell Production Development Company’s (SPDC) system: consultation with local communities is handled by SPDC which operates a GMOU (General Memo Of Understanding) with communities affected by operations. NetcoDietsmann refers to this analysis to focus its contributions on identified needs. At the Okpai operating sites NetcoDietsmann follows the Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) system: relations with local communities are conducted by a Public Affairs coordinator. NetcoDietsmann refers to the recommendations of the Public Affairs coordinator to focus its contributions on identified needs. This system allows support to be focused on relevant needs. Partnership with a Training Center NetcoDietsmann is supporting a capacity-building project through material contributions, such as classroom equipment, supplies, teachers and training modules, to a local technical school called Don Bosco:.. This contribution is especially meaningful because NetcoDietsmann is relying on this Training Center to carry out several technical training modules (primarily electricity, mechanics, instrumentation and general knowledge). Transferring know-how to communities NetcoDietsmann regularly provides local young people with on-the-job training and theoretical knowledge, including via the Don Bosco Training Center. Some of the trainees are Industrial technical IT trainees, which means they are students doing the mandatory 6-month work placement training at the end of a university course. In 2013 NetcoDietsmann supported 18 trainees at the Don Bosco training center including five young people from local communities (not NetcoDietsmann employees). In addition, Afam VI hosts an average of 10 trainees per year (IT & Shell program) and Okpai hosts an average of 10 trainees per year (IT). Continuous dialogue with stakeholders Dialogue with local authorities and clients is continuous. In addition NetcoDietsmann is involved in sector workshops and organized the last one in Port Harcourt in the last quarter of 2012. 44 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES FRANCE DIETSMANN TECHNOLOGIES SA In France relations with local communities are also mainly focused on knowledge sharing. Knowledge sharing In France Dietsmann hosts an average of four trainees and/or apprentices per year, regularly trains employees from foreign offices/sites and is involved in student forums in order to introduce maintenance careers. For example, Dietsmann had a stand at the 22nd Toulouse Technologies Forum that was held on November 28 and 29 in Toulouse. Each year more than 60 companies participate in this event and come to meet students and graduates of schools in Toulouse. Exhibition stand at Toulouse Technologies Forum 45 VIII MAP OF DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES RUSSIA Kharyaga RUSSIA Konakovskaya RUSSIA Moscow RUSSIA Reftinskaya THE NETHERLANDS Breda RUSSIA Sredneuralskaya (Corporate Seat) 13 SWITZERLAND Geneve KAZAKHSTAN Aksai 16 KAZAKHSTAN Atyrau RUSSIA Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk FRANCE Toulouse ITALY Imperia RUSSIA Nevinnomysskaya FRANCE Salies du Salat MONACO (Support & Coordination Office) 3 4 5 6 LIBYA Tripoli IRAQ Basrah 14 1 NIGERIA Abuja NIGERIA Port Harcourt 15 10 11 12 GABON Port-Gentil CONGO Pointe Noire 8 9 ANGOLA Luanda 2 7 MOZAMBIQUE Maputo 1 Typhoon Yolanda crisis unit Dietsmann N.V. 11 Partnership with CSP (Centre de Spécialisation 2 Chauncy Maples Malawi Trust Dietsmann N.V. professionnelle) Port-Gentil Gabon 3 No Finish Line Monaco 12 Sponsoring local NGO “Animal’s World”4 Cap d’Ail Triathlon Monaco Parc Assengo Gabon 5 Les Enfants de Frankie Monaco 13 Sarayshyk Psychoneurological School 6 Federation Monegasque de Volleyball Monaco Contribution to communities’ infrastructure 7 Morro Bento Training Center Know-how Kazakhstan transfer & contribution to communities’ 14 Know-how transfer to communities via Training infrastructure Angola Center Libya 8 Formaide Congo 15 Partnership with a training center 9 Communities’ awareness raising programs on “Don Bosco” Nigeria local health issues (malaria & HIV) Congo 16 Involvement in Student Forums France 10 Communities’ awareness raising programs on of local health issues (malaria) Gabon 46 IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS In 2012 it was planned to provide all managers with specific information sessions. The aim was, on the one hand, to ensure managers would be able to contribute towards informing employees and would encourage them to endorse and become involved in Dietsmann’s corporate responsibility approach and, on the other hand, to consult them, as local experts, regarding their views on the possible outlook for developing the project in an appropriate way taking into account each country’s specific context. In 2013 this informing of and consultation with the managers of the main operating countries was achieved which represented eleven countries: Monaco, France, Italy, Republic of Congo, Gabon, Nigeria, Angola, Libya, South Sudan, Kazakhstan and Russia. Following these consultations a comparative assessment of each subsidiary’s level of performance and opportunities regarding Corporate Social Responsibility was carried out. On the basis of the result of this assessment the main work topics were defined: social cohesion, citizenship initiatives, business partners, health at work, environment protection and corporate spirit. They will be developed in line with the main development axis of the sustainability project: shared knowledge. In addition to the global training of employees the Dietsmann sustainability project will focus on developing the sharing of knowledge with employees, partners and local communities. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM A management system to ensure the consistent implementation of the sustainability project is being developed and includes: n Guidelines for the progressive development of the project in the subsidiaries under the guidance of a designated focal person n Rules at a Group level for the systematic accountability of all operating sites regarding actions developed within the sustainability project framework and for the definition of action plans in-line with key work topics and the main axis of our sustainable development approach: shared knowledge. Although the sustainability management system provides a framework for the reporting, the reporting will evolve in order to improve sustainability management and data reliability, to upgrade the data collected (improve relevancy, decrease quantity), to display the approach & action plan at all levels and to open the dialogue with external parties. Sustainability project structure: Sustainability project focal points: Sustainability Project development Nigeria Coordination Monaco Kazakhstan Republic of Congo Angola Gabon 47 IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS WORKING TOWARDS EXCELLENCE France, Italy and Monaco have been ISO 9001 certificated for a long time. The aim is to achieve quality certification in all the countries in which Dietsmann has operating sites. n Quality certification achieved in the Republic of Congo. A QHSE Engineer has been in charge of the development and implementation of a specific Quality Management System. In the Republic of Congo Dietsmann’s objective was successfully achieved with the completion of ISO 9001 certification in November. n Towards quality certification: Angola, Gabon and Nigeria. In Angola, one employee has been allocated to support the implementation of a specific Quality Management System the development of which has been entrusted to a consulting firm. The review and codification of all procedures (HR, HSE, Logistics and Accounting) is in progress in order to achieve ISO9001 certification in 2014. In Gabon one employee has been allocated to the development and implementation of a specific Quality Management System. This employee has received a training on quality to update her skills and knowledge. The objective is to achieve certification in 2014. In Nigeria a Quality Manager is dedicated to the implementation of a quality system. NetcoDietsmann’s target is to achieve ISO9001 certification in 2014. A quality manual is available. GENDER DIVERSITY BOARD MEMBERSHIP “Dietsmann has taken notice of legislation relating to gender diversity in respect of Board membership recently adopted in the Netherlands and effective as of 1 January 2013. This legislation stipulates that when nominating or appointing Management Board or Supervisory Board members a ‘large’ (as legally defined) company should, as far as possible, strive for a balanced composition of these Boards in terms of gender diversity such that at least 30 percent of the members are men and at least 30 percent of the members are women. Currently the composition of neither Dietsmann’s Management Board nor its Supervisory Board complies with this new legislation in terms of the percentage of members that are women. When nominating and appointing future Management Board and Supervisory Board members the gender diversity objectives will be taken into account as far as possible while ensuring the optimum individual and collective experience and expertise of the Board members in the best interest of all Dietsmann’s stakeholders.” 48 X INFORMING STAKEHOLDERS OF DIETSMANN’S IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Every stakeholder is informed of Dietsmann’s actions related to the progressive integration of the Global Compact’s ten principles into its business strategy, culture and daily operations on a regular basis via the external and internal communication channels relevant to the subject concerned and the particular stakeholders target group. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION n Dietsmann’s 2012 Annual Report includes a section dedicated to communicating officially and clearly the Company’s commitment to upholding the ten UNGC principles. It also includes a full section dedicated to Corporate Shared Responsibility. n Direct Marketing communications have been sent to business partners every month along with invoices. n The calendar for 2014 includes messages reflecting Dietsmann’s commitment to the UNGC principles. n A specific section and the UNGC logo are included in the updated Corporate brochure. n World Day For Safety 2013 On April 28 2013 Dietsmann was once again an active participant in the « World Day for Safety and Health at Work ». The theme this year focused on musculoskeletal disorders. Posters and presentations in all languages commonly used within the Company were issued. n Publications on Dietsmann’s Corporate website: n In the value and sustainability sections: a click-on UNGC logo links to the page on Dietsmann’s commitment to the ten principles. n A UNGC page has been created. The COP is also available on this page. n All the Corporate Policies and Charters in which the UNGC principles are integrated are published on Dietsmann’s website. n Animation on the homepage includes messages related to sustainability and the environment. n A press release dedicated to Dietsmann’s UNGC commitment is published in the News section. n A sustainability section has been created and includes HSE and HR sections. n Official documents published: n The Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy. n The Business Ethics Charter. n The HSE Policies and the HSE Charter. n The ICT Policy. n The Business Partners Policy. 49 X INFORMING STAKEHOLDERS OF DIETSMANN’S IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNGC PRINCIPLES INTERNAL COMMUNICATION n The Chairman & President incorporated Dietsmann’s UNGC commitments and CSR approach as part of the Company’s culture during his official video speech which was shown to all employees in January 2013. n Newsletter: a dedicated article on Dietsmann’s Sustainability Project has been published and sent to all employees. n An animated Corporate Shared Responsibility (CSR) training course has been set up for all employees in the languages commonly used within the Company. Training will start in 2014. n An abridged Business Code of Conduct that the employees can refer to easily has been issued in all the languages used within the Company. n An HSE campaign on musculoskeletal disorders, including posters & presentations to all teams, was issued to all sites/offices in all the languages used within the Company. n The Safety Handbook is available in all the languages used within the Company. n A birthday card that includes a sustainability-related message and the UNGC logo is automatically sent to employees. LEADERS IN OIL, GAS AND POWER PLANT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE 50
