About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Meeting Patient Needs 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Letter from the CEO As one of the world’s largest medicine companies, We also seek to improve our existing medicines Teva has a tremendous responsibility to our and make them more convenient and potentially patients, as well as to our customers, shareholders more efficacious, thus helping societies and and employees and to the communities in which patients manage their condition more easily and we live and work. We consider this responsibility effectively. We will realize our vision as we build a foundation of doing business, and are guided a vibrant platform that leverages both our local by our values – integrity, respect, collaboration, generics leadership and our global specialty excellence and leadership in everything we do. excellence. In 2012, we began the process of integrating Every story has a beginning – and Teva’s first our existing Corporate Social Responsibility CSR report truly reflects a global program in the (CSR) activities around the world. Although making. The report reflects our deep commitment Teva is a global organization, we view CSR as a to responsible global business activities that local endeavor. We conducted an assessment to contribute to society, in keeping with Teva’s understand which issues were viewed as the most core values. This is our beginning – the first important to our business and to our stakeholders. step towards our globalized efforts, and we look These findings are now the global platform we will forward to continue sharing our journey with you. use to advance CSR activities uniformly across I am proud to sign this letter on behalf of all Teva our businesses and geographies, in areas such as employees around the world, who are driven, environmental management, access to medicines as I am, by the passion to make a lasting difference and community relations. to our patients, customers, communities and other We are proud to help improve access to stakeholders worldwide. medicines for patients around the world. We provide high-quality generic medicines, run patient support programs for our specialty Yours, products, and operate a donation program and partnerships with nonprofit organizations. These efforts bring our medicines to patients who otherwise would not have access to them. Dr. Jeremy Levin The ability to serve this population of patients President and CEO, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries is one of the greatest challenges of our society. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Teva has direct ABOUT TEVA ABOUT THIS REPORT Our company vision is to be the most indispensable Global Reach This is Teva’s first global Corporate Social operations in 60 medicines company in the world, upholding our obligations to our patients, customers, shareholders Headquartered in Israel, Teva has direct operations Responsibility (CSR) report. The Global Reporting Initiative framework was used as a guideline, and in 60 countries and employs more than 45,500 countries, with more and employees. This vision is at the heart of everything we do, and it is the foundation of our people worldwide. Our operations are conducted through a network of global subsidiaries primarily focus areas were determined largely through an assessment of material issues conducted with success. internal and external stakeholders. than 45,500 dedicated Established in 1901, today Teva ranks among the located in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Israel. They include 54 finished product This report covers the calendar year 2012 employees worldwide 10 top pharmaceutical companies in the world. As a forward-looking global pharmaceutical pharmaceutical manufacturing sites, 21 active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) sites and 34 except where otherwise noted. It describes our approach and activities related to CSR, along company, Teva spearheads the development, research and development centers. Teva’s net with performance data and descriptions of key production and marketing of a wide range of revenues in 2012 were $20.3 billion. More than programs. Our CSR program is still in its early specialty medicines, generic and over-the-counter 80 percent of our sales are outside Israel. stages, and this report will serve as a baseline (OTC) products, active pharmaceutical ingredients document to guide the expansion of our efforts. (API) and new therapeutic entities. All stakeholder feedback is welcome, and should In every single action, we follow our guiding values be addressed to social.responsibility@teva.co.il of Integrity, Respect, Collaboration, Excellence and Leadership. These values embody the nature of how Teva operates. They enable us to bring safe and effective medicines to the world through the quality of our people and of our products. They are the foundation of our commitment to patients and of our unceasing dedication to making a difference. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Teva in Numbers Products sold in 120 markets worldwide 73 billon tablets and capsules produced each year 450 product launches in 2012 $20.3 billion in net revenues, 2012 About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Revenue from Generic and Products OTC Medicines, 2012 Teva products connect science and life. Teva seeks to redefine what it means to be Our offerings include specialty medicines, a global healthcare company by bringing safer, generic medicines, APIs and OTC products. more effective and more innovative medications Teva develops and manufactures specialty to patients worldwide. US$2.4 medicines to meet patient needs in central nervous billion system (CNS), pain and respiratory conditions, More Information as well as women’s health, oncology and biologics. For more about Teva, please see: US$5.2 We deliver innovative specialty medicine solutions http://www.tevapharm.com billion for patients and healthcare providers worldwide For Teva’s financial reports, please see: through our advanced medicines, devices and http://tevapharm.com/financial/reports.asp services. US$3.9 We are also the world’s leading provider of billion affordable generic medicines, with more than 1,000 generic products in our pipeline in forms ranging from tablets and capsules to ointments, creams and liquids, inhalants and injectables. North America Our generic therapeutic options include cardiovascular, anti-infective, CNS, antiEurope inflammatory, oncolytic, anti-diabetic, analgesic Emerging Markets and dermatologic medicines, as well as respiratory and women’s health treatments. Our R&D efforts focus on developing more high-value generic medicines, developing new therapeutic entities (NTEs) to address specific unmet patient needs and building on our strength in CNS, respiratory and other therapeutic areas with innovative specialty medicines. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Corporate Social Responsibility at Teva Overview Teva’s Values Nowhere is the practice of CSR more vital than At Teva, everything we do is informed by mutually in the field of healthcare. For Teva, being a reinforcing principles: responsible global citizen means pursuing business success by developing products and policies that address patients’ needs and benefit wider society. This is Teva’s first global CSR report, and reflects the reality that our CSR program is in its early Individual Integrity drives mutual Respect … stages. We are working to introduce global platforms to advance CSR practices throughout Mutual Respect leads to healthy Collaboration … Teva. In future reports, we aim to publish measurable goals to track our CSR performance. Healthy Collaboration powers our pursuit of Excellence … Vision and Values Our pursuit of Excellence is key to Teva’s ongoing Leadership … Teva boasts more than 100 years of ethical and responsible business practices. Our vision today is … and ongoing Leadership depends upon our individual Integrity. to be the most indispensable medicines provider in the world, fulfilling our obligations to patients, customers, shareholders and employees. We are also committed to conducting our business activities in ways that contribute to society, community and the environment. Teva employees worldwide steadfastly uphold our core values of integrity, respect, collaboration, excellence and leadership. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment CSR Management Teva’s worldwide business operations are We are committed to implementing the Global managed regionally, but our core functions, Compact’s 10 principles across our operations Key Stakeholder Group Engagement Type including corporate social responsibility, and are developing assessment and measurement are managed globally. A dedicated CSR team processes to drive improvements in social and Customers Questionnaires, meetings is responsible for global implementation environmental impacts and programs. of responsibility policies and practices. We strongly identify with the Compact’s principles Employees Local/global surveys, town hall meetings Our Corporate Social Responsibility Vice and objectives, which fully align with our business President leads this team, and reports to the and CSR approach. For more information, please Government and regulators Roundtables, reports Human Resources Corporate Vice President see our 2012 Communication on Progress. & Chief Integration Officer. The Corporate Responsibility Committee of our Board of Investors Investor days, group and individual meetings, conference calls Stakeholder Engagement Directors sets global CSR strategy and has ultimate oversight of CSR issues and policy. Our success depends on understanding the wide Local communities Partnerships, donations, volunteering range of people, businesses and communities For more on our policies, please see with which we work. Dialogue, engagement Governance and Ethics, p.9. Non-governmental organizations Local stakeholder consultation sessions, environmental reporting and partnerships are critical to helping us understand the requirements and perspectives UN Global Compact of key stakeholders, especially the patient needs Peer companies Industry associations Teva has participated in the United Nations that drive our business. Often, stakeholder Global Compact since January 2010 and provides engagement takes place in the normal course of comprehensive annual reports on progress. business operations – through communications The Compact promotes corporate best practices with patients, customers, suppliers, employees, in areas ranging from human rights protection regulators and others. Examples of such and ethics to environmental sustainability and interaction in 2012 included: non-discriminatory employment. More than 7,000 businesses worldwide participate in the Compact. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Materiality In November 2012, Teva undertook an assessment of our most important or material CSR issues Top 10 Materiality Issues Identified worldwide. The goal was to gather information to by Stakeholders help us build strategically on our CSR initiatives and to integrate key issues more closely into • Patient Safety our business. The exercise drew on quantitative and qualitative • Affordability of Medicines input from 13 senior internal stakeholders as well as 10 external stakeholders including academic • Availability of Medicines institutions, non-profit organizations and • Human Rights social investors. Issues related to our products, to healthcare access, and to ethical behavior • Bribery and Corruption received the highest rankings from stakeholders noted that the size and scale of our business • Clinical Trials overall means that our global footprint is significant in other areas as well. • Transparency and Disclosure The results underlined Teva’s impact on the health • Strengthening Healthcare Infrastructure and wellbeing of society, and the close links between our CSR approach and our patient-led • Health and Safety business model. We recognize that this materiality effort is a first step in our ongoing effort to evolve • Product Labeling our CSR strategy. The materiality findings shaped the content of this publication. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Governance and Ethics CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY Teva aims to build a culture of integrity and ethical Our Code of Business Conduct is the foundation We are currently updating our Anti-Corruption Reporting Violations behavior in every country where we do business. of Teva’s culture of integrity and ethical behavior. Policy to provide detailed guidance for complying We uphold the highest ethical standards for our It is available in 18 languages. with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws We encourage employees to raise questions on Board of Directors, executives and employees. applicable to our businesses worldwide. We are ethical conduct or other compliance matters Teva’s Code of Business Conduct states our with their manager, or with an appropriate currently updating our policy we aim to further Teva’s Board of Directors is responsible for commitment to making safe, quality products representative in specialized areas such as strengthen our compliance with the requirements formulating company policy and supervising the for our patients in a manner that fully complies compliance, legal, medical, internal audit or of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws. CEO’s performance of duties and oversight of with applicable laws and regulations. The human resources. operations. At the end of 2012, 12 of Teva’s 16 Code encompasses compliance with antitrust/ Our Anti-Corruption Policy facilitates meaningful Directors were independent and two were women. competition, trade, securities, copyright, and fully compliant collaboration with healthcare Employees can also report violations of the Code occupational health and safety, environmental professionals and government officials in the of Business Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy The Board has appointed six standing committees and other business regulations, as well as with development of products, and in our training and anonymously. Teva has a confidential e-mail the Audit Committee, the Human Resources laws governing criminal offenses. Additionally, it education procedures for the safe and effective system for reporting violations, as well as a and Compensation Committee, the Corporate covers the protection of company property and use of those products. The policy also establishes hotline available in 57 countries. Both reporting Governance and Nominating Committee, of proprietary information and data security. rules in related areas including the organization mechanisms reach the compliance department the Finance and Investment Committee, the The Code comprises principles contained in the of training events, sponsoring educational directly. In 2012, employees reported 84 concerns. Corporate Responsibility Committee and the U.S. Sarbanes Oxley Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt opportunities for healthcare professionals, We addressed every report and when appropriate Scientific Advisory Committee. Except for the Practices Act (FCPA), and other applicable laws engagement of consultants and intermediaries, conducted further investigations. Scientific Advisory Committee, each has a charter and industry codes. hospitality for healthcare professionals and formalizing its procedures and duties. These government officials and charitable contributions committee charters are available on our website at The Code of Business Conduct is available here: (see page 19 Relationships with Healthcare www.tevapharm.com http://www.tevapharm.com/About/docs%20 Professionals). for%20corp%20gov/Code_of_Business_Conduct.pdf We train all relevant employees in the policy We require all employees to uphold the Code, every two years under the supervision of regional a commitment they make when joining the compliance officers at Teva sites around the world. company and reconfirm every two years following A team of internal risk managers and auditors obligatory online training. monitor adherence to the policy. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment HUMAN RIGHTS Teva participates in the UN Global Compact including the operations of first-tier suppliers, Our Approach excessive; and the study complies with all laws, (UNGC), and publishes an annual progress update is effectively impossible (employees working regulations and international guidelines. available online. Six of the ten UNGC principles on our products must be trained researchers). All animal research at Teva complies with local focus on human rights. Nevertheless, we strongly support the laws and internationally accepted principles and is To ensure the humane use of animals, we have These are (along with Teva’s response): elimination of child labor in any form. conducted responsibly. In addition, all our research initiated programs for pain relief through analgesic laboratories have received Good Laboratory medications and anesthetic procedures. Recently, • Eliminating discrimination in respect Practice (GLP) accreditation, ensuring the we expanded the use of in-silico predictions, • Businesses should support and respect of employment and occupation: Teva recruits uniformity, consistency, reliability, reproducibility, replacing animal testing in assessing the safety of the protection of internationally proclaimed employees without discrimination on the basis quality and integrity of their work. drug intermediates and contaminants. At present, human rights and Businesses should make of race, religion, sex, personal status, sexual we track only the number and type of animals in sure they are not complicit in human rights We operate four laboratories that conduct animal orientation, country of origin, age or disability our Israeli laboratory, but our goal is to expand abuses: Our Code of Business Conduct states research, one each in Israel and the United States and requires this policy to be implemented this monitoring program and our animal research that each employee should respect the rights and two in Hungary. Our laboratories subscribe globally. policies globally. of and deal fairly with our customers, suppliers, to the 3Rs, an industry standard for animal use competitors and other employees. in research: We currently do not track research conducted on • Upholding freedom of association and ANIMAL RESEARCH • Replacement – Use non-animal methods behalf of Teva by contractors. However, we aim to work only with vendors who comply with local effective recognition of the right to Our patients come first and in their interest we when possible laws and in countries and regions where modern collective bargaining: We believe in the right conduct some animal research. Along with the rest • Reduction – Use methods which reduce the regulations for use of animals in research are to earn a living wage and respect the right of our industry, we accept the necessity of such number of animals used strictly enforced. of employees to form associations freely and research for discovering new therapeutic drugs to engage in collective bargaining. We maintain and to assure the safety of patients we help treat. • Refinement – Use methods that improve positive relations with employee representative animal welfare. groups across all our sites. We recognize that animal research is a complex issue, controversial to some. We are committed At our Israeli laboratory and R&D facilities, staff • Eliminating all forms of forced and must apply to use animals in their research to conducting ethical research throughout the compulsory labor: We strongly support the entire R&D process and to minimizing the use of studies. An internal ethical committee made up elimination all forms of forced labor. All Teva animals in our scientific studies. We use existing of veterinarians, researchers, Teva employees employees around the world are employed alternatives whenever possible and continuously who are not involved in biological research and of their own free will. explore other potential non-animal methods. external experts, reviews each application. • Abolishing child labor: Due to the nature of The committee approves applications which our business, the likelihood of child labor in meet the following criteria: the use of animals any of Teva’s operations around the world, is justified; the number of animals used is not About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management is critical to the safe and The Audit Committee of Teva’s Board a heat map showing the magnitude of every risk successful operation of a healthcare company. of Directors has ultimate responsibility for identified and assign each one a risk owner. Prioritizing and implementing stringent risk managing risk to the company and meets Risk owners are responsible for preparing management processes and practices means annually. mitigation plans based on scenario analyses for that patients who depend on our products will the risks within their business unit. They also • Global Risk Management Unit: The Global face fewer risks. create key risk indicators to consistently track Risk Management Unit is a dedicated risk progress. Risk owners report to the Teva Executive Teva integrates risk management seamlessly into management team of experts responsible Committee on a quarterly basis. our corporate culture, decision-making processes for implementing risk management processes and accountability structure across all business throughout the company. They also support units worldwide. Our business units and executive risk management activities across our individual bodies use a shared corporate risk management business units and regions. The head of the unit methodology that builds company-wide awareness is Teva’s Global Risk Manager, who reports to the of potential challenges and how to mitigate them. Chief Financial Officer. • Risk Champions: Risk Champions are senior Our Approach executives appointed by the TEC who are in We monitor and communicate risks at three charge of managing risk within their region or levels – globally, within regions and within business unit. business units. Teva has three committees that oversee risk management and continuously Methodology scrutinize risk potential: We identify risks using questionnaires and • Board of Directors and Executive Management: interviews with business unit managers and The Teva Executive Committee (TEC), senior executives serving on the TEC. Our Global Teva’s highest executive body, supervises the Risk Management Unit holds workshops for each entire risk management process. It meets twice business unit and for the TEC in which risks are a year to review the status of corporate risks identified and rated according to severity and and risk management processes. probability. From these workshops we develop About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Case Study Protecting Patients from Counterfeit Drugs We are in the process of adopting California’s electronic pedigree (or e-pedigree) legislation throughout the U.S. market and in other markets. The e-pedigree system includes imprintation of a 2D barcode on our products and a computerized system that tracks and identifies our products throughout the supply chain to ensure their authenticity. E-pedigree is an important tool to protect patients from counterfeit products. We have also adopted a company-wide anti-counterfiet policy in order to further mitigate risk. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Teva promotes PUBLIC POLICY In our dealings with governments, we advocate issues. We collaborate with other healthcare Falsified Medicines Directive, the European public policies a continuous focus on patient care and improving health outcomes. We assist legislators and companies and related organizations such as pharmacies and pharmacy benefit managers. Union’s pending Unified Patent Court and pricing and reimbursements issues. that give patients policymakers on issues that impact our business and are of importance to patients, customers and We also work with patient and consumer advocates and other advocacy groups on Political Contributions the wider healthcare industry. We draw on our public policy issues where we share concerns, access to affordable, extensive global experience to inform public policy discussions and legislative initiatives at both such as prescription drug abuse or access to contraceptives. Teva does not make corporate political contributions. In the United States, Teva safe, effective and national and international levels. Teva is a member of, or works with, the following organizations on public policy issues relevant to employees may choose to make personal contributions to our political action committee, Teva PAC. This contributes to candidates innovative medicines Our Approach Our public policy efforts are often driven as our industry: seeking elected office at state and federal level. All contributions are voluntary and made in • World Health Organization (WHO) a response to proposed changes to legislation accordance with the Federal Election around the world. We manage our public policy • World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Campaign Act. and government affairs efforts at a corporate • International Federation of Pharmaceutical In the 2012 election cycle, Teva PAC contributed level. In 2012, we established a new process that Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) $204,500 to candidates: 54 percent to improves internal communication Republicans and 46 percent to Democrats. on public policy across our global organization. • Generic Pharmaceutical Association (GPhA) The goal is to fully integrate public policy initiatives and approaches so that we can best • European Generic Association (EGA) fulfill our commitment to patients’ wellbeing across our business units and regions. 2012 Engagement Teva lobbies government agencies by commenting The U.S. Food and Drug Administration User Fee on draft legislation and regulations and advising bill became law in 2012, legislation that Teva legislators on how manufacturers of medicines can helped bring to final form. Globally, we were best serve our patients as well as other industry involved in policy issues relating to the European About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Our Approach to Supporting Patients Access to Medicines Clinical Trials Relationships with Healthcare Professionals Responsible Sales and Marketing Approach to Product Labeling Patient Advocacy Patient Safety Privacy and Data Security Manufacturing and Supply Chain About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Everyone on the planet Overview ACCESS TO MEDICINES Teva was formed more than a century ago with a • Our clinical trials are conducted with the Widespread access to healthcare benefits requires healthcare; goal of promoting widespread access to affordable healthcare. In our early decades, we distributed highest ethical standards and we emphasize transparency in trial design and data access patients and strengthens social and economic infrastructure in both developed and developing we are all patients. imported medications to scattered communities throughout Israel. Today, as one of the world’s (see Clinical Trials, p. 19) • We collaborate with healthcare professionals countries. Promoting greater access to medicines is at the heart of Teva’s patient-led mission. Our leading healthcare companies, operating in 60 to enhance our understanding of patient business operations help expand healthcare access countries, we help millions of patients each day. needs and ensure that our financial support around the world. While much has changed in the healthcare and is impactful and ethical (see Relationships pharmaceutical industries since Teva’s early Our approach to developing and marketing drugs with Healthcare Professionals, p. 19) is founded first and foremost on the health needs days, our dedication to helping patients remains steadfast. • Our sales and marketing efforts follow the of the countries in which Teva operates. We offer laws and regulations of markets where a wide range of products, including many generic Both our business operations and our CSR strategy we operate (see Responsible Sales and alternatives to innovative pharmaceuticals, that are centered on improving patient health around Marketing, p. 20) provide millions of people with sometimes the world. In this, our first global CSR report, life-saving access to affordable medicines. We • The labeling on our products provides we lay out our policies and approaches to critical also work to make our proprietary pharmaceutical valuable information for patients and patient health issues. Our efforts in these areas products accessible to patients in regions that face meets all requirements (see Approach to will continue to develop as our CSR program economic challenges. Additionally, Teva partners Product Labeling, p. 21) evolves. with stakeholders in countries to build health • We work closely with patient advocacy infrastructure and donate medicines to needy groups to understand the patient perspective communities. OUR APPROACH TO SUPPORTING and to gain insights that help us find cures and fight disease (see Patient Advocacy, p. 22) In 2012, Teva created an Institutional and PATIENTS Community Affairs group to lead and coordinate • We employ a range of programs and Our efforts to fight disease focus on developing our work on access to medicines and other processes to ensure patient safety and producing specialty medicines, generic and global community-related initiatives. The group (see Patient Safety, p. 26) over-the-counter products, active pharmaceutical will leverage one of Teva’s core competenciesingredients and new therapeutic entities. Within • We protect patient privacy through our providing cost-effective medical solutions to those this context, our commitment to patients covers robust data security policies in need – to make positive health impacts many aspects of their healthcare journey: (see Privacy and Data Security, p. 27). in developing countries. • We work to promote access to high quality, • We follow best practices in safe manufacturing affordable medicines around the world and work with our suppliers to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality materials (see Manufacturing and Supply Chain, p. 28) About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Promoting Access in Developed Countries As the world’s largest generic drug manufacturer, prescription. In recent years, governments Teva plays a key role in providing patients with of many countries, including France, Japan and access to affordable medicines. Our broad portfolio Brazil, have issued regulations designed to of generic drugs helps us bring the latest advances increase generic penetration in order to reduce in medicine to millions of patients, while keeping healthcare costs. costs down throughout national healthcare systems. Our generic drugs offer affordable medicines that address most pressing health issues in the developed world, including asthma and diabetes, and we lead in the treatment of multiple sclerosis. Each day, Teva products Generic pharmaceuticals are the chemical and therapeutic equivalents of originator (brand name) are used to fill 2.7 million pharmaceuticals and are typically sold at prices substantially below those of originator products. prescriptions in the European Like their brand-name equivalents, generics are required to meet governmental safety regulations, Union and 1.5 million more such as those relating to manufacturing processes and drug safety agency inspections. in the United States. Regulations on generic drug availability differ around the world. In the United States, the world’s largest market, generics may be produced if relevant patents on their brand-name equivalents (and any additional government-mandated market exclusivity periods) have expired or otherwise been invalidated. According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), generics save American consumers an average of $50 per About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Expanding Healthcare Access in Product Donations the Developing World Partnerships Other Need-Focused Research and Development Our product donations help expand access to Patients in developing countries face complex medicines in many communities around the world healthcare challenges and often lack the We have begun collaborative discussions In addition to our Global Health Program projects, by providing pharmaceuticals to people with financial resources to acquire needed medicines. with organizations including: some of our broader research and development significant medical needs. In 2012, we donated Teva’s new Global Health Program will seek • Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (R&D) efforts focus on the needs of developing more than $71 million in products, equipment to enable affordable healthcare access in the countries and poor patients. and services to community health programs in • Family Health International 360 developing world. We also use a variety of tools the United States, Canada, Switzerland, Baltic to keep both our generic and proprietary products • UNAIDS New Therapeutic Entities nations and elsewhere. For more on our product accessible and affordable in economically In 2012, our R&D group developed the concept of donations, see Our Community, p. 19. challenged regions. • Tuberculosis (TB) Alliance New Therapeutic Entities® (NTEs) as a means to Through donations and partnerships with • World Health Organization address existing unmet patient needs, and to help non-profit groups, we also make our medicines Global Health Program specific patient populations that urgently require available to communities that are recovering • Médecins Sans Frontières Teva is committed to developing, manufacturing different options. The innovative program aims at from natural disasters. For more information, and distributing lifesaving pharmaceuticals to • UNFPA ‘industrializing’ the development of new medicines see Disaster Relief, p. 32. reduce the burden of disease globally. that are based on existing, known molecules, but • Braun School of Public Health and Community have been re-designed to address specific unmet We recognize that certain Teva products Medicine (Hebrew University-Hadassah) and product constituents such as Active needs. Examples include combinations of different Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) can help • Azriely College of Engineering. molecules to reduce pill burden or side-effects, address the unmet needs of people in low-income reformulations to extend dosing schedules or avoid and lower middle-income countries. Teva has logistical issues such as need for refrigeration, a goal of developing new formulations to enable and new delivery systems to improve patient affordable access to critical pharmaceuticals experience. for people in the developing world. Teva is well placed within the industry to scale up Our work in this area is just beginning, through development of these new solutions, due to our our newly formed Global Health Program. As an unique, integrated R&D group (which covers both increasingly active stakeholder in global public generic and specialty medicines), our vast portfolio health, we are learning the field and engaging in of molecules, and our technical and technological dialogue with government agencies and noncapabilities. governmental organizations as we shape our future approach and strategies. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Case Study Neuroscience Research National Network of Excellence (NNE) in Neuroscience As the global population grows and ages, the impact of neuro-degenerative diseases is increasing. In a first-of-its-kind collaboration, Teva has established the Israeli National Network of Excellence in Neuroscience (NNE). The NNE brings together the country’s leading research and medical institutions, which collectively have made Israel one of the world’s leading neuroscience research centers. With funding of $15 million over five years, Teva is supporting a wide range of research projects, post-doctoral fellowships and pre-doctoral scholarships. The goal is to further current neuroscience research efforts while nurturing the research talent of the future. The network will enable participants to tap into broader sets of expertise, knowledge and technologies. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment RELATIONSHIPS WITH CLINICAL TRIALS HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS Patient safety is our primary focus throughout Our Clinical Development group coordinates Healthcare professionals (HCPs) provide the • Issued a Global Compliance Manual reflecting the process of pharmaceutical development. global trial planning, ensuring that all trials frontline in patient care around the world. best practices Clinical trials play a crucial role in helping ensure around the world meet Teva’s standards for Our role is to produce medicines that improve the • Begun to revamp our Code of Conduct and that medicines are safe and effective before they study design and program strategy. The planning outcomes of their efforts. are brought to market. We follow best practices Anti-Corruption Policy procedures for every trial require input from To this end, we work closely with HCPs on clinical in trial design, and use a variety of oversight experts in regulatory affairs, global medical affairs, research projects and medical consultation in • Developed several compliance policies and procedures to ensure trial quality. health economics, pharmacology, biometrics, countries where we operate. We also occasionally procedures at the regional level Teva strictly follows the most advanced global pharmacovigilance, and other areas. All planned sponsor HCPs to attend relevant meetings or trials must receive a positive recommendation • Substantially increased the number standards for clinical trials, with emphasis on the educational events. These collaborations provide of employees in our regional compliance health of potential patients as well as those taking from Teva’s Clinical Development Committee and us with valuable medical insight and help us be approved by the Project Approval Committee departments. part in trials. All trials are conducted in accordance understand patient concerns. In all dealings with with the international Declaration of Helsinki, before implementation. All employees who have HCPs, we maintain high ethical standards. Our Anti-Corruption Policy is available here which lays out ethical principles for medical involvement in clinical trials receive mandatory research involving human subjects. We conduct training related to their role. Ethical and Impactful Financial Support clinical trials only when trial data is critical to In order to ensure the quality of clinical trials, We target our work with healthcare professionals product development. To maximize patient safety, our Global Clinical Quality Assurance group on areas that advance our healthcare mission, we have voluntarily expanded the scope of our conducts random and targeted audits of clinical following all codes and regulations governing trials to include tests and evaluations after drugs trial sites. We conducted 43 audits in 2012, interaction with HCPs. When applicable we have entered the market. covering seven therapeutic areas. No “critical” compensate HCPs, taking care to ensure that such A trial can involve dozens or thousands of observations were made at any sites. We identified payments are not perceived as inducements or patients, depending on the nature of the study. some “major” and “minor” issues that were rewards for prescribing our products. Teva conducts clinical trials all around the world. appropriately documented, addressed and closed. All findings were referred to appropriate managing In some countries, certain HCPs can qualify as In June 2013, we had 105 studies in progress at departments for corrective action. government officials for the purposes of antilocations in 59 countries. (Some trials are specific Our Clinical Quality Policy also includes oversight corruption laws. To ensure clarity in managing to a country or region, while others include a of clinical vendors, laboratories and contract these relationships, we have: global sample of patients). Most of our clinical trials take multiple years to complete. Eleven Teva research organizations. clinical trials began screening patients in 2010, 16 All the trials we conduct are registered with in 2011 and 25 in 2012. appropriate government authorities. Clinical trial results are posted within the timelines set by local and regional regulations. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment RESPONSIBLE SALES AND MARKETING When patients require medicine, they need and Advertising Review Committee (PARC), agreements that mandate specific oversight and guidelines as outlined above. When Teva information and assistance in understanding side comprised of members from our Legal, Medical compliance measures). Teva is committed to sales representatives receive specific medical effects, dosages and other drug-related issues. and Regulatory departments, to ensure they: ongoing training, particularly for all customerinformation requests related to scientific or Healthcare providers play an important role in • Are consistent with approved product labeling facing employees. off-label questions, they refer these to specially this process. Teva believes that pharmaceutical trained colleagues in our Medical Information sales and marketing efforts should further assist • Are accurate and not misleading Setting High Expectations for Our Staff Department. patients in understanding scientific information • Make claims about a product only when Our leadership enforces high standards of conduct about products and should never obscure relevant Additional Compliance Efforts properly substantiated for our employees. Teva does not tolerate behavior information. that is unethical, illegal or dishonest. Our sales Teva will continue to honor the obligations of our • Reflect the balance between risks and benefits and marketing staff members are required to Corporate Integrity Agreements (CIAs) relating Ethical Marketing comply with the laws of the countries in which we to our Ivax and Cephalon companies throughout • Comply with all other applicable regulations. Ensuring the ethical promotion of our products operate and with the regulatory rules that affect their duration. These agreements require robust is a central goal at Teva. Our high standards are Staff Training our business. Failure to do so can result in severe internal compliance programs and oversight, reflected in our Code of Conduct, which governs penalties including termination and potential senior leadership commitment and monitoring our approach to sales and marketing and in our We train our staff on our Code of Conduct annually, criminal or civil actions. of our interactions with healthcare professionals policies and procedures on interacting with and provide frequent supplementary training and patients. The culture of compliance we have healthcare professionals and patients. While on responsible sales policies for our marketing built at Teva will not end with the termination of Information Transparency marketing regulations may differ by region, employees. Each year, employees are trained in these specific CIAs in 2013 and 2014. Effective appropriate promotional techniques by region to Access to current scientific information about our we adhere to the ethical marketing guidelines compliance oversight is a fundamental part of our ensure compliance with local laws and guidelines. products is vital to patients, and we seek to be in our Code of Conduct in all markets, even if operations. They also receive regular training on how to as transparent as possible about product-related this puts us at a competitive disadvantage. We carefully monitor compliance with the FCPA answer medical questions, and on appropriate medical data. We make this information available We create customized marketing materials handling of medical information requests. through on-label messaging, company and product (see Governance and Ethics, p. 9). and supplementary educational information websites, communications from our field-based We also explicitly separate sales and marketing for each of our distinct customer groups, in We provide Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) considerations from our independent medical medical and sales teams and by providing order to comply with all appropriate laws and training for employees authorized to approve education grants, charitable donations and information materials at major medical gatherings. regulations. A rigorous review process ensures payment to healthcare providers and anyone support of external medical and patient groups. in a position to influence a decision-maker in Teva makes a clear distinction between that all promotional materials, messages and a healthcare system. We also train all relevant promotional materials and scientific information presentations comply with internal policies and employees in compliance measures related to about our products. Our sales representatives can meet legal, medical and regulatory requirements. Corporate Integrity Agreements (government distribute and discuss only approved Such materials must be approved by a Promotion on-label information and promotional materials that meet legal, medical and regulatory About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Product labels provide APPROACH TO PRODUCT LABELING a critical way for It is imperative that patients understand details The results of this research, along with the about product usage, side effects, medical risks regulatory expertise of our local teams around communicating with and other relevant information when they use Teva medicines. We provide this material on the the world, help inform the design and messaging of our product labels and leaflets. patients packaging and leaflets of all Teva products and regularly update labeling to ensure that messaging We conduct a thorough review of the messaging on our labels each year or whenever there is is current. Serialization and other labeling a relevant change in regulatory guidelines or practices also help us guard against counterfeiting product information. to keep patients safe. Authenticating Products Labeling for Local Markets Our labels help patients verify the authenticity Our product labels must provide clear instructions and safety of our medicines. We meet all antifor appropriate medicine use and fully articulate counterfeiting requirements in the markets we any risks to patients. This can present a challenge, serve, and in many countries we incorporate given regional differences in regulations, patient/ product serialization to reduce incidences of healthcare provider expectations and languages. counterfeiting. We also use tools such as twoFor both our branded and generic products, we dimensional bar coding and electronic pedigree use country-specific labels to ensure language documentation to track products and help patients accuracy and patient familiarity, as well as or authorities verify the source of medicines. regulatory compliance. We regularly use focus groups and market studies to understand how patients in different regions interact with products, labels and leaflets. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Teva’s efforts on PATIENT ADVOCACY We support a wide range of external projects fundraising events for these organizations. We only behalf of patients go and programs, run by independent non-profit organizations that promote patient health. support groups that meet the following criteria: • Provide broad public benefit, advance medical beyond our business These partners include patient advocacy groups, professional medical associations, care and/or improve patient outcomes trade associations, organizations with healthcare • Provide awareness and understanding to operations objectives and other charitable organizations with a 501 (c)(3) or similar status. Our partnerships patients, caregivers and healthcare providers of the impact of legislation, policy and regulations with and support for such organizations help us on diagnosis, access to treatments and understand the patient perspective, find cures and patient care. fight disease. We work to advance the missions We commission independent research to help of our partner organizations and seek to be the track our support for patient advocacy and industry’s leading exponent of patient/professional to understand best practices. A 2012 survey relations through proactive and ethical patient by the Brooks Group and Mark Krueger and advocacy efforts. Associates ranked Teva second in the global pharmaceutical sector for Multiple Sclerosis Supporting Advocacy Organizations patient advocacy. In 2012, Teva contributed Teva provides direct financial support for NIS 1,354,443 (approximately $376,000) to 36 innovative and high-quality initiatives conducted patient organizations in Israel, and NIS 1,430,684 by non-profit healthcare groups, including patient (approximately $397,000) to 38 medical groups, across a wide range of therapeutic institutions in Israel. areas. In addition, we sometimes contribute to About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Our Patient Advocacy Partners Teva works with more than 50 patient advocacy Fox Foundation, National Parkinson’s Foundation, and professional groups globally, supporting more Parkinson’s Action Network, Parkinson’s Disease than 220 programs. Our partners include: Foundation, The Parkinson’s Alliance Multiple Sclerosis: American Academy of Pharmacy: Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy, Neurology, Consortium of MS Centers, Foundation American Pharmacist Association, American of the Consortium of MS Centers, International Society of Health System Pharmacists, National Organization of MS Nurses, MS Association of Alliance of State Pharmacy Associations, National America, MS Foundation, MS World, National MS Community Pharmacy Association Society Women’s Health: American College of Oncology: American Society of Clinical Oncology, Obstetrics and Gynecology, American Society for American Society of Hematology, CancerCare, Reproductive Medicine, Association of Professors Conquer Cancer Foundation, Hematology of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Association of Oncology Pharmacists Association, Leukemia Reproductive Health Professionals, National and Lymphoma Society, Livestrong, Lymphoma Medical Association, North American Menopause Research Foundation, National CML Association, Society, Nurse Practitioners in Women’s Health, National Coalition of Cancer Survivorship, National Planned Parenthood, RESOLVE: The National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Oncology Nursing Infertility Association, Society for Emergency Society, Patient Advocacy Foundation, Prevent Contraception Cancer Foundation, ZERO Miscellaneous: American Academy of Physician Pain: American Academy of Pain Management, Assistants, American Association of Nurse American Academy of Pain Medicine, American Practitioners, American Brain Foundation, Chronic Pain Association, Center for Practical American Psychiatric Association, Congenital Bioethics, Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy Syndrome Hyperinsulinism Society, Gerontological Society Association, US Pain Foundation of America, Narcolepsy Network, National Alliance on Mental Illness, National Family Caregivers Parkinson’s Disease: American Academy of Association, National Sleep Foundation, Tourette’s Neurology, Davis Phinney Foundation, Michael J. Syndrome Association. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Advocacy Ethics We consider funding requests if they are alliance with such advocacy groups to improve walkers on 70 Teva teams across the United unsolicited, developed independently of Teva and health outcomes through better healthcare-related States. These funds help the LLS support meet a legitimate advocacy objective. Additionally, guidelines, governance, disease management and crucial research and provide critical services programs must be impartial and balanced. All the access to medicines. to patients and their families free of charge. support we provide is completely independent of Our collaborative work with advocacy groups also • Expanded advocacy work – Our U.S. Medical product promotion or sales considerations. We have strict review procedures in place to avoid any has direct impacts on our business success. Advocacy team initiated involvement with key real or perceived exceptions to this rule. These partnerships help us to understand advocacy organizations in Oncology Wake, and engage in emerging policy trends and to Pain, Neuro-Psychology and Women’s Health Regulations on industry engagement with communicate the social and economic value while maintaining and strengthening relations advocacy organizations are constantly evolving of Teva’s products. with MS and Parkinson’s Disease organizations. and we monitor changes closely to ensure our • Program development – We continued to build continued compliance. In the U.S., our support Recent Advocacy Efforts of advocacy activities also complies with advocacy efforts around access, large complex Some highlights from our patient advocacy work in molecules issues, adherence, safety and efficacy. guidelines from the FDA, the American Medical 2012 include: Association and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. • Multiple sclerosis (MS) – We held discussions with multiple MS patient advocacy groups Patient Advocate and Professional Relations regarding access to MS medications and Our relationships with certain partners go beyond issues around complex molecules and financial support and include information sharing, biosimilars (see case study below). networking, monitoring policy development and • Contraception – We proposed advocacy group generating solutions. summits within the nursing community to In seeking to support patients and healthcare obtain feedback and build awareness about providers, we focus on creating relationships, barriers to contraception utilization, and the providing information and proposing practical appropriate role of IUDs. solutions. We maintain a broad network of • Oncology – We served as a National Partner to contacts with strategic advocacy organizations and the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society (LLS) track emerging third-party groups and influencers for the Light the Night Walk, raising nearly in all therapeutic areas. We pursue projects in $105,000 for this campaign through 526 About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Case Study MS Advocacy in Action Teva has developed some of the leading Our experts contributed insights about state and medicines to treat multiple sclerosis (MS) federal policy, covering a wide range of topics and our support for MS patients extends far including biosimilars, drug regulation and federally beyond the lab or pharmacy. Our work with the mandated healthcare marketplaces. Multiple Sclerosis Association of America (MSAA) MSAA’s interest led us to stage Teva’s first MS and the MS Coalition exemplifies this Policy Forum, a summit for all our MS commitment. non-profit partners focused on policy and Our long-running partnership with MSAA involves legislative issues. This hugely successful regular educational programs for MS patients, gathering provided valuable insights for our caregivers and healthcare professionals partners and strengthened our relationship treating the disease. Recently, we have added with the MS Coalition-a collective of MS a new dimension to this partnership, non-profit associations. MSAA has since helping MSAA understand how the 2010 expanded its focus on public policy, Affordable Care Act (U.S. healthcare reform) citing Teva’s Advocacy team as a key partner. will impact the MS community, particularly in We are proud of these advocacy accomplishments accessing healthcare. in 2012 and look to build on them in 2013. In 2012, our U.S. Medical Advocacy team gave Plans include a webinar on healthcare a presentation to MSAA’s Healthcare Advisory marketplaces and a second MS Policy Forum. Council and our Government Affairs Group We are also in discussion with MS non-profits hosted a follow-up meeting in Washington, DC. about developing education initiatives related to healthcare access for the MS population. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment PATIENT SAFETY Keeping patients safe and healthy is the Teva uses a three-tiered hierarchy for medical Even after our medicines have undergone We strive for a flawless safety record, relying on overarching aim of our company and we work to safety evaluations: extensive testing and been approved to enter the both knowledge and action to protect patients. ensure patient safety when developing products market, Teva continuously monitors all products. Teva operates a sophisticated ‘signal detection’ and monitoring their use. The complex chemistry • Product Safety Group – evaluates the safety We believe this is crucial to ensure patient safety process within our pharmacovigilance system that allows medicines to produce desired effects profile for a specific product and detect any emerging concerns. Clinical trials to identify any possible risks to patients as in the human body can also create unwanted side • Medical Scientific Group – evaluates the safety are conducted in sterile environments and real early as possible, enabling preventative action if effects in some instances. Teva invests heavily in profile across Teva’s product portfolio world use by large numbers of diverse patients necessary. Whenever a Serious Adverse Event is pharmacovigilance so that we can be aware of all sometimes exposes new issues. reported, Teva begins an investigation and reports the effects of our medicines and take appropriate • Safety Board – the highest authority overseeing information to appropriate health authorities in action to keep patients safe. product safety in Teva; includes the most senior Data Collection and Pharmacovigilance less than 15 days. representatives from Global Patient Safety Safety Oversight & PhV, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Affairs Teva PhV uses robust processes to record and Patient Communication and Teva’s Chief Medical Office. track every single adverse event report for every Teva’s Patient Safety & Pharmacovigilance single Teva product – from the earliest clinical We communicate any safety information relevant Group (Teva PhV) is responsible for defining and Safe Medicine Development and trials through the life of the medicine in global to patients through channels such as patient implementing patient safety policies and systems Continuous Monitoring markets. Safety data is collected and analyzed on leaflets, product labels and healthcare providers. and ensuring compliance with all relevant global an ongoing basis by the Teva PhV team. We collect Teva is careful to communicate safety concerns and local regulations. We also have a worldwide Teva PhV is involved with every step of the safety information data from a wide variety of as soon as they have been verified. Premature network of highly trained Local Safety Officers medicine development process. Each product sources including (but not limited to) published warnings could lead to unnecessary disruptions of (most of whom are physicians and pharmacists) under development is assigned a Product Safety literature, regulatory authorities, clinical trials, treatment, while delays in communication could covering every market where Teva products are Group, which includes a Safety Physician, a PhV market research and healthcare providers. compromise patient safety. sold. Safety Officers undergo continuous training Associate and a Clinical Leader, with additional on all new drug safety regulations and guidelines experts involved as needed. This group evaluates All safety information is collected into one vast Safety Board and regularly attend conferences organized by a product’s effects, analyzing findings from animal global safety database that encompasses all studies and reports from medical literature. Teva products. The Medical Scientific Group, In mid-2013 Teva established a high-level Safety professional pharmaceutical organizations. The Product Safety Group closely tracks each step in a highly trained team of safety physicians Board, which will meet at least four times a year to All Teva employees from Research and the medical development process to ensure that all (medical doctors), continuously analyzes this review and evaluate notable safety issues. Development teams to Sales and Marketing potential safety concerns are properly addressed. data and issues regular company safety reports professionals are trained to report adverse as required by regulatory authorities. patient safety events to relevant Local Extensive clinical trials help ensure patient safety Safety Officers. and Teva takes great care to conduct rigorous trials Pharmacovigilance at Teva is not merely an that meet the highest global regulatory standards exercise in data collection and reporting. (see Clinical Trials, p. 19). About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Protecting the private data of patients is a key concern at Teva PRIVACY AND DATA SECURITY In our clinical trials and records, we follow best practices in secure data management. Our security efforts cover the entire lifecycle of data management, from collection through processing and storage. We comply with all data security laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Manufacturing and Supply Chain Patients who use our Overview Our Approach To create our products, we depend upon a secure We require all suppliers and our owned to key stakeholders, as well as to the suppliers. products rely on an and accountable supply chain of trusted partner companies. We make every effort to meet our manufacturing facilities to adhere to stringent standards outlined in the pharmaceutical Where we uncover issues, suppliers are required to respond with a corrective and preventive action unrestricted supply obligations to patients by maintaining a fail-safe network of suppliers. We also emphasize reliability industry’s current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) and Good Distribution Practices (GDP) (CAPA) plan. We work with sites that do not pass our audits to implement these plans and improve and responsibility in our manufacturing processes. as well as other requirements from regulatory their quality systems. of safe, innovative Our global manufacturing and supply chain authorities globally. These standards help to safeguard the health of our patients as well medicines to meet network encompasses 21 Teva-owned manufacturing sites that produce more than half as to produce good-quality medicine. of our active pharmaceutical ingredients To ensure quality control, Teva uses Quality their medical needs (APIs) and 54 Teva-owned finished dosage pharmaceutical manufacturing sites. We also Technical Agreements (QTAs) – legal documents that set out comprehensive quality and compliance have strategic relationships with a small number expectations for both Teva operations and our of contract manufacturing sites in India that are suppliers. QTAs include the requirements to governed by the same rules of quality and good follow cGMPs as well as marketing authorization practice as our internal Teva sites. procedures and Teva-specific quality standards. In addition, thousands of third-party suppliers Teva performs key material supplier audits on provide us with raw materials (including the a global basis to confirm compliance with our rest of our APIs) and packaging, and around 500 own quality standards, regulatory requirements suppliers produce final packaged products. and cGMP and GDP standards. Suppliers of This global network supplies Teva and our APIs, finished dosage forms and laboratory and patients with drugs in more than 60 countries. packaging services are audited at least every three In 2012, we paid $3.6 billion to external suppliers years. Suppliers of primary packaging materials of raw materials. and critical excipients (inactive ingredients used in medicines) are audited at least every five years. Audit findings are widely communicated internally About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment 2012-2013 Audits In 2012, we completed audits of 892 suppliers • Collaboration: We work with suppliers to share globally and more than 1,100 supplier audits are information that helps both parties forecast and planned for 2013. This total includes, but is not manage risks and opportunities limited to, contract manufacturers, packagers and laboratories as well as API, ASM and excipients. • Monitoring: Our global purchasing team continually assesses suppliers to confirm As regulations become more rigorous globally, the successful production and delivery of we are committed to maintaining our own our products. manufacturing sites at the appropriate standards. Our new manufacturing sites are designed to meet Encouraging Performance Improvements not only current but potential future regulatory requirements. Teva’s efforts to ensure a safe and secure medicines pipeline go beyond compliance. Maintaining the Security of Our We embrace suppliers as partners, working closely Supply Chain with them to improve their performance. We share best practices from our own operations, This rigorous management of our manufacturing provide resources during supplier quality reviews and supply chain network is critical to maintaining and support investments and upgrades that a secure supply of our medicines to patients who help them comply with cGMP, GDP and local depend on them. In addition, we operate a number environmental laws. of security measures to keep our supply steady and consistent. These include: • Dual sourcing: For key products and materials, we make sure we have alternate sources, both within and outside our own manufacturing network About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Overview Our Approach Employee Volunteering Disaster Relief Goals and Objectives Teva Awards and Prizes Community Relations and Volunteering: Teva’s Global Impact About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Overview Employee Volunteering In 2012, more than 3,100 employees Teva has a long history of investing in and In 2011, we established a Global Community volunteered more than 30,000 hours supporting the local communities where our Relations Forum and network with representatives 2,175 3,138* with more than 540 community business operates and we believe we make a from each of our main markets and business units. positive impact everywhere. In line with our focus The Forum developed Teva’s Global Community partners globally on patient needs, our contributions seek to support Relations Guidelines, which outline a proactive Number of Employees Volunteering health and wellness and access to medicines, as approach to community relations, employee well as other local needs and disaster relief. volunteering and support for our business strategy In 2012, we provided $11.6 million in charitable through community work. support to non-profit organizations and $71 million 30,150 28,871 in product and in-kind donations. We also strongly Employee Volunteering encourage employee volunteering in the community. Employee volunteering is key to our community strategy and we encourage our employees We are currently working to create a centralized worldwide to donate their time and expertise. global approach to our community activities. In the past, volunteering policies varied by location and were managed locally. In 2013, we Our Approach introduced a global volunteering plan to deepen our dialogue with patients and communities by Historically, Teva’s community relations and encouraging employee engagement. The plan aims to: investment decision-making has been made within each country to meet local needs and take • Provide long lasting and sustainable value to the advantage of local strengths. Given our company’s local community Total Number of Volunteer Hours rapid growth, we are now moving to a centralized, global approach, while continuing to take into • Offer our employees an opportunity to develop leadership and other skills 2011 2012 account local needs and opportunities. Our community relations approach is also tied to our • Increase employee satisfaction and commitment corporate strategy of improving global health. to Teva We look to provide sustainable ways of giving. * Many countries do not yet measure employee These include partnerships with and funding for • Contribute to a positive Teva brand image. volunteering and therefore were not able to leading non-profit groups and community programs provide additional data. as well as Teva product donations and employee volunteering efforts. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Disaster Relief Contributions in Emergencies 2010-2012* In addition to supporting local projects, Teva believes we have a role in assisting communities when natural disasters occur. We typically donate medicines through well-established non-profit organizations taking part in relief efforts. During these difficult events, we are proud to make U.S.: Sandy, Wildfires, quality medicine accessible where and when it is needed most around the world. We also match Missouri Flood Storms $207,172 financial contributions made by our employees. $14,808 For example, we donated more than $7 million worth of medicine to the 2010 Haiti earthquake Southeast Storms relief effort. In 2012, when Hurricane Sandy $24,938 Tennessee Floods devastated the U.S. East Coast we provided more than $200,000 worth of medical aid. $10,043 Haiti Earthquake Japan Tsunami Total Corporate Giving in $M $7,212,076 $133,942 11.612 Chilean Earthquake $4,484 71.08 2010 2011 2012 * Corporate, Employees, Drug Donations Cash Product & In-kind About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Goals and Objectives Teva Awards and Prizes In 2013 we will continue our efforts to implement To celebrate excellence and inspiration in Israel, our corporate community relations approach where Teva was founded we recognize individuals worldwide. In particular, we will focus on and organizations each year through the following expanding the work of our global Corporate Social awards: Responsibility forum, creating an executive CSR roundtable forum and further developing employee Teva Founders Prize and Research Grants volunteering. Each year since 1993, the Teva Founders Prize and We aim to increase the number of employees research grants have been given to researchers volunteering worldwide and to link all of our that excel in life sciences and bio-medical fields. volunteering programs to our community relations We award prizes in partnership with the Israel strategy. As an incentive, we will launch a global National Academy for Sciences. Grants are volunteering recognition initiative in 2013. We also awarded by the Israel Science Foundation with our aim to offer new and diverse initiatives including guidance and support. skills-based and family volunteering opportunities to encourage greater employee participation. Teva Award for Excellence in Memory of Eli Hurvitz We also plan to develop a global donations policy In 2011, Teva’s former Chairman Eli Hurvitz, under which all philanthropic decisions will be passed away after leading the company for 57 made according to global guidelines, while taking years. We chose to honor his memory with an into account local needs and opportunities. award for excellence in education, science and We expect this approach to strengthen our culture areas we consider essential to the future philanthropy activities and improve sustainable of the State of Israel value for Teva and the communities we support. We currently run community programs in 20 Teva Poetry Prize of our locations globally. As some of our newer For over 10 years, Teva has awarded an annual NIS units become more established and develop 20,000 (around $5,500) prize to a promising poet organizational capacity, we plan to increase at the Israeli Poetry Festival in Metula. The winner this number. in 2012 was Al Tayeb Ghanayem, who writes in both Hebrew and Arabic. Photographer: Sivan Farag About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Case Study Teva Wins Excellence Recognition In 2012, Teva was honored to receive special recognition as ‘the most effective corporation’ investing in social activities in Israel. The award was given by a public committee on behalf of Midot, a non-profit organization that promotes effectiveness and impact as the main criteria for social investors. Teva won the award for its long and sustained investment in promoting excellence in both general and science education in Israel, including developing tools to effectively measure and evaluate projects. The committee cited our approach of linking social investment to our core business activity and highlighted our effective use of business and human capital. “Your systematic work toward strengthening organizational and human infrastructure serves as an example to other social investors. Your endeavors show the entrepreneurial and innovative vision needed to create real social change.” Talia Aharoni, Awards Committee Chairperson. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment COMMUNITY RELATIONS AND VOLUNTEERING: TEVA’S GLOBAL IMPACT Israel: Partnering to Advance prostate cancer research, diagnosis and chemical engineering and pharmaceuticals. Science Education treatment as well as men’s mental health The university’s students tour our factories initiatives. Through sponsorship to grow and our professionals give formal lectures and Teva has a long-standing partnership with Perach, moustaches during November, they presentations on the application of these subjects. a non-profit organization dedicated to supporting raised CDN$14,000. disadvantaged children throughout Israel, and in In 2012, we introduced an innovative competition which we support by operating two nationwide • Employees participating in The Shopper’s Drug to promote creative thinking and new ideas. community programs: Mart Weekend to End Women’s Cancer More than 60 students participated in “Jump! Be Walkathon walked 30km in a day and raised Creative!” by writing essays on how to improve • Havayeda-Teva interactive science centers are CDN$33,000 for The Princess Margaret Cancer the quality of life of Hungary’s younger generation. located in peripheral towns and underResearch Center. Teva matched funds and raised Essays dealt with issues ranging from financial resourced neighborhoods throughout the up to CDN$625 per walker. security and mental health to environmental country. They offer an informal and enjoyable protection, culture and entertainment. learning environment for children who, The winner, a young inventor at the Department due to geographical and/or socio-economic Canada: Supporting Cancer Research and Recovery of Electrical Engineering, described a life-saving obstacles, are hindered from accessing the mobile application to detect an accident and services offered by bigger science Our employees in Canada are passionate automatically call for help. museums. In 2012, 140,000 young people supporters of cancer research, awareness and visited one of these centers. recovery initiatives, embracing fundraising and • The Nature of Chemistry program encourages donation activities including: chemistry study in high school and at university, • Support for the Childhood Cancer Canada aiming to increase the number of chemists Foundation through employee fundraising and science experts in Israeli industry. events, and our Dollars for Scholars payroll Qualified university student volunteers tutor deduction plan and corporate funding. junior high school students in coursework The foundation provides scholarships for developed by the Department of Science children who have cancer or are cancer Hungary: Engaging Young People in Education at the Weizmann Institute and the survivors. In 2012, more than 80 children Pharmaceuticals and Chemistry Davidson Institute for Science Education. received educational help due to our support. In 2012, 1,600 junior high school students We have a long-standing partnership with the took part, with a high number choosing • Employees participated in the ‘Movember’ University of Debrecen, financing two external chemistry as a university major. campaign to raise awareness and funds for departments focused on the practice of chemistry, About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Greece: Fitting Together with Disabilities Chile: Nuestros Hijos Foundation The Pan-Hellenic Association of Adapted Activities Teva is a long-term supporter of the Nuestros Hijos (ALMA) informs communities about autism and Foundation, which supports children with cancer. mental deficits through educational, athletic and In 2012, 77 percent of our employees donated cultural activities that help integrate people with to the organization through our annual matched these disabilities into communities. In October funding campaign, raising approximately $60,000 2012, Teva sponsored a three-day event organized for the pediatric oncology unit at the Roberto del by ALMA in collaboration with the Association of Río Hospital in Chile’s capital, Santiago. Many of Multiple Sclerosis and the Municipality of Aegina our employees also volunteer their time to bring to help change attitudes and create bridges of enjoyment to these children’s lives by assisting at friendship and communication between people recreational activities such as soccer tournaments, with and without disabilities. The event included birthday parties and beach visits. Czech Republic: Motivating Wheelchair both educational lectures and recreational activities, United States: Helping Volunteers Users to Adopt an Active Life including a puppet show, a painting exhibition Help Others Italy: Volunteering Day by the schoolchildren of Aegina, and dance and The Wheelchair Sports Club (SKV) offers sporting activities. The community’s response was City Year is a non-profit organization that places In November 2012, Teva held its first Volunteering wheelchair users the opportunity to participate extremely positive. ALMA honored Teva with a young volunteers in schools to help keep at-risk Day for our Italian employees. More than half of in sporting activities and events including hockey, ”Main Supporter” award for our sponsorship. students on track for graduation. Volunteers serve our employees in Italy volunteered their time to tennis, scuba diving, skiing and orienteering. full-time for one year as tutors, mentors and role help with projects in support of abused children, As well as having a good time, taking part helps models to improve students’ attendance and children from problem homes, young women with wheelchair users feel satisfaction in their abilities academic success. Teva provides financial support health challenges and other groups in need. and independence, and can motivate them to lead and our employees mentor volunteers to help them an active life. Teva has been SKV’s main sponsor work more effectively. since 2010, when a team of Teva employees ConKerr Cancer volunteers brighten the lives of first entered the national floorball (hockey) chronically ill children through the simple act of tournament. In 2012, our team reached an sewing a bright cheery pillowcase for their hospital impressive third place. rooms. In addition to financial support, Teva has organized several volunteer events where our employees get together to sew pillowcases. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Overview 2012 Highlights Environmental Governance Compliance Global Environmental Management Energy Climate Change Water Waste Air Emissions Product Impacts Engaging Stakeholders About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Environmental Responsibility Teva considers Overview 2012 Highlights environmental Our patients, their families and wider society will thrive only if there is a healthy planet to • We introduced an improved data collection system at 82 sites worldwide that tracks key support human needs. Our goal is to become performance indicators (KPIs) related to responsibility a corporate leader in environmental performance management. solvents, energy, water, wastewater, air emissions and waste. a foundation of To achieve this, we have mapped out a strategy in our Environmental Objectives Plan. Built on • We invested nearly $4 million in more than 50 energy improvement projects around the globe. doing business three pillars, it covers: • Compliance: we continuously monitor • We submitted our second response to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) showing environmental regulations and strictly adhere improvement both in disclosure and to all recognized environmental standards in performance compared with the previous year. the countries where we operate • We recycled nearly 50 percent of our • Performance: we seek to reduce our non-hazardous waste and 17,000 tons environmental footprint through efficient of solvent. use of resources and consider the impacts of our products in our research and development processes • Culture: we integrate environmental issues into every facet of our business through our unified environmental management system, common standards of operation and employee engagement efforts. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE Compliance Our global environmental program is led by the All Teva facilities are mandated to comply SVP EHS Senior Vice President of Environment, Health and with local laws and regulations. In 2012, we Safety (EHS) who reports to Teva’s President and implemented environmental projects to ensure Environmental Chief Executive Officer, Global Operations. Day-tocompliance with current regulations at locations Management Level Director day management is the responsibility of our Director worldwide. Efforts included: of Environment, who oversees the implementation • Six waste water projects in China, Croatia, India, of our Environmental Objectives Plan and drives Israel and Italy progress. • Three air emissions projects in Croatia Regional Level At the regional level, five EHS managers oversee and Israel our regional business unit managers with regard to 8 Regional environmental issues, and serve as a link between • Three ground water and soil contamination EHS Managers the EHS global headquarters and sites of operation. projects in Hungary, Israel and Italy At the site level we employ approximately 75 EHS managers, responsible for on-the-ground • Numerous projects at API plants to maintain implementation of EHS policies compliance with Pollutant Release and Site Level and work plan objectives. Transfer Register (PRTR) and Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) legislation. 75 EHS We focus on four main areas in promoting Managers excellence and knowledge sharing among our sites In addition, we continuously monitor changes globally. At the EHS headquarters, content experts in regulations and directives resulting from new in energy, air quality, waste management and green legislation applicable to our operations. chemistry lead global action plans to promote their effective environmental management. In each REACH Legislation area, our internal specialists support and facilitate Teva takes a precautionary approach to managing research on sustainable technical solutions that can our environmental impacts. Though not required be replicated and implemented across our global of pharmaceutical companies, we follow the facilities. Best practices are spread across our sites European Commission’s Registration, Evaluation, through knowledge-sharing platforms. Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation. This requires manufacturers About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment ENERGY and importers to register information on the greenhouse gas (GHG) performance data at all In 2013, we plan to build on our environmental Teva owns and operates more than 100 different properties of chemical substances in their manufacturing operations. In 2012, we upgraded KPIs, improve the availability of data for site types of facilities – from production plants and products in a central database run by the the pilot by introducing an improved data managers and encourage communication of our research and development facilities to warehouses European Chemicals Agency. All our European collection system at 82 sites worldwide that tracks performance internally and externally. and offices. Each facility has a different energy manufacturing sites have completed REACH prekey performance indicators (KPIs) in the following profile, meaning we must manage energy The environmental data presented in this consumption at the site level. registration and we also request our suppliers to categories: report has been collected through the new pre-register the materials we use in our products. • Solvents – usage, recycling global management system described above. It We actively seek to reduce energy consumption We have also adopted the REACH format for our covers our main sites of operation, including all and associated GHG emissions across our global Material Safety Data Sheets. • Energy – on-site generation, purchase by fuel manufacturing sites and several major logistics facilities, and in 2012 appointed a Global Energy type, GHG emissions Director to champion our efficiency efforts. and operations facilities. Five of our production Global Environmental Management sites have also been externally certified to The Global Energy Director works closely with the • Water – consumption by source, recycling As a global company that makes products in ISO14001. Global Environment Director and is responsible • Waste Water – quality and quantity of pollutant for prioritizing and approving energy efficiency more than 20 countries, effective management of our environmental footprint requires a by destination improvement projects throughout our operations. single integrated system encompassing all our • Air Emissions – key pollutants such as NOx, During 2012 we invested nearly $4 million in facilities. Due to mergers and acquisitions, and SOx, ozone depleting substances and others more than 50 energy improvement projects cultural and regulatory differences across our around the globe. Initiatives included switching sites, implementing a unified approach to our • Waste – hazardous waste by type, nonhazardous waste by type, recycling. to more efficient and cleaner burning natural gas, environmental standards has proved challenging installing new gas turbines and multi-evaporators, in the past. We have worked hard over the past reconstructing high voltage distribution networks, two years to streamline our environmental efforts upgrading lighting and HVAC systems and utilizing by creating a common environmental language, waste heat. In 2013, we are continuing our focus setting global baselines for environmental on energy efficiency and plan to invest in new performance and standardizing our data collection improvement projects. methodologies In 2011, we implemented a pilot global environmental management system to ensure consistent monitoring of energy, water and About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Performance Energy Consumption by Scope and Country of Operation in GJ Scope 1 and Scope 2 Energy Consumption Most of the energy we use, and the associated GHG emissions, result from our production processes. In 2012, our total global energy consumption was 1,687,861 10,337,882 gigajoules. Sixty-five percent of our Scope 1 (direct) energy use comes from cleaner burning natural gas. In the future we intend to increase the share of natural gas in our direct energy usage portfolio. We will provide data on Scope 2 efficiency trends in our use of energy in our next 42% Scope 1 CSR report. 58% 1,057,813 2012 Global Fuel Mix by Type of Energy Source Category 979,446 822,813 760,606 732,597 Purchased Electricity 38.9% Natural Gas 37.5% 509,503 185,703 170,562 155,000 454,052 156,700 147,347 140,471 143,042 Fuel Oil 14.9% 219,057 379,584 100,173 298,190 95,785 328,982 215,730 318,028 278,837 Purchased Steam 3.3% LPG gas 2.6% USA Israel Hungary Japan India Czech Italy Croatia Germany Canada Poland Other Diesel Fuel 2.3% Other (5 sources) 0.5% Direct Energy Consumption Scope 1 Indirect Energy Consumption Scope 2 About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Case Study Innovative and Holistic Energy Management in Israel New buildings and refurbishments provide Other innovative efficiency measures included opportunities for us to introduce energy installing a heat recovery cycle system. best practice. This system captures residual heat from the facility’s air condensers for use by a neighboring For example, when we were building Teva’s new Teva facility, saving more than 500 tons of Research and Development (R&D) facility in liquefied petroleum gas per year. We also use Kfar-Saba, Israel, predictive models showed that condensed water from the R&D facility’s heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) air-conditioning system in chilling towers, would account for more than 60 percent of energy conserving 5,000 m3 of water in the course demand. We responded by switching to a cutting of a year. edge, highly efficient HVAC management and control system that uses real-time environmental Combined, these efforts have cut energy sensors to monitor energy consumption, consumption by about 1.3 million KWh per year and optimizes energy use through automatic compared to the original prediction, preventing decision-making procedures. For example, more than 2,500 tons of CO2e emissions from the system constantly monitors the optimum entering the atmosphere. performance of chiller towers and manages their start up and shut down. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment CLIMATE CHANGE Teva recognizes that climate change is a major 2012 Global Fuel Mix Carbon Intensity 2012 GHG Emissions by Scope and Countries of Operation in Tons CO2e challenge for the international community. by Type of Energy Source We are currently analyzing the implications of this Direct Energy Indirect Energy global phenomenon throughout our value chain Category Country Consumption-Scope 1 Consumption-Scope 2 to identify a plan of action for mitigating our own impacts and safeguarding our business. Purchased Electricity 58.5% Israel 55,234 185,106 As a first step, in 2011 we began monitoring our GHG emissions from major Scope 1 and Scope 2 Natural Gas 22.6% USA 97,612 116,147 (operational) sources, such as the electricity and steam for our manufacturing processes and the Fuel Oil 12.5% Hungary 56,113 41,411 purchased electricity that powers our facilities. Purchased Steam 2.4% India 28,010 57,013 Performance LPG gas 1.8% Japan 56,849 25,235 In 2012, we emitted 962,195 metric tons of CO2e, which will serve as our baseline for future Diesel Fuel 1.8% Czech 17,902 22,384 reduction targets. We publicly report our global carbon emissions data through the CDP framework Other 0.4% Germany 8,094 29,004 and submitted our first response in 2012. Italy 15,690 15,816 Our total emissions in 2011, as submitted to CDP, were 700,429 metric tons of CO2e. Croatia 5,791 21,379 The increase in emissions in 2012 was due to the addition of 15 new sites as well as production Poland 5,421 20,472 increases at existing sites. Canada 9,593 6,645 Other 19,842 45,432 About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment WATER We work to reduce water consumption at our 2012 Total Water Consumption by Major Global Water Sources in 2012 Total Wastewater Quantity by Country global facilities through careful management of Country of Operation in Cubic Meters of Operation 2012 in Cubic Meters manufacturing processes and by recycling water wherever possible. Most water we consume is Category Category Category for production processes and chiller towers. In 2012, we implemented 20 water-saving projects Hungary 1,658,000 Water Supply Network 60.7% Hungary 1,223,786 at a range of sites. Measures included installation of recirculation pumps and upgrades Israel 1,163,000 Wells 28.6% USA 801,878 to monitoring systems. We employ advanced technologies to biologically USA 985,000 River/Lakes 5.3% Italy 674,047 treat our organic wastewater in compliance with India 876,000 Borewell Internal 2.7% Croatia 585,815 local regulations. Where feasible we reuse treated water from internal processes for non-production & External (IIDC) Italy 782,000 Czech 524,006 uses such as landscaping, washing, and cooling. Other 2.7% Croatia 754,000 Israel 490,745 Czech 556,000 Japan 382,733 Japan 496,000 Canada 207,610 Canada 233,000 India 182,620 Chile 189,000 China 176,180 Poland 162,,387 Poland 162,173 UK 158,000 UK 156,308 Germany 151,000 Germany 145,249 Other 563,000 Other 384,193 About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Case Study Recycling Wastewater in India At Teva’s Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) plant in Malanpur, India, we treated wastewater from our chemical processes through reverse osmosis (RO) technology prior to 2012. While this technology effectively removes certain impurities, it also increases total dissolved solids, requiring us to treat the plant’s wastewater a second time to reach the proper effluent quality. In 2012, we installed advanced treatment technology that purifies and recycles virtually all the plant’s wastewater, enabling it to achieve Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) status. Nearly 50,000 cubic meters of the highly treated water was recycled for on-site irrigation and use in cooling towers. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment WASTE Effective waste management is critical to our 2012 Global Waste Breakdown Types of Recycled Waste Globally When we are unable to reuse a solvent, we send it manufacturing processes and our environmental by Type in Tons 2012 in Tons to recycling companies for use in other industries. responsibility efforts. During 2012 we conducted In 2012, we recycled more than 17,000 tons of 30 projects to promote non-hazardous waste solvent this way. reduction, treatment and recycling (see Germany 4% Case Study below). From 2013, we will provide 9% 6% trend data on non-hazardous waste, using 2012 Hazardous Waste Recovery Solvents as the baseline. 10% 8% As a manufacturer of pharmaceuticals we also generate hazardous waste such as drug debris, chemical containers, flammable solids and exhausted solvents. We use different 55% 27% 31% techniques to recover solvents for internal and external reuse. When we are unable to recycle 81% hazardous materials, we focus our efforts on ensuring stringent compliance with local disposal 64% regulations. We implement pre-treatment activities Hazardous Other (e.g., bottles and cans, glass, e-waste) 5% and contract with certified waste treatment Non-Hazardous Not Recycled Paper and Carton companies to ensure careful management of our hazardous waste streams. Non-Hazardous Recycled Plastic Metal Performance Wood Pallets In 2012, we generated approximately 48,000 tons of non-hazardous waste and approximately Solvents recovered on site for internal use 211,000 tons of hazardous waste. We recycled Solvents Solvents recovered by sub-contractor for about half of our total non-hazardous waste. Solvents are an important manufacturing input internal use at our API plants. We strive to recover as much Purchased solvents used solvent as possible for reuse, implementing complex recycling technologies for this purpose. As a result, our purchase of virgin solvents comprised only 31 percent of the nearly 200,000 tons of solvents we used in 2012. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Case Study German Sites Turn Profit from Recycled Plastics During 2012, an analysis of plastic waste at our plants in Ulm and Weiler, Germany, showed that we could further sort and separate our mixed plastic and commercial wastes to increase recovery rates. We have since begun collecting materials at various points in the production process, making sorting more efficient. Materials we cannot collect at source are sorted at our waste disposal center. We also installed a new plastics separation system at both plants to maximize plastics recovery. In 2012, we generated revenues of about US$24,000 by selling 266 tons of valuable plastic waste to recycling companies. Efficient waste management created financial opportunities while benefiting the environment a win-win outcome we hope to replicate at other sites. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment AIR EMISSIONS PRODUCT IMPACTS ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS As a company with direct operations in 60 Our research and development process takes into Pharmaceuticals in the Environment Teva strives to foster transparent and productive countries, managing our impact on air quality account the environmental impacts of our products dialogue with our stakeholders about our requires a flexible approach. First and foremost, at every stage of their lifecycle. We include Despite careful management of our production environmental performance. We educate our we remain compliant with air quality regulations environmental recommendations in our R&D processes and the materials used in our products, employees on environmental issues by highlighting applicable at each of our sites. These vary by reports to be implemented during production. unused or excreted medicines can enter the our programs and achievements in our corporate region and include local laws and regional environment. We support research on the impacts newspaper and website. Wherever possible, we employ synthetic of pharmaceuticals in the environment by directives such as Integrated Pollution Prevention methodologies in manufacturing products that academia and regulatory agencies and we aim We promote engagement with external Control in Europe, Pollutant Release and Transfer minimize water and solvent use. We select to understand the risks associated with disposal stakeholders through active participation in Register legislation in the United States and solvents according to the following criteria: of our products and take steps to adopt major environmental frameworks and rankings Europe, and the Clean Air Law in Israel. We strive sustainable solutions. such as the CDP. We also directly engage with to anticipate changes in regulation to ensure our • Contamination we follow the QC3 guidelines representatives from our local communities sites remain compliant in a constantly evolving of the International Conference on through meetings, forums and working groups. global legislative landscape. Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for In addition, where feasible we go above and Human Use (ICH) and the Treaty for the beyond legal requirements. In 2012, we upgraded Prevention of Air Contamination and installed more efficient condensers, scrubbers and absorption units at more than 30 sites • Degradation – we use solvents that do not to improve air treatment beyond what local easily break down and enter the environment regulations demanded. • Volatility – we prefer solvents with low-volatility In 2013, we plan to create standard air emission to prevent air pollution and odors metrics for all operations, taking into account the various monitoring thresholds at our sites. • Presence of organohalogens – we avoid solvents that contain organohalogens and prioritize use of less hazardous alternatives. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Case Study Community Advisory Panels in Israel A local environmental NGO, Negev-Bar-Kaima, During 2012, Teva hosted five meetings teamed up with pharmaceutical industry centered on topics such as environmental leaders in southern Israel, including Teva, regulation, air quality and wastewater. to facilitate discussions on sustainable We seriously consider suggestions made economic development. Nine public panels by panel members. For example, following with 300 members from the Negev desert a discussion about increasing local community are currently active. environmental awareness, we began supporting academic courses for the public Participating businesses-including Teva in cooperation with the College of Engineering Tech API, a high-volume production facility in the city of Beer Sheva. established in 1995-invite panel participants to their plants throughout the year. The goal is open dialogue about each site’s environmental performance and potential impact on the local community. Panel members express concerns and share ideas with plant managers. The meetings foster trust and cooperation and give local citizens a voice in corporate decision-making. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Overview Safety, Health and Wellness Inclusion and Diversity Learning and Development Employee Benefits About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Overview Number of New Employee Hires Happy, healthy and productive employees are We work hard to recruit the most talented people Total Workforce by Gender by Employment Contract good for Teva and good for our patients. while reinforcing the culture and values that make Our success and continued growth is driven by Teva a great place to work. Teva respects the rights Category 2012 Category 2012 the performance of every individual who works for of employees to freely form associations and us. That’s why we devote much time and thought engage in collective bargaining. We maintain Male 25,141 Full-Time Employees 5,982 to our employees – how to attract the best talent, fair-minded and collaborative relations with promote staff diversity, health and wellbeing, employee representative bodies everywhere we Female 20,807 Contingent Workers 557 and provide training and development that fulfills operate. In 2012, we employed 45,948 workers their potential. around the world. TOTAL 45,948 TOTAL 6,539 Our Approach Our Workforce: By the Numbers People are at the core of our business. We help Our total global, full-time workforce numbers Workforce by Region Number of Employee Terminations hundreds of millions of patients every day through 43,838 and we also employ 2,110 contingent (full-time employees only) by Gender the efforts of our workforce around the world. workers. Our approach of putting people first includes our We hired 6,539 new employees during 2012, Category 2012 Category 2012 employees; we seek to nurture passionate, mainly in Europe, Asia and North America. high-performing individuals, guided by a shared Among new full-time hires, 2,804 were women Africa 24 Male 3,186 set of values. and 3,178 were men. To realize Teva’s vision we are implementing Asia 11,404 Female 3,280 advanced people management practices to attract, develop and retain value-driven people and Total Workforce by Employment Contract Europe 18,871 TOTAL 6,466 establish a high-performing work environment worldwide. We take pride in offering highly Category 2012 Latin America 4,324 competitive, comprehensive and affordable benefit plans, a commitment to continual employee Full-Time Employees 43,838 North America 9,187 development and an attractive work environment that promotes diversity and inclusion, safety and Contingent Workers 2,110 Oceania 28 health. TOTAL 45,948 TOTAL 43,838 About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment SAFETY, HEALTH AND WELLNESS Our Approach Occupational Health Protecting our employees’ safety, health and • Conduct open communication and dialogue • A Teva employee in Takayama, Japan was killed As a healthcare company, one of the main wellbeing is fundamental to Teva’s approach to on workplace health, safety and environmental when falling from height during cleaning occupational health risks our employees face is responsibility and to the success of our operations. sustainability issues with all our stakeholders of an automatic warehouse. the handling of hazardous chemicals, in particular We need our employees to be at their best in order active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). to provide excellent service for our patients. We require and encourage all managers and We have detailed guidelines for the safe handling employees to devote the required attention, effort Injuries and Lost Days of APIs and drugs, which are periodically reviewed. and resources needed to put these principles and Category 2010 2011 2012 Following our latest update in 2010, we held Safety policies into practice. Every manager undergoes training sessions at all production units and Teva’s global Environment, Health and Safety extensive safety training. 2 Fatalities 0 0 laboratories about the safe handling of APIs and (EHS) management system directs our safety To help support a strong safety culture, we have other chemical hazards. efforts. It sets the standards that we aim to meet Total number at all our sites, and provides global methodologies, appointed Safety Champions at many of our sites. These individuals take responsibility for safety in of recordable Health Promotion tools and an information system to help facilities 440 their departments in addition to their usual jobs. injuries 555 537 consistently implement and monitor our activities. Studies show a direct correlation between workers’ While our safety record is good, our goal is to In 2012, we had 1,694 champions at 19 sites. OSHA recordable lifestyles and their degree of involvement and eliminate all work-related injuries and illnesses. In addition, EHS Councils worldwide oversee productivity at work. For their benefit, and ours, injuries rate* 1.89 1.79 1.25 EHS in their geographic area. These Councils are we encourage and help our employees and their Toward this end, we commit to: mandated to allocate the necessary resources Total number of families to lead healthy lifestyles. • Actively foster prevention of health risks, to deal with any EHS issues. injuries resulting accidents and environmental damages Traditionally, Teva business units have We also operate Hazard Reporting Boards to make in lost workdays 266 302 252 implemented their own health and wellness • Continuously reduce EHS risks and improve it easy for all employees to report safety hazards. initiatives in different locations to best reflect performance All concerns raised are evaluated and addressed OSHA injuries resulting in lost local needs, interests and strengths (see examples • Incorporate health, safety and environmental by relevant managers. below). However, in line with our policy of workdays rate 0.91 1.01 0.72 considerations in all life cycle stages of In 2012, across our sites worldwide, there were introducing more consistency in our programs Teva’s products, and in equipment and practices 252 injuries that resulted in lost workdays and Total number of globally, we issued a standard health policy in used in Research and Development, Design, regrettably, two of our fellow employees lost lost workdays 3,093 3,542 2,428 2012. In addition to specific initiatives such as Construction, Commissioning, Operations their lives. hearing conservation, medical screening and Sales * All rates are per 200,000 hours worked of new employees and ongoing medical • A Teva employee in Zagreb, Croatia was killed in check-ups, the policy states our intent to • Educate, train and motivate Teva’s employees a dust explosion while loading powder implement a comprehensive health promotion and contractors to work in a safe manner that into a vessel. conforms to regulatory requirements and program worldwide. internal EHS procedures About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment Case Study Promoting Good Health Around the World The following are just a few examples of our worldwide wellness activities: United States Hungary Croatia Israel • Our Walking Spree program encourages • The Prize for Renewing People is an annual • I love walking is a popular annual event for our • Our Health and Sport program, launched in employees to walk 10,000 steps a day. award given to 10 Hungarian employers employees and the public. Participants walk 2010, combines occupational health and It has acted as a great motivator to start who invest in recreation and health promotion and raise awareness of the health benefits health promotion activities. Available to exercising since it requires no special activities for their employees. Teva received of walking along the way. every employee, it aims to improve health, equipment and is inexpensive. the award in 2005, 2006 and 2010. wellbeing and state of mind; diminish More than 1,500 staff took part during 2012, .• Our Healthy Workplace project includes: risks of chronic illnesses; build self• In 2012, we organized our inaugural Teva Sport including in a virtual “Walk to Washington Free medical check-ups biennially confidence; and help people function at DC” on Election Day in November. Day to promote sport and healthy lifestyles. Bi-weekly exercise classes their best. Employees can choose from a wide • We organize annual blood donation days; range of activities that match their interests • Since 2005, we have partnered with Weight Free flu vaccination in 2011 the Hungarian Red Cross recognized and abilities. Examples include walking Watchers to encourage employees to reach Stress management workshops for employees our efforts with an award. 10,000 steps a day, running, bicycling, a healthy weight. As an incentive, Teva pays Healthy meal options in our canteen swimming, Pilates, aerobics, weight control half the sign-up fee. Several locations have Germany Information on a range of health issues on and smoking cessation. enough participants to host on-site meetings. our employee health portal. • Free health support services include: • We offer wellness initiatives ranging from bowel cancer screenings for employees over • ‘Extraordinary financial assistance’ is offered health coaching for pregnant women and 40; annual eye tests; annual flu vaccinations; to employees who need help to pay for new mothers to programs on smoking and consultation with a nutritionist. medicines and orthopedic aids for themselves cessation, diabetes, and nutrition and exercise. or their families. • We run an annual Skin Protection Day to • Employees facing a serious diagnosis such as highlight the importance of skin care and sun cancer are offered a free expert consultation protection. through our relationship with Best Doctors, Inc. Upon request, this organization arranges for medical records to be reviewed by leaders in the relevant field, enabling the patient to get started on the most effective treatment. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY Teva is an increasingly global company with Inclusion and Diversity Strategy • Increasing the number of women in senior roles a rich diversity of perspectives, experiences In fall 2013, we will launch and implement a by identifying barriers and opportunities, THE ABC OF INCLUSION AND and voices in our employee base. We believe new Inclusion and Diversity strategy, which we and instigating a development program for DIVERSITY AT TEVA that building on this diversity is imperative for hope will generate positive benefits not only for high-potential individuals our ongoing success. Our goal is to create an employees, but also for external stakeholders • Piloting site-based Inclusion Councils at our • Additive to sustaining high employee inclusive workplace culture of involvement and including patients and suppliers. Our strategy empowerment for everyone. manufacturing and distribution sites to enable engagement and maximizing talent pool will further empower diverse employees through local advocacy and issue resolution potential Respect is one of our core values and underpins improved communication channels, learning opportunities and the appointment of Inclusion • Developing courses with our recently • Building block of Respect, our approach to inclusion and diversity. We seek to value and include all individuals, regardless of and Diversity champions. We will also make restructured Global Research & Development a Teva core value gender, ethnicity, age or any other differentiator. organizational changes to support an inclusive team on understanding inclusion and diversity principles, building self-awareness, • Catalyst for enhancing talent and We strive to provide opportunities for everyone culture. leadership capabilities for all to be heard and to do their personal best. We managing a diverse workforce and global Our aim is to improve the diversity of our team management • Driver to strengthen market image, empower individuals from diverse backgrounds workforce across all levels to form a stronger to contribute to, direct and drive our teams • Launching the first Employee Resource Group customer reach and innovation connection with the communities where we and organization. operate and with the patients we serve. with U.S. military veteran employees at our sites • Everyone is welcome (and needed) Our diversity and inclusion efforts are overseen by Internally, we want to foster an environment in North Wales, Pennsylvania and Kansas City, to participate. regional executives in partnership with our Global that encourages more open dialogue and Missouri to identify how we can better recruit Engagement and Inclusion Center of Excellence. exchange of ideas, and where our employees and on-board U.S. veterans This approach provides the structure, resources feel they can participate without being judged. • Exploring opportunities to develop long-term and metrics to support diversity policies and In designing our new approach, we have listened relationships with schools and career initiatives across our company and tie them to carefully to employees and external experts. development programs in Kansas City our business strategies. We have already identified some key areas for and Philadelphia to help improve our diversity improvement, and begun pilot initiatives. These recruitment practices. include: About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT To fulfil their potential, our employees need During 2012 we launched an extended global • Providing structured programs, training, opportunities to learn and develop. At Teva, policy, applicable to all employees. In January guidance and reinforcement to build Teva’s we view development as a task shared by of each year, employees attend a review and people development mindset employees, managers and the organization as feedback session with their managers. Both sides • Creating the ‘Teva Talent Development Way’, a whole. We provide development frameworks share their evaluation of the past year and agree providing common tools and language in which employees can expand their professional on goals, set by the employees, for the upcoming capabilities. Our managers create and maintain year. Interim reviews are carried out mid-year. • Instilling employee and organizational a supportive climate that encourages training In addition, we expect our employees and responsibility for development and development as part of the performance managers to provide and seek frequent formal • Adopting a holistic approach to our Talent management process. Our employees are and informal feedback. Program, integrated with other HR components. encouraged to take personal responsibility, use initiative and strive for excellence and We operate in a meritocracy and emphasize leadership in all they do. objectivity in the way we review and rate performance. High performance is recognized Managing Performance through a ‘Pay for Performance’ culture and development opportunities. Performance management is at the core of how we run and improve our business. The process is focused on four main objectives: Training Opportunities Through 2012, our training and development • Align individual goals with Teva’s strategic goals activities were largely developed and managed • Evaluate employee performance in order to locally. identify development needs In 2013, we will start laying the foundation for • Guide individual growth by providing ongoing a new, global, approach to learning and feedback and development opportunities development that will more effectively complement Teva’s business strategy by: • Encourage collaboration and dialogue between managers and employees to enhance individual and team development. About Teva aA6Ç, Our patients Our community Our environmental Our employees commitment EMPLOYEE BENEFITS In order to attract and retain highly motivated basis with two preferred insurance networks for employees, we offer competitive benefit plans insurance-related employee benefits, which 11 across our global operations. These are linked countries are already using. Through economies of to local market regulations and practices, scale, we have reduced premiums for employees, which can differ significantly. In most local often improved their insurance coverage and markets, our employees receive pension generated savings for Teva of around $1.5 million contributions, medical insurance coverage, in the project’s first 18 months. As we move more risk insurance, paid time off, severance countries into the pool, we expect to generate packages, car allowance for senior managers additional cost savings and enhance our benefits and a lunch subsidy. management. Although benefit plans are linked to local market We will also launch a best practice online tool practice, we aim to create as broad a platform ‘BenTrack’ in 2013 for benefits and compensation as possible for similar benefits across regions in management. order to maintain a fair system of benefits which provides equal opportunity for all employees. Our benefits are developed and overseen by a core benefits team of corporate and regional leads who meet frequently to coordinate global projects, share knowledge and explore new initiatives. Best practices from one country or region are often reviewed and leveraged globally. In 2012, we began consolidating some benefits to reduce risks and costs. We engaged on a global
